December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man ropes in five friends to murder wife’s stalker; arrested||BENGALURU: A private firm employee and his five friends allegedly killed a youth who stalked his wife and pressured her to marry him. Balaji, Armugam, Mohammed Ali, Abbas alias Chotu, Surya and Santosh, all working with a food products distribution agency, and residents of Thippasandra, have been arrested. They allegedly bludgeoned Raja Durai, 25, to death on the night of November 29 and dumped his body the next night near Ramamurthy Nagar. Durai, a resident of Thippasandra, HAL III Stage, was an employee of a vegetable shop. Durai’s brother Manikantha had filed a missing-person complaint with Jeevan Bima Nagar police on December 5. Meanwhile, Manikantha learnt that his brother had an argument with Balaji, driver with the food products distribution agency, near his shop. Balaji later took Durai on his bike. Probe revealed that Durai was taken to a house in Lingarajapuram. The other accused gathered there and had drinks with Durai. Later, they murdered him. Acting on information provided by Manikantha, police nabbed Balaji. His five associates were arrested later. On the basis of their statement, police on Wednesday found Durai’s decomposed body. “We’re waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the cause of death,” an officer said. Probe revealed that Balaji’s wife worked in another vegetable shop near Durai’s shop. Durai tried to convince her to marry him. He used to call her at odd times too. She alerted her husband about the harassment. Balaji warned Durai several times, but the latter did not mend his ways. That’s when Balaji decided to eliminate Durai with the help of his friends, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-ropes-in-five-friends-to-murder-wifes-stalker-arrested/articleshow/79668781.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Burglar held with booty worth 55 lakh||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old burglar has landed in the custody of Central Crime Branch (CCB). Officials have recovered 501 grams of gold jewellery and 31kg of silver articles worth Rs 55 lakh from him. Ravishankar from Chandranagar, KS Layout, is part of a five-member gang that has committed offences across the city, sleuths said. A CCB team received information about Ravishankar and picked him up for interrogation. He confessed to the robberies, following which the recoveries were made. Ravishankar had been arrested earlier by police from other districts. Police claimed his arrest has helped them solve seven cases reported in Ulsoor Gate, KR Puram, Electronics City, Yeshwantpur, Hanumanthnagar, Sidlaghatta and Soladevanahalli police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/burglar-held-with-booty-worth-55l/articleshow/79668782.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Revamped Ulsoor gurdwara to get clinic, parking||BENGALURU: The 77-year-old Sri Guru Singh Sabha Gurdwara in Ulsoor is undergoing renovation to make room for a larger structure, which is expected to be inaugurated on Guru Nanak Jayanti in November 2021. The new building will have a bigger langar hall, a resting place for visitors and a clinic for all. Constructed in 1943 after the land was donated by a Sikh family which had migrated to Bengaluru during the British era, the gurdwara was inaugurated by then collector PM Jayarajan Eso on April 13, 1946. Since then, it has been a major place of worship for over 22,000 Sikh families living here. In 1975, the first floor was constructed as the number of worshippers increased drastically. “In the 15th century when Guru Nanak Dev was returning from his pilgrimage to Rameswaram, he stopped in Bengaluru en route at what today is the MEG & Centre. Commemorating the anniversary of his visit, Sri Guru Singh Sabha Gurdwara in Ulsoor was constructed with the Guru Granth Sahib placed at the site. Initially, just over 10 Sikh families who migrated here worshipped at the city’s first gurdwara, which would later grow into a shrine for hundreds of Sikhs migrating to this tech hub,” said Chiranjiv Singh, a former IAS officer and retired additional chief secretary to the government of Karnataka, who is now part of the renovation committee. Apart from the donated parcel, the additional land on which the gurdwara stands was given by the city’s civic body three decades ago on a 50-year lease. The gurdwara committee also runs a school on the premises for over 450 kids from economically weaker section. The renovation began in June. Portions of the old gurdwara have been razed but the core structure constructed in the 1940s has been retained. “As per our tradition, no gurdwara can be demolished but only renovated for worship,” said Kuldeep Singh, general secretary of the committee. Singh said a temporary structure has been erected for devotees and serving of langar. “The new state-of-the-art structure, coming up in area which is a little less than an acre, will have a clinic, yatri nivas (visitors’ resting place) to accommodate over 100 people, a bigger langar hall and a basement parking,” he added. According to Hardeep Singh, joint secretary of the committee, basement parking is being built keeping in mind the traffic congestion caused on the road when devotees come for worship. “Car parking is a big problem, especially on Sundays when over 6,000 people visit and on festivals when the turnout is nearly 25,000. The basement area is designed to accommodate up to 70 cars and 500 two-wheelers at a time,” he added. Committee members expect the main structure to come up by March and the newly renovated gurdwara to be inaugurated in November on the occasion of Gurpurab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/revamped-ulsoor-gurdwara-to-get-clinic-parking/articleshow/79668794.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CBD traffic hit again as ryots continue stir||BENGALURU: Once again, traffic around Vidhana Soudha and in other parts of central Bengaluru came to a standstill for several hours on Thursday with hundreds of farmers continuing their protest against the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which allows non-agriculturists to purchase farm land without any restrictions.  There were some high-voltage moments when the farmers were stopped by police while marching towards Raj Bhavan in an attempt to lay siege to Vidhana Soudha. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar and others were detained. In the morning, the protesters gathered at KSR City railway station and marched towards Freedom Park, blocking the busy Seshadri Road. Their numbers swelled when Congressmen like former chief minister Siddaramaiah, Dinesh Gundurao, BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan and G Parameshwara joined the protest to express solidarity with the farmers. The Congress had also opposed the bill in the legislative council, stating it would allow the affluent, especially realtors, to easily buy land from farmers. The agitation intensified in the afternoon when agriculture minister BC Patil failed to visit the spot to address farmers’ issues. Irked by the government’s indifference, the farmers started to walk towards Vidhana Soudha around 4pm. Police personnel had to intervene to prevent them from going ahead. With the agitation entering its third day, motorists had a tough time crossing central business district (CBD). Traffic at Maurya Junction, Mysure Road, Town Hall, Mysore Bank Circle, Majestic, Anand Rao Circle, KR Circle, Chalukya Circle, Cottonpet Main Road and KG Road among other areas was affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbd-traffic-hit-again-as-ryots-continue-stir/articleshow/79668810.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 3 convicted in fake currency case||BENGALURU: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court has held three men guilty in a fake Indian currency notes (FICN) case reported in North Karnataka, awarding each six years’ imprisonment and fining them Rs 15,000. NIA had arrested six suspects on charges of smuggling counterfeit currency into the country from Bangladesh in March 2018 through Chikkodi in Belagavi district. While Ashok Mahadev Kumbar of Chikkodi and Dalim Mia alias Jalim and Shukruddin Shek alias Sukruddin Ansari, both from Malda in West Bengal, were convicted, trial is on for Rajendra Patil alias Desai, Gangadhar Kolkar alias Gangappa Kolakar and Shahanoyaj Kasuri alias Shahnawaz. According to a press note by NIA: “The case relates to recovery of FICN of Rs 82,000 face value from convict Kumbar. Investigation revealed he had got it from Dalim Mia. Fake notes were smuggled into India at the Bangladesh border by Shukruddin Shek...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-convicted-in-fake-currency-case/articleshow/79668814.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||HC to hear Sanjjanaa’s bail plea today||BENGALURU: The high court will on Friday hear arguments on the bail petition filed by Sandalwood actress Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has been arrested in a drug-peddling case. Sanjjanaa’s counsel Hashmath Pasha had on November 27 applied for her bail on health grounds. Accordingly, the HC first sought a medical report from officials of Central Prison and then directed doctors from Vani Vilas hospital to subject her to a detailed medical test and submit a report. The report was submitted to the court on Thursday. “Doctors who examined Sanjjanaa have said she should be under medication and undergo surgery when needed,” said Pasha. This is the second petition filed by Sanjjanaa in the high court. Her pleas were rejected by the special court for narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances as well the HC. Sanjjanaa and her colleague Ragini Dwivedi are among 13 suspects arrested in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-to-hear-sanjjanaas-bail-plea-today/articleshow/79668818.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Basavanna envisaged parliamentary democracy much before Magna Carta: PM||BENGALURU: Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who laid the foundation stone for a new Parliament complex in New Delhi on Thursday, spoke in Kannada and made a reference to 12th-century social reformer Basavanna and the Anubhava Mantapa set up by him in Bidar district. He delved into India’s democratic history and said the texts available in Parliament are older than the Magna Carta which is considered the foundation of democracy. “Magna Carta was written in the 13th century, but Basavanna envisioned a public parliament in the 12th century in the form of Anubhava Mantapa,” he said.  The Anubhava Mantapa in Basavakalyan, the abode of great mysticism, spiritual awakening and religious discourse, emerged as a fountainhead of egalitarian renaissance in the 12th century and is regarded as the genesis of parliamentary democracy in Indian history. In 2015, Modi had unveiled Basavanna’s statue on the banks of Thames river in London during his visit there to commemorate the millennium of the philosopher. Late Tumakuru mutt seer Shivakumara Swami had laid the foundation stone for it in February 2013. “We hold the Magna Carta in high esteem and use it to quote on democratic principles. Much before Magna Carta and 700 years before Abraham Lincoln propagated the same issues, Basavanna had mooted it,” Modi had said in his brief speech. Modi had also invoked the social reformer, who is worshipped by Lingayats, during his campaigns in Karnataka for the assembly and Lok Sabha polls. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa virtually participated in the function on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pm-basavanna-envisaged-parliamentary-democracy-much-before-magna-carta/articleshow/79668819.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Police chief to hear traffic woes tomorrow||BENGALURU: Flagging off Sanchar Sampark Divas on Saturday, police commissioner Kamal Pant will hear traffic-related grievances at Whitefield traffic police station between 11am and noon. Sanchar Sampark Divas is a sequel to the monthly Jana Sampark Divas that is being held on the last Saturday of every month at each police station. During the monthly interactions, many of the complaints were traffic related, prompting Pant to start a police-public meet dedicated to the issue. Accordingly, officials will interact with the public at 44 traffic stations across the city every second Saturday of the month for one hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-chief-to-hear-traffic-woes-tomorrow/articleshow/79668837.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||‘Why expand BBMP which has failed 110 villages added to it 13 years ago?’||BENGALURU: The decision to expand BBMP’s jurisdiction has not gone down well with citizen activists. They pointed out that the civic agency is still struggling to manage the 110 villages that came under it 13 years ago. Tara Krishnaswamy, co-founder of Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB), said the move reeks of realty motives. “The limits of Bengaluru city have been expanded prior to this as well, and it is proven that the BBMP cannot handle it. Where is the need for another expansion? If you move six kilometres away from the city centre, you can see that the roads and infrastructure are in a bad shape. Has BBMP ever thought of fixing this problem?” she asked. According to her, it is good that the number of wards is increasing from 198 to 243, but BBMP’s size does not need to go up. “The Palike has proved it is incapable of managing 198 wards. Its size actually needs to shrink,” she added. Srinivas Alavilli from Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy said the more you centralise, the less will urban services be available for citizenry. “About 13 years ago when Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BMP) became Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), 110 villages were adopted, but there has been no development in these added areas,” Alavilli said. Vishnu Prasad, member of Save Bellandur Forum, also felt there’s no need for expansion and pointed out the civic body is still developing outlying areas and localities. “They are unable to provide basic facilities to the wards and keep complaining of lack of funds. How will they work now? The objective of the expansion appears to be revenue mobilisation, but how will people survive when there are no basic facilities?” he asked. Instead of expanding the city limits, they need to work towards improving roads and provide streetlights, he added. “Many areas in Bellandur do not have basic UGD lines, water lines and roads. Even major road works are pending. BBMP must first provide facilities and then talk of expansion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-expand-bbmp-which-has-failed-110-villages-added-to-it-13-years-ago/articleshow/79668850.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government yet to cut syllabus, SSLC students in a spot||BENGALURU: It’s December, and the Karnataka government is yet to release the pareddown syllabus for Class X, leaving 8.5 lakh exam-bound students in confusion and panic. While their counterparts in CBSE and ICSE have received the reduced content several months ago, the state board students are still debating what to study. Incidentally, the trimmed syllabus for II PU students has been announced. The state had announced the syllabus will be cut by 30%. While the Karnataka Textbook Society (KTS) had released the new SSLC syllabus, the government was forced to roll it back in the wake of outrage over the trimming of content related to Tipu Sultan, Christianity and Islam. The Society prepared a new set of reduced content, which is yet to be released by the government. Schools have slammed the state’s delay in announcing the syllabus. “Even if schools reopen by January, is it feasible to complete the portions in three months? The 30% cut was announced thinking schools will reopen by September. We might need further cuts. Added to that, we do not even know what will be cut and what will be retained,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary, Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS). “In many budget schools, 75-80% of Class 10 students have taken admission by paying the minimum fees for this year. Of this, around 35-40% are not participating in any learning activities conducted by the school,” he added. The situation is pathetic. The II PU syllabus was trimmed unscientifically, which will be a drawback for students when they appear for exams like JEE and NEET. For SSLC students, we do not even know what the syllabus is. The 30% cut is apt. How can the government expect students to study if they announce it last minute? The government should look at changing the question-paper pattern or delaying the exams to reduce stress on children,” said BR Supreeth, secretary, Oxford Institutions, Nagarbhavi. “Online teaching and assessment are not easy. We have completed only 40% of the portions. The students are stressed. When other states have announced the reduced content by now, why is our government still sitting on it,” said principal of a school in Varthur. Last time TOI raised the issue in mid-October, the primary and secondary education minister had promised the syllabus would be out soon. While the minister did not respond to TOI calls and messages in this regard on Thursday, commissioner of public instruction V Anbukkumar said they are waiting for government approval to release the trimmed SSLC syllabus. There has been no discussions on postponing SSLC examination, Anbukkumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/awaiting-govt-nod-to-release-trimmed-sslc-syllabus/articleshow/79668863.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||ART bill has grey areas, needs review: Experts||BENGALURU: The Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) Bill-2020, which was in the making for close to two decades, has several flaws and needs a thorough review, said experts. The bill, which was tabled in September by the Union health minister in Lok Sabha, is currently being assessed by a parliamentary committee and is yet to be introduced in the Rajya Sabha. The bill aims at safeguarding the rights of women and children born of ART, regulating the Rs 3,000-crore infertility treatment industry and functioning of ART clinics apart from advocating safe and ethical practices. The bill is silent about the health risks to oocyte donors and mentions no safeguards. Though it says an oocyte donor’s consent is a must, it does not provide her the basics of counselling, while there is no word about compensation. “The egg donor’s interests are subordinated in the bill. The donor receives no compensation or reimbursement of expenses for loss of salary, time and effort. Failing to pay for bodily services constitutes free labour, which is prohibited under Article 23 of the Constitution,” said Dr Sudha Chandrashekar, consultant, TATA Trusts, Health System Transformation Platform. She said the state-level registration authority, to be established to oversee ART practices as per the bill, must include an obstetrician/gynaecologist and not just an MBBS doctor. The absence of a qualified medical person in the state-level registration authority, which may not understand the nuances of infertility and IVF treatment would become problematic, said Dr Vidya V Bhat, former president, Karnataka State Obstetrics and Gynecology Association. Dr Sudha, who also holds a degree in medical law and ethics, has written a detailed review of the bill with suggestions and sent it to Parliament members in November. “The bill prescribes that the maximum age for application of ART should be 50 for women and 55 for men. However, the Indian Council for Medical Research’s draft ART Bill-2017 stipulated the upper-age limit should be 45 for women and 50 for men. To ensure the bill is not unduly restrictive, additional safeguards must be provided for persons above the age limit,” she said. Gynaecologists also felt the bill does separate the ART clinics from egg, sperm banks and freezing facilities. “Gynaecologists running IVF clinics ensure an oocyte donor is married, has a healthy child and is of the 25-30 age group. We retrieve 12-15 eggs in a cycle. Now, that the bill says the egg, sperm, embryo preservation cannot be done by ART clinics, we’ll have to depend on embryo banks. But we will have no control over the quality. What if the process ends up with a mismatch?” asked Dr Bhat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/art-bill-has-grey-areas-needs-review-experts/articleshow/79668862.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: IMA’s OPD closure call may not disrupt hospital ops today||BENGALURU: The call by Indian Medical Association (IMA) to shut down out patient department (OPD) services from 6am to 6pm on Friday, in protest against the Centre’s move to allow ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries, is unlikely to cause major disruption in corporate hospitals here. The protest call has been supported by Private Hospitals’ and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). A majority of corporate hospitals in the city said they stand with IMA but won’t compromise on patient care. Appointments given to patients will be followed, hospitals said. The state health and family welfare department has asked all its hospitals to ensure their outpatient units are not affected. “The Centre’s move to permit MS ayurveda graduates to perform surgeries that are developed by allopathic sciences is nothing but allowing mixopathy. We are already struggling with quacks and this decision by the government can further compromise patient care,” said PHANA president Dr HM Prasanna Kumar. IMA members asserted the protest will not disrupt emergency and Covid care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/imas-opd-closure-call-may-not-disrupt-hosp-ops-today/articleshow/79668866.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Konark Festival and Sand Art Festival conclude||The annual Konark Dance Festival and International Sand Art Festival, held in Konark, concluded recently. Both festival venues were visited by many tourists following Covid-19 safety guidelines. The 31st Konark Dance Festival, organised at the open-air auditorium with the magnificent Konark Sun Temple in the backdrop, offered treat after treat to the audience through various classical dance performances by artistes from different parts of the country. The 9th International Sand Art Festival was held at the Chandrabhaga beach saw participation by 70 artists from across the country. Both events were organised by Odisha Tourism. The first evening of Konark Dance Festival saw an Odissi performance by artistes of the Bhubaneswar-based Orissa Dance Academy followed by a Bharatanatyam recital by Chennai-based Sreedevi Nrithyalaya. The second evening witnessed a Manipuri dance recital by Kolkata-based Manipuri Nartanalaya and Odissi by Bengaluru-based by Sanjali Ensemble. The third evening started with an Odissi performance by Bengaluru-based Nrityantara, which was followed by Kuchipudi by a Chennai-based troupe. The fourth evening started with a Kathak ballet by Kolkata-based Vikram Iyengar and group, followed by Odissi by a Bhubaneswar-based troupe. The GKCM Odissi Research Centre presented an Odissi performance on the fifth evening and a New-Delhi-based troupe staged the concluding Kathak recital. “It was wonderful performing here at Konark. Despite the restrictions and the pandemic, the love of the people here for classical dance is really what every performer loves,” said Sheela Unikrishnan, a Bharatnatyam dance guru. “I have performed at many places, but the pride and satisfaction I get performing here is unmatchable,” said Madhulita Mohapatra, a Bangalore-based Odissi guru. The 9th International Sand Art festival was also a good crowd puller. “The participants created various sand sculptures as per the themes assigned to them every day. We followed all the pandemic related guidelines. Every year, this event attracts a huge number of tourists. We hope the situation will be normal from next year,” said Sudarsan Pattnaik, sand artist and organiser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/konark-festival-and-sand-art-festival-conclude/articleshow/79670098.cms||Sandip Bal
December 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Short film on Paika rebellion wins international award||A short film based on the armed Paika rebellion by the Paikas (Odia warrior clan) in 1817, won an international award in Mumbai recently. The short, Paika Bidroha, starring Ollywood actors Manoj Mishra and Samaresh Routray, won the special jury award at the prestigious 9th Mumbai International Short Film Festival 2020. It has been directed by Nischay Rout and Anuj Tyagi, while Haraprasad Das has written the story, screenplay and dialogues. Manoj has played the role of freedom fighter Jayee Rajguru and Samaresh, legendary Buxi Jagabandhu. The short film has tried to capture the very essence of the first ever armed rebellion against the East India Company, much before the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857. “Portraying a historic character, and that too one of our ancestors who rebelled against the mighty Britishers despite Odisha being one of the last states to come under the East India Company, is itself a matter of pride. It has been a good effort by the team to bring our history to the screen,” said Samaresh. Paika Bidroha had earlier won four state film awards for Best Director, Best Cinematography, Best Editing as well as the Best Film by Jury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/short-film-on-paika-rebellion-wins-international-award/articleshow/79670238.cms||Sandip Bal
December 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||US-based Odias donate oximeters to the government through Sabyasachi||The health and wellness group of the Odisha Society of the Americas (OSA), an association of the NRI-Odias living in the US, recently donated oximeters to help the state government tackle the pandemic. Actor Sabyasachi Mishra handed over the equipment, worth Rs 8 lakh, to the state government on their behalf. The actor handed over the oximeters to IAS officer Yamini Sarangi, managing director of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited (OSMCL), in presence of Dr Soubhagya Ranjan Ransingh, general manager-operations of the corporation. Sabyasachi said he has had a long association with the OSA and loves to collaborate with them in various humanitarian activities. “A month ago, they had provided an ambulance for Covid testing through me and now, these oximeters,” he said. Sabya said the health and wellness group of the OSA mostly comprises Odia doctors working in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/us-based-odias-donate-oximeters-to-the-government-through-sabyasachi/articleshow/79670282.cms||Sandip Bal
December 11, 2020||India||Dialogue must go on: PM Modi quotes Guru Nanak at new Parliament function||NEW DELHI: In what seemed a defence of the new farm laws and other reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said all decisions should be taken keeping national interest in mind and that of the current and future generations in mind even as he quoted Guru Nanak to say a “dialogue must go on” on the issues of the day. In a speech to mark the foundation stone ceremony of the new Parliament building, Modi said democracy has always been a medium to resolve differences. Pointedly citing the teachings of Guru Nanak, he said, “Guru Nanak had said, ‘jab tak sansar rahe, tab tak sambad chalte rehna chahiye’ (so long as the universe exists, dialogue must go on).” The PM’s remarks came in the backdrop of several opposition parties skipping the function. No Congress leader was present barring former Speaker Shivraj Patil (ex-PM Manmohan Singh sent a message), and DMK, TMC, NCP, Left parties, Shiv Sena, SAD and SP gave the proceedings a miss. Several opposition parties have opposed the Central Vista re-development plan and those that did not turn up have backed farm unions opposed to the new farm laws. Those who attended included YSRCP and BJD. “I am happy to be witness to a historic ocassion,” said BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab. Speaking and listening is the life of dialogue, this is the soul of democracy. There can be differences in policies and politics but there should not be any differences in the ultimate goal of serving people. All our debate and dialogue, whether inside or outside Parliament, should reflect our oath for serving the nation and our dedication to national interest,” the Prime Minister said. “When we work according highest priority to national interest, no one can stop the emergence of a self-reliant and prosperous India,” Modi said, adding in India, democracy forms the “soul of the nation, it is a way of life”. Terming the foundation stone ceremony a milestone, Modi said the laws made inside the existing Parliament and the debates there are a part of the country’s democratic heritage, but it was important to accept the reality that “now it needs rest”. He said the new Parliament building would exemplify ‘co-existence of the new and the old’. The PM said while the old Parliament House gave direction to the country post-independence, the new one would fulfil the aspirations of the 21st century. He emphasised that the lessons of the past must be learnt and opportunities at hand must not be lost. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said the extant Parliament House required restructuring in order to enable the members to discharge constitutional duties but pointed out that it was a heritage structure. Read AlsoNew Parliament building will last 150 years, its Houses can seat 150% more MPsThe new parliament building will have a life of more than 150 years with more than 150% increase in seating capacity, the central government said on Thursday. While the interior of the new Lok Sabha will have the theme of peacock, the national bird, Rajya Sabha will have national flower lotus as itsHe said the members had time and again expressed desire for a modern and hi-tech Parliament building for the largest functioning democracy in the world. Modi said just as the National War Memorial has created a new identity beyond India Gate, the new Parliament House will establish its own identity and the coming generations will be proud to see that it was built in independent India. The Prime Minister called how after Independence doubts were raised on the future of the country and forecast was made that democracy won't be successful in India. “But today we can say with pride that we have proved the naysayers wrong.” He said Indian democratic traditions predate the Magna Carta, a 13th century document many scholars consider as the framework for a modern republic. The Prime Minister said there are no rituals as such to consecrate the “temple of democracy” and it’s the representatives of the people who come to this temple that will consecrate it. Watch As long as the universe exists, dialogue must go on: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dialogue-must-go-on-pm-modi-quotes-guru-nanak-at-new-parliament-function/articleshow/79671092.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 11, 2020||India||Nadda convoy faces 3 attacks in Bengal; Centre seeks report||KOLKATA: BJP national president JP Nadda on Thursday said he escaped harm “by the grace of Ma Durga” as stones, bricks and bottles rained on his convoy at three places en route to Diamond Harbour in Bengal’s South 24-Parganas district. While Union home minister Amit Shah asked for an official report on the “sponsored violence”, CM Mamata Banerjee accused Nadda of “nautanki (drama)”. West Bengal police claimed “nothing happened” to Nadda’s convoy. “A few bystanders threw stones at vehicles trailing his convoy. Everyone is safe and the situation is peaceful,” the police tweeted, adding that a probe was on. Nadda’s convoy had left Kolkata for Diamond Harbour around noon. Once it passed Amtala, just over 20km from Kolkata, stones, bricks and empty glass bottles came flying at the convoy from either side of the road. The vehicles were forced to slow down because of traffic congestion alittle ahead, where TMC supporters were protesting against the new farm laws. Windshields of several cars were damaged even as Nadda’s security detail tried to block the missiles, one of which landed on his bulletproof car. A stone cracked the windshield of Bengal BJP minder Kailash Vijayvargiya’s car. Vehicles ferrying other BJP functionaries like Mukul Roy, Rahul Sinha and Anupam Hazra were targeted as well, witnesses said. One glass bottle flung at Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s car hit his security guard. The convoy picked up speed only to come under attack again along a nine-km stretch of DH Road. The three incidents came hours after the state BJP chief wrote to home minister Shah about Wednesday’s alleged security lapses at the party’s new office in Kolkata. Nadda said there was resentment among the people of Bengal “against this lawlessness”. Mamata said: “They (BJP) have no other work. Sometimes the home minister is here, on other occasions there is some Chadda, Nadda, Fadda, Badda... They don’t even bother to inform the state about their movement,” she said. “Who threw stones at whom? Why did they have to go with video cameras? Was there any provocation? I have asked police to find out all this. Watch ‘This speaks about your culture’: Nadda lashes at WB CM over ‘Chaddha, Fadda’ remark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nadda-convoy-faces-3-attacks-in-bengal-centre-seeks-report/articleshow/79671272.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||In China defence minister’s presence, Rajnath Singh calls for self-restraint||NEW DELHI: In a thinly-veiled reference to China’s aggressive and expansionist behaviour, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said countries should exercise self-restraint and refrain from taking actions that can complicate situations in the region. Speaking at a virtual gathering of defence ministers of the 10-nation Asean and its eight dialogue partners, Singh said, “Threats to the rules-based order, maritime security, cyber-related crimes and terrorism, just to name a few, remain the challenges that we need to address as a forum.” The gathering, which included Chinese defence minister Wei Fenghe, came amidst the ongoing military confrontation between India and China in eastern Ladakh, which is now into its eight month without any signs of de-escalation. “As we enhance mutual trust and confidence, exercising self-restraint in the conduct of activities and avoid ing actions that may further complicate the situation, will go a long way in bringing sustained peace to the region,” said Singh. The minister emphasised on India’s call for an open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific, based upon the respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolutions of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules and laws. In the backdrop of China’s belligerent behaviour in the South China Sea, Singh reiterated India’s support to freedom of navigation and over flight for all in international waters in accordance with the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). Taking a swipe at Pakistan, without naming the country, Singh said “structures that support and sustain terrorism continue to exist, including in India’s neighbourhood” and called for strengthening international mechanisms to jointly fight terror. “Amid the current regional environment with visible strains”, India appreciates the central role played by Asean-led forums in “promoting dialogue and engagement towards a pluralistic, cooperative security order” in Asia, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-china-defence-ministers-presence-rajnath-singh-calls-for-self-restraint/articleshow/79671315.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||New Parliament building will last 150 years, its Houses can seat 150% more MPs||NEW DELHI: The new parliament building will have a life of more than 150 years with more than 150% increase in seating capacity, the central government said on Thursday. While the interior of the new Lok Sabha will have the theme of peacock, the national bird, Rajya Sabha will have national flower lotus as its theme. Besides the two Houses, the triangular building will have a Constitution Hall that will exhibit an original Constitution and a digital form for people to read page-by-page. This will be the only portion of the building that will have no storeys. The rest of the complex will have four floors. Each floor will have offices of ministers and committee rooms. The first floor will have dining space for member of Parliament, VVIPs and visitors. It will also have a central lounge. Besides being earthquake proof, the new building will be eco-friendly and consume significantly less power. “The project will be completed in time in 2022 and the winter session will be held here,” housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. Read AlsoNew Parliament building testament to Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM ModiPM Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of the new Parliament building at an event that was attended by leaders from various political parties, cabinet ministers and ambassadors of different countries. Pujaris from the Sringeri Math Karnataka did the rituals for the 'bhoomi pujan' at the newThe government said the new parliament building is a necessity in the 21st century. The statue of Govind Ballabh Pant, currently located between Raisina Road and Red Cross Road, will be shifted to GB Pant Marg as the new building will require more space. Union housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra told TOI that all minute details were worked out while planning the building. “The four national symbols will find a place in the building. The National Emblem will be the crown of the building. In the courtyard, we will have a peepal (banyan), which is our national tree,” he added. Read AlsoDialogue must go on: PM Modi quotes Guru Nanak at new Parliament functionNEW DELHI: In what seemed a defence of the new farm laws and other reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said all decisions should be taken keeping national interest in mind and that of the current and future generations in mind even as he quoted Guru Nanak to say a “dialogue must go on”Officials said the building will have the most modern security and surveillance system. “The security check will be mostly non-intrusive,” said Bimal Patel, the de signer of Central Vista redevelopment project. Dholpur and red stone from Rajasthan will be largely used. Read AlsoCentral Vista project: Supreme Court allows ground-breaking ceremony with ridersThe SC on Monday expressed its strong dissatisfaction with the Centre but allowed it to go ahead with the proposed foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Central Vista project after the govt assured no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decides the pending pleas. SCThe digital audio visual system placed in front of every seat will have ‘programmable rules-based microphones’, which will put the Speaker in control of who gets to speak and who doesn’t. Every MP, minister and political party will get office space here. These buildings will be connected to the parliament complex with a tunnel. “Reports of Sardar Patel Bhavan being demolished are speculative,” said another official. Watch Central Vista Project: All you need to know||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-parliament-building-will-last-150-yrs-its-houses-can-seat-150-more-mps/articleshow/79671363.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 11, 2020||India||MHA identifying number of cops to be vaccinated on priority||NEW DELHI: The home ministry is undertaking the mammoth exercise of identifying the total number of central and state police personnel in the country who, as "frontline workers" in the fight against Covid-19, shall be administered the vaccine on priority once the necessary approvals are in. While a meeting was taken by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla around a fortnight ago with the heads of central para-military forces like the CRPF, BSF, ITBP, CISF, etc. to collect the data on the total strength of their Covid warriors, another meeting was held by him via video-conferencing on Thursday with the DGPs/IGPs of state/UT police as well as DG of Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guards with the same objective. Confirming the exercise, a senior official of a central para-military force told that the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) were asked to give data on their personnel, which is likely to help the home ministry in assessing the total requirement of vaccine doses for the 'frontline' police personnel and to subsequently work with the health ministry on the road map for administering them. A home ministry source said no distinction may be drawn between police personnel on Covid duties such as those deployed in containment zones and those on other routine duties. "The police personnel, including those deployed on the border, work closely with the people and are at a higher risk of contracting the virus. So all police personnel must be administered Covid vaccine on priority," said an officer. The data on central and state police personnel and their zone of duty is likely to be shared with the health ministry to develop a schedule for their vaccination on priority. The combined strength of central police forces like BSF, CRPF, CISF, ITBP, NSG, etc. is around 10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-identifying-number-of-cops-to-be-vaccinated-on-priority/articleshow/79671399.cms||Bharti Jain
December 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nearly 66,000 apply for assistant professor posts||PATNA: As many as 65,930 candidates have applied for the appointment of altogether 4,638 assistant professor posts in 52 subjects in 13 universities of the state. The last date of online submission of applications for the appointment ended on Thursday evening. The Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) chairman Rajvardhan Azad told this newspaper that more than 10,000 applications were received during the last week. “The commission had extended the date by a week on December 2 in response to the pressing demand of aspirants who could not apply on time for some technical reasons,” Azad said. The last date for receipt of downloaded hard copies of online applications along with photocopies of required documents is December 30. Scrutiny of applications would be taken up only after that. The maximum number of applications have been received from Bihar (31,922) followed by Uttar Pradesh (18,554), West Bengal (4,786), Jharkhand (2,186), Rajasthan (1,508) and Madhya Pradesh (1,328). Applications have also been received from Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, and Goa. The university wise vacancies are Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University (02), Veer Kunwar Singh University-Ara (428), Magadh University and Bodh Gaya (381), Purnia University (213), B N Mandal University-Madhepura (377), Patna University (273), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (276), L N Mithila University, Darbhanga (856), K S D Sanskrit University-Darbhanga (192), Patliputra University (462), B R A Bihar University-Muzaffarpur (603), Munger University (245) and Jai Prakash University-Chapra (319). Azad hoped that the interview for the appointment of assistant professors would commence in the third week of January. “If everything goes well, all the appointments will be completed in 2021,” he said. The process of appointment has already been delayed due to the pandemic and assembly election, hence, the commission wants to expedite the process of appointment at the earliest. “All necessary arrangements for holding interviews have already been made. To start with, interviews will be started in subjects which have a lesser number of applications,” the chairman said, adding, the interviews would be conducted by six boards in two shifts each, with 15 candidates in each shift. “At present, the commission has six members and this will be the first appointment to be made by this new commission after its constitution,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nearly-66k-apply-for-assistant-professor-posts/articleshow/79666790.cms||B K Mishra
December 11, 2020||Patna||Come Feb, city will get 25 e-buses||PATNA: Come February, the state transport department will launch 25 e-buses with a view to reducing carbon emissions in Patna. They will also ply on the routes connecting the city to tourist spots like Rajgir, Nalanda and Bodh Gaya. The Bihar State Road Transport Corporation (BSRTC) will procure the e-buses as part of a tri-party agreement among the Centre, the state government and the Patna Smart City Limited. Funds for the purpose have been provided under the FAME-II scheme that promotes the use of electric vehicles in the country. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper on Thursday that the e-buses would be delivered by the end of January, 2021 and flagged off in February. “While the BSRTC will operate the e-buses that help control pollution and do not emit fumes, Ashok Leyland will look after their maintenance. A high-power charging station with eight points will also be installed at Transport Complex in Phulwarisharif near the Patna airport by January-end,” Agarwal said, adding that more charging stations were likely to be set up later. The estimated cost of an e-bus, which once fully charged covers a distance of 250km, is approximately Rs 2 crore. “Of the 25 buses, 15 will accommodate 37 people and the rest will accommodate 45 passengers at a time. They will run on all major routes of Patna and help tourists reach Rajgir, Nalanda and Bodh Gaya as well,” Agarwal said. With modern facilities like AC, GPS, music system, CCTV cameras and USB charging points, the e-buses will ensure a noise-free travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/come-feb-city-will-get-25-e-buses/articleshow/79666741.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 11, 2020||Surat||7-year-old kidnapped, raped in Sachin GIDC||Surat: No end to minor rape horror in Surat’s Sachin GIDC, a potential haven for nocturnal human predators. Another seven-year-old girl, a daughter of a construction labourer from Madhya Pradesh, was abducted in her sleep from an under construction building in the dead of night and raped in an open plot of land covered with bushes in Sachin GIDC industrial area early on Thursday. The minor was savaged by unidentified miscreants around a kilometre away from the place where she was fast asleep alongside with her sister and 38-year-old father in the open under construction site. Nine hours later she was spotted by a tea stall owner in an adjoining lane about a kilometre away, crying and searching for her family in blood-stained clothes and immediately brought her to the cops. Police moved her to the hospital for treatment where she may need treatment for a few days considering the injuries to her private parts. Police are yet to register her statement and get exact details of the crime. According to cops, the minor was sleeping on the first floor of the building under construction in Lakshmi Villa Textile Park on empty cement bags they trio was using as mats. At around 12.30 am, a man in a red shirt abducted the sleeping girl, a movement that has been captured in a nearby CCTV camera. At around 1 am when the father woke up, he noticed the girl missing from the mat and alerted other labourers. They all searched for her and upon failing to locate the girl, informed their contractor who in turn called the police at around 1.30 am. Police started a search operation but could not locate her immediately till she was reached the police with the tea vendor. “I was told by the locals about the minor who seemed lost in the area. I was earlier shown a photo of the minor by the police and so, I took her straight to cops who were already searching for her,” said Ajay Raj alias Pruthvi, who rescued the minor. Police who suspect that the accused lives in a nearby locality are now working to identify the accused from CCTV footage. “We have rounded up a few suspects and are questioning them. After the minor’s health improves, she will be able to identify the accused,” said a senior police officer. ACCUSED DID A RECCE OF THE SITE The accused had earlier at around 10pm on Wednesday come to the building on a bicycle where the survivor lived. But the child’s kin caught him then. “We caught him moving around in a suspicious manner at around 10 pm. When we questioned him why he had come to the building, he said that he was drunk and entered the building by mistake. We believed him and allowed him to go,” said a relative of the survivor. Police suspect that the accused did a recce of the building and later walked in to abduct the minor. LOCALS SAW HIM LEAVING WITH SLEEPING CHILD Four people, all workers in the neighbouring unit, were present on the road when the accused was sneaking away carrying the sleeping minor on his right shoulder. However, none of them stopped or questioned him while leaving the under construction building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/7-year-old-kidnapped-raped-in-sachin-gidc/articleshow/79668854.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Surat||Buying mediclaim? Read ‘hazardous activity’ clause first||Surat: If you are planning to buy mediclaim policy and are also involved in risky activity including sporting, read the documents ‘extra’ carefully. While the agent may skip the ‘hazards’ in the fine print, you should forewarn yourself to the risks that will not protect you! Here’s why. Navsari District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission rejected a plea for reimbursement of mediclaim on the ground that as per the terms and conditions of the policy, the claimant injured himself while engaging in ‘hazardous activity’ that the company had already mentioned in the policy’s terms and conditions.According to case details, Hiren Lumbhani, 32, a resident of Navsari town purchased a ‘Care Plan’ policy of Mediclaim Health Insurance Co Ltd in November 2017 for him and his family with a sum assured of Rs 5 lakh. He had purchased the policy in 2015 and kept renewing it annually.Meanwhile, Lumbhani injured his left leg ankle and took primary treatment at a private hospital in Navsari before he had to be operated upon in Lilavati Hospital and Research Centre in Mumbai on February 1, 2018 as advised by doctors. He was discharged on February 3, 2018.Soon after, Lumbhani intimated the insurance company about the expense of Rs 2.23 lakh and claimed reimbursement under his mediclaim policy. However, the insurance company rejected his claim amount on March 27, 2018. When Lumbhani approached the consumer court with his grievances, the company cited that the complainant had himself stated in his claim papers that injured his left leg on December 28, 2017 while practising ‘karate’ in Juhu bridge in Mumbai. “As per the terms and conditions of the policy the company rejected the claim. Karate comes under hazardous activity as mentioned in the terms and condition and injury caused during karate is not payable,” it argued before the court.The insurance co further submitted that hazardous activity means any sports or any other activity which is potentially dangerous to the insured whether they are trained or not in such sports or activities.The consumer court too upheld the insurance company’s argument and ruled that “Going by the facts, it appears that the applicant got injured while practising karate which comes under the exclusion list of the policy’s terms and conditions and his claim was rightfully rejected.”LIST OF HAZARDSStunt activities of any kind adventure racing, base jumping, big game hunting, black water rafting, BMX stunt, obstacle riding, bob-sleighing, using skeletons, boxing, canyoning ,caving, cave tubing, trekking, mountaineering, cycle racing, cyclocross, high diving (above 5 metre), ice hockey, judo, risky manual labour, marathon running, martial arts, motorcycle racing, power lifting, scuba diving, rugby, skydiving, small bore target shooting, weight lifting or wrestling of any type.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/buying-mediclaim-read-hazardous-activity-clause-first/articleshow/79669147.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Proposal to turn New Town Cov safe house into hospital||Kolkata: New Town Kol-kata Development Authority (NKDA) has asked the health department authorities to see if the two-storey Hidco building in New Town’s Action Area II being used as a Covid safe home could be developed into a hospital. The building was turned into a 20-bed Covid safe home with nurses, a monitoring doctor and oxygen cylinder arrangements in August. “It is a 17-bed safe home equipped with oxygen facilities, nurses’ room, doctors’ room and in- and out-point reception. We have placed a proposal to see if the existing facility can be modified so that some divisions could be set up as a hospital,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. “The proposal will be placed before the higher authorities for consideration,” said a district health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/proposal-to-turn-new-town-cov-safe-house-into-hospital/articleshow/79668492.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||46-year-old found hanging in Kasba flat||Kolkata: A 46-year-old man, who was reportedly under depression after suffering from a severe financial crisis and had run a substantial debt in the market, allegedly ended life on Wednesday night. The incident was reported from an apartment at Rajdanga Gold Park in Kasba around 7.30pm. The victim has been identified as Diptendra Mukherjee. Police said that the pandemic had only added to his financial woes. “Mukherjee was found hanging from the ceiling fan inside the study room of his flat. His wife had gone out at that time. When she returned, she knocked on the door repeatedly but got no response. She finally broke open the padlock and found her husband hanging. She raised an alarm, hearing which neighbours rushed in,” said police. Subsequently, the body was brought down by neighbours and removed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. “During inquiry, a suicide note (without any signature) was found where no one was held responsible. Inquiry revealed that the victim had taken loans from the market. Neither any foul play could be detected nor any complaint has been received from any corner, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/46-year-old-found-hanging-in-kasba-flat/articleshow/79668513.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Khimani to be new Gujarat Vidyapith VC||Ahmedabad: After almost two months of sifting through applications and conducting interviews, the special selection committee chose former registrar of Gujarat Vidyapith, Rajendra Khimani, as its new vice-chancellor on Thursday. Khimani had joined Vidyapith in 2004 and had earlier worked with two agriculture universities in Gujarat. After he retired from Vidyapith in 2019, Khimani was asked to stay back at the university and function as deputy director (extension). Prior to joining Vidyapith in 2004, Khimani had served for 20 years at Anand Agriculture University (AAU) in the horticulture department. Before that, he had served at the Junagadh agriculture University (JAU). Khimani will take over from the present incumbent Anamik Shah on December 31. “The Gujarat Vidyapith will continue to work on the path set by the Mahatma. There will be no compromise on those respects. Our education programmes are clearly defined and we will continue to excel in those,” Khimani told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/khimani-to-be-new-gujarat-vidyapith-vc/articleshow/79668476.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||Winter blues: Dense fog disrupts flight, train operations in Patna||PATNA: Altogether 16 flights were delayed at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport as thick blanket of fog covered the city and its neighbouring areas in the morning hours on Thursday, reducing the runway visual range (RVR) visibility below 1,000 metre. The IndiGo flight (6E- 345/ 6839) between Bengaluru and Patna was cancelled on Thursday. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said all flights operated from the city airport as per the schedule with minor delays owing to foggy conditions in Patna on Thursday morning. According to weatherman at Patna Metreological Centre, the minimum required RVR visibility for landing of flights was available at 10.45am on Thursday. The first flight of Spice Jet (SG- 8719) reached Patna airport at 11.18am, which was scheduled to arrive at 7.45am and the corresponding flight (SG- 8720) departed at 3.10pm. On Thursday, three flights all of SpiceJet airlines, one each to Ahmedabad, Bengaluru and Guwahati were delayed for more than two hours. One flight to Ahmedabad got delayed over 4 hours. Three flights of GoAir and one each of GoAir and SpiceJet were delayed by one hour. The delay in flight operations irked passengers as chaotic scenes were witnessed inside and outside the terminal building of the airport Meanwhile, dense fog and poor visibility in North Central Railway (NCR) and East Central Railway ( ECR ) areas located all along Kanpur – Prayagraj – Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction – Patna route delayed the arrival of at least five long distance special trains originating from New Delhi to Patna Junction on Thursday. New Delhi – Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express special ( 02310 ) reached Patna 30 minutes late due to foggy condition while New Delhi – Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express special (02394) was delayed by 35 minutes. Similarly New Delhi – Rajgir Shramjeevi Express special ( 02392 ) reached Patna 80 minutes late due to dense fog on Thursday while New Delhi – Bhagalpur Vikramshila special ( 02368) and New Delhi – Howrah Poorva Express special ( 02304 ) reached Patna 55 and 65 minutes late respectively on Thursday due to poor visibility on the tracks, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/winter-blues-dense-fog-disrupts-flight-train-operatios/articleshow/79667974.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 11, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar raises paddy procurement limit||PATNA: The government on Thursday increased the limit of paddy to be procured from the ryots (land-owning farmers) from the existing 200 quintals to 250 quintals per farmer and for the non-ryots from the existing 75 quintals to 100 quintals per such farmer. The government has also decided that the farmers registered at the website of the agriculture department should be automatically deemed as eligible to let their paddy be procured by Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) at the minimum support price (MSP) rates. Accordingly, the farmers registered with the cooperative department website will not be considered for paddy procurement this season. The revised paddy procurement target for the current season has been fixed at 45 lakh metric tonnes. These and other major decisions regarding the paddy procurement for the 2020-21 season were taken by CM Nitish Kumar at the high-level meeting held at the Samvad auditorium of his official residence. The meeting had been convened to review the status of paddy procurement drive during the current paddy procurement season. This year, the MSP for the ordinary or general grade paddy is Rs 1,868 per quintal and that for the A-grade paddy Rs 1,888 per quintal. The quality or the grade of paddy is decided based on its moisture content. For the last few years, driers have also been installed at some of the PACS to reduce the moisture content of paddy. The CM said the in-depth probe should be made into the activities of PACS which were accused of irregularities and FIRs were also lodged against them. However, elections have also been held in such PACS. The CM directed that those of such PACS in which tainted persons had again been elected as chairman will be kept out of the paddy procurement drive. Those PACS in which new chairpersons without any taint of irregularity or the FIR have been elected should be activated for the paddy procurement drive. The CM also directed the DMs concerned to make spot verifications and ensure that farmers under the non-functional PACS can get their paddy procured at the nearby or adjoining PACS or Vyapar Mandals. He also asked the DMs to regularly visit the PACS bodies and also converse with the farmers to solve the problems faced by them in getting their paddy procured. The CM said that the government aimed to maximise the paddy procurement from the farmers. Earlier, food and consumer protection department secretary Vinay Kumar made a presentation of the state of paddy procurement drive, noting that the paddy production this year had been good. Among those who also participated in the review exercise were energy, food and consumer protection minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, chief secretary Deepak Kumar and other senior officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-raises-paddy-procurement-limit/articleshow/79666874.cms||Abhay Singh
December 11, 2020||Patna||Patna registers 261 fresh corona cases||PATNA: Altogether 595 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,41,534. Four deaths — two each from Nalanda and Supaul — were also reported after which the state’s toll reached 1,307. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered six deaths. The deceased included two 65-year-old men from Kurji and Barh, a 69-year-old from Boring Road, a 64-year-old from Danapur, a 21-year-old from Pachadi village in Madhuban and a 25-year-old from Fatehpur in Bhagalpur. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 19 patients from localities like Mangal Talab, Rupaspur, Boring Canal Road, Kautilya Nagar, Khagaul and Danapur were admitted and 17 discharged from the hospital on Thursday. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. Four patients were admitted to the hospital and three discharged on Thursday. The data shared by the state health department stated that Patna registered 261 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 44,389. With 41,975 recoveries and 336 deaths, there are 2,078 active cases in the district. Corona cases were also reported from Gaya (33), Muzaffarpur (20), Nalanda (19), Begusarai (16), Kishanganj (16), Aurangabad (15), Gopalganj (14) and Saran (14). According to health minister Mangal Pandey, 442 patients recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.27%. During the same period, 1,26,206 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-registers-261-fresh-corona-cases/articleshow/79666977.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 11, 2020||Patna||No clue in Darbhanga jewellery shop loot case||DARBHANGA/PATNA: The special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state police headquarters to crack the daylight robbery in a jewellery shop on Wednesday is yet to make any breakthrough even after 24 hours of the incident. Altogether four police teams have been set up by IG, Darbhanga range, Ajitabh Kumar, to conduct raids and collect evidence. CID SP Shailesh Kumar, who reached Darbhanga on the directive of the police headquarters said, “Some important clue has been found. Raids were on to nab the criminals. So far there is no significant breakthrough.” According to the IG, SPs of adjoining districts like Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Sitamarhi and Khagaria districts have been asked to cooperate with the SIT and share information related to the jewellery loot case. Cyber crime experts and forensic experts have also been pressed into service to help the SIT headed by City SP Ashok Kumar. Darbhanga SSP Babu Ram inquired about the progress in the case from the members of the raiding teams. The CCTV footage is being analysed to ascertain the identity of the criminals. A sniffer dog was pressed into service to trace the exit route of the robbers, who fired in the air to terrorise the local traders. A bag containing some jewellery was dropped by one of the robbers and subsequently recovered by the shop owner. Shop owner Pawan Kumar Lath said that the robbers took away gold jewellery weighing 11.672 kg worth Rs.5.35 crore and Rs.2 lakh in cash. An FIR was lodged with the Town police station on the basis of the shop owner’s statement. A STF team is camping at Darbhanga. “STF personnel have been provided with the CCTV footage of the incident,” an investigating officer said. Meanwhile, a delegation of the members of the chamber of commerce and industry led by vice president Shatrughna Panjiyar met SSP Babu Ram and demanded proper security to businessmen. The SSP assured the delegation that adequate steps would be taken to instil confidence among members of the trade community. Daylight loot in Alankar Jewellers located at Bada Bazar in Darbhanga town is not an isolated incident. Earlier, gold jewellery worth Rs.1 crore was looted from a jewellery shop located at Teghra in Begusarai district in September. In addition, a jeweller was shot dead and gold ornaments worth Rs.5 lakh was looted from him in Motihari on September 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-clue-in-darbhanga-jewellery-shop-loot-case/articleshow/79666917.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
December 11, 2020||Patna||1st winter rain likely on Dec 15 & 16: Met||PATNA: Revising its previous prediction, the Patna Meteorological Centre has forecast that the first winter rainfall will occur on December 15 and 16. “Showers are expected at several places in the state on December 15 and 16 due to a western disturbance,” Aarti Gupta, an officer at the Patna Meteorological Centre told TOI on Thursday and added that the skies would become clear in the next 24 hours with a significant plunge in the minimum temperature. This western disturbance is expected to cause widespread rain and snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh. Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh and other north-western states are also likely to witness isolated showers on December 11-12. Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extratropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea which cause snow and winter rainfall in the north-western Indian subcontinent. According to weather experts, after the western disturbance passes through the north-western states, it will gradually reduce in intensity. It may, however, lead to light rainfall at several places in Bihar on December 15 and 16. Another Met official, Shailendra Kumar Patel, said, “The rain will clear the fog cover being witnessed in most parts of the state.” Foggy conditions improved slightly in Patna on Thursday, but the skies remained covered with haze, blocking the sun. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 15 degrees Celsius and a maximum temperature of 21.8 degrees C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1st-winter-rain-likely-on-dec-15-16-met/articleshow/79668001.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Seven sambar deaths in Uttarakhand in 2 days||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department has been jolted by deaths of seven sambars (Rusa unicolor) within 48 hours. Sambars are classified as vulnerable to extinction in the IUCN Red list. Four of the animals died on Thursday in Haridwar forest division while three were found dead on Wednesday in Dehradun forest division in the office compound of forest corporation in the Badkot forest range. A fourth sambar had managed to come out of the compound, but was badly injured and is undergoing treatment at the rescue centre in Haridwar. Dehradun’s divisional forest officer Rajiv Dhiman told TOI, “These are very sensitive animals and died due to shock as they had deep wounds due to barbed wire fencing. This is the first of its type incident that has happened in the Dehradun forest division.” The official alleged that the animals were not a target of poachers .  “We are going to register complaints against unknown people. However, we do understand that it is not linked to poaching because the area comes under forest corporation and is very safe in terms of vigilance,” said Dhiman. In Haridwar’s Khanpur forest range, the patrolling team saw four carcasses of sambars. The post-mortem indicated that all of them were electrocuted. Confirming the deaths, Haridwar’s DFO Neeraj Verma said, "Prima facie it looks like they came in contact with power cables . We will still investigate the issue to understand as to why and how this incident took place ."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seven-sambar-deaths-in-uttarakhand-in-2-days/articleshow/79667233.cms||Shivani Azad
December 11, 2020||Business||Bulk of FY21 CSR spend will be for Covid relief, vaccine research||Mumbai: Corporate social responsibility (CSR) spends in FY21 will be dominated by funds for Covid-19 relief and vaccines, even as outlays of companies listed on BSE 100 witnessed an increase of around 20% to Rs 10,270 crore in fiscal year 2019-20, according to IiAS, a proxy advisory firm. The largest spenders were family-owned businesses at Rs 4,670 crore, while PSUs have seen the biggest uptick in absolute amounts to Rs 3,410 crore in FY20 from Rs 2,460 crore in FY19. Interestingly, the year saw an aberration with PSUs exceeding the stipulated spends by 126%, owing to last-minute Covid-19 outlays by those who were cash rich. Initially, these firms were laggards and had trailed behind the private sector in CSR spending. Over a three-year period, the CSR spend of BSE 100 companies increased by 38%, while net profits increased by 15%. Spends continue to be increasingly project driven, and not necessarily linked to company profitability. Companies continue to undertake impact assessment studies and align spends on defined social objectives, the report says. The government had declared the Covid-19 pandemic as a ‘notified disaster’ in March, and later allowed companies’ expenditure on Covid-19 eligible for CSR activities. In August, it expanded the scope of CSR spends to include research and development spending on new vaccines, drugs, medical devices related to Covid-19 for FY21, FY22 & FY23. Going by the public disclosures made by companies and annual reports, spending on Covid-19 relief and vaccines is expected to corner a lion’s share of CSR spend in FY21. It is understood that vaccination of employees, and vaccine-related expenditure undertaken by companies may be included as CSR spend. The top areas of CSR spend in FY20 include education at Rs 2,210 crore (21.6% of the total), hunger, poverty, and healthcare at Rs 2,001 crore (19.6%), rural development at Rs 1,190 crore (11.6%) and Covid-19 relief at Rs 1,090 crore (10.6% of the total). Also, spends continue to exceed the mandatory requirement of 2% of their average three-year net profit for the second year in a row: 79 of the top 100 BSE companies spent 2% or more of their average three-year net profit. Further, energy companies continue to be the largest spenders (29.5% of the total), followed by financials (15.7%) and information technology (14.1%). The top 10 CSR spenders account for 48% of spends of the BSE 100 companies. The top-five companies remain unchanged with Reliance as the highest spender, followed by ONGC. TCS is at the third position, replacing IOC, which slipped to the fourth rank, with HDFC Bank ranked fifth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bulk-of-fy21-csr-spend-will-be-for-covid-relief-vaccine-research/articleshow/79671349.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 11, 2020||Business||TVS Group untangles cross-holdings||Chennai: After months of deliberations, the various cousins of the $8.5 billion TVS Group have decided to untangle shareholding in operating entities, a move aimed at avoiding holding related issues at a future date, even as the fourth generation takes complete control of business operations. As part of the restructuring, the operating family groups will buy out the stakes held by the holding companies in various entities that they operate. There will be no impact on any of the companies nor will there be a change in equity stakes that family members hold in the three holding companies — TV Sundram Iyengar & Sons, Sundaram Roadways and Sundaram Industries. Besides, there is no change in shareholding in the various listed entities as it will be an inter-se transfer of promoter holdings. For example, Suresh Krishna’s family will buy stakes held by TVS & Sons and Southern Roadways in Sundram Fasteners and Sundaram Brake while Venu Srinivasan’s family will buy out stakes held by the Sundaram Industries, TVS & Sons and Southern Roadways in Sundaram Clayton, while Shobana Ramachandran and her brothers will buy out stakes held by the holding companies in TVS Tyres. This arrangement may not include Sundaram Finance as it is already de-linked from the holding companies. TOI reported the settlement between various promoters groups in its edition dated July 9. Following this agreement, “the existing management of the various listed and unlisted companies/ businesses in the TVS Group will continue to be managed by the same family members. The nominated members of the TVS family will now deliberate on the steps to be taken to further implement this arrangement,” a statement from TV Sundram Iyengar & Sons said. ‘ The present shareholders of the holding companies primarily consist of the third and fourth generations of the original founder, T V Sundram Iyengar. The various businesses/ entities of the TVS Group have been traditionally managed by members of the different branches of the TVS family. With the passage of time, the members of the TVS family felt that the ownership of shares in various companies/ businesses should align and synchronise with the management of the respective companies and therefore the memorandum of family arrangement has been entered into, the statement said.The settlement envisages no royalty outgo for any of the entities using the ‘TVS’ brand, a suggestion mooted by Suresh Krishna, chairman of Sundram Fasteners and TV Sundram Iyengar & Sons. “The brand is being allotted to each family group and company for their use in their lines of business on a perpetual, royalty free basis,” the statement said.Family members didn’t want to comment about the settlement. “This should be seen as a job well done. Settling cross holdings when everyone is happy and in talking terms is the best thing. We have seen how families end up fighting between brothers and cousins when the next generation takes charge,” a group insider said. Upon completion of this exercise, the three holding companies would have enchashed their stakes in operating entities and the family members will get a total control of that vertical they operate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-group-untangles-cross-holdings/articleshow/79668849.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Business||Indian Bank lets off losses against share premium||Chennai: State-owned Indian Bank received the banking regulator nod to set off Rs 18,975 crore accumulated losses using share premium. This accumulated loss was reported at the back of its amalgamation of Allahabad Bank. At the extraordinary general meeting (EGM) held on November 30, the chairperson and Indian Bank’s MD & CEO Padmaja Chundru had informed shareholders that as per the opening balance sheet of the bank post amalgamation, has an amount of Rs 19,833.15 crore standing to the credit of Share Premium Account as on April 1, 2020, as a result of earlier share issues made at premium. Further, an aggregate amount of Rs 18,975.53 crore is outstanding as net accumulated losses under reserves and surplus of the amalgamated entity. Therefore, the Bank proposed to utilize the amount standing in the Share Premium Account for the purpose of setting off the accumulated losses. Following which, the bank, on Thursday, said it has passed the requisite accounting entries setting off accumulated losses of Rs 18,975.53 crore from Share Premium Account of the Bank, with prior approval of Reserve Bank of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-bank-lets-off-losses-against-share-premium/articleshow/79669250.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 11, 2020||Business||Morgan Stanley India co-head passes away||Mumbai: Aisha de Sequeira, the co-head of Morgan Stanley’s India arm, passed away on Thursday in New York. An trained engineer and a graduate of Yale School of Management, Sequeira, 50, had been with the global financial major for over 25 years. She had been battling colon cancer since 2017. “She was a great person who was warm and loving. She enjoyed spending time with her sons Nathan (9), Alexander (9) and Erasmo (11),” said her husband Roy de Souza, founder and chief executive officer of Zedo, an internet advertising technology company. Recently, Sequeira led Morgan Stanley to close the deals for Google and Facebook to buy stakes in Reliance Jio platform, which also catapulted the investment bank to the top of the M&A league table. Sequeira is the granddaughter of Dr Jack de Sequeira, popularly referred to as the father of Goa’s Opinion Poll. Recently in an interview with a business magazine, she had said that after she was diagnosed with cancer, she preferred to continue to work since it helped her not think about the disease all the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/morgan-stanley-india-co-head-passes-away/articleshow/79671295.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Surat||Breach in make-shift pond damages crop in 50 acre land||Surat: Standing crop on an estimated 50 acres of farm land in Dehgam village in Bharuch taluka was damaged following the breach in the small pond constructed for the storage of water used during the ongoing work for the Vadodara-Mumbai Expressway, on Thursday morning.Farmers in the Dehgam village said that the water gushed into their fields from the lake during the morning hours. When they went to check from where the water was coming, they found a breach in the earthen wall constructed in the open land for the storage of water. Sources said that the construction company has prepared a small pond in the Dehgam village, which is close to the NH-8, for using the water during construction of the Vadodara-Mumbai Expressway passing from near the village. The pond is constructed in about one bigha land and is about 25 feet deep. Illyas Patel, sarpanch of Dehgam village told TOI, “The breach in the pond flooded the farm land with standing crop in its vicinity. Farmers have sustained heavy losses following the damage to the standing crop in 50 acres of land.” According to Patel, the farmers held a meeting with the authorities of the construction company demanding compensation. The authorities will be carrying out a survey to assess the damage and then decide on the compensation. Salim Ahmad, a farmer from Dehgam village said, “My standing crop of cotton in four bigha land has been destroyed. I had taken the land on lease for cultivation. Now, I will have to bear the losses, if we are not paid the compensation for the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/breach-in-make-shift-pond-damages-crop-in-50-acre-land/articleshow/79668907.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||Students to get hostels after being interviewed||PATNA: With a view to checking the entry of unauthorized people into its hostels, Patna University (PU) will allot rooms only to “genuine” students after interviewing them. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of hostel wardens, superintendents and senior officials of the university held under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor G K Chaudhary on Thursday. PU has altogether 28 hostels for postgraduate and undergraduate students where seats are allotted on the basis of merit. At present, all of them are lying vacant due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, once the admission process is over and regular classes are resumed, the university will start allotting hostels to students, preferably the outsiders. “The university has decided to beef up security measures in all hostels by appointing adequate number of security personnel and installing CCTV cameras. All hostels will now have mess facility in order to check the illegal use of electricity by the inmates,” PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper. He added, “Every hostel will maintain study hours and record temporary absence of its boarders.” PU has already constituted management committees to ensure provision of basic amenities like safe drinking water and clean toilets in hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-to-get-hostels-after-being-interviewed/articleshow/79666846.cms||B K Mishra
December 11, 2020||Patna||Govt to roll out 50 CNG buses in Jan||PATNA: In a bid to fight air pollution, the state transport department will roll out 50 CNG buses and 12 new pumps in Patna in January. The routes on which the new buses will ply have not been decided yet. At present the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation runs 20 buses converted from diesel to CNG on the Bailey Road, Danapur and Phulwarisharif routes. Transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told TOI on Thursday, “The new CNG buses, which are highly efficient and economical, will help curb air pollution.” He added that low-floor CNG buses like the ones in Delhi were likely to be introduced in Patna. The department has also decided to either convert all the diesel-run autorickshaws into CNG or replace them with new ones. Patna has nearly 5,000 CNG-based autos at present. “With a view to ensuring that CNG is easily available, 12 more pumps are being set up in Patna,” Agarwal said. CNG supply began after the inauguration of the Patna City Gas Distribution network by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Begusarai on February 17, 2019. According to officials, efforts to run eco-friendly vehicles are being taken to control the city’s pollution levels. Patna is one of the most polluted cities in the world, a major reason for which is vehicular emissions. In 2018, the Bihar State Pollution Control Board had released an action plan that envisaged use of cleaner fuels like CNG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-roll-out-50-cng-buses-in-jan/articleshow/79666763.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 11, 2020||Business||‘FMCG revival led by rural demand’||John.Sarkar@timesgroup.com Like its peers in the FMCG industry, US-headquartered food and beverage company PepsiCo too grappled with volatile conditions brought about by the pandemic. Despite a double-digit fall in beverage sales in India, the maker of Mountain Dew, Lay’s potato chips and Tropicana juices has recalibrated its processes leading to a turnaround in its business. PepsiCo India president Ahmed ElSheikh spoke to TOI about these changes and the road ahead... How far has business returned to normal? As for the FMCG industry, the sector is witnessing signs of revival and we remain cautiously confident of the future. This recovery is led by rural India demand and in-home consumption uptake. Has Covid impacted remuneration, resulted in downsizing? Employees are our greatest asset and during such unprecedented times, the priority was to ensure their safety and also of their families — both psychologically and physically. Downsizing or remuneration cut, therefore, was never an option for us, while we did prioritise other costs. What are you doing to ensure work-life balance? We have taken a few steps in this direction like having work/meeting guidelines, providing flexibility for some “me time”, focusing on physical and mental wellbeing and also sensitising managers across levels. What additional steps are required from the government to help your businesses? The industry is seeing a consumption revival, which we expect will improve with further easing of restrictions and the festive season. However, to ensure a sustained consumption revival that impacts the economy at large, it is important that the government encourages public spending and continues to look at ways of putting more disposable income into the hands of people. When do you expect things to get back to ‘normal’? While being optimistic about the future, we also know that the “normal” will be a hybrid concept. It will be a mix of online versus offline, in-home versus out-of-home and so forth. We strongly believe that the fundamentals of the Indian economy are very solid, where recovery is going to be fast and things are going to turn around soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fmcg-revival-led-by-rural-demand/articleshow/79650925.cms||John Sarkar
December 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar sees 13% dip in rape cases this year: Official data||PATNA: There may be a common perception among the people that crime is growing at an astronomical rate in the state, but the official figures released by the police headquarters ahead of a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday paint a different picture altogether. Although serious crimes are taking place on a regular basis across the state, the official data suggest that except kidnapping for ransom and bank robbery, there has been a substantial decline in other crimes. While eight people were kidnapped in November 2020, only five cases of kidnapping for ransom were reported during the corresponding period last year. Similarly, two incidents of bank robbery were reported in November 2020 compared to only one in 2019. According to the data, there is a 100% increase in the cases of bank robbery this year and a 60% growth in the incidents of kidnapping. Other crimes like murders, dacoities, rapes, bank loots and riots have, however, dipped. While the incidents of dacoity registered a decline of 44.83%, murder cases decreased by 3.68%, rapes by 13.33%, bank loots by 100% and riots by 16.28% during the period. A comparison of crimes between July and September 2020 with those in November also shows a decline. While cognisable offences dipped by 22.09% in November, cases of murder reduced by 13.53%, dacoities by 22.58%, rapes by 45.58%, riots by 46.63% and bank loots by 100%. However, kidnapping cases recorded a rise of 300% and bank robbery incidents of 200%. Former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, D M Diwakar, told this newspaper on Thursday that the people’s perception about rise in crime hinted at the government’s failure. “Law and order has been the USP of the Nitish Kumar government. It, however, started weakening after 2010 and has virtually collapsed now,” he added. Reacting to the incident of loot in a jewellery shop in Darbhanga on Wednesday, barely an hour before the CM’s review meeting, Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “There is a need of a full-fledged home minister in Bihar to control the law and order and restore people’s faith.” Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also slammed the state government for its failure to check the incidents of crime. “The state will once again slip into the hands of the (underworld) dons if immediate measures are not taken by the government,” a trader of Sutapatti wholesale cloth market in Muzaffarpur claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-sees-13-dip-in-rape-cases-this-year/articleshow/79666904.cms||Ramashankar
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||One stabbed to death in brawl over beer||PANCHKULA: One person was stabbed to death, while his friend received knife injuries as the assailant was not handed over two bottles of bear he was demanding, the police said. In a complaint, Mannu, 21, of Sector 17, who is a caterer by profession, said around 12.00am on Wednesday night, he was returning to home from work along with the beer sought by his friend Sagar. As he reached close to his house, a person, Arun, stopped him and asked him to hand over the bottles. When he refused, Arun, along with one Munna, started quarrelling with Mannu. On hearing the noise, Mannu's friends Sagar, Tinku and Sunil reached the spot and they had a scuffle. Soon after, Arjun took out a knife and stabbed Sagar and also attacked Mannu. While Sagar died on the spot, Mannu received injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-stabbed-to-death-in-brawl-over-beer/articleshow/79668474.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||Patna chokes as air quality dips||PATNA: The air quality in Patna slipped to ‘poor’ category on Thursday, a day after it improved to ‘moderate’ for the first time in around three- weeks. Wednesday’s breather was primarily due to wind speed, which slowed down again allowing pollutants to accumulate in the air, with little or no scope for ventilation for the next 48 hours. According to figures released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Patna increased from 172 on Wednesday to 274 on Thursday at 4 pm, which falls under ‘poor’ category with possible health impacts such as “breathing discomfort for most people on prolonged exposure”. The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) officials said the overall AQI of 274 was the average of all six Patna stations — Planetarium (360), BIT-Mesra, Patna (173), Eco Park (302), Patna City (250), DRM office-Khagaul (321) and SK Memorial Hall (245). The concentration of PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micron in size) was recorded at 273.8 micrograms per cubic metres, and PM10 (10 microns) was at 185.4 µg/m3. An AQI between 0-50 is considered ‘good’, 51-100 ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’ and 401-500 ‘severe’. The officials at BSPCB said high moisture levels in the environment and low temperatures will make the dispersion of pollutants difficult as heavier air (due to low temperatures) trap pollutants in the lower atmosphere. “Besides, climatic conditions air pollution also increases due to anthropogenic reasons,” the officials said. The major reasons for air pollution in the state are biomass and fossil fuel burning, industries such as brickkiln, power plants, construction activities, DG sets and transportation. Ankita Jyoti, senior programme officer of the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), told this newspaper that the average pollution level in Patna would be more than what the CPCB calculated through the continuous ambient air quality- monitoring stations. “We need more such stations to get a clear picture of the average pollution level because even CPCB says the average AQI is not a scientific way to calculate any city’s pollution level,” Jyoti said. The Air Quality Early Warning System of the ministry of earth sciences has predicted that the overall AQI of Patna will further deteriorate on Friday. The air quality is likely to further slip into the very poor category during the next 24 hours, owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersion of pollutants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-chokes-as-air-quality-dips/articleshow/79666751.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 11, 2020||Patna||Dumka gang-rape sparks BJP-RJD war of words||PATNA: The gangrape of a 35-year-old woman by around a dozen drunken youths on Tuesday night at Dumka in Jharkhand created its own spin-off controversy in Patna on Thursday with RJD and BJP locking horns over the incident. In Jharkhand, the Grand Alliance government led by CM Hemant Soren of JMM is in power with 47 MLAs of the alliance in the 81-member state assembly. The Bihar BJP senior leader and deputy CM, Renu Devi, held the Jharkhand government led by Soren responsible for the gang rape of the woman at Dumka and sought the immediate arrest of the culprits. “The Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand is responsible for the incident. The law and order situation has deteriorated there and the state government is unable to check it. There are laws to handle such matters, but they are not being strictly implemented,” Renu told media persons in Patna, adding, “The guilty persons should be nabbed immediately and justice should be done to the victim.” RJD senior leader and former Rajya Sabha member Shivanand Tiwary condemned the incident and claimed that rapes are an awful side-effect of “the modernizing process, and women, even in a traditional tribal society with its unique culture, have started falling victim to it in Jharkhand.” He further said, “It is true that rape incidents have increased in the last some years everywhere, but I have lived there, and know that it was unimaginable in Jharkhand that has a big chunk of tribal population.” “These people have their unique traditional culture that is very open and ‘Sahaj (simple, innocent and affable)’. If rape incidents have started occurring there, it is a matter of serious concern and needs to be investigated and thoroughly researched on,” Tiwary added. “I can only say that when a society begins to get modernized, its accompanying culture of consumerism – like the representation of item songs in films, TV advertisements and porn internet sites, among other features – create a mindset among men that is inimical towards women. Women begin to be treated as an object, which produces a peculiar mindset among women towards women,” Tiwary said, adding, “people need to change this mindset.” As it is, the survivor (a mother of five children), along with her husband, was returning home from a ‘haat’ around 8 pm on Tuesday, when a dozen youths, who were drunk, committed the crime. Five of them first overcame her husband and made him a hostage, and then they took turns to rape the woman. The couple complained to the Dumka Mufassil police station on Wednesday morning. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dumka-gangrape-sparks-bjp-rjd-war-of-words/articleshow/79666854.cms||Abhay Singh
December 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar student’s admit card names Emraan Hashmi, Sunny Leone as parents||PATNA: Kundan Kumar, a 20-year-old student of Dhanraj Mahto Degree College in Muzaffarpur, has brought the internet down with his exam admit card, which mentions actors Emraan Hashmi and Sunny Leone as his parents. The second-year BA (Hons) student’s admit card which has gone viral on social media even drew a hilarious response from Hashmi, who posted a tweet saying, “I swear he ain’t mine (sic).” Officials of the college, as well as the Bhim Rao Ambedkar Bihar University to which the college is affiliated, were stunned after seeing the names printed in the examination document and so was Kundan. “I have absolutely no idea how it happened and who did this mischief. I was shocked seeing the names of actors in the columns where my parents' name should be,” Kundan said. To make matters worse, his home address mentions the name of the red-light area of Muzaffarpur. However, the university authorities are contemplating taking action against the “mischievous” boy. The varsity’s registrar, Ram Krishna Thakur said an inquiry has been ordered in the matter. “It is mischief and the student might himself be responsible for the same. Based on the report of the inquiry further action will be taken,” he added. BRABU controller of examinations Manoj Kumar, however, told this newspaper on Thursday that it was not an issue because some mischievous person might have done the work through Photoshop software. “We have a triple-layer checking in the software to scrutinise every examination form. There is a lengthy process for submission of examination form and the admit card was issued only after the college and university officials verify all the information of the student,” he said. He added, “The filing of examination form was started from December 6 for second-year undergraduate students and the process will end on December 16, after that the admit card will be issued.” It is not the first time that Leone’s name had appeared in the educational institute’s form. Earlier, the actress name appeared in the draft merit list for the post of junior engineer recruitment which was released by Bihar Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) in 2019. In the same year, her nude picture was printed in the admit card of a student of Bihar University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-admit-card-names-emraan-sunny-as-parents/articleshow/79667063.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee stable but critical||KOLKATA: Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who was admitted to hospital with severe breathing distress on Wednesday, remained stable but critical on Thursday. The 76-year-old, who suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), is on ventilation and under sedatives but his oxygen saturation level remained a healthy 95%, according to the Woodlands Hospital where he is under treatment. An effort will soon be made to ease Bhattacharjee out of ventilation, it was decided at a meeting between the five-member medical board formed for his treatment and his family members on Thursday morning. Bhattacharjee’s sedation was stopped on Thursday morning as a trial to assess his condition, which was found to have improved. Doctors, however, said his sedation will continue to assist effective ventilation. According to preliminary investigations, including blood parameters and imaging, he had no significant abnormality. His current carbon dioxide and oxygen levels in blood have improved while his pulse, blood pressure and oxygen saturation are stable. His cardiac condition, too, is stable. Bhattacharjee is on antibiotics, steroids and other supportive medication. “Since his condition remains stable, a process of guarded withdrawal from ventilation is being planned. Treating doctors are keeping a constant vigil on his health situation and taking appropriate measures from time to time,” said Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu. A five-member medical board has been formed with pulmonologist Kaushik Chakraborty, critical care expert Soutik Panda, cardiologist Saroj Mondal, pulmonologist Ankan Bandopadhyay and anaesthesiologist Asis Patra. Even though the septuagenarian was initially put on a bipap, he was shifted to invasive (mechanical) ventilation after a test conducted on Wednesday revealed ‘accumulation of carbon dioxide and low PH level’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buddhadeb-stable-but-critical/articleshow/79668562.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man found dead with throat slit in govt housing complex||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old man was allegedly found lying in a pool of blood with his neck slit inside his third-floor flat in the Kushtia government housing complex in the Tiljala area on Thursday. DC (southeast) Sudip Sarkar said that, prima facie, it looked like a case of murder. “It looks like a case of murder for gain. The accused had a friendly entry, after which the victim’s neck was slashed at an opportune time. Neighbours claim that the victim, Jayanta Mukherjee, had not been spotted in the past 72 hours. It seems he was murdered sometime ago. We have certain leads and we are questioning some people. We are confident of a breakthrough soon,” said an officer. Sources said Mukherjee had been living alone after his parents passed away. According to Mukherjee’s immediate neighbour, Aparna Biswas, he was having trouble coping with the pandemic. “He was working in a private firm. His father passed away some years ago and his mother died about two years ago. During the pandemic, he told me he had lost his job. Although he claimed he had landed another job, it seemed he was having monetary trouble. Recently, I saw Mukherjee buying eggs. I know he liked fish, but he said he was making ends meet by cooking egg curry,” recalled Biswas. Other neighbours said Mukherjee had been borrowing money and had an ongoing property dispute with some family members. “Around 10am on Thursday, a few masons and painters were working on the building. One of them had climbed on a window next to Mukherjee’s residence and spotted him lying in blood. He informed neighbours who then called the cops. “We found Mukherjee was living alone. Yet, the assailant seemed to have gone through cupboards and almirahs looking for something. This has made us realize that the murder could be for gain. The attempt does not look like a deliberate ploy to mislead the police,” said a source. Cops said that besides his local contacts, Mukherjee visited a local club every day. “We want to ascertain if anyone had come looking for him as he had not gone to the club for three days despite it being a habit. He is also said to have some contacts in Hedua and Tarakeswar. Our teams are working on these leads,” said an officer. The homicide wing officers, along with the local Tiljala police that has registered a murder FIR, were at the spot questioning a few suspects till late on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-found-dead-with-throat-slit-in-govt-housing-complex/articleshow/79668546.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 11, 2020||Business||RBI fines HDFC Bank Rs 10 lakh for bond shortfall||MUMBAI: The RBI has fined HDFC Bank Rs 10 lakh for bouncing of subsidiary general ledger (SGL) on November 19, which led to shortage of balance in certain securities in the bank’s constituent SGL. An SGL is a demat account for government bonds held by banks. A constituent SGL is opened by a bank to hold bonds on behalf of a customers. Failure of settlement of a bond transaction for want of securities in an account leads to an SGL bounce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-fines-hdfc-bank-rs-10l-for-bond-shortfall/articleshow/79671293.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Youths trained by US Consulate take up anti-trafficking initiatives||Kolkata: Activities to combat trafficking are back on track after the lockdown with youths trained a year and a half ago by the US Consulate General in Kolkata and the NGO Shakti Vahini taking a slew of initiatives to combat the menace. On Wednesday, a virtual programme was organized on 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence — an international campaign to challenge violence against women and girls hosted by the US Consulate in Kolkata. From setting up clubs and publishing cartoon strips to distributing bookmarks and carrying out large-scale online awareness campaigns, young activists from India and abroad have drawn on the pandemic challenges to launch initiatives to combat gender-based violence. “In Kolkata, the US Consulate partnered with the government, law enforcement agencies, civil societies, academic institutions and the private sector to ensure that vulnerable voices are heard,” said US Consul General Patti Hoffman. “We have formed an anti-human trafficking club in our university with the help of our professors,” said Shivam Jaiswal, founder-member of the Siliguri club. Stuck home during the pandemic, postgraduate students Anoushka Gupta and Vineet Prakash shared how they made comic strips depicting human trafficking while journalism students from Delhi, Anamika Yadav, Subhasini and Preksha Malhotra, spoke about distributing bookmarks on anti-trafficking campaigns. Student film-maker Amit Kumar from Jamshedpur said he has been making videos on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youths-trained-by-us-consulate-take-up-anti-trafficking-initiatives/articleshow/79668577.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 11, 2020||Patna||3-day Int’l Buddhist Travel Mart begins in Bodh Gaya||GAYA: Three-day International Buddhist Travel Mart started in Bodh Gaya on Thursday. Association For Buddhist Tour Operators (ABTO) has organised the mart for revival of tourism, promoting cross-border tourism and Buddhist and domestic tourism with the help of Lord Buddha’s ‘Ratna Sutra’. While addressing the inaugural session through virtual mode, Union minister of state for tourism (independent charge) Prahlad Singh Patel said, “Work is going on on five projects of the Buddhist circuit with a view to promoting domestic tourism”. Former tourism secretary Vinod Just said, “Corona has hit the entire tourism sector. Now efforts should be made to overcome this crisis. We need to lay emphasis on local tourism”. UN Peace Keeping Force council senior director Da Lee Yang said that tourism sector is one of the worst affected due to Covid -19. But 53℅ tourist spots have now opened up. He stressed on the need to lift restrictions on tourism sector and to make travel visa free. ABTO members from Thailand, Indonesia, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Nepal are participating in the convention. During the three-day convention, panel discussions on ‘Asian Market Tourism Growth Potential’, and ‘Importance of The Light of Asia Route For Modern World Tourism’, will be held. On Friday, the participants will practice meditation under the sacred Bodhi tree. On the concluding day on Saturday, a heritage peace walk from Mahakal cave to Mahabodhi Mahavihara and panel discussion on ‘Contribution of Asian Travel Association To The Growth of World Tourism’ will be held. ABTO founder general secretary Kaulesh Kumar said, “In view of Covid-19 guidelines, only 100 participants have been invited. However, tour operators and Buddhist scholars from China, Cambodia, Japan, Srilanka, Thailand Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Singapore would participate through virtual mode.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-day-intl-buddhist-travel-mart-begins-in-bodh-gaya/articleshow/79667073.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||NGOs toast work of women’s & kids’ self-help groups||Kolkata: This Human Rights Day, it was time to toast the victims of trafficking who have joined self help groups (SHGs), becoming earning members of their families. NGOs from South 24 Parganas — Mukti and Goranbose Gramin Bikas Kendra (GGBK) — lauded a few such women from SHGs who have taken out loans to open various small businesses at home. An official from Mukti said the network of women, which had around 5,000 members before the pandemic, has now reached out to over 20,000 people. Pampa Ghosh from GGBK said, “These women are taking independent decisions and making a living after the main earning members of their families lost their jobs.” Even children who had been victims of rights violation have been doing their bit. International Justice Mission (IJM), Kolkata, with the support of Jibontala Block Development Office and Canning Women Police Station presented awards to some Adolescent Group members and child marriage survivors on Wednesday. “From being a victim of child marriage to becoming a member of a group that reports against such activities is a big transformation. We salute these children for their support,” said Saji Philip, director of operations, IJM, Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngos-toast-work-of-womens-kids-self-help-groups/articleshow/79668609.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 11, 2020||Patna||Commuters hope for end to travel trauma||ARA: Commuters heaved a sigh of relief after the much-awaited new Koilwar bridge was inaugurated here by Union minister Nitin Gadkari through video conferencing on Wednesday. Union minister RK Singh who was also present at the inaugural ceremony said, “Earlier, ambulances used to get stuck on the bridge and even patients had died in many cases. During the marriage season, many bride grooms had to cross the Koilwar bridge on foot due to the heavy traffic snarls. The new bridge is a gift not only for the people of south Bihar but also for the entire state as commuters from Patna, Bhojpur, Buxar, Kaimur, Chhapra and Sasaram cross this way.” Frequent commuters said the new bridge means relief from traffic snarls, spending thrice the normal travel time, unbearable pollution and the nightmare to hospitalise kin or friends during emergency. Chhotu Kumar, a driver from Ara, who works for a stationery supplier said, “It used to take three to four hours to cross the old bridge sometimes due to long traffic jam. Let’s hope that the new bridge will help us get rid of this snarl.” Similarly, Rajkumari Pandey , a 70- year old homemaker, who recently faced a huge traffic jam near Koilwar bridge said on Thursday: “We started from Ara for Patna to attend a reception ceremony at 2.45 pm and could reach Patna only after 7 hours at about 9.30 pm. My knees were badly aching due to long hours of sitting in the car. It was a real nightmare. The new bridge will definitely reduce the traffic jam problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/commuters-hope-for-end-to-travel-trauma/articleshow/79666996.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Surat||3,000 Surat doctors to protest ‘mixopathy’ today||Surat: Over 3,000 doctors in the city will abstain from all non-essential and non-Covid services on Friday as part of the nationwide protest against the government’s decision authorising post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to train and perform general surgical procedures. The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter said that the doctors will withdraw all non-essential and non-Covid services on Friday from 6am to 6pm. However, the other emergency services including critical care, ICUs, Covid care, surgeries and labour room will continue to function normally. Dr Hiral Shah, president of IMA’s Surat chapter said, “Over 3,000 doctors in the city will join the protest on Friday. All the OPD services will remain closed from 6am to 6pm. We want the draconian notification to be withdrawn immediately in the interest of the medical practitioners across the country.” Dr Shah added, “The notification by Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) to train and allow legal practices of surgery by Ayurveda practitioners will only lead to ‘mixopathy’. We are against ‘mixopathy’ and will fight till our last breath to preserve the rights of the doctors of modern medicine in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3000-surat-doctors-to-protest-mixopathy-today/articleshow/79668751.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||J P varsity gets Rs 2.75L for renovation of senate hall||CHHAPRA: The J P University syndicate on Wednesday approved its budget for the beautification of the existing senate hall and other important works during fiscal 2021-2022. The budget will now be tabled in the university’s senate meeting before the approval of state government. J P University’s public relations officer (PRO) professor Harishchandra said the university gets Rs 2.75 lakh for the renovation of senate hall, Rs 55,000 for rearrangement of tables in the hall, Rs 55,000 for a sound system and Rs 4,60,000 for the installation of lights on the internal lanes in the campus. “A medical officer will also be appointed. The syndicate has also approved 60℅ enhancement in the salary of contractual drivers with effect from this month,” the PRO said, adding an AC will also be installed at the vice-chancellor’s residence. Ensure social distancing, says VC: In a surprise visit during the postgraduate fourth-semester examination, J P University’s vice-chancellor (VC) Faruque Ali directed the centre superintendent professor Sarfaraz Ahmed to be vigilant towards the use of masks and maintenance of social distancing norms by the examinees. “Install sanitizer and dustbins and allow snack sellers at the entrance for the examinees and their guardians waiting outside the examination centre,” the VC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/j-p-varsity-gets-rs-2-75l-for-renovation-of-senate-hall/articleshow/79666892.cms||H K Verma
December 11, 2020||Surat||Raped teen ‘pushed’ from apartment terrace in Gujarat||SURAT: An 18-year-old girl suffered severe injuries after being allegedly pushed from the terrace of a three-storey apartment in the posh Parle Point area late on Wednesday night. Medical examination of the girl also confirmed that she was raped, said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police. The girl was spotted lying heavily bleeding by some residents of Gokul Dham Apartment at around 9:30pm on Wednesday. Based on preliminary investigation, Umra police booked an unidentified person for rape and attempt to murder on Thursday. The girl was semi-conscious when found, and after regaining consciousness, she told the police on Thursday evening that she was pushed from the terrace. She suffered multiple fractures in her pelvic bone and heavy blood loss. Police suspect that she hit the compound wall of the apartment before falling to the ground. “The girl told investigators that she did not know the person who pushed her from the terrace and that she had gone there on her own,” said Chaudhary. Police will question her in detail after her health improves. However, the teen could not explain why she went to the terrace and denied knowing anyone in the apartment. The door of the terrace was not locked, officials said. Daughter of a mini truck owner, she had left the house on Wednesday morning informing her parents that she was going to deposit fees in a college in Vesu and buy study books. She was informed by the college to confirm her admission in the first-year BA by depositing fees. In the afternoon, her father received a call from the college informing that she would lose the seat if fees are not paid before evening. Hence, the family members called her on mobile, which went unanswered and was then switched off. Her father later received a message on his phone from her number which read:, ‘I love you mom and dad, (her name) is no more.’ As she did not return till late night, the family lodged a missing report in Limbayat police station. Meanwhile, police control room was alerted by residents of Gokul Dham Apartment that a critically injured teenager was found in the parking. “We were having dinner at around 9.45 pm, when we heard the noise of something heavy falling on the ground. Much to our shock, it was a girl,” said Sharda Javarkar, wife of the apartment’s watchman who lives on the ground floor. Police teams from Umra, Khatodara, Athwalines and crime branch have joined the investigation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/raped-teen-pushed-from-apartment-terrace/articleshow/79668383.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Business||Tata Sons reject Shapoorji Pallonji's share-swap offer||MUMBAI: Tata Sons on Thursday rejected estranged minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji’s proposal to swap its 18.4% stake with shares of the company’s listed downstream entities. The holding company of India’s largest conglomerate termed the proposal as “nonsense”, while informing the Supreme Court that “this kind of relief cannot be granted” and that it “is opposing it”. SP has sought separation from Tata Sons as a relief in its minority shareholder oppression case. When asked whether SP’s proposal is tenable at this stage, Tata Sons said, “No. At best, if it (SP) wins the case, the court can ask the majority shareholder to buy out its stake at fair market value.” On Tuesday, Tata Sons had told the SC that it had valued SP’s stake at Rs 70,000-80,000 crore, which is 55-61% lower than the minority shareholder’s estimation of Rs 1.78 lakh crore. SP’s estimation included its proportionate share in the Tata brand value, worth Rs 1.46 lakh crore, according to Brand Finance’s 2020 ranking. Read AlsoTatas line up $1.2 billion for e-commerce playTata Group is set to invest around $1.2 billion for its entry into digital commerce with majority stakes in e-grocer Bigbasket and e-pharma platform 1MG, according to two sources briefed on the matter.“SP is seeking 18.4% stake in the Tata brand value as well. How can they be rewarded for damaging the Tata Brand?,” Tata Sons argued, and stated that the proposal is “akin to winding up of Tata Sons”. It is interesting that the minority shareholder, who is crying of oppression, wants to compound its woes by seeking pro-rata shares in the listed Tata companies in lieu of its 18.4% stake in Tata Sons, the holding company said. “Accepting their proposal could cause the issue to spill over from Tata Sons to its listed downstream companies where SP would then be holding minority stakes.” Tata Sons said, “The only way to resolve the deadlock is that one of the two sides bow out. And only the minority can be asked to bow out.” SP argued that a company being a profit-making one is not a criteria to decide whether there is oppression or mismanagement. “Unfair treatment to a minority shareholder is also an act of oppression,” it submitted. The issue is “whether the affairs of a company are being run in a manner which is prejudicial to members or public interest”. “The whole conduct by which Tata Sons was made a private limited company showed that SP was being sidelined.” Read AlsoTatas value SP’s 18% stake at Rs 80,000 croreTata Sons opened up a new battlefront with Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) on Tuesday as it valued the minority shareholder’s 18.4% stake in the company up to 61% lower than the latter’s estimate.SP further stated that Tata Sons does not do any business on its own, but yet its directors take decisions for the downstream companies. Tata Sons had told the SC that certain matters require assent by majority of the Tata Trusts-nominated directors. Tata Trusts owns over 65% in the holding company and was the force behind the removal of SP scion Cyrus Mistry from the chairman’s post. The minority stakeholder told the SC that the entire thing came to a head because Mistry was going to table a corporate governance document to regulate Tata Trusts’s say in the holding company so that two nominee directors don’t decide everything for downstream entities. It also submitted that elsewhere, decisions are usually taken by the boards of respective companies but in Tata operating companies, Tata Sons has a role to play in these decisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-reject-sps-share-swap-offer/articleshow/79671286.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 11, 2020||Patna||RJD neta’s son shot dead in Buxar||BUXAR: Unidentified criminals shot dead one Chandan Bharti (18), son of RJD’s district SC/ST unit president Santosh Bharti at Sarimpur under the Industrial area police station of the district. According to Buxar SDPO Gorakh Ram, police recovered Chandan’s bullet-ridden body from Sonar Ka Bagicha area. Police also recovered empty cartridges from the place of occurrence. The body has been for postmortem. Santosh is also the former chairman of child welfare committee of the district. RJD district unit president Sheshnath Yadav and Shashank Shekhar, both members of Child Welfare Committee, have condemned the gruesome murder and demanded immediate arrest of the culprits. In another incident, one Dhananjay Kumar (18), was shot dead and two others were injured at Mmanjhariya village under the Industrial area police station. All three belonged to Rohtas district and had come to attend a ‘tilak ceremony’ at the village. The incident occurred when local youths of the village attacked them with knife over a trivial issue of parking of bikes. Police have arrested three persons in this connection, said Industrial area police station SHO Dinesh Malakar. Raids are on to nab other culprits, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-netas-son-shot-dead/articleshow/79666947.cms||K Kamlesh
December 11, 2020||Business||IT back-up fix could take up to 3 months: HDFC Bank||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank has informed analysts that improving the architectural efficiency of its IT systems would take three months while it would take six weeks to automate switchover to disaster recovery system. This was in response to the RBI ordering a halt on the launch of IT initiatives and on issue of new credit cards until the bank fixes it’s IT systems. The bank’s CFO said in an investor call with Jefferies that the three system outages suffered by HDFC Bank since November 2018 were disparate events which affected mobile banking, netbanking and power-outage/ back-up at data centre, respectively. “The resolution will take some time that will include few weeks for strengthening disaster recovery system followed by review by the RBI, the bank’s internal committee and independent-expert and any ensuing action, which in our view can take a few months,” Jefferies said in a note following the meeting. Read AlsoRBI bars HDFC Bank from issuing new credit cards, digital launches following outagesThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has asked HDFC Bank to stop launches of new digital business activity and not to add new credit card customers following repeated outages in its electronic banking services. The lender has also asked the bank’s board to examine the lapses and fix accountability. TheWhile the RBI ban on new card issuances would put an halt to acquisitions of a couple of lakhs of card customers every month, it would not hurt the bank’s bottom line immediately as it takes over a year for a new card customer to become profitable to the bank. The ban would also delay new digital initiatives. However, the bank is expected to go full steam ahead on merchant acquisition, which it is free to continue. “SmartHub 3.0 is a platform solution provided to merchants/retailers to help them collect payments, manage supply chains and track and update their inventories,” the note from Jefferies said. HDFC Bank also provides value-added services including analytics. HDFC Bank will be using the pause to run an analytics on its credit card portfolio to devise strategies for the business when the ban is lifted. Read Also'RBI seeks details from HDFC Bank following outage at data centre'The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has asked for an explanation from the HDFC Bank following a disruption in its digital services from Saturday evening to early Sunday morning, sources told timesofindia.com on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it-back-up-fix-could-take-up-to-3-months-hdfc-bank/articleshow/79671291.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cop facing rape charge gets pre-arrest bail||Nagpur: Additional district and sessions judge VM Vaidya last week granted anticipatory bail to naik police constable Rizwan Sheikh in a rape case registered against him in November. Defence counsel Mohd Naveed Opai had argued before the court that the complaint was filed on November 17 and the offence was registered after a two-day delay due to political interference and pressure. While allowing the application, the court observed that contents of the case diary reflected that a dispute revolved around marriage promise which did not materialize. The court also underlined the fact that the case was filed as the promise was not fulfilled. The court also said apprehension of the applicant (Sheikh) regarding arrest was agreeable, but the purpose of the investigation would be served if some conditions are levied while allowing the application. Sheikh, deployed as wireless operator with a senior officer, was recruited in the police department on compassionate grounds couple of years back in place of his father. He had a relation with the complainant since 2014 after meeting her through a common friend. The court, while allowing the anticipatory bail plea, has directed Gittikhadan police to release the applicant Sheikh on anticipatory bail by executing two bonds of Rs25,000 each. The court has also asked Sheikh to remain present at the police station whenever summoned by the investigation officer. He has been also asked not to tamper with the evidence. Advocate Opai, who represented Sheikh, said there was no recoveries from the applicant. “The complainant had also levelled allegations of criminal breach of trust, but it’s actually a dispute of selling an old car by the applicant’s elder brother, who deals in second-hand automobiles,” he said while making arguments against Sheikh’s custodial interrogation. The prosecution had earlier sought Sheikh’s custodial interrogation citing chances of his tampering with the evidence and also medical examination, which is required in rape cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cop-facing-rape-charge-gets-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/79668495.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||AHNA starts complaint redressal cell for Covid bills||Ahmedabad: To address the issues of billing of Covid-19 patients on non-requisited beds in city-based private hospitals, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Thursday launched a redressal cell. As of Thursday, 107 private hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients in the city.Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said a committee comprising leading doctors, administrative experts and a legal expert has been formed for the purpose. “The committee will look into each complaint and verify the facts. If found genuine, the facilities will be ordered to refund the excess charges and a penalty of 10% of the amount will be charged to the hospital,” he said.The mechanism is primarily for patients who got discharged on or after November 1. The applicant will have to submit their grievances on AHNA website and pay Rs 1,000 processing charge. The amount will be refunded if the complaint is found to be genuine, said AHNA officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-starts-complaint-redressal-cell-for-covid-bills/articleshow/79668501.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Ayurveda surgery row: IMA docs in Uttarakhand to go on strike today||Dehradun: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) affiliated doctors have decided to go on a strike on Thursday, to protest against the central government’s decision to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries.The doctors will not treat any OPD patients till 6 pm, whereas only emergency and coronavirus patients would be treated.Dr. DD Choudhury, national vice-president of IMA, said the next strategy will be made in the upcoming meeting on December 27-28.“The Centre had failed to discuss the matter diligently with the actual stakeholders— doctors. They took this decision without keeping the actual doctors of the country in the loop, he said.”Meanwhile, all the Ayurveda doctors have decided to don Pink ribbons to express their gratitude for giving them permission to perform surgeries.Many of the Ayurveda doctors said they will keep their doors open for all the patients and criticised the “attitude” of IMA doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ayurveda-surgery-row-ima-docs-in-uttarakhand-to-go-on-strike-today/articleshow/79667243.cms||Shivani Azad
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||2 ‘cops’ among 7 make off with Karnal man’s Rs 55 lakh||PANCHKULA: A Karnal resident has lost Rs 55 lakh to seven persons, including two men dressed in police uniform. A case of extortion and fraud has been registered. Kunal Chopra, a resident of Karnal’s Nilokheri, said in his police complaint, “I had been planning to buy a house in Panchkula for long. On the recommendations of an acquaintance, Sanjeev of Delhi, I spoke to Kushwinder Sharma, a resident of Panchkula. During a phone conversation, Sharma told me that he would help me buy an NRI’s house at 50% of the market rate. He asked me to bring Rs 55 lakh as advance payment, so that the deal could be finalized at a hotel in Sector 5.”  On November 26, Chopra reached the hotel with Rs 55 lakh and booked a room. “About one-and-a-half-hour later, Sharma, along with two men dressed in police constable uniform and five others, came to my room. They picked up the bag containing Rs 55 lakh and threatened me against gambling in hotel rooms.”  Chopra followed them and saw them sitting in an SUV, whose last digits of the registration number were 0182. “The SUV also had a ‘Sector 14 SHO’ sticker pasted on it,” he added. Chopra rushed to Sector 14 police station and found the SUV with 0182 in its registration number parked on its premises. When he inquired about the raid, cops told him that no such raid was conducted at any place. “Later, Sector 14 police station cops threatened to implicate me in a false case if I did not leave. With my pleas falling on deaf ears, I lodged a complaint with the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Vijay Kumar Nehra,” he said. After the ACP asked Sector 5 police station to register a case, an FIR was filed under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. A cop said, “It was a well-planned crime. The investigation is under way. The accused will be nabbed soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-cops-among-7-make-off-with-karnal-mans-rs-55-lakh/articleshow/79668497.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Accused: Deceased sought shop reference to sell gold||CHANDIGARH/MOHALI: The UT police, on Thursday, produced Sector 23 robbery bid accused Rohit, a resident of Sector 11, Panchkula, before a local court that sent him to three-day police remand. Cops are conducting raids to nab the other two accused. During interrogation, Rohit revealed that he knew one of the accused, Jaspreet Singh, who was found murdered in Mohali on Wednesday night. “Jaspreet had contacted me, saying he wanted to sell gold. I worked at a jewellery shop in Sector 15 and knew Dada Devgun of Sector 23. I told Jaspreet to reach Dada’s gold testing shop in Sector 23,” he said. Jaspreet and two others reached the shop in a car and Rohit on a two-wheeler. The three men went inside and tried to rob Dada and his brother. As they failed, they fired three shots, injuring Dada Devgun. The trio then sped away in their car and Rohit on his two-wheeler. Meanwhile, Gurpreet Singh, brother of Jaspreet, 34, has accused the two on-the-run suspects of murdering Jaspreet. He said in his police complaint, “Jaspreet had left his house around 11.45am Wednesday in our Chandigarh registered car. Around 5.15pm, the UT police came to our house in New Indira Colony, Chandigarh, and asked us to bring Jaspreet. At 7.30pm, Jaspreet was found dead in Sohana. The men involved in Sector 23 robbery bid have killed my brother. They also took his dual-SIM cellphone. Jaspreet perhaps knew the two.” Sohana SHO inspector Daljeet Singh Gill said, “Teams have been dispatched to arrest the two accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accused-deceased-sought-shop-reference-to-sell-gold/articleshow/79668490.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Commandant’s parade for autumn term held at IMA||Dehradun: The Commandant’s Parade was held at the Indian Military Academy on Thursday for the autumn term, 2020, marking the culmination of training process of 325 Indian Gentlemen Cadets and 70 from nine friendly countries. Amid the Covid-19 guidelines, the IMA staff and other trainees were allowed to attend the parade in Chetwode drill square. The Commandant of the academy, Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, while reviewing the parade, asserted that the Army’s reputation rests firmly on their shoulders. The General Officer also extended his compliments to the 70 Gentleman Cadets from nine friendly foreign countries who have endured the rigorous regimen of training and are now getting ready to don ranks in their respective armies, as officers. In his address to all the GC’s, Lt. Gen Singh also congratulated them “for facing all the challenges towards completing the training successfully despite the global pandemic Covid-19”. Emphasizing on qualities like professional competence, concern, character and courage, he said, “If you show them your competence, your men will respect you. But, if you show them your concerns, they will trust you and happily take a bullet for the task you assign.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/commandants-parade-for-autumn-term-held-at-ima/articleshow/79667241.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Library on wheels may come to a halt||Ahmedabad: The MJ Library authorities have decided that library on wheels, the facility which began in 1978 for the senior citizens and children, will be stopped. A proposal for stopping this facility has been moved in the standing committee, the meeting of which is scheduled to be held on Friday. The proposal moved by the librarian in the standing committee said that the four vehicles used for the library on wheels are very old and required to be scrapped, and hence the library on wheels facility must be stopped. The proposal states these four vehicles should be sent to the central workshop. “The facility which had been stopped due to the lockdown in the last week of March was never resumed,” said an AMC official. The officials said that the AMC had been intending to close the facility for long as there were hardly any takers. On an average, about 50 persons daily utilised the facility. The officials said that the facility has been stopped unless the new body, which is scheduled to be formed next year, again allocates budgets for purchasing new vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/library-on-wheels-may-come-to-a-halt/articleshow/79668484.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Varanasi||‘East UP’s image maligned deliberately over the years’||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Aditynath said Nature made East UP rich, but over the years its image was deliberately maligned by dubbing it as a backward region. “Nature made East UP rich and strong and the area still has capacity to lead the world and nation, but a wrong perception was deliberately created of it being poor and backward which affected its development. We have committed to reverse this perception and make east UP a prosperous region of the country,” Yogi said, while inaugurating a webinar-cum-seminar on the development of Purvanchal at Deen Dayal Upadhyay University campus in Gorakhpur on Thursday. The CM referred to the findings of the study conducted by famous scientist Jagdish Chandra Bose which showed that even a tree dies on being cursed. “This region has the most fertile land, abundant human resources, adequate water with Ganga, Yamuna, Saryu and other rivers. We have resolved to make east UP the most-developed and most-prosperous region of the country,” said Yogi. “This change will not be brought by Harvard or Cambridge, but will have to be done by the youths, farmers and intelligentsia of this region,” he added. The image of East UP has changed in 3.5 years and now no one can question law and order and administration, the CM said after inaugurating the three-day seminar titled ‘Sustainable development of Poorvanchal: Issues strategies and way forward’ at Deeksha Bhawan for preparing a road map for development of east UP. East UP has immense possibilities of spiritual, eco and heritage tourism. Ram, Buddha and many Jain tirthankaras were born here and five Buddhist pilgrimage places are here. Yoga of Mahayogi Gorakhnath ji became popular in the world and Kumbh attracted 24 crore people, CM said. “I talked to students of technical institutes and 90% of them want to open startups but were not aware of government schemes and procedures,” the CM said. We identified the specialty of each district and started one district one product scheme, CM said. Enumerating development in the state, CM said, “Expressways, medical colleges, airports, film city and other infrastructure is getting ready in Uttar Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/east-ups-image-maligned-deliberately-over-the-years/articleshow/79669847.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Forgery case: Fingerprints were sold too||Ahmedabad: The key accused in the Rs 19 lakh e-wallet forgery case — Prashant Shah of Chandkheda — used to run a company Utkarsh Human Resources Ltd and used to get Aadhaar card and fingerprint data from people in Bhind in Madhya Pradesh through his men. On a complaint lodged by Easy Pay, cyber cell probed the case and found that the data was sent to a man in Delhi who used to make a hard fingerprint and used to sell that fingerprint at high rates to other scamsters. The scamsters posed as agents of the e-wallet company to link the Aadhaar card details to the bank accounts of their victims. ACP, cyber cell, Jeetendra Yadav said that the accused sold the data to some grain traders too. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forgery-case-fingerprints-were-sold-too/articleshow/79668505.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||Morgan Stanley India co-head Aisha loses her battle with cancer in NY||Panaji: Aisha de Sequeira, an illustrious daughter of Goa and Morgan Stanley India co-country head and head of its investment banking group, died in New York on Thursday, her husband Roy de Souza said. She was 50. Sequeira, who was diagnosed with colon cancer in 2017 and was also testing a revolutionary treatment at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, recently led Morgan Stanley to close the deals for Google and Facebook to buy stakes in Reliance Jio platform. Sequeira is the daughter of former MP Erasmo de Sequeira and granddaughter of Dr Jack de Sequeira, popularly referred to as the father of Goa’s Opinion Poll. Recently in an interview with a business magazine, she had said that after she was diagnosed with cancer, she preferred to continue to work since it helped her not think about the disease all the time. “Sadly, my wife Aisha de Sequeira passed away early this morning in New York. She was a great person, who was warm and loving. She enjoyed spending time with her sons Nathan (9), Alexander (9) and Erasmo (11),” said her husband Roy de Souza, founder and chief executive officer of Zedo, an internet advertising technology company. Ranked as among the most powerful women by Fortune India in 2020, Sequeira steered Morgan Stanley to the second spot in equity capital markets with 11.6% market share through five deals amounting to over $2.3 billion in total and catapulted the investment bank to the top of the M&A league table. “Extremely saddened to hear about the loss of my dear friend Aisha Sequeira. Goa has lost an extraordinary daughter and the world of investment banking one of its finest souls. My heartfelt condolences,” Dempo Group chairman Shrinivas Dempo said. Sequeria grew up in Goa, completing her engineering in electronics and telecommunications from the Goa Engineering College. She pursued her master’s in public and private management from the Yale School of Management and joined Morgan Stanley’s investment banking group in New York in 1995. From 1995 to 2007, she was in Morgan Stanley’s mergers and acquisitions (M&A) group in New York, where she proved her capabilities. In November 2007, Sequeira moved back to Mumbai to head Morgan Stanley’s investment group in India. In the past seven years, Morgan Stanley has been the dominant M&A franchise in India, with approximately 20% of all cross-border deals, and has been the number one IPO Bank in India. In May 2013, de Sequeira was appointed as co-country head for Morgan Stanley in India, in addition to her role as head of investment banking in India. “I was in touch with her during the opening of the Opinion Poll square and when Manohar Parrikar was detected with pancreatic cancer,” Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai said, while paying condolences to her family. “Saddened by the passing away of daughter of Goa Aisha De Sequeira. She was Fortune India’s one of the most powerful women of India and head of Morgan Stanley in India. My condolences to her family. May her soul rest in peace,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/morgan-stanley-india-co-head-aisha-loses-her-battle-with-cancer-in-ny/articleshow/79670286.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||2 cops caught drunk on duty, suspended||Rudrapur: Udham Singh Nagar's senior superintendent of police suspended two constables on Thursday after being caught drunk on duty. Constable Prakash Chand, deputed at the residence of district magistrate, was placed under suspension after he was found in an inebriated condition on duty. Another constable Rajeev Chandra, posted in Nanakmatta police station, was caught drunk when he was sent on a postmortem duty. It was alleged that Chandra also misbehaved with the kin of the deceased. SSP Kunwar said that disciplinary actions will be taken against all police personnel who are found to be neglecting duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-cops-caught-drunk-on-duty-suspended/articleshow/79667246.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Chhatbir Zoo reopens to 1,100 visitors, cubs major attraction||MOHALI: The first day of the reopening of the Chhatbir Zoo on Thursday saw 1,100 visitors. The visiting hours were divided into three phases and as per the decision of the Punjab government, Covid-19 SOPs were strictly followed, said zoo field director M Sudhagar. “Staggered entry was ensured by the zoo administration in the entry plaza. In the first slot, around 100 visitors entered. The number of visitors increased after noon and a total of 1,100 came till 4.30pm. The online booking facility, Wifi hotspot and battery-operated carts were effectively utilized by the visitors,” he said. Even as some visitors faced difficulties in using online booking, QR code and other cashless transaction methods, the overall response was positive. There were new facilities and amenities such as mom and baby care room, coffee booth, control room, selfie points, touch-free hand wash and sanitizer dispensers. Sudhagar said, “The visitors were hesitant to move from the tiger enclosure after seeing Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor.” RK Mishra, chief wildlife warden, Punjab, said the response was more than expected and all precautions were taken keeping in view the safety of visitors, zoo employees, workers and animals. The other zoos of Punjab—Mini Zoo in Patiala, Mini Zoo in Bir Talab, Bathinda, Mini Zoo in Ludhiana and Deer Park in Neelon—will be reopened next week. A bank team was present to launch the online booking and QR code facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-reopens-to-1100-visitors-cubs-major-attraction/articleshow/79668503.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||Curchorem student tests positive for Covid-19, classes suspended||PANAJI: Physical classes were suspended in yet another school in the state, this time around after a Class XII science stream student from an institute in Curchorem tested positive for Covid-19. Over the last two days, classes were temporarily stopped in one school each at Usgao and at Cujira. “Only physical classes for science stream students have been suspended, until further notice. Classes for these students will be conducted online. However, physical classes for arts, commerce and science streams will continue,” a school official said. “Those classes will continue to be held as the students were reporting to school in the afternoon session and did not come in contact with the infected student,” a school official said. The 44 classmates of the infected students will be home isolating, while teachers are awaiting instructions on whether they should get themselves tested. Sources said that the multiple family members of the infected student had turned positive and, therefore, the student did not report to school on Thursday. “The student last reported to school on Wednesday. On Thursday, he tested positive. We are following all the SOPs and we will also carry out the necessary sanitisation of the premises where required,” a school official said. The school authorities said that classes for Class X students of the institute will be unaffected as these are held in a separate wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curchorem-student-tests-ve-classes-suspended/articleshow/79670526.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||5 IAS officers transferred in U’khand||Dehradun: IAS officer V Shanmugam, against whom a minister had approached DIG Dehradun suspecting that he may have been “kidnapped”, was among the five IAS officers who have been given new transfer and posting on Thursday in the state. Shanmugam, who had the charge of director (women empowerment and child development), has been named the new additional secretary finance, registry and general administration. Hari Chand Semwal has been made the director of Integrated Child Welfare Scheme, a charge withdrawn from Shanmugam and given to him. IAS officer Vandana Singh has been made the new commissioner of rural development. Ram Vilas Yadav was looking after the charge of commissioner rural development before Singh. The charge of co-operative was withdrawn from Bal Mayank Mishra. Meanwhile, PCS officer Rinku Negi has been made municipal commissioner of Rudrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-ias-officers-transferred-in-ukhand/articleshow/79667248.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Students protest NU’s move to hold offline exam for backlogs||Nagpur: Two days after TOI reported on Nagpur University (NU)’s plans to hold offline examinations for failure non-final year students, they flooded social media, protesting the move. Students also shot off about a thousand e-mails to NU authorities, expressing their concerns over holding the exams in pen-paper format. After their protests on social media platforms like Twitter, the Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) wrote to vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, requesting him to conduct the exams in online mode only. “The Covid-19 pandemic situation hasn’t improved yet and even colleges haven't started conducting their classes physically. In such a situation, it would be suicidal for the students to appear for papers at exam centres. If final year exams are conducted online, what’s the problem with supplementary exams?” Vaibhav Edke, president of Pune-based MSWA said in the letter. Due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, the exams for failure students have been delayed by about eight months, because of which they’re on the verge of losing out their academic year. Newly appointed pro vice-chancellor Sanjay Dudhe had told TOI that the exam would be conducted in a pen-paper format. According to him, the papers would be conducted at various centres while following strict Covid distancing norms to prevent spread of the deadly contagion. Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sable, however, told TOI they hadn’t finalized anything yet, and that the BOEE would take a final call in this regard. “We’ve already told our officials to draft a direction (rule) for holding them, which would be put before the authorities and statutory bodies for clearance,” he said. Stressing that the exams should be conducted in online mode only, the MSWA questioned NU authorities on how they could think of offline mode of exams when no other university in the state had dared to do so till date. “The NU authorities should rethink their proposal and shouldn’t put the lives of students at risk due to the deadly virus,” Edke said, while warning NU top brass of launching an agitation if they went ahead with offline exams. Venting their ire on social media while quoting TOI’s report, the aggrieved students accused NU of meting out partial treatment by forcing offline exams on them, whereas final year students were allowed online papers on their mobile phones. According to them, not only they would be at high risk due to the highly contagious virus, but they would also be at disadvantage of not solving paper in multiple choice questions (MCQ) format on mobile, which was a much easier option, considering the bumper results of final year students this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-protest-nus-move-to-hold-offline-exam-for-backlogs/articleshow/79668504.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun administration to seek RWAs’ help to identify voters||DEHRADUN: Dehradun district administration is now seeking help from resident welfare associations (RWAs) to identify voters attaining the age of 18 years in January 2021 and other residents whose names are missing from the voters’ list. The residents will be allowed to update their details with the booth officer till December 15. In a letter issued by Sadar’s sub-divisional magistrate Gopal Ram Binwal, the SDM has asked the RWAs to motivate residents’ participation in getting their voter-ID cards updated. While special efforts are being made to include the first-time voters who will turn 18 in January 2021. Doon Residents’ Welfare Front president Mahesh Bhandari told TOI, “We have shared the letter received from the district administration officials on our WhatsApp groups urging people to get their names updated in the voters list. The awareness will enable more people to exercise their voting rights.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-administration-to-seek-rwas-help-to-identify-voters/articleshow/79667262.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Tanakpur SDM: Nepalese citizens showing Indian Aadhaar cards while entering border||Nainital: A large number of Nepalese citizens showing Indian Aadhaar cards while entering the border town of Banbasa in Champawat district, along the Indo-Nepal border, have raised concerns among the Indian authorities..According sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) of Tanakpur, Himanshu Kafaltia, several Nepalese citizens turned up at the border checkpoint on Wednesday and when asked for documents they showed Indian Aadahar cards.“Several Nepalese citizens standing in the queue showed Aadhar cards when they were asked for documents. This is a serious security concern and therefore, I have conveyed this to the senior authorities,” Kafaltia said.TOI had earlier that the border check points between the two countries had remained closed since March 25. These checkpoints have been opened only on a few occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tanakpur-sdm-nepalese-citizens-showing-indian-aadhaar-cards-while-entering-border/articleshow/79667251.cms||Prashant Jha
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Develop industries, hospitals, markets in Smart City area: Mission director||Nagpur: Kunal Kumar, joint secretary, ministry of housing, urban development, and director, Smart City Mission, on Thursday asked the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to develop industries, hospitals and markets in the Smart City area. Kumar was in the city to inspect the development work being carried out by Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL). He visited Bharatwada, Punapur, Pardi and Bhandewadi areas. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and chief executive officer of NSSCDCL Bhuvaneshwari S and deputy chief executive officer Mahesh Moroney were also present. NSSCDCL is carrying out regional development under Smart City project in the backward areas of east Nagpur. A 51km cement road, water tank and housing schemes for rehabilitation of the displaced persons have been undertaken in this area. Bhuvaneswari S apprised Kumar of the work being done on Kalamna-Pavangaon road and cement road in Bharatwada area. He visited a water tank site and housing project. Kumar was also given information about work being done through CCTVs at the City Operations Centre (COC). Under the Nagpur Safe and Smart City project, 3,600 cameras have been installed in the city. Through this live camera, information was given by the police department on traffic violators. The civic chief told Kumar about the Nagpur City Live App which is being used by the NMC to resolve grievances of citizens. Kumar advised to make full use of information and technology to uplift the standard of living for the citizens. Monitor all the apps of the NMC through COC, he said. He then reviewed various works at the Smart City office which included ‘India cycle for change challenge’, ‘Sitabuldi market open street vehicle free zone’, ‘Biodiversity map’, ‘City groundwater level study’ and ‘Building efficiency accelerator’ under the Environment Department’s new initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/develop-industries-hospitals-markets-in-smart-city-area-mission-director/articleshow/79668510.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Gang duping people on pretext of making Aadhaar cards, giving loans under fake PM scheme busted||DEHRADUN: A team of Kotwali police in Dehradun busted a gang which was trying to dupe people on the pretext of making Aadhaar cards, issuing personal and business loans under a fake Prime Minister scheme. The gang came under scanner after posters claiming easy disbursement of loans and making of Aadhaar cards under Prime Minister scheme were found pasted in Aarhat Bazaar. "A case under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against unidentified persons and the investigation has begun. On the basis of mobile numbers mentioned on the posters, it was found that the gang was operating from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana," said Dehradun’s SP Shweta Choubey. On the basis of mobile surveillance, the police arrested the culprits identified as Sahil Goyal, Naveen Gunpaal, Pawan Singh and Sharadveer Singh from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. The police recovered several mobile phones and as many as eight SIM cards of different states from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gang-duping-people-on-pretext-of-making-aadhaar-cards-giving-loans-under-fake-pm-scheme-busted/articleshow/79667271.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 11, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 may keep voters indoors for ZP elections||PANAJI: The long delay between campaigning and voting, and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, are expected to act as dampeners on Saturday when Goa goes to elect new Zilla Panchayat bodies. Election officials and an online poll conducted by TOI seemed to indicate that the voter turnout will be much lower than the 66% recorded in March 2015. Though the state election commission has put in place health and safety guidelines in view of the Covid pandemic, the lack of clarity about the implementation of these guidelines may keep people away. While most medical professionals reserved their comments about the idea of holding elections during the pandemic, they did stress on safety norms. “The election can go on provided everyone wears a mask. Keep a safe distance and sanitise before voting and after voting,” said Dr Anil Mehndiratta, chest physician and former president of the Indian Medical Association - Goa. “People should maintain safe distance and if good ventilation is maintained in the rooms, I don’t think voting should be a problem. The zilla panchayat elections turnout is small anyway,” he said. A random poll conducted by TOI showed that close to 45% of the respondents would not cast their vote due to apprehensions of contracting the virus. “They will definitely keep a sanitiser, but we don’t know what else will be done to protect voters. The worry is that someone could get Covid. But if one does not vote then somebody else may win because of that one less vote,” said Calangute resident Severine Remedios. The poll also showed that 32% of the respondents said that the candidates for the ZP elections are unsuitable and that candidates tend to switch allegiance after the elections. “The time between campaigning and elections is long and many people have forgotten about the elections. Turnout will be low because unlike earlier, there is no ‘josh’, there is no campaigning,” said a political watcher. Campaigning ended in the third week of March before the polling was deferred indefinitely in view of Covid. On December 5 the state election commission announced December 12 as the poll date with no additional days for campaigning. At the training sessions for poll staff, talk about a low turnout also did the rounds Government officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, also said that the pandemic has disrupted the availability of polling officials with several staff members dropping out. “The turnout will definitely be low,” said a general observer for North Goa. “Another issue that we are facing is that many polling staff are cancelling for various reasons. We had to recruit more staff and train them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-may-keep-voters-indoors-for-zp-elections/articleshow/79670607.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Four arrested with 15 stolen bikes||Roorkee: Haridwar district police unearthed an intra-district auto lifting on Thursday and recovered 15 stolen motorcycles from the gang members. The police said that there were five men associated with the auto-lifting gang of which four were held. The success of unearthing this case came in the hands of Jhabrera police a couple of days ago when it had started an investigation on a complaint of a missing bike on December 8 from Jhabrera near Roorkee. The police identified the bike in CCTV footage on which three men were astride. Later, the police with the help of an informer had identified two of the three men. The identified gang members were Mukesh from Sidcul, Haridwar and Arvind Kumar from Rajopur village near Laksar. The duo told the police that though they had worked in a private company as labourers, the wages were not enough to meet their expenditures and therefore they had started stealing motorcycles from Sidcul, Laksar, Haridwar and Jhabrera. Besides Mukesh and Arvind, the police also arrested Lokesh from Shekhpuri village and Sonu Jaipal from Simli village in Laksar. "Mukesh and Arvind used to mostly steal bikes and then sell it to Lokesh and Sonu in a paltry sum," said Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-arrested-with-15-stolen-bikes/articleshow/79667269.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Steps taken to expedite cases on MLAs, says HC||Hyderabad: Telangana high court on Thursday said it taking steps to ensure expeditious hearing in cases against legislators and former legislators pending in various trial courts. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing a PIL filed by M Padmanabha Reddy of Forum for Good Governance. The petitioner had expressed apprehensions that the government and police were not helping the judicial authorities in carrying out the task. When senior counsel S Satyam Reddy urged the court for speedy action, the bench told him that the PIL has become redundant because the matter was taken up by the Supreme Court which is giving directions to states from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/steps-taken-to-expedite-cases-on-mlas-says-hc/articleshow/79668550.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Allahabad||Notice to house tax defaulters||Prayagraj: Prayagraj Municipal Corporation has slapped demand notices on 6,908 owners, who have not paid house tax worth more than Rs 50,000 each. There are over 2.19 lakh registered house taxpayers in Prayagraj. The authorities have warned them to clear the dues within 15 days or be ready to face a legal action. PK Mishra, chief tax assessment officer, PMC, told TOI that 6,908 house owners, including 1,551 in zone one, 1,331 in zone two, 2,742 in zone three, 928 in zone four and 356 in zone five, have not paid their tax. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/notice-to-house-tax-defaulters/articleshow/79669925.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Mixopathy’: IMA’s national strike to hit hospitals in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The nationwide strike called by Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Friday, will hit the functioning of all private and government hospitals in Kerala. IMA has called for a nationwide strike to protest against the Centre’s decision to allow postgraduate practitioners of Ayurveda to perform general surgeries. Stating that the notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine — to allow the legal practice of surgeries by ayurveda practitioners and the formation of four committees by Niti Aayog for the integration of all systems of medicine — will only lead to ‘mixopathy’, IMA has demanded an immediate withdrawal of both options. Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) and Kerala Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) have already pledged their support to IMA’s strike. Doctors in health services and medical college hospitals will boycott routine outpatient (OP) duties on Friday. However, they will take part in strike without affecting emergency services, including Covid duties in all government hospitals. Only a skeletal team of doctors will be attending duties in these hospitals. “We will not be attending general OPs and all elective surgeries have been postponed. However, doctors will attend all inpatients who are admitted in wards. All emergency services will be operational,” said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, state secretary of KGMOA. The doctors have decided not to boycott Covid duties since it has been considered as an emergency service. Hence doctors will attend duties at first line treatment centres and all Covid hospitals. The strike will affect the functioning of medical college hospitals. “Doctors will be attending only emergency surgeries, labour room duties, inpatient care and ICU duties. The doctors will also attend duties at the casualty wings,” said Dr Nirmal Bhaskar, state secretary of KGMCTA. Since IMA has called for a strike from 6am to 6pm, the functioning of private hospitals will be hit severely as there will be no routine OPs for the entire day. However, here too doctors have decided to attend emergency services and hence all casualty departments of these hospitals will be functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mixopathy-imas-national-strike-to-hit-hospitals-in-state/articleshow/79667282.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||NRC software designed to help ineligible people, official tells HC||GUWAHATI: Assam NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has submitted before the Gauhati high court that the computer software used in the family tree verification process for updating the list of Indian citizens in the state was designed to help data entry operators with “doubtful integrity” to include names of “large number” of ineligible persons in the list. Sarma added that the error will remain unless there is a thorough re-examination of the process. Sarma took charge as the state NRC coordinator after his predecessor Prateek Hajela, who had completed the NRC updating process, left the state on an inter-cadre deputation to Madhya Pradesh. In his affidavit submitted to the HC, Sarma said, “...the software prepared for matching family tree has no provision for quality checks.” Sarma submitted that a sample check was done in three NRC Seva Kendras and it was found that names of 943 people out of the data of 2,346 Legacy Data Code were entered into the draft NRC through wrong uploading of data. “About 40.2% erroneous entries were found, which perhaps cannot be taken as an unintentional human error. This implies that integrity of some of the verifying officers were not beyond doubt,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nrc-software-designed-to-help-ineligible-people-official-tells-hc/articleshow/79671419.cms||Prabin Kalita
December 11, 2020||Allahabad||‘GST notice can’t be given to driver or affixed on truck’||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that Goods and Services Tax (GST) proceedings cannot be initiated against a goods carrying company or a logistic company by serving notice to its truck driver or by affixing the notices on its trucks. Allowing a writ petition filed by Ranchi Carrying Corporation, a firm in logistics business, Justice Pankaj Bhatia set aside the orders passed by the concerned appellate authority. Giving this decision, the court held that at no point in time the petitioner was granted an opportunity of submitting his reply and the grounds taken by the petitioner before the appellate authority were not considered. “Thus, on a plain reading, a failure of natural justice has been occasioned to the petitioner,” observed the bench. However, the court granted liberty to the respondent authority to conclude proceedings against the petitioner, after considering its reply in accordance with the law. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, its counsel Aditya Pandey argued that the authorities initiated GST proceedings against the petitioner firm by serving notices on truck driver of the firm which is not as per provisions of GST Act. “A truck driver is not an authorized representative of a company. As per section 169 of the GST Act, notices can be served on the manager or authorized representative or lawyer of the firm. Further, appellate authority did not consider the firm’s reply while deciding the case,” argued the counsel for the petitioner. The court gave this decision on December 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gst-notice-cant-be-given-to-driver-or-affixed-on-truck/articleshow/79669970.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||7-fold increase in drought, 6-fold rise in floods in Maha||Nagpur: There has been a seven-fold increase in drought events and six-fold increase in frequency of extreme floods in Maharashtra in the last 50 years, reveals latest study. Mumbai alone has witnessed a three-fold increase in the frequency of extreme flood events in the last 50 years. Released on Thursday, the study on ‘Preparing India for Climate Events’ published by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) finds a shift in pattern of extreme events in over 40% of Indian districts. According to it, over 75% of Indian districts, home to over 638 million people, are hotspots of extreme climate events such as cyclones, floods, droughts, heat and cold waves. Maharashtra, which is one the most affected states, had certain districts witnessing droughts while others battling floods at the same time. “More than 80% of districts in Maharashtra, which are home to 78.41 million people, are vulnerable to drought or drought-like situations. Aurangabad, Jalna, Latur, Osamanabad, Pune, Nashik, Nanded are the drought hotspots,” the study states. Interestingly, the study points out how the traditionally drought-prone districts like Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Pune, and Sangli have shown a shift towards extreme flood events and storm surges in the last decade. Also, during the same period, districts including Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nashik, Pune and Thane are witnessing micro-climatic shift to a dry summer climate zone, resulting in an increase in cyclonic disturbances. “This has led to storm surges and incessant rainfall and flooding,” the report adds. It has also come to the fore that more than 10.23 million people in the state are exposed to extreme flood events on a year-on-year basis. “The main hotspots of these events are the districts of Mumbai, Thane and Ratnagiri,” the report states, adding that in the last decade alone, the districts of Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Solapur, and Satara also witnessed increased frequency of storm surges, often intensifying to cyclones. Stating that India is already the fifth most vulnerable country globally in terms of extreme climate events, Abinash Mohanty, programme lead at CEEW and the author of the study, said, “India is all set to become the world’s flood capital. The current trend of catastrophic climate events results from a mere 0.6 °C temperature rise in the last 100 years. Access to finance and technology along with democratization of weather and climate-related data is critical for building climate resilience, especially for vulnerable countries from the Global South like India.” He added that embracing risk assessment principles will be equally crucial to safeguard Indian agriculture, industry, and large-scale infrastructural projects from the vagaries of climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-fold-increase-in-drought-6-fold-rise-in-floods-in-maha/articleshow/79668555.cms||Manka Behl
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||NCDE to help injured CRPF personnel||Hyderabad: In a bid to raise their morale and offer a new lease of life to 24 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who lost their limbs in the line of duty while tackling left-wing extremism or cross border terrorism, the Centre has set up the first National Centre for Divyang Empowerement centre (NCDE) in Shamirpet. Union minister of state for home, G Kishan Reddy inaugurated the NCDE centre on Thursday. These 24 personnel, who have fought several on-field battles, will now be trained as cyber warriors and para sports athletes. CRPF director general AP Maheswari said that these policemen, who lost their limbs while on duty, will be trained in information technology skills with the help of BITS Pilani, Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) and a few other institutions. “We have also created para sports facilities here. We want to make this a national centre for excellence in para sports,” Maheshwari said. Kishan Reddy said that since Hyderabad is an IT hub, the CRPF can get all the required help by coordinating with the industry players here.For these 24 members, who lost their legs due to improvised explosive device (IED) blasts or bullet injuries, the CRPF has helped to get prosthetic legs and their maintenance. Padma Shri and Arjuna Awardee Deepa Malik, who is the first woman to win a silver in 2016 Paralympics, and London Olympics bronze medalist, Gagan Narang participated in the event.“After witnessing the facilities here and also the sacrifices made by these great soldiers, I feel whatever I have achieved is very little. The status of our soldiers and the para athletes is higher than us because they overcome a number of challenges,” Narang said. Senior Telangana police officials, including DGP M Mahendar Reddy, attended the event. The state police helped set up the NCDE centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ncde-to-help-injured-crpf-personnel/articleshow/79668560.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Allahabad||Magh Mela authorities perform Ganga puja on Sangam||Prayagraj: Magh Mela administration on Thursday performed a Ganga puja on the banks of Sangam. The puja was performed by Prayagraj district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami. The DM said that the Magh Mela would be conducted with strict compliance with Covid-19 protocol. Meanwhile, IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said that elaborate security arrangements would be made for safety of devotees. “Apart from civil police, personnel of paramilitary forces, special task force and ATS would also be deployed at static locations.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/magh-mela-authorities-perform-ganga-puja-on-sangam/articleshow/79669898.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC seeks EC reply on PIL for freeze on BJP poll symbol||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to file its reply in a PIL seeking freezing/withdrawal of ‘lotus’ as election symbol of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as it is the national flower and its visibility in several government websites could influence the minds of voters. Further alleging misuse of election symbols by the political parties as their logo, the PIL has raised several important issues relating to allotment of election symbols by the ECI to the contesting candidates and contended that it should be done in accordance with the Representation of People Act, 1951. In the PIL, a request has also been made to quash the ECI order dated April 4, 2019, by which the Commission had rejected the application of the petitioner seeking freezing/withdrawal of ‘lotus’ as election symbol of BJP. The PIL also sought directions to the ECI to issue fresh guidelines for the use of political symbols in accordance with law. Hearing the PIL filed by Kali Shankar of Gorakhpur district, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal directed to list the PIL on January 12, 2021, for the next hearing. Appearing for the petitioner, his counsel contended before the court that “lotus is being shown as the national flower and is also visible in various government websites. Therefore, no political party can be allowed to use it as its symbol as it would influence the minds of voters and the political party in turn will get undue advantage”. According to the petitioner’s counsel, “the life of election symbols — even a reserved symbol with a contesting candidate — or of a recognized political party, is only for a specific election and a political party cannot use the symbol as its logo”. Further, if political parties are allowed to use election symbols perpetually for the purposes other than elections, then that would be highly unjust for the candidates who are not affiliated with recognized parties or independent candidates as they get fresh symbols before each election. It has also been asserted that under the Representation of People Act as well as under the Election Symbols (Reservation & Allotment) Order, 1968 (Order of 1968), the concept of election symbols is applicable only for the purpose of elections and such symbols cannot be used as a logo of any political party. The petitioner’s plea was that in most of the democratic countries, the concept of election symbols has already been withdrawn on attaining higher levels of literacy. But, in our democratic set up, there is no intention of the government to withdraw election symbols and go for elections by showing names of the candidates in the applicable script. Further, according to the petitioner, the BJP has violated the model code of conduct by using its electoral symbol in the government website. The counsel appearing for ECI sought some time to examine the entire issue involved in the petition and further to file a reply to the same. The ECI as well as the BJP national president have been arrayed as respondents (opposite parties) in the PIL. The court also directed the counsel for the petitioner to implead other national political parties as respondents in the petition. The court passed this order on December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/court-seeks-ec-reply-on-pil-for-freeze-on-bjp-poll-symbol/articleshow/79669945.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Two held with smuggled jackets worth Rs 13 lakh||RUDRAPUR: The Udham Singh Nagar police on Thursday arrested two persons with customs-evaded jackets worth over Rs 13 lakh from Nanakmatta town. The police impounded the car which was used for smuggling the goods. The arrestees have been identified as Mujaffar Hussain and Ejaj Ahmed, both residents of UP’s Bareilly district. Nanakmatta’s SHO Kamlesh Bhatt said, “A police patrol team deployed after receiving a tip-off arrested the duo while they were smuggling clothes in a vehicle. The recovered jackets were handed over to the customs department while the accused were presented in the court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-held-with-smuggled-jackets-worth-rs-13-lakh/articleshow/79667280.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: CAT sets aside dismissal of ex-IPS Pankaj Choudhary||JAIPUR: The central administrative tribunal (CAT) set aside the termination of service of former IPS officer Pankaj Choudhary on Thursday. The controversial IPS officer was dismissed from service in February last year on grounds of “grave personnel misconduct”, that he had got in a relationship with another woman without legally separating from his wife. Chaudhary had challenged his dismissal from service at CAT in Jodhpur which was later transferred to principal bench in Delhi. The MHA order of dismissal stated that the 2009-batch officer married Sudha Gupta on December 4, 2005, and legally separated from her on May 5, 2018. According to the order, during the intervening period, while Choudhary was not legally separated from his wife, he entered in a physical relation with another woman and fathered a child from her. “Being a senior officer of uniformed service, (he) should have maintained absolute integrity, but without getting legally divorced from (his wife), he established relation with another woman as wife and fathered a child from her,” the order reads, adding that the officer’s actions were in violation of All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968, which provides that every member of the service shall, at all times, maintain absolute integrity and devotion to duty and shall do nothing unbecoming of a member of the service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cat-sets-aside-dismissal-of-ex-ips-pankaj-choudhary/articleshow/79668571.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Increase testing capacity to one lakh, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday asked officials to increase testing facilities further for effective prevention on Covid-19. He said that at present there is enough testing capacity in the state, but the effort is to increase it to one lakh in line with the target. He said if more human resources are required, more health workers be employed on urgent temporary basis. Gehlot was addressing a Covid review meeting at the chief minister’s residence. He said the delay in testing poses a threat to people’s lives and makes patients’ condition serious. Keeping this in mind, health workers and medical personnel should ensure that people with symptoms like cold, cough, cold undergo testing. The chief minister, while reviewing preparations for the Covid vaccine, said sufficient number of centres should be set up throughout the state for vaccination and these centers should have adequate arrangements so that people do not face any kind of trouble. He also directed to ensure all the necessary arrangements for safe transport and storage of vaccine. The chief minister said positive results have been seen in recent time due to strict adherence to social distancing, night curfew, restrictions of guests at marriage functions and frequent awareness campaigns. He said the number of positive cases has fallen quite rapidly in the last a few days. Further, for effective prevention of infection, similar health protocols should be ensured. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said recovery rate is continuously surging. The number of positive patients in hospitals has also decreased. Secretary, medical and health, Siddharth Mahajan informed that positive cases have been reduced in the state in the past. Also, the recovery rate has increased to 92.20%. Giving information about the preparation for vaccination, he said that in the first phase, about 5,000 sites are being prepared in the government and private medical institutions for vaccination of health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/increase-testing-capacity-to-one-lakh-says-cm/articleshow/79674835.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Udaipur||Increase testing capacity to one lakh, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday asked officials to increase testing facilities further for effective prevention on Covid-19. He said that at present there is enough testing capacity in the state, but the effort is to increase it to one lakh in line with the target. He said if more human resources are required, more health workers be employed on urgent temporary basis. Gehlot was addressing a Covid review meeting at the chief minister’s residence. He said the delay in testing poses a threat to people’s lives and makes patients’ condition serious. Keeping this in mind, health workers and medical personnel should ensure that people with symptoms like cold, cough, cold undergo testing. The chief minister, while reviewing preparations for the Covid vaccine, said sufficient number of centres should be set up throughout the state for vaccination and these centers should have adequate arrangements so that people do not face any kind of trouble. He also directed to ensure all the necessary arrangements for safe transport and storage of vaccine. The chief minister said positive results have been seen in recent time due to strict adherence to social distancing, night curfew, restrictions of guests at marriage functions and frequent awareness campaigns. He said the number of positive cases has fallen quite rapidly in the last a few days. Further, for effective prevention of infection, similar health protocols should be ensured. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said recovery rate is continuously surging. The number of positive patients in hospitals has also decreased. Secretary, medical and health, Siddharth Mahajan informed that positive cases have been reduced in the state in the past. Also, the recovery rate has increased to 92.20%. Giving information about the preparation for vaccination, he said that in the first phase, about 5,000 sites are being prepared in the government and private medical institutions for vaccination of health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/increase-testing-capacity-to-one-lakh-says-cm/articleshow/79674834.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ajmer||Increase testing capacity to one lakh, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday asked officials to increase testing facilities further for effective prevention on Covid-19. He said that at present there is enough testing capacity in the state, but the effort is to increase it to one lakh in line with the target. He said if more human resources are required, more health workers be employed on urgent temporary basis. Gehlot was addressing a Covid review meeting at the chief minister’s residence. He said the delay in testing poses a threat to people’s lives and makes patients’ condition serious. Keeping this in mind, health workers and medical personnel should ensure that people with symptoms like cold, cough, cold undergo testing. The chief minister, while reviewing preparations for the Covid vaccine, said sufficient number of centres should be set up throughout the state for vaccination and these centers should have adequate arrangements so that people do not face any kind of trouble. He also directed to ensure all the necessary arrangements for safe transport and storage of vaccine. The chief minister said positive results have been seen in recent time due to strict adherence to social distancing, night curfew, restrictions of guests at marriage functions and frequent awareness campaigns. He said the number of positive cases has fallen quite rapidly in the last a few days. Further, for effective prevention of infection, similar health protocols should be ensured. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said recovery rate is continuously surging. The number of positive patients in hospitals has also decreased. Secretary, medical and health, Siddharth Mahajan informed that positive cases have been reduced in the state in the past. Also, the recovery rate has increased to 92.20%. Giving information about the preparation for vaccination, he said that in the first phase, about 5,000 sites are being prepared in the government and private medical institutions for vaccination of health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/increase-testing-capacity-to-one-lakh-says-cm/articleshow/79674836.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kanpur||Ist phase of IIT-Kanpur online drive ends with 821 job offers||KANPUR: With the end of first phase of campus placement drive, the highest domestic package offered at IIT- Kanpur was at Rs 82 lakh per annum, while the highest international package was offered at Rs 1.47 crore per annum. According to the institute, a total of 821 offers were received in phase one of the drive and 709 offers have been accepted, including the students who had accepted pre-placement offers. “In phase-1 of placement, around 232 recruiters visited campus. A total of 45 top tier firms with 60 different profiles from various sectors visited campus for interviews on day 1, where an unprecedented 232 job offers were extended, and 203 of those were accepted by students”, said IIT-K placement cell incharge, Prof Kantesh Balani. He added that the highest domestic package offered was of Rs 82 lakh per annum, and the highest international package offered was Rs 1.47 crore per annum. The top recruiter of the placement season was Microsoft, which visited campus on day one and hired maximum students. Other top recruiters for the Phase-1 were Apple, Google, Qualcomm, EXL, Intel, Zomato, Amazon, Axis, Vmock, Sterlite, ICICI bank etc. Placement drive witnessed highest participation from coding and software firms (59%), whereas 18% core firms also strongly contributed. Around 50 plus start-up firms (mainly software) were invited to hire at IIT Kanpur. “The entire placement process was conducted online. A special contribution from CDAP (Cell for differently abled persons) at IIT-K also pitched in by sensitizing their special needs to the recruiting firms”, said Prof Balani.  The recruitment drive for academic year 2020-21 will be held in two phases. Phase-1, which started on December 1, ended on December 9. Last year Phase-1 had closed on December 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ist-phase-of-iit-k-online-drive-ends-with-821-job-offers/articleshow/79670034.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
December 11, 2020||Kanpur||11 police followers ‘outsource’ work, probe launched||KANPUR: In an irregularity detected in the city police department, nearly 11 police followers have been punished for outsourcing others to do their job. Police sources said that following complaints a probe was ordered by SP/DIG Preetinder Singh. “It came to fore that the police followers used to pay Rs 6,000 to 8,000 to private men to impersonate them and get their job done,” said sources further. Nearly, 206 police followers are at present working at the offices and bungalows of the senior police officials in the city. There were complaints against majority of the police followers, wherein it came to fore that many have been found to be still in ‘service’ despite being absent from duty for long periods. “What was even more shocking that many among them have outsourced others to do their job,” said a police official privy to the probe. Confirming the development, SP (West) Dr Anil Kumar said that nearly 11 such police followers have been punished for outsourcing others to get their job done. SP said all these 11 followers were working under permanent capacity at the offices and residences of senior police officials. “We have also punished a clerk and transferred him after finding him prima facie involved in the irregularity,” SP added. The actual number of such police followers may well exceed as complete reports are still to come in, said another police official preferring anonymity. “The followers indulge in this unethical practice for their benefit,” he added. The SSP/DIG had asked an IPS rank official to conduct a probe and take immediate action against the erring police followers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/11-police-followers-outsource-work-probe-launched/articleshow/79670058.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||JDA clears land hurdle to construct satellite hospital in Jhotwara||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has paved the way to start a satellite hospital in Jhotwara. The building for the hospital has been proposed to be developed at the site of Panchayat Samiti’s building. The existing samiti building will be shifted to village Ramla ka Bas situated in zone-12. For the same, the JDA in the land and planning committee (LPC) meeting allotted a total of 5 bigha 9 biswa land. An official said the matter is pending for the last 35 years. In 1985, the then chief minister Hiralal Devpura also laid the foundation to construct the hospital in the area. However, after the land dispute occurred the matter was put in cold storage. “The land has been allotted to the panchayat samiti. With this, all hurdles for the satellite hospital are clear. Once constructed, the move is expected to benefit approximately 10 lakh residents as development of new colonies is happening at a rapid pace in the area.” After the stone staying, the hospital remained in poll agenda for representatives of Lok Sabha and state assembly. Dinesh Saini, who retired from SMS nursing staff near Panchyat Samiti, said, “Several memorandums for construction of a satellite hospital had been given earlier. The government should now construct a building soon. This would not only benefit locals, but also reduce the burden from Sawai Man Singh hospital.” To develop a primary healthcare centre in the info-tech city, the JDA allotted 2,768 square metre land in Tikariyan village.” An official source said, “The proposal to allot the RCA land was not tabled in this LPC meeting as decision is still pending at the state government’s level. It was earlier decided to allot land at a rate of 30% of the district lease committee (DLC) rates. Directions were sought to lay the conditions of the allotment. But the final decision will be made by Dhariwal.” DLC rate in Chop village is Rs 29.85 lakh. Also, institutional rate is Rs 7,500 per sqm. Permission from the state government is required to allot the prime land on concessional rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-clears-land-hurdle-to-construct-satellite-hospital-in-jhotwara/articleshow/79668566.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Varanasi||Soon, Sarnath to host cultural fests of Buddhist countries round the year||VARANASI: Soon, citizens will be able to explore the culture and cuisine of several countries with Buddhist populations by just visiting Sarnath, the place where Buddha preached his first sermon. Sarnath will soon begin to host weekly cultural festivals of such countries round the year. Apart from the series of cultural fests which is going to become its permanent feature, Sarnath is also going to get a four-lane connectivity with Ring Road for seamless access from any highway and from LBS International Airport. These two plans are the main components of the proposal prepared for the Rs 130-crore pro-poor tourism development project finalised as per the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The project will be funded by World Bank. Talking to TOI, Varanasi DM Kaushal Raj Sharma disclosed that during the virtual meeting on June 20 this year, the PM had asked to look for a site in Sarnath where holistic cultural fests of Buddhist countries can be organized throughout the year. As per PM Modi’s vision, all Buddhist countries as well as Buddhist regions in India, like Ladakh, will get an opportunity to showcase their culture, art and cuisine. This vision is aimed at increasing the inflow of tourists. Sharma said that a plan to establish such a site at Sarnath is a key component of the proposal, which will be submitted to the state tourism department in a week or two. The proposal also contains the plan of widening the existing road which links Sarnath to the Ring Road. DM Sharma said, “Conversion of the existing road into a four-lane road will give the tourists and local residents easier access to Sarnath, as they will not have to pass through crowded city areas to reach the site.” Regional tourism officer Kirtiman Srivastava said that for the past four-five years, growth of over 4% in the footfall of tourists (including foreigners) had been recorded every year in Varanasi. In 2019, he said, 64.47 lakh domestic and 3.50 lakh foreign tourists had visited the city, out of which, 7.82 lakh tourists including 1.40 lakh foreigners visited Sarnath. Srivastava said that Sarnath attracts foreign tourists mainly from Thailand, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Japan, China, South Korea and other south-eastern countries. It is also a prime attraction for picnickers, said Srivastava, mentioning how the Centre and the UP government took new initiatives like the light and sound show on the life of Buddha in order to enthral a greater number of tourists to Sarnath. On June 29 this year, minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs, Neelkanth Tiwari, had informed TOI that Sarnath bagged this mega project to ensure world-class facilities for tourists. The project would generate employment for the people living in its vicinity. The fund of Rs 100 crore saved from already completed or ongoing World Bank-funded projects is going to be utilised for it, said Tiwari. “The tourism officials have been asked to ensure that the serenity of Sarnath is not disturbed by any of their proposals,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/soon-sarnath-to-host-cultural-fests-of-buddhist-countries-round-the-year/articleshow/79669874.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Flat buyers, builders protest higher stamp duty for leasehold properties||Nagpur: New flat buyers, builders and lawyers engaged in property paperwork are up in arms against the sub-registrar’s office here for not passing benefits of reduction in stamp duty by the Maharashtra government to leasehold properties. With a view to boost the realty sector affected by demonetisation and now Covid-19 pandemic, the state government issued two notifications on August 28 and 29, reducing the stamp duty by 3% from existing 6% for a period September 1 to December 31. However, the sub-registrar’s office isn’t passing benefits to buyers purchasing flats schemes on Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), Nazul and other leasehold lands. In fact, two cases have also been filed in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court in this regard, the complainants said. The officials at the ‘Joint District Registrar (Class-1) and Collector of Stamps’ at Civil Lines here, however, defended their move stating that they were acting as per the government’s instructions. “The Inspector General of Registration (IGR) in Pune has specifically instructed to waive the stamp duty for non-leaseholders’ plots for which agreement to sale and sale deed are made. For leaseholders plots like NIT or Nazul, a ‘deed of assignment’ is done instead of agreement to sale. Hence, they can’t be granted the concession,” sub-registrar Ashok Ughade told TOI. He suggested the complainants should wait for HC’s orders where they would be filing a detailed reply on the issue after consulting their Pune-based headquarters. The ‘agreement to sale/sale deed’ of apartment or land with building is the document for permanent sale/transfer of whatever rights of the vendor/seller in the property and hence falls under Article 25 of Schedule-I of the Bombay Stamp Act. In normal circumstances, the stamp duty prescribed under Article 36 (Lease) or Article 60 (Transfer of lease) is 5% with valuation varying from 10% to 90% of the property’s value depending on the lease period. Chartered engineer and government valuer Milan Kale has dashed a mail to the joint district registrar’s office highlighting the anomaly in levying stamp duty by the sub-registrar’s office. “Before the government’s move to offer concession, all the flat documents, whether on freehold or leasehold land, are charged under Article 25 of Bombay Stamp Act at 6%, without any discrepancy. Therefore, the concession as granted by the government due to Covid-19 difficulties should be made applicable for all properties for common citizens’ housing,” he told TOI. “It can’t be the government’s contention that two apartments, one constructed on freehold and the other on leasehold plot, will be charged 3% and 5%, respectively. The interpretation of charging 5% for the latter category by the sub-registrar’s office is logically wrong. They must get the confusion cleared from their higher authorities in the State Revenue Department,” he said. Citing a media report, Kale in his letter informed that the same confusion was created in Pune region, but later the discrepancy was corrected by the joint district registrar’s office there. According to him, the wrong interpretation of the notifications was violating the very purpose of the concession offered for the common public to boost realty market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flat-buyers-builders-protest-higher-stamp-duty-for-leasehold-properties/articleshow/79668575.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Increase testing capacity to one lakh, says CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday asked officials to increase testing facilities further for effective prevention on Covid-19. He said that at present there is enough testing capacity in the state, but the effort is to increase it to one lakh in line with the target. He said if more human resources are required, more health workers be employed on urgent temporary basis. Gehlot was addressing a Covid review meeting at the chief minister’s residence. He said the delay in testing poses a threat to people’s lives and makes patients’ condition serious. Keeping this in mind, health workers and medical personnel should ensure that people with symptoms like cold, cough, cold undergo testing. The chief minister, while reviewing preparations for the Covid vaccine, said sufficient number of centres should be set up throughout the state for vaccination and these centers should have adequate arrangements so that people do not face any kind of trouble. He also directed to ensure all the necessary arrangements for safe transport and storage of vaccine. The chief minister said positive results have been seen in recent time due to strict adherence to social distancing, night curfew, restrictions of guests at marriage functions and frequent awareness campaigns. He said the number of positive cases has fallen quite rapidly in the last a few days. Further, for effective prevention of infection, similar health protocols should be ensured. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said recovery rate is continuously surging. The number of positive patients in hospitals has also decreased. Secretary, medical and health, Siddharth Mahajan informed that positive cases have been reduced in the state in the past. Also, the recovery rate has increased to 92.20%. Giving information about the preparation for vaccination, he said that in the first phase, about 5,000 sites are being prepared in the government and private medical institutions for vaccination of health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-testing-capacity-to-one-lakh-says-cm/articleshow/79668567.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt shelves plan to acquire swanky jet for VVIPs||JAIPUR: The state government has shelved the plan to acquire a swanky jet for the use of VVIPs in the state as Covid has hit the health of state finances hard. Officials privy to the development said the plan has been put on hold, at least for now. At present, the directorate of civil aviation hires planes for the service of VVIPs as the two state planes with the state government are very old. The government of Rajasthan on October 15, 2019, had invited global expression of interest (EoI) to purchase a luxury plane with 10 executive club seats, excluding flight crew. The airplane was being bought to fly senior dignitaries and government officials to promote tourism and carry out other administrative requirements, according to the expression of interest released last year. In January this year, a high-power committee chaired by chief secretary had shortlisted two aviation firms for buying a multi-engine turbo jet engine plane. The committee meeting held in January this year had recommended to the government to go for a Dassault Falcon jet for the use of VVIPs in the state. The plane was expected to cost about Rs 214 crore. Bombardier and Dassault were the two contenders. What went in favour of Dassault was its suitability to operate in extreme weather conditions and its ability to operate in shorter air strips. The Rajasthan government owns two aircraft and an Augusta helicopter. The state owns two aircraft - Super King Air B200 and King Air C 90A, while one is 30 years old, the other is over 15 years old. The Augusta helicopter was grounded after it suffered a technical glitch in November 2011. The government has been hiring jet planes for VVIP movement ever since the Augusta helicopter was grounded, which according to officials, cost around Rs 4 lakh per hour. The acquisition of another state plane has been long overdue. The previous Raje government had also planned to buy a plane, but it did not take off. It was during Raje’s tenure that the controversial Augusta helicopter was acquired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govt-shelves-plan-to-acquire-swanky-jet-for-vvips/articleshow/79676104.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 11, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt shelves plan to acquire swanky jet for VVIPs||JAIPUR: The state government has shelved the plan to acquire a swanky jet for the use of VVIPs in the state as Covid has hit the health of state finances hard. Officials privy to the development said the plan has been put on hold, at least for now. At present, the directorate of civil aviation hires planes for the service of VVIPs as the two state planes with the state government are very old. The government of Rajasthan on October 15, 2019, had invited global expression of interest (EoI) to purchase a luxury plane with 10 executive club seats, excluding flight crew. The airplane was being bought to fly senior dignitaries and government officials to promote tourism and carry out other administrative requirements, according to the expression of interest released last year. In January this year, a high-power committee chaired by chief secretary had shortlisted two aviation firms for buying a multi-engine turbo jet engine plane. The committee meeting held in January this year had recommended to the government to go for a Dassault Falcon jet for the use of VVIPs in the state. The plane was expected to cost about Rs 214 crore. Bombardier and Dassault were the two contenders. What went in favour of Dassault was its suitability to operate in extreme weather conditions and its ability to operate in shorter air strips. The Rajasthan government owns two aircraft and an Augusta helicopter. The state owns two aircraft - Super King Air B200 and King Air C 90A, while one is 30 years old, the other is over 15 years old. The Augusta helicopter was grounded after it suffered a technical glitch in November 2011. The government has been hiring jet planes for VVIP movement ever since the Augusta helicopter was grounded, which according to officials, cost around Rs 4 lakh per hour. The acquisition of another state plane has been long overdue. The previous Raje government had also planned to buy a plane, but it did not take off. It was during Raje’s tenure that the controversial Augusta helicopter was acquired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govt-shelves-plan-to-acquire-swanky-jet-for-vvips/articleshow/79676107.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt shelves plan to acquire swanky jet for VVIPs||JAIPUR: The state government has shelved the plan to acquire a swanky jet for the use of VVIPs in the state as Covid has hit the health of state finances hard. Officials privy to the development said the plan has been put on hold, at least for now. At present, the directorate of civil aviation hires planes for the service of VVIPs as the two state planes with the state government are very old. The government of Rajasthan on October 15, 2019, had invited global expression of interest (EoI) to purchase a luxury plane with 10 executive club seats, excluding flight crew. The airplane was being bought to fly senior dignitaries and government officials to promote tourism and carry out other administrative requirements, according to the expression of interest released last year. In January this year, a high-power committee chaired by chief secretary had shortlisted two aviation firms for buying a multi-engine turbo jet engine plane. The committee meeting held in January this year had recommended to the government to go for a Dassault Falcon jet for the use of VVIPs in the state. The plane was expected to cost about Rs 214 crore. Bombardier and Dassault were the two contenders. What went in favour of Dassault was its suitability to operate in extreme weather conditions and its ability to operate in shorter air strips. The Rajasthan government owns two aircraft and an Augusta helicopter. The state owns two aircraft - Super King Air B200 and King Air C 90A, while one is 30 years old, the other is over 15 years old. The Augusta helicopter was grounded after it suffered a technical glitch in November 2011. The government has been hiring jet planes for VVIP movement ever since the Augusta helicopter was grounded, which according to officials, cost around Rs 4 lakh per hour. The acquisition of another state plane has been long overdue. The previous Raje government had also planned to buy a plane, but it did not take off. It was during Raje’s tenure that the controversial Augusta helicopter was acquired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-shelves-plan-to-acquire-swanky-jet-for-vvips/articleshow/79668578.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala local body polls: Low voter turnout mars hopes of major fronts||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The worst fear of parties came true with polling percentage in corporation dropping even below that of 2015 on Tuesday. By 8pm, the polling percentage in corporation was calculated as 59.7%. The highest percentage was recorded at Punchakkari at 72.6% while Nanthencode division recorded the lowest at 40.7%. The final figure will be released by state election commission on Wednesday. Things looked promising in the morning as poll percentage slowly climbed up in the corporation wards. Post noon, it had crossed 40% and with more than four hours remaining for polling to end, the candidates had counted on voters to turn up in good numbers by evening. However, the percentage turned sluggish towards evening and did not even cross 60%. In 2015, the polling percentage in Thiruvananthapuram corporation was the lowest in the state and even lower than the state average. At 62.9%, capital’s polling percentage was way lower than the state average of 70.62%. Even Ernakulam, which was the second lowest in terms of polling percentage in corporation elections, recorded a decent 69.62% in 2015. For the last two days, the candidates had worked hard to reach out to voters who have remained in houses for the past few months since the start of lockdown. The candidates even initiated awareness campaigns on precautionary and safe measures being implemented in polling booths. However, many elderly citizens in wards chose not to go for voting which eventually led to low voter turnout. Nanthencode also witnessed high drama in the morning as Congress rebel candidate Leelamma Issac filed a police case after pamphlets were distributed in the ward which said that she had withdrawn from the contest. Leelamma Issac, who had won from the ward in 2010, decided to contest as rebel candidate as Congress party launched Sheela Ramani as the official candidate at Nanthencode. She will also file a complaint to state election commission on Wednesday. The low voter turnout has blighted the hopes of all the parties. The candidates who were certain of victories in some wards are slightly apprehensive as many of their long-standing supporters did not turn up for voting. Nanthencode, which recorded the lowest polling percentage, had polled above 50% in 2010 and 2015. Some of the LDF candidates had said that they were prepared for a low voter turnout since the contest was directly between BJP and LDF in some wards and naturally Congress supporters backed out from voting. A total of 4.79 lakh votes were polled in corporation. Seven transgender voters, 2.41 lakh male voters and 2.37 lakh female voters cast their votes in corporation wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/low-voter-turnout-mars-hopes-of-major-fronts/articleshow/79668592.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Got enough proof, arrest of Baran collector inevitable: ACB||JAIPUR/KOTA: A day after arresting the personal assistant (PA) of Baran collector for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh, the sleuths of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) stated that they have got incriminating evidences against the officer and his arrest is inevitable. On Wednesday, the ACB had arrested Mahaveer Nagar, the PA of Baran collector Inder Singh Rao, for accepting a bribe of Rs 1.40. The ACB is also planning to name Rao in the FIR. The agency has also found that Rao has been charge-sheeted in a case of irregularities in the land deal during his stint at additional district magistrate (ADM), Sriganganagar. “He has been sent to awaiting posting order (APO) for the sixth time in his career so far. Since we have incriminating evidences against him, he would also be named in the FIR. We will again call him for interrogation,” said additional superintendent of police (ACB), Kota while talking to TOI on Thursday. According to the ACB sources, they have interrogated the district collector as well. He was kept at ACB, Kota office till 4am on Thursday morning and later was allowed to go with a promise that he would cooperate in the investigation. Senior officers of ACB also stated that in 2004 Rao was posted as additional district magistrate(ADM), Sriganganagar, where he was named in a case of irregularities in the land deal. “During that time the ACB had charge-sheeted him and sought a prosecution sanction from the then government. However, in 2006 the state government did not grant prosecution sanction in the case. So far, we have got incriminating evidences against him and his arrest is inevitable,” said B L Soni, additional director general (ADG), ACB. In the seizures so far from the PA of the collector, the ACB has recovered papers of seven plots in Baran and got the details of eight bank accounts. “There are some bank lockers too that would be opened soon,” said an officer. It may be recalled that a petrol pump dealer in Baran district last month had approached ACB, Kota and had alleged that Nagar had demanded a bribe of Rs 2,40 lakh for the issuance of No Objection Certificate and renewal of land lease of the petrol pump. Following verification, the ACB (Kota) team arrested Nagar with bribe money of Rs 1.40 lakh. The arrested accused was sent to the judicial custody of 14-days by a court in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/got-enough-proof-arrest-of-baran-collector-inevitable-acb/articleshow/79668581.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt shelves plan to acquire swanky jet for VVIPs||JAIPUR: The state government has shelved the plan to acquire a swanky jet for the use of VVIPs in the state as Covid has hit the health of state finances hard. Officials privy to the development said the plan has been put on hold, at least for now. At present, the directorate of civil aviation hires planes for the service of VVIPs as the two state planes with the state government are very old. The government of Rajasthan on October 15, 2019, had invited global expression of interest (EoI) to purchase a luxury plane with 10 executive club seats, excluding flight crew. The airplane was being bought to fly senior dignitaries and government officials to promote tourism and carry out other administrative requirements, according to the expression of interest released last year. In January this year, a high-power committee chaired by chief secretary had shortlisted two aviation firms for buying a multi-engine turbo jet engine plane. The committee meeting held in January this year had recommended to the government to go for a Dassault Falcon jet for the use of VVIPs in the state. The plane was expected to cost about Rs 214 crore. Bombardier and Dassault were the two contenders. What went in favour of Dassault was its suitability to operate in extreme weather conditions and its ability to operate in shorter air strips. The Rajasthan government owns two aircraft and an Augusta helicopter. The state owns two aircraft - Super King Air B200 and King Air C 90A, while one is 30 years old, the other is over 15 years old. The Augusta helicopter was grounded after it suffered a technical glitch in November 2011. The government has been hiring jet planes for VVIP movement ever since the Augusta helicopter was grounded, which according to officials, cost around Rs 4 lakh per hour. The acquisition of another state plane has been long overdue. The previous Raje government had also planned to buy a plane, but it did not take off. It was during Raje’s tenure that the controversial Augusta helicopter was acquired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govt-shelves-plan-to-acquire-swanky-jet-for-vvips/articleshow/79676105.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite losing limbs, CRPF personnel aim high in life||HYDERABAD: In 2017, CRPF constable B Ramdas was returning from a forest after a search operation in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district. Suddenly an improvised explosive device (IED) planted by the Communist Party of India (Maoists) exploded and he lost his legs. Unperturbed by the physical suffering he has endured, Ramdas is now determined to win a medal for India in Paralympics. Not only Ramdas, his 23 other colleagues, who suffered a similar fate, have battled the odds and are aiming high despite losing limbs in extremist attacks. Now with the help of the National Centre for Divyang Empowerment (NCDE) they are pursuing different para sports like running, basketball, archery, shooting etc. Their sole aim is to achieve something big for the country on the international stage. “I underwent treatment for 43 days after I lost my legs. But I remained mentally strong. Now CRPF has given me an opportunity through NCDE and I have decided to take up track and field. One day I want to win an international medal for India in the 100 metres,” said a smiling Ramdas. His colleague, constable Priyatam Kumar (34), a native of Jharkhand, said that moving to NCDE gave him new hope. “In an IED blast, I lost a leg, whereas two other colleagues of my battalion died in Jharkhand in 2013. Now I am receiving computer training in MS Office from the BITS Pilani team,’’ Kumar said. Some suffered grievous injuries while undergoing intense training. Thirty-nine-year-old Veerender Kumar suffered a severe leg injury when the rope, he was training with, got snapped. He fell from a height of 12 feet while undergoing physical training in Assam. Later, his leg had to get amputated. He is now keen to compete in archery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-losing-limbs-crpf-personnel-aim-high-in-life/articleshow/79668588.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand clocks 830 new Covid cases, tally rises to over 80,000||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand yet again recorded a major spike in Covid-19 cases on Thursday, with as many as 830 people testing positive for the coronavirus. The state’s tally of overall cases has now reached 80,486. Among the districts which have recorded a steep rise in the cases include Dehradun with 273 cases, followed by Haridwar (63), Pithoragarh (61), Nainital(105), Rudraprayag (55), Almora(53), Chamoli (51), Tehri (44), Pauri (37), Udham Singh Nagar (37), Bageshwar (24), Champawat (17), and Uttarkashi (10). Health-watchers, who have been keeping a close track of the pandemic, have expressed concern over the steady rise in the Covid cases. “This is the highest number recorded since October 4, when we had registered 1, 419 cases. The infection rate on Thursday was 7.49%, which is also on a relatively higher side than the state’s average,” said Anup Nautiyal, social activist. Twelve people succumbed to the infection, taking the death to 1,333, whereas 513 people recovered from the Covid-19 and were eventually discharged on Thursday. Those who died include an 88-year-old man who died in Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Hospital due to multiple ailments, including the coronavirus infection. And the youngest one was a 34-year-old woman who was getting treatment in Government Doon Medical College, Dehradun. Among the worst-hit districts with high number of fatalities include Dehradun, where 745 have died, followed Nainital with 185 death, Haridwar (138) and US Nagar (103).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-clocks-830-new-covid-cases-tally-rises-to-over-80000/articleshow/79667292.cms||Shivani Azad
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||GST registration loopholes being plugged after discovery of fraud ITC claims||Nagpur: Investigations by directorate of GST intelligence, which is conducting a series of raids and arrests these days, have revealed that evaders had an almost free hand during the initial days of the tax regime. Glitches in the system and policy allowed fast registration with minimal documentation, which led to mushrooming of shell companies in the GST network. Sources say companies even filed empty PDF files in the name of documents. Random Aadhaar numbers and PAN were also given to avail GST registration. A notification issued in November this year finally calls for Aadhaar authentication. This will lead to cross verification that the applicant has filed his own Aadhaar. However, taxmen are also scanning registrations from July 2017 to February 2020 to find cases of fraud that may have taken place during this period. In Nagpur alone, more than 150 such registrations have been unearthed on the basis of data mining tools. Sources say this is just the tip of the iceberg. Raids and arrests have happened all over the country as the frauds are traced, said a source. Such firms have been used as conduits to claim fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) against fake purchases. The system grants a deemed registration if the case is not approved within three days of application. Due to glitches in the system the registration was deemed granted even before an application reached the concerned officer’s dashboard. The time lag has now been done away with. However, earlier this allowed registration of a number of firms with fake documents like empty PDF files and random Aadhaar numbers. Since there was no means of cross verification, such companies easily booked fictitious sales in their books. These sales were further recorded by other companies as purchases in their accounts to avail fraudulent ITC, said a source. A drive to cross verify certain red-flagged registrations was mooted in December 2017, which did not take off. In August this year, another plan to cross verify the Aadhaar numbers was put up, which too was not taken further. Finally, in November, the order was issued to carry out Aadhaar verification for registration. There have been suggestions that even biometric verification should be done. This has not been implemented yet. Amit Agrawal, a chartered accountant, said in the VAT and central excise regime physical inspection of premises used to happen before registration. As the provision was done away with, there was misuse of the law under GST. The recent measures to plug the loophole are welcome but it may be too harsh for start-ups. Such entities may be sharing work spaces and may not be able to produce a lease deed, he said. Chartered accountant Pritam Mahure said, “The earlier loopholes indeed led to misuse of the system. PAN and Aadhaars of daily wagers were given to get registration of shell companies. Now the loophole will be plugged. However, registration is just the entry point. The authorities need to keep regular watch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-registration-loopholes-being-plugged-after-discovery-of-fraud-itc-claims/articleshow/79668625.cms||Shishir Arya
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur& Jodhpur collectively report 64.2% of active cases||JAIPUR: State’s Covid recovery rate rose to 92.5% on Thursday as 2,339 more people got cured of the virus. In Jaipur, 555 people beat the virus taking the count of recovered patients to 44,117, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (37,704), Alwar (20,292), Bikaner (18,495), Kota (16,227), Ajmer (15,187) and Pali (9,747). Among the eight districts with the highest number of recovered cases, Jaipur has the lowest recovery rate at 83.3% while Alwar has the highest with 98.6%. Jodhpur has a recovery rate of 90%. Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively reported 64.2% of the active cases in the state. “We are taking measures to bring down the number of active cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur. In the last few days, the number of active cases have come down in both the districts,” said a senior health department official. Out of 20,568 cumulative cases in Alwar, 20,292 have recovered logging a recovery percentage of 98.6. Out of 18,764 cumulative cases in Bikaner, 18,495 have recovered logging a recovery percentage of 98.5. Kota, Ajmer and Pali have 98.4%, 97.4% and 96.4% recovery rate, respectively. Pali reported its 100th Covid death and it became the eighth district in breaching 100-mark in casualties. In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the casualty count to 2,500 while infected count touched 2.87,219 riding on 1,592 new cases. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (365), Jodhpur (166), Kota (91), Ajmer (82), Alwar (81), Pali (75), Udaipur (71), Bhilwara (64), Bharatpur (55), Nagaur (52), Dungarpur (45), Tonk (34), Sikar (34), Chittorgarh (34), Baran (31), Jalore (30), Bikaner (30), Bundi (28), Barmer (27), Rajsamand (26), Sawai Madhopur (22), Hanumangarh (22), Jhalawar (21), Dausa (19), Banswara (19), Jaisalmer (15), Srigangangar (12), Sirohi (11), Dholpur (11), Jhunjhunu (10), Churu (7) and Karauli (2). Three persons died of Covid in Jodhpur taking its fatalities to 262, with two more deaths Jaipur’s toll rose to 468, With two deaths Ajmer’s toll rose to 205, With two deaths Kota’s toll rose to 155, Udaipur 106th, Pali 100th, Jhunjhunu 46th, Sriganganagar 40th, Dungarpur 34th and Dausa reported its 21st Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-collectively-report-64-2-of-active-cases/articleshow/79668619.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur& Jodhpur collectively report 64.2% of active cases||JAIPUR: State’s Covid recovery rate rose to 92.5% on Thursday as 2,339 more people got cured of the virus. In Jaipur, 555 people beat the virus taking the count of recovered patients to 44,117, the highest in the state, followed by Jodhpur (37,704), Alwar (20,292), Bikaner (18,495), Kota (16,227), Ajmer (15,187) and Pali (9,747). Among the eight districts with the highest number of recovered cases, Jaipur has the lowest recovery rate at 83.3% while Alwar has the highest with 98.6%. Jodhpur has a recovery rate of 90%. Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively reported 64.2% of the active cases in the state. “We are taking measures to bring down the number of active cases in Jaipur and Jodhpur. In the last few days, the number of active cases have come down in both the districts,” said a senior health department official. Out of 20,568 cumulative cases in Alwar, 20,292 have recovered logging a recovery percentage of 98.6. Out of 18,764 cumulative cases in Bikaner, 18,495 have recovered logging a recovery percentage of 98.5. Kota, Ajmer and Pali have 98.4%, 97.4% and 96.4% recovery rate, respectively. Pali reported its 100th Covid death and it became the eighth district in breaching 100-mark in casualties. In the last 24 hours, 15 persons died taking the casualty count to 2,500 while infected count touched 2.87,219 riding on 1,592 new cases. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (365), Jodhpur (166), Kota (91), Ajmer (82), Alwar (81), Pali (75), Udaipur (71), Bhilwara (64), Bharatpur (55), Nagaur (52), Dungarpur (45), Tonk (34), Sikar (34), Chittorgarh (34), Baran (31), Jalore (30), Bikaner (30), Bundi (28), Barmer (27), Rajsamand (26), Sawai Madhopur (22), Hanumangarh (22), Jhalawar (21), Dausa (19), Banswara (19), Jaisalmer (15), Srigangangar (12), Sirohi (11), Dholpur (11), Jhunjhunu (10), Churu (7) and Karauli (2). Three persons died of Covid in Jodhpur taking its fatalities to 262, with two more deaths Jaipur’s toll rose to 468, With two deaths Ajmer’s toll rose to 205, With two deaths Kota’s toll rose to 155, Udaipur 106th, Pali 100th, Jhunjhunu 46th, Sriganganagar 40th, Dungarpur 34th and Dausa reported its 21st Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-collectively-report-64-2-of-active-cases/articleshow/79677553.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||UKSSSC all set to conduct first-ever online exams for recruitment on December 19||DEHRADUN: Chief Minister Trivendra Singh on Thursday inaugurated the mock test training video for online examinations which will conducted by the Uttarakhand Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UKSSSC) for various government positions on December 19. The CM directed officers to ensure that all information related to online exams are provided to the candidates and given the required training. “For online exams, proper arrangements should be made for the training of candidates through various mediums,” he said. USSSC chairman S Raju said for the first time the commission was going to conduct online examinations and added that three online exams would be held on December 19, for which the training module has been prepared. The guidelines issued by the commission for online examinations include video showing main things to keep in mind of the candidates and a mock test of 30 questions, which will be similar to the actual exams. In the last three years, the UKSSSC has completed recruitment process for 5,700 posts, released recruitment advertisement for 5000 posts in last recruitment year and the process for recruitment on 2,500 more posts would be started soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uksssc-all-set-to-conduct-first-ever-online-exams-for-recruitment-on-december19/articleshow/79667293.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Registrations begin on Friday: KTR||Hyderabad: After getting a clearance from the high court to start registration of non-agriculture properties, MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Thursday evening tweeted that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the chief secretary to commence the registration activities of non-agriculture properties from Friday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/registrations-begin-on-friday-ktr/articleshow/79668631.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Doon airport registers four-fold increase in footfall since resumption of services in June||Dehradun: Both passenger traffic and the flight movements at the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun have been witnessing a steady increase since the domestic flight operations were resumed in June following months of Covid-19 lockdown. According to a data released by Airport Authority of India (AAI) on Thursday, there has been a four-fold increase in the passenger footfall as the Doon airport handled as many as 88,517 passengers in November, compared to 17,034 in June, registering a rise of 419% in the passenger traffic. The AAI data showed a continuous increase in the passenger traffic with July recording 18,298 passengers, 21,682 in August, 33,164 in September, 62,709 in October and 88,517 in November. DK Gautam, director of the Jolly Grant Airport, told TOI, “We are witnessing continuous increase in passengers’ footfall at the airport. The numbers rose manifold especially in October and November, primarily due to festive seasons.” Similarly, the flight movements at the Dehradun airport also increased by over 148%. The data showed that 1,115 flight movements were registered in November this year, compared to 913 in October, 660 in September, 491 in August, 412 in July and 448 in June. “The whole team of Jolly Grant Airport is working hard to ensure safe flying experience for the passengers. All safety measures are being taken to minimize the risk of infection,” said Gautam. However, the authorities also pointed out that the rise in Covid cases in Delhi is having an adverse impact on the footfall as people are apprehensive of flying to the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-airport-registers-four-fold-increase-in-footfall-since-resumption-of-services-in-june/articleshow/79667355.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Covid daycare at RUHS proves beneficial||JAIPUR: Daycare started at dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital has proved beneficial to patients undergoing treatment under home isolation. On an average, 50-60 patients from the city reach the hospital for getting the injectable drugs, which is difficult to administer in their homes. Patients get expensive injectable drugs such as remdesivir and low molecular weight heparin and antiboitics following the Covid treatment protocol at the daycare facilities. “More than 2,000 patients have been provided treatment at our daycare facilities for Covid treatment. Few days ago, when there were more than 800 indoor patients, we have provided treatment to more than 150 patients per day,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS Hospital. At the daycare facilities, doctors are providing treatment to those patients whose CT score is not satisfactory in HRCT. The eligible patients for daycare are those who are having a CT severity score less than 15/25 or mild symptomatic patients who do not have other risk factors such as age above 65 years, having diabetes, hypertension, chronic liver or kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, they can get the treatment at day care under home isolation. The health department has given a push to daycare facilities for Covid patients across the state. Also, for daycare facilities in private hosptials, the state government has already fixed prices of treatment. According to the health department’s order on daycare, Rs 2,500 per day inclusive of personal protection equipment (PPE), counsultation, nursing charges, housekeeping and monitoring has been fixed. In government hosptials, daycare facilities will be provided to patients who are at low risk, who do not require oxygen therapy, but need injectables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-daycare-at-ruhs-proves-beneficial/articleshow/79668604.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Accused ACB DSP lent bribe money on interest in market||JAIPUR: The ACB, which is investigating the corruption case against Bheru Lal Meena, DSP, ACB, Sawai Madhopur, on Thursday said the accused was into lending bribe money on interest. The agency said throughout his career he worked in Kota division and used to take bribe in his office. ACB on Wednesday arrested Meena for accepting a bribe of Rs 80,000 from a district transport officer (DTO) in Sawai Madhopur. “After taking bribe, he used to first ask his subordinates a part of the cash in the accounts of his family members in different banks and lend the rest to people at an interest rate of 10 per cent or more,” said Yogesh Dadich, SP, ACB. Senior ACB officers said Meena was never scared or intimidated of being caught. “He used to invite people directly into his office to accept money. These included people from whom he used to take a fixed amount of monthly income and those he used to demand bribes,” he added. ACB sleuths will also check the bank accounts of his family members. “He had promised people of his community that he won’t take action against any of them. It was also found that he used to fearlessly ask people to come up with money and other personal favours,” said a senior officer of ACB. The accused was taken before a local court in Sawai Madhopur from where he was sent to judicial custody of 14 days till December 24. So far, the ACB has seized papers of eight land plots from the possession of accused. “We have been receiving complaints against him for a long time and he was on our radar,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accused-acb-dsp-lent-bribe-money-on-interest-in-market/articleshow/79668596.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Mumbai||Women without male guardians will be allowed to go for Haj without lottery: Naqvi||Mumbai: The Union minister for minority affairs, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, said on Thursday that all women who have applied for Haj 2021 in the “without Mahram” (without male guardians) category will be allowed to go for the pilgrimage without a lottery. So far, 2,600 women have applied in this category, of which 2,100 were selected for Haj 2020 but didn’t go as no pilgrims from outside Saudi Arabia were allowed to perform Haj this year. The government allowed women without Mehram to proceed for Haj in for the first time in 2018 (1,300). In 2019, 1,800 women went, while for 2020, 2,100 were selected. “So far over 40,000 pilgrims have applied for Haj 2021. Of them, over 500 are under women in the “without Mahram” category and around 2,100 are from 2020,” said Naqvi. Haj Committee’s CEO M A Khan said all women in this category, including from 2020, will have to fulfil the new pandemic norms. Meanwhile, Yusuf Ahmed Kherada of Al Khalid Tours and Travels has said that the government should make Covid-19 vaccine available to all Haj pilgrims and ask the Saudi government to increase the Haj quota. “If vaccines are made available and kept reserved for Haj pilgrims, Haj quota can be increased. Though India’s Haj quota is 2 lakh, this may not get filled if the vaccine is not available by the time pilgrims leave (June-July, 2021) for Saudi Arabia. If all pilgrims get vaccinated, Saudis can be requested to increase the quota for Haj this year,” he said. Sources said Saudi Arabia may reduce the Haj quota this year to prevent the spread of pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/women-without-male-guardians-will-be-allowed-to-go-for-haj-without-lottery-naqvi/articleshow/79668637.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||OPD services to remain affected today due to doctors' stir||JAIPUR: Doctor associations in the state have called for closure of out-patient department on Friday protesting against the Centre’s decision allowing Ayurveda doctors to carry out surgeries. Indian Medical Association (Rajasthan Chapter), All Rajasthan In-Service Doctors Association (ARISDA) and Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors (JARD) are among the groups that have backed the agitation. “We are against this mixopathy. The IMA has called for closure of OPD and except Covid care and emergency services, all healthcare facilities will be affected,” said Dr MN Thareja, president, IMA (Jaipur chapter). In Jaipur’s SMS Medical College, JARD has called for boycott of OPD services from 9am to 11 am. JARD has clarified that Covid treatment and emergency and ICU services will not be affected. All Rajasthan In Service Doctors Association said doctors will wear black bands on their arms as a mark of protest against the Centre’s decision of allowing Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. IMA service doctors’ wing issued appeal of clourse of OPD from 6am to 6pm. During the period, emergency, operation, indoor services and Covid services will not be affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/opd-services-to-remain-affected-today-due-to-doc-stir/articleshow/79668633.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||Mapusa locals protest at PWD office yet again over water crisis||SALIGAO: Frustrated with the water shortage in Mapusa and surrounding areas, a group of residents staged a dharna outside the office of the PWD assistant engineer in Mapusa, holding empty pots and utensils in hand. The residents marched inside the office of assistant engineer Mahesh Kotawdekar only to find that he as well as most of the staff were not present in office. A junior engineer was among the few found seated there. Annoyed with the absence of the staffers, the agitated residents began banging the utensils together as a mark of protest. They sat outside the office in wait for Kotawdekar, who later arrived and assured that the water shortage will be resolved at the earliest. Police were also called in to ensure that there was no law and order situation. Locals said many areas like Morod, Ansabhat, Dangui Colony, Ghateeshwar Nagar and Feira Alta in Mapusa have been receiving water supply only on alternate days for weeks now. Besides Mapusa, residents of the surrounding villages of Verla Canca, Saligao and Siolim have largely been left dependent on tankers for their water requirements for around a month now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-locals-protest-at-pwd-office-yet-again-over-water-crisis/articleshow/79669739.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Engg degrees conferred on Army officers||Hyderabad: Indian Army officers who have earned engineering degrees at the MCEME in Secunderabad will be able to handle future roles of absorbing latest technologies. “They will be ready to handle state-of-the-art equipment,” Lieutenant General Anil Kapoor, Director General, EME, and Senior Colonel Commandant of the Corps of EME said on Thursday. He conferred engineering degrees on 56 officers of degree engineering course (DE-101) and technical entry scheme course (TES-34) at a convocation ceremony adhering to Covid-19 precautionary protocols at Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME). Lt Gen Anil Kapoor asked officers to prepare themselves and be ahead of the curve in technology. Commandant of MCEME, Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan said MCEME have a well-qualified and self-motivated teaching staff, state-of-the-art facilities in the form of labs, integrated classroom and IT infrastructure. The DGEME trophy and GOC-in-C, ARTRAC book prizes were awarded to Captain Anurag Singh for best all round student officer of DE course. Captain DS Rajawat bagged the DGEME gold medal for standing overall first in order of merit in DE course. At Air Force Academy, Dundigal, graduation ceremony of 137 air traffic surveillance services (ATSS) course and 104 air traffic management and air laws (basic) course was conducted at Air Traffic Control Officers’ Training Establishment (ATCOTE). Air Vice Marshal DK Awasthi, Deputy Commandant, Air Force Academy, was reviewing officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-degrees-conferred-on-army-officers/articleshow/79668674.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Many coastal wards witness lower polling percentage this time||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Many of the polling booths in coastal wards under city corporation wore a deserted look by evening as the polling was heading to a close on Tuesday. Around 15 coastal wards, which had always been crucial in ensuring absolute majority for the ruling party, did not record high polling percentages. Although final voting numbers would be published only by Wednesday, the booth agents said that the peak was only at noon while usually booths in coastal wards would witness a rush in the evening. In the previous elections, long queues in the last two hours had been the feature to make coastal wards in the district unique. Fishermen, who go for fishing early morning, finish their work by noon and come to vote after lunch and a short nap. However, that was not the pattern visible along the coast on Tuesday. The officials, who were on duty at a few polling booths at Beemapally and Poonthura said that there was never a steady flow of voters except during noon. Former CPI councillor Solomon Vettucaud said that voter turnout was considerably low at Shangumugham when compared to previous term. “Many people chose to remain at house may be owing to Covid-19 situation. It remains to be seen how low voter turnout is going to affect our prospects,” he said. The pattern however varied in other wards. In areas like Kottapuram, nearly 60% of votes were recorded, said former councillor and election committee convenor Gladis Alex. Satish, a booth agent at Poonthura, said that some of the voters in the list had moved to other places and this reflected in low voter turnout. “Normally we witness heavy voter turnout, especially in the morning and evening. This year it did not happen. Covid was not the reason because many people, even elderly voters, came out to vote today,” said Satish. Voter turnout is going to be extremely crucial for UDF in coastal wards where many rebel candidates are contesting. Rebel candidates in more than five wards could badly hurt the prospects of UDF. LDF had cashed in on a similar internal strife in 2015 to walk away with a few sure seats of UDF. According to residents, the loss of jobs of coastal people following the Covid-19 outbreak was one reason that might have impacted the polling pattern. “Several residents were at home as they had no work. Hence, they either come to vote early or decided not to vote,” said a voter at Valiyathura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/many-coastal-wards-witness-lower-polling-percentage-this-time/articleshow/79668643.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kochi||125kg ganja seized, 4 held at Kerala's Walayar||PALAKKAD: The excise enforcement special squad has seized 125kg ganja (cannabis sativa) worth Rs 1.5 crore in the illegal drug market and arrested four persons at Walayar toll plaza on Thursday. The excise special squad intercepted a car carrying the contraband from Vishakapattanam to Ernakulam at Walayar interstate checkpost area based on a tip-off to deputy excise commissioner Shaji S Rajan.Another vehicle escorting the ganja consignment was also seized by the excise special squad. Four persons arrested in connection with the ganja smuggling were Vignesh, 31, son of Velayudhan, Kuthampadi Veedu, Chembradesam, Pattambi, Palakkad; Shinose, 33, son of Damodaran, Kootan Parambu Veedu, Kannamangalam, Payyanur, Kannur; Sixson, 31, son of Sabu, Parapulli Veedu, Puniyathara, Kanayannur, Ernakulam, and Rajesh, 42, son of Ramachandran, Koppandisherry Veedu, Tripunithura, Ernakulm, said circle inspector P K Satheesh and inspector A Shaukath who led the special squad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/125kg-ganja-seized-4-held-at-walayar/articleshow/79667326.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Parties put blame on errors in voters’ lists, Covid situation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Many of the wards under city corporation polled barely above 50% and five wards registered less than 50% voter turnout in the elections held on Tuesday. While low voter turnout has been a characteristic feature of Thiruvananthapuram, irrespective of nature of elections, the levels to which it dropped in city wards which are usually shared between UDF and LDF have forced a revision of calculations for the parties. Nanthencode, Nalanchira, Muttada, Vazhuthacaud and Kuravankonam are the wards which polled less than 50% in corporation. Of these, three wards were won by LDF in 2015. In spite of shift in alliance, Kuravankonam had favoured RSP in 2010 and 2015. Some of the other city wards like Pattom, Peroorkada, Palayam, Chackai and Pettah also polled poorly with Chackai and Palayam recording the highest percentage of the lot; 53%. The corporation poll also showed a marked dip in voter turnout when compared to that of Lok Sabha polls. Three of the assembly constituencies comprising mostly corporation wards; Kazhakkoottam, Vattiyoorkavu and Thiruvananthapuram had recorded above 65% polling in Lok Sabha polls held in 2019. Kazhakkoottam had polled 73.19% while Vattiyoorkavu and Thiruvananthapuram constituencies recorded 69.34% and 67.41% respectively. The parties had prepared for a low voter turnout mainly due to the Covid-19 situation. However, on post-election day, booth agents have communicated that the voters’ list in many wards were not properly updated. There were numerous reports from various wards about the list including deceased voters and those who had shifted to other places long back. In many polling booths, voters turned up with ID cards only to learn that their names were not included in the voters’ list. SEC has given ample times for voters to update the list, however, even former councillors pointed out that the irregularities in voters’ list had a lot to do with low voting percentage. In spite of wide-spread campaign on updation of voters’ list, many voters had refrained from adding their names hoping that their names would be included in the list for local bodies voters’ list since they had voted in Lok Sabha polls. However, SEC had published draft voters’ list in January 2020 based on list prepared in 2015. The poll booth managers have reported that there was an evident drop in voter turnout in many city wards where people living in flats and elderly persons who have remained inside homes for past few months did not turn up for voting. Besides, those who had their names in voters’ list and living in these wards for a long time had gone back to their native places since the start of lockdown and are working from home.  BJP is banking its hopes on effective deployment of ‘page pramukhs’ in all the wards from January by which one page of voters’ list was assigned to each worker which enabled proper updation, preparation of database and addition of voters in various wards. The coastal wards on the other hand have recorded a decent voting percentage raising hopes for UDF. UDF estimates that it will clearly get an edge in around 17 coastal wards and such a clean sweep will be crucial in triggering UDF’s revival in the council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/parties-put-blame-on-errors-in-voters-lists-covid-situation/articleshow/79668691.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 11, 2020||Pune||PMR recoveries stay above 1k for second straight day||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded more than 1,000 recoveries for the second straight day on Thursday, with 1,059 people getting discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the region’s total cured count above 3.32 lakh.The new infections in PMR dropped to 572 on Thursday as against 782 on Wednesday, taking its total caseload above 3.50 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the rural parts recorded 510 recoveries on Thursday, highest in the region, followed by 294 recoveries in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 255 in the Pune municipal limits. For the past four consecutive days, the region has recorded increase in discharges, an analysis of the data showed. The region reported 13 deaths due to Covid-related complications, pushing its total casualties to 8,585. Eight patients succumbed to the infection in the PMC limits and four in the rural areas. The PCMC areas recorded only one death due to coronavirus on Thursday. Increase in recoveries in the region pushed tally of active patients below 10,000 on Thursday, taking it to 9,639. The report stated that 6,386 patients were in home isolation in the region and 3,253 were admitted in various hospitals for treatment. The PMC areas had 4,867 patients in home quarantine, the highest in the region. The region conducted 8,998 tests on Thursday. These included 3,795 tests from the PMC areas, 2,719 from the PCMC limits and 2484 from the rural areas. The region has so far tested over 17.18 lakh samples, of which over 8.52 lakh are from the PMC limits and 5.04 lakh from the PCMC areas.Civic health officials said though cases were on the decline, there was no need to let guard down. “Wearing masks and maintaining social distance should be our focus to keep the situation under control. Public participation is a must to further bring down the positivity rate in the city,”a civic official said, adding that people needed to stay cautious during the New Year celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recoveries-stay-above-1k-for-second-straight-day/articleshow/79668680.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Will move governor for probe against speaker, says Ramesh Chennithala||KOZHIKODE: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has said that he will approach the governor seeking investigation into the unprecedented corruption and lavishness in the dealings of assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan. Addressing a news conference here on Thursday, Chennithala said the speaker had splurged money using the provision that the expenses of the assembly should not be subjected to scrutiny. Detailing the allegations, he said crores of rupees were used for the renovation of the assembly hall, organizing the Festival of Democracy and for appointing consultants for Sabha TV. “A total of Rs 1.84 crore were spent for renovating the seating arrangements at the Sankaranarayanan Thampi hall for the conduct of the Loka Kerala Sabha in 2018. The contract for the work was awarded to the Uralungal Labour Contract Co-operative Society (ULCCS) without inviting tender,” he said. The hall was again renovated for the Loka Kerala Sabha in 2020 removing the existing seats spending Rs 16.65 crore. This time also the work was given to the ULCCS, Chennithala said, adding that the Sabha was met only for one-and-half days. The speaker said that only half of the estimated amount was used for the purpose but an amount of Rs 12 crore was given to ULCCS overriding the Covid restrictions, he said. The speaker decided to construct new guest houses though there were many vacant rooms and guest houses. Expressions of interest were invited to construct prefabricated structures, Chennithala said. He added that the current speaker had spent around Rs 100 crore for renovations and celebrations though the actual construction cost of the assembly building was Rs 76 crore. The Congress leader said there was lavishness in the name of the E-Sabha project which intended to make the House paper-free. “The project also was given to ULCCS without tender for Rs 53 crore and a sum of around 14 crore was given to the firm as mobilization advance. The allegation against Ebrahim Kunju was that he sanctioned mobilization advance for the construction of the bridge at Palarivattom,” he said. Chennithala alleged the Festival of Democracy was actually a celebration of corruption. Though there are over 1,000 employees at the assembly, five persons were appointed on contract basis. He said that there is corruption in appointing consultants for Sabha TV too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/will-move-guv-for-probe-against-speaker-ramesh/articleshow/79667371.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 10 lakh state health workers likely to sign up for first jabs||PUNE: National Health Mission commissioner N Ramaswami told TOI on Thursday that officials were expecting nine to 10 lakh healthcare workers in Maharashtra to sign up on the Co-win app for priority vaccination. So far, details of 90,000 health workers and 16,245 vaccinators have been uploaded onto the app, which has been developed by the Centre to track vaccinations and dosage. Officials said it would take at least 15 days to complete the entire data entry process. Ramaswami said while data collation from government healthcare units was almost over, the private sector was lagging behind. “We expect the state to put up around 9-10 lakh workers’ data on the app. There is no upper limit on names that can be added,” he said. The top official reiterated that registration remains voluntary. He said vaccination was also not mandatory for those who have registered. “We cannot force anyone to take the vaccine,” Ramaswami said. State officials are also working to tie up with mobile operators to ensure health workers on the list receive SMS alerts days before their vaccination — detailing time and location. The vaccine will be distributed through hospitals at over 100 sites. About the Co-win app, Ramaswami said it will streamline the process as it comes with an administrator module, registration module, vaccination module, beneficiary acknowledgement module and a report module.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-lakh-state-health-workers-likely-to-sign-up-for-first-jabs/articleshow/79668668.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 11, 2020||Goa||Inside bio-secure bubble, Goan footballers lose chance to vote||Panaji: For FC Goa midfielder Lenny Rodrigues, there is more than just three points at stake on Saturday. FC Goa face Odisha FC in an important Indian Super League (ISL) clash at the GMC Athletic Stadium at Bambolim on Saturday. But in between preparatory team meetings and the compulsory rest, the midfielder would be busy tracking activity in the zilla panchayat elections. Lenny cannot step out of the team hotel where they are inside a bio-secure bubble. The team only moves out for training and competitive matches. So, when polling for the zilla panchayat takes place on Saturday, he will be forced to give that a miss. Too bad, he says, as his friend and independent candidate from Cortalim, Antonio Vas, missed out on a vote that could matter. “As professional footballers, sometimes we are forced to miss because we are away during elections for games. But now we won’t be able to vote, despite being here in Goa. As everyone knows, these are difficult times and the authorities could have found a way to allow us (to vote),” said Lenny. For the safe conduct of the ISL, organisers have strict rules in place. Any player or official who steps out of the bio-secure bubble must mandatorily undergo quarantine for 14 days before he can join his teammates. The two weeks of quarantine means missing out a minimum of four matches. “The coronavirus pandemic has made it difficult for everyone. I would have been happy if there was a postal ballot where I could vote without going to the booth,” said Lenny. Brandon Fernandes is also ruing the missed opportunity. “Vote is an important right for all citizens. We have to make it count. But since we are inside the bubble, there’s no way we can go out and vote,” said Brandon, FC Goa’s most influential domestic player. Brandon said, just like him, many would have been relieved if they were allowed to vote ‘online’ after putting in place a process that ensures there is secrecy, safety and transparency. Close to 8 lakh voters are eligible to cast a ballot and choose their representative to the 48 zilla panchayat constituencies. The state election commission has said that Covid-19 positive patients will be allowed to vote only on wearing a full PPE kit during the last hour of voting. Just like the FC Goa players stuck inside a bio-secure bubble, Covid patients would also be wondering if there was a simpler way to vote, rather than risking not just themselves, but others too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inside-bio-secure-bubble-goan-footballers-lose-chance-to-vote/articleshow/79670469.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 11, 2020||Pune||Hotels at popular tourist spots across Maharashtra record uptick in bookings||PUNE: Tourist spots in the state are showing an encouraging picture in terms of guest arrivals despite the pandemic. Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) officials said all its resorts at popular destinations, like Ganpati- pule, Karla, Mahabaleshwar and Matheran, are 100% booked during the Christmas weekend as well as on New Year’s Eve. However, hotels in various cities in Maharashtra are reporting minimal occupancy during the upcoming Christmas and New Year period. Dinesh Kamble, general manager of MTDC, told TOI, “Our resorts at most locations in the state are fully booked for Christmas and New Year. Bookings began picking up from November and currently online slots are full for many MTDC hotels during the long Christmas weekend. Even resorts are cent per cent booked over the weekends.” Kamble said that tourists from Mumbai and Pune are preferring Matheran, Lonavla and Karla, where resorts are booked to capacity during the upcoming winter break. “In fact, resorts in Lonavla and Karla are also getting tourists from Gujarat. I was in Lonavla recently and I saw many tourist cabs from Gujarat. At our Tadoba resort in Nagpur, people have been coming all the way from Kolkata. Mine tourism and sightseeing in Chandrapur are picking up, causing a spurt in resort bookings,” he said, adding that both ecotourism and beach destination resorts are booked to capacity on weekends during the year-end season. Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India president Sherry Bhatia said, “Hotel occupancy at tourist destinations in Maharashtra are quite high currently, especially during the weekends. However, city hotels are still reporting low occupancy as corporate movement has been subdued.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotels-at-popular-tourist-spots-across-maharashtra-record-uptick-in-bookings/articleshow/79668698.cms||Neha Madaan
December 11, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Nationwide IMA doctors’ protest sparks doable vs have-it-all debate||PUNE: Postgraduate ayurveda doctors in Maharashtra on Wednesday argued that they had been receiving hands-on training to perform 58 surgeries during their three-year curriculum for the last four decades, which provided them know-how of various procedures just like allopaths. The argument follows heated debate in medical spheres if postgraduate (PG) students of ayurveda should be allowed to perform 58 surgeries, against which allopathy doctors will hold strike on Friday. “In villages and small towns, mostly PG ayurveda doctors treat eye ailments and perform cataract surgeries, which they are trained in. They do tooth extraction and treat cavities. They perform C-section at state-run primary health centres as a part of their internship,” said Vinayak Tembhurnikar, national president of National Integrated Medical Council (NIMA). Eye surgeon Sanjay Patil, vice-president of the state chapter of IMA, said, “The NIMA office-bearers claim that most private hospitals ICUs are manned by BAMS doctors. But they cleverly skip mentioning that these doctors work under the supervision of specialist allopaths.”  “Ear, nose and throat includes three of five special senses. To treat these, you need extensive training, failure of which can lead to failures and complications,” ENT surgeon Sudhir Bhalerao said. Ayurveda eye surgeon Abhijeet Agre said, “Ayurveda graduates and postgraduates also study anatomy, physiology, medicine and surgery not only from ayurveda but also allopathy. We study and practice for three years in PG, including hands-on training.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nationwide-ima-doctors-protest-sparks-doable-vs-have-it-all-debate/articleshow/79668685.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||IMA protest: Jr docs at govt hosps to boycott OP||Hyderabad: Junior doctors in various government hospitals have decided to extend support to the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) protest against the Centre’s decision to allow AYUSH doctors to perform surgical procedures and techniques. While protests will be held across most government medical colleges, junior doctors at the Osmania Medical College (OMC) and other hospitals will be boycotting outpatient duties and elective duties over the issue on Friday. “The country today is faced with a moral crisis in the medical field whereby the AYUSH doctors of the country will be allowed to practice and begin to perform surgical procedures and techniques of modern allopathic medicine, despite the lack of basic expertise required to perform these procedures. The landmark decision made by the government would inadvertently affect the Indian healthcare system and concurrently quality of patient care immensely,” read a statement by the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ima-protest-jr-docs-at-govt-hosps-to-boycott-op/articleshow/79668693.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Varanasi||CPWD misses ‘Rudraksh’ deadline again||VARANASI: As work on the Japan-funded ‘Rudraksh’ — the Varanasi International Cooperation and Convention Centre (VCC) — is still pending, the possibility of completion of the Rs 186-crore project by December 15 has ended. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and municipal commissioner Gauran Rathi inspected the site on Thursday and decided to send a report against the monitoring agency CPWD to higher authorities. The officials sought an explanation from the CPWD officials for failing to complete the work. The officials were informed that the work could not be completed as some workers were infected in the initial phase of Covid-19, the DM said. The commissioner expressed his displeasure as CPWD, a nodal agency for the project being executed by Japanese company Fujita, had failed to finish the project in October and sought time till December 15. After knowing about the volume of pending works, the officials felt that minimum two months would be required to complete the project, although they denied disclosing the revised deadline for completing the project. The foundation of ‘Rudraksh’ was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on July 14, 2018, after the company assigned by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) started working on the project. Rudraksh convention centre is a symbol of friendship of PM Modi and his then Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe. It is a part of Kashi-Kyoto partnership agreement aimed at conserving the city's ancient heritage, signed by Modi and Abe in Kyoto in August 2014. Commissioner said that since its beginning the project is being monitored regularly by the local authorities while chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also taken stock of progress in works during his past visits. Reports of progress in project works is also sent to union ministry for urban development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cpwd-misses-rudraksh-deadline-again/articleshow/79669761.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||Quepem man succumbs to accidental gunshot wound||MARGAO: Forty-two-year-old Vasu Fati Gaonkar died after a country-made gun that was being assembled at Maina, Quepem, accidentally misfired and the bullet hit his leg. Police sources said that a seriously injured Gaonkar died while being taken to the hospital on account of excessive bleeding. The incident occurred late Wednesday evening. Gaonkar is a resident of Maina. Police sources said that the gun was being assembled to kill wild animals who venture into farms and plantations in the village. Quepem PI Deepak Pednekar said that an offence has been registered in the case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 3 of the Arms Act. Dattaraj Padiyar, also a resident of Maina, has been arrested in the case, and further investigation is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-man-succumbs-to-accidental-gunshot-wound/articleshow/79669742.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: P Sreeramakrishnan denies opposition leader’s graft charges||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, on Thursday, ruled out the allegations of corruption raised against him by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Addressing a news conference, he reiterated his stand that he never had an unholy nexus with the persons accused in the gold smuggling case. He said he was not attempting to comment on the case until the central agencies bring out the truth. "I know Swapna Suresh in her capacity as the secretary of UAE consul general. I did not have prior information regarding her criminal background. I was neither contacted; nor did I help her in any way after her criminal background was exposed. If central agencies need a clarification, I would tell them what I know. I don’t seek privileges than what a common man would get. I don’t want to raise political allegations and criticism against central agencies," he said. He said that the e-Vidhan Sabha was conceived as part of establishing a paperless system, which could save the state around Rs 40 crore/year. "The decision was taken after discussing the same in assembly steering committee. A technical committee comprising of experts from IT Mission and PWD had ratified the proposal. A nine-member house committee, comprising of members from the ruling and opposition benches was set up in this connection on the request of Chennithala," he added. Sankaranarayanan Thampi lounge was refurnished as part of hosting Loka Kerala Sabha. "The lounge can be used for other functions too. Uralungal society was given the work without a tender as there was provision for doing so as per the government orders that were notified by the previous government. All works were supervised by assembly committee and it was completed at a lesser cost than what was anticipated," he said. The speaker said there was no truth in the claims that he was wasting large sums of money for the conduct of Sabha TV and said all appointments in Sabha TV were on contract basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sreeramakrishnan-denies-oppn-leaders-graft-charges/articleshow/79667402.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Disposed masks near trekking zones scare residents in vicinity||Pune: As trekking activities have resumed at destinations such as Sinhagad, Torana and Rajgad, residents of nearby areas have raised concern over the discarded masks in the region.Residents claimed that they feared the spread of Covid-19 infection because of the discarded masks. Earlier, the tourists’ litter would comprise mostly of plastic. Sanjay Gaikwad, a resident of Sinhagad fort, said the number of tourists had increased tremendously in the last few weeks and so had the number of discarded masks and sanitiser bottles dumped on the road or on the fort premises.“Masks and sanitisers are supposed to protect us from the contagion. But people are just dumping those on the fort premises or at the tourist spots. The pandemic is far from over and this kind of negligence is not acceptable,” he said, adding that plastic waste could be collected, but they feared even going near the discarded face masks.Shantaram Bhosale, a resident of Gunjavane village at the base of the Rajgad fort, said everyday he found at least three to four discarded masks on the fort trail or on the fort premises. Harshad Jadhav, a trekking enthusiast, said he visited Visapur, Tikona, and Korigad forts in the past few weeks. He said he spotted tourists’ discarded waste, including masks. Veteran mountaineer of the Giripremi club, Umesh Zirpe, urged trekkers and tourists to avoid littering the forts and any other tourist sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/disposed-masks-near-trekking-zones-scare-residents-in-vicinity/articleshow/79668707.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 11, 2020||Goa||Smart City CEO transferred||Panaji: Less than two months after appointing IAS officer Hemant Kumar as the chief executive director of Imagine Panaji City Development Limited (IPSCDL), the state government has once again abruptly dropped the head of the Smart City project. The government has appointed 2011 batch IAS officer Ravi Dhawan as the new chief executive officer and managing director of IPSCDL. Kumar, who was holding charge as the GST commissioner in Goa, has been relieved as IPSCDL CEO, said under secretary for personnel Maya Pednekar in the transfer order. “The government is pleased to appoint Ravi Dhawan as the managing director and chief executive officer thereby relieving Kumar of additional charge,” said Pednekar. Dhawan arrived in Goa on November 17 and was awaiting posting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smart-city-ceo-transferred/articleshow/79669762.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books Hyderabad infra firm for Rs 94 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked Hyderabad-based infra company Kranthi Edifice Private Limited for Rs 94 crore loan fraud. The accused firm, which was involved in execution of Devadula Irrigation Project works, allegedly defrauded Canara Bank by diverting the loan amount to its associate company. The fraud was detected on January 22, 2020, the CBI said in its FIR. Apart from the company, Kranthi Edifice MD Medipalli Pratap Reddy, directors — M Suresh Kumar Reddy, M Satish Kumar Reddy, M Kalavathi, all residents of Jubilee Hills, Medipally Saileela, a resident of Gachibowli, K Hanumannth Reddy, a resident of Ameerpet — and unknown public servants were named as accused. The case was booked under IPC sections of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust and cheating and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. Kranti Edifice is into the construction of irrigation projects, buildings and other infrastructure projects in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In a complaint, Canara Bank stressed assets management branch deputy general manager B Satyanarayana said Kranthi Edifice, which has its office at King Koti, took Rs 122 crore loan from the erstwhile Syndicate Bank Malakpet branch. The firm offered primary and collateral securities. “The accused persons diverted the loan to their associate firm SR Constructions and misappropriated the funds. The accused made various payments to related parties without any supporting documents,” alleged Canara Bank in the complaint. The accused also utilised the bank guarantee and diverted the work bills which were charged to the bank. Without the knowledge of Canara Bank to avoid repayment of credit facilities, the accused misappropriated and cheated the bank to the tune of Rs 94 crore. The account became a non-performing asset on August 6, 2018, the CBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-hyd-infra-firm-for-rs-94-crore-loan-fraud/articleshow/79668717.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 11, 2020||Pune||Brain strokes struck Covid patients despite use of blood thinners: Pune doctors||PUNE: A number of Covid patients suffered brain strokes despite being on blood thinners, doctors said. Specialists said the cases now called for a larger investigation to devise preventive strategies that could avert neurological complications in those sickened by the coronavirus. Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital’s neurologist, Rahul Kulkarni, who studied 40 Covid patients with stroke, found that half had suffered the brain-attack despite being given blood-thinning medication such as aspirin tablets, heparin injections or both. He said, “The patients suffered the complication either during treatment at the hospital or after recovering. Those who suffered the stroke at home — after discharge — were on blood-thinning drugs as a precaution.” Brain strokes have been seen in older Covid patients with a history of blood pressure and diabetes. But there have been cases involving younger individuals with no underlying medical conditions. Other doctors too confirmed Covid’s impact on the brain. Jegangir hospital’s neurologist Sandip Borse said, “We have seen quite a few Covid patients suffering strokes despite the fact they were on blood thinners.” Jupiter hospital’s neurologist Rajas Deshpande said, “Blood thinners work in most cases. But patients need to be started on these before Covid can cause significant damage in smaller blood vessels of the brain.” He added, “Smaller and deeper blood vessels in the brain are key because areas they supply have least collateral (reserve) blood supply. Strokes can happen if these smaller vessels are blocked. Thinners will not prevent damage to inner walls of blood vessels. Thicker blood (either due to dehydration or high cholesterol) will easily close or block the damaged vessels,” Deshpande said. Other probable causes, Deshpande said, include inadequate dosage of blood thinners and simultaneous medication that reduce the activity of the thinners. “Also, patients who have had large clots in bigger blood vessels may be at increased risk in spite of blood thinners as small pieces of large clots can break and flow ahead to block smaller-calibre vessels,” Deshpande said. Sometimes blood thinners may also up the risk of bleeding inside the brain. “Any blood thinner has some risk of bleeding because it prevents clotting for repair of torn vessels. Antiplatelet drugs such as aspirin and clopidogrel, and anticoagulants such as warfarin or dabigatran, may cause bleeding in the brain, especially in patients with high blood pressure,” Deshpande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-strokes-struck-ncov-patients-despite-use-of-blood-thinners-docs/articleshow/79668728.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Leaders of major fronts express hope for victory||Thiruvananthapuram: A day after the polls, leaders of political parties expressed hope of registering resounding victory in local body polls in the district. Minister Kadakampally Surendran said that LDF is in for a historic win in Thiruvananthapuram corporation. He said that LDF will retain power with absolute majority.  Congress MLA V S Sivakumar said that UDF rule is a certainty in local bodies in the district including Thiruvananthapuram corporation. He said that the poll verdict will be a fitting reply to rumours propagated by LDF and BJP. “It was an anticipatory bail on the part of LDF and BJP to allege that UDF entered into deals with both fronts. The UDF rule will be a striking contradiction to LDF reign which had always disregarded the interests of the city,” said VS Sivakumar.  BJP former parliamentary party leader P Ashok Kumar, who is contesting in this year’s , said that BJP will reap the rewards for their good work. “We had started field work early and during the campaign, there was evident resistance to LDF and UDF. People want a change and this is sure to reflect in the results. We are going to improve our tally to such a level that we will win absolute majority,” said P Ashok Kumar. The pre-poll campaign had witnessed heated allegations from all parties against each other of entering into shady alliances and understandings to tweak the poll results in their favour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/leaders-of-major-fronts-express-hope-for-victory/articleshow/79668780.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||Ammonia gas leakage at Chicalim creates panic, nearby bldg vacated||Vasco: Ammonia leakage at an ice plant at Chicalim created panic in the vicinity, forcing an entire building adjacent to the plant to be vacated late Thursday evening. The situation was brought under control within an hour’s time by the fire and emegency services. Station fire officer Francisco Mendes said that he received a call about the leakage at 7.15pm. Chicalim sarpanch Sebestao Pereira said the leakage occured at the Alpha Omega ice plant. Officials were informed that some maintenance work was being carried out inside the plant. “The fire department has been asked to submit a detailed report by Friday for further action,” said Mormugao deputy collector, Sachin Desai. He said he will carry out an inspection of the plant next week along with officials from the directorate of factories and boilers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ammonia-gas-leakage-at-chicalim-creates-panic-nearby-bldg-vacated/articleshow/79669764.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Anjan quits as city chief of Congress||Hyderabad: Even as Congress high command started an exercise to appoint the next TPCC president to succeed Uttam Kumar Reddy, the party faced fresh trouble on Thursday with city Congress unit president Anjan Kumar Yadav resigning from his post. Though there was speculation that he was unhappy with the party leadership and would quit the party to join the BJP, Anjan denied the rumours and said he quit the post since he wants to be a contender for the TPCC chief post. Former mayor Banda Karthika Reddy and Serilingampally in-charge of the party Ravi Kumar Yadav have already quit the party and joined the BJP recently. Meanwhile, some party members met AICC secretary in charge of Telangana affairs Manickam Tagore separately, expressing an interest to be the next TPCC chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anjan-quits-as-city-chief-of-congress/articleshow/79668761.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Salesman held for extortion bid during lockdown||PUNE: The crime branch of the city police on Thursday arrested a 28-year-old salesman on the charge of posing as the manager of a massage parlour on various dating websites and extorting money from gullible women during the lockdown. Sandeep Jagannath Dharmak from Bidar in Karnataka, but currently residing in Thergaon, was arrested after two women registered first information reports (FIR) against him with the Bharti Vidyapeeth and Airport police stations. Inspector Mahendra Jagtap from crime branch (unit ll) told TOI, “Dharmak was working as a salesman at a cellphone shop in Chinchwad. After Covid-induced lockdown, he struck friendship with two gullible women after making fake profiles on dating websites and started chatting with them.” After the women became friendly with Dharmak, he lured them to share their intimate photographs with him. “He then started demanding money from the women while threatening to make their photographs and chat messages viral on social networking sites,” Jagtap said. After continued harassment by the suspect, the women registered separate FIRs against him. Jagtap said a team comprising assistant inspector Varsha Bhosale, guided by additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale, conducted technical analysis of the women and the suspect’s calls and established the identity of the suspect. He was taken into custody from Thergaon. “Dharmak has studied up to HSC (Std XII). During questioning, he admitted to chatting with 12 women on dating websites and demanding money from them. We have recovered his smartphone as well. We have transferred his custody to the Bharati Vidyapeeth police for taking action under the relevant sections of the IPC and Information Technology Act,” he said. Dharmak was also arrested in 2015 for committing similar offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salesman-held-for-extortion-bid-during-lockdown/articleshow/79668731.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 11, 2020||Varanasi||PM’s leadership changed global perception about India: CM||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the advancements, development and change in work culture in the country under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership have changed global perception about us and now the world looks at India. Speaking at the closing ceremony of Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad (MPSP) foundation week celebrations in Gorakhpur on Thursday, the CM said, “Till five-seven years ago, India used to look at the world, but now Europe, America and other countries look at India, and this is because of our PM’s leadership. We should all try to become an example for the world, rather than following others.” “Today, even a little child is acquainted with technology and attends online classes. With the help of technology, the 135 crore population of the country was able to face the challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic,” he added. The CM said coronavirus vaccine is likely to be ready by January 2021, but till then we need to follow Covid protocols. “Most probably, the coronavirus vaccine will be ready by January (2021), but we need to follow social distancing norms and wear mask,” he added. Speaking at the closing ceremony of 88th Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad (MPSP) foundation week celebrations, CM Yogi congratulated the teachers and students for organizing the programme successfully while following all guidelines. “Mahant Digvijaynath ji had established MPSP 88 years ago, and it should work hard to excel and aim to set an example for other institutions before its centenary celebrations. If everyone works with this aim, the MPEC will become the best educational institution in north India,” said Yogi. Every educational institute should follow the new education policy and impart practical knowledge also besides theoretical knowledge, the CM said. Chief guest of programme, Vidhan Sabha Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit said India was always leading in education since Vedic era, except for the duration when it was ruled by others. “After Independence, the so called educated class grew which looked down on Indian culture and traditions and presented a poor image of the country,” said Dixit. Educational institutes should also teach morals like MPSP has been doing since 1932. Other institutes should learn from MPSP, he said. The CM and Vidhan Sabha speaker also released a book ‘Bharatiya Sanskriti Ka Vishwa Mein Prasar’ on the occasion. Special guest Mahant Suresh Das of Digambar Akhada, Ayodhya, started his speech with ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan and said, “Education and health both are important for development. We became slaves because we were not educated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-pms-leadership-changed-global-perception-about-india/articleshow/79669769.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Woman dies in accident at Verna||VASCO: A 39-year-old woman from Curchorem died on the spot in a road accident at Verna, after the car she was driving crashed into a parked trailer truck on NH 17A. Verna police said that two other occupants, who were also in the car, are undergoing treatment. Police said that around 4am on Thursday, Diksha Damodar Naik was driving from Panaji towards Margao. When she reached near the Verna Industrial Estate, her vehicle collided with the truck. Naik died on the spot. The two other occupants were shifted to GMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-dies-in-accident/articleshow/79669784.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Are poisonous contaminants in fish, veggies cause of ailment?||HYDERABAD: Available laboratory data points towards vegetables and fish as the possible source of poisonous contaminants in the samples of patients suffering from what has come to be known as Eluru ‘mystery’ disease. Pollutants in milk and other dairy products too may have contributed to the development of acute symptoms in over 500 people in Eluru town on December 6. A scientific analysis of the laboratory reports and data on water and air pollution released by the state government makes it amply clear that water and air samples did not contain heavy metals. Those consuming bottled water and people in villages, where municipal tap water is not served, are also affected. Official data showed high levels of lead and nickel in some of the blood samples. If water and air are not the source of lead, nickel, or heavy metal poisoning, then contaminants must have entered the bloodstream of patients through food, say researchers. Vegetables, particularly leafy ones, and fish are known to gather heavy metals and pesticides from the earth through a process called bioaccumulation. A number of research studies have revealed the presence of heavy metals and pesticides in vegetables, fruits, and leafy vegetables like Gongura (Hibiscus sabdariffa) and Thotakura (Amaranthus), both local delicacies. Similarly, researchers had also found heavy metals and pesticide residues in fish collected from Krishna and Godavari delta. In this backdrop, the report of the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), which collected vegetable samples, will hold the key to solving the mystery. The government statement referring to mass convulsions in patients clarified there was subsequent decrease of lead content in the blood after the patients were admitted. “This indicates this is a case of acute exposure and not chronic exposure. This basically means that at this point in time it seems like a one-time spurt,” it said. If what the government said is true, then the sudden surge in heavy metal or pesticide contaminants must have been through food, particularly vegetables. That particular stock of vegetables must have been highly contaminated unlike previous stocks, health experts point out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/are-poisonous-contaminants-in-fish-veggies-cause-of-ailment/articleshow/79667437.cms||Syed Akbar
December 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM's additional secretary Raveendran urges ED to defer quizzing||KOCHI: Additional private secretary to the chief minister CM Raveendran on Thursday filed a request to the Enforcement Directorate through his lawyer seeking to adjourn the interrogation for which he was supposed to appear at the agency’s Kochi office on Thursday. According to sources, Raveendran has attached medical documents to back his claim of being physically unfit to appear for questioning. ED sources confirmed that they received the letter on Thursday. Official sources said that the agency would now wait for the individual to be physically fit before serving another summons for questioning. The ED team probing the money laundering aspect of the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case had served him summons notice last Friday asking him to appear on December 10. Raveendran who had skipped the interrogation twice before due to Covid and other health issues had reportedly got admitted to hospital again on Tuesday. His hospitalization for the third time had kicked up a storm in the state with the opposition terming it an attempt to hide from the probe agencies even as Left leaders offered him support. When ED summoned him for the first time in the first week of November, Raveendran couldn’t appear before the agency as he tested positive for Covid-19. After he underwent treatment, ED summoned him again in the last week of November after the agency received information that he had recovered from Covid. However, Raveendran again got admitted at a hospital due to some health issues and he couldn’t appear for questioning. ED had recently conducted an inquiry into Raveendran’s assets and investments in various cities. ED had also sought information from the state registration department on immovable assets owned by Raveendran and his family members. ED sources said that he was being summoned based on statements they received from witnesses and accused. A key accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh had given a statement to the agency that Raveendran used to contact her occasionally for matters like visa stamping and certificate attestation. ED has earlier sought details of major projects of the state government, including LIFE Mission and KFON.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-cms-additional-secretary-raveendran-urges-ed-to-defer-quizzing/articleshow/79667430.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Income tax search at firm’s offices||Hyderabad: Income Tax Department on Thursday conducted searches at Axis Energy group of companies in order to investigate alleged tax evasion. Searches were conducted at 20 locations in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Axis group is into wind and other renewable energy production and is headquartered at Somajiguda in the city. Axis Energy Ventures India Private Limited is a flagship company of Axis Energy Group. Searches were conducted in Hyderabad, Anantapur and Kurnool. Sources in the Income Tax department said that the investigation is regarding alleged bogus expenditure. IT sleuths seized incriminating documents at several places. Axis Wind Farms (Rayalaseema) Private Limited, Axis Electric Mobility, Axis Renewable Energy Private Limited, Axis Wing Farms (Anantapur) Private Limited are some of associate firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/income-tax-search-at-firms-offices/articleshow/79668789.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||Patna zoo to get a modern makeover||PATNA: The Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park is among 15 zoos selected across the country by the Central Zoo Authority of India for a modern makeover matching global standards. Altogether 15 out of 152 zoos in the country have been picked for the upgrade. The CZA has engaged global consultancy firm Earnest and Young to prepare a 10-year vision plan for the 15 zoos shortlisted for modernisation. “Good progress in developing a 10-year Vision Plan for the up-gradation of 15 select zoos in the country to global standards. It is hoped to ‘twin’ top Indian and foreign zoos and also brings in the corporate sector to invest in modernization as part of this project (sic),” Union environment and forests minister Prakash Javadekar had posted on Twitter on December 6. Amit Kumar, the Patna zoo director, said the consultancy will prepare a report in which probable projects would be enlisted after consultation with zoo officials and CZA committee members. “An online survey of zoos across India is also taking place based on visitor review through questionnaire and data regarding ticket facilities, visitor amenities, transportation facilities, ambience among others. This report will give a suggestive view of zoo facilities as per global standards,” he said. Initially, 10 zoos were selected for the modernisation of campus in October. Later on, five more zoos added to the list including the one in Patna. Dipak Kumar Singh, the state environment, forest and climate change additional chief secretary, said the objective behind the project is to provide better facilities in the zoo for education and research, animal welfare, conservation breeding, technology advancement regarding biodiversity protection and awareness. “Each selected zoo will give three vision plans selected as per the time-cost-impact analysis conforming to the management plan of the zoo in consultation of CZA. After the selection, each zoo will sign a memorandum of understanding with an international zoo, excellent in particular management practices to accomplish the vision plan. These modern zoos of global standards will provide technical guidance and support to our zoo,” Singh said. There is a time frame of 6 to 12 months for the completion of the vision plan specific to each zoo. Patna zoo is known for its successful rhino breeding. It houses about 1,100 inmates from 93 species of animals and is also rich in flora. On average, 2.5 million people visit the park annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-zoo-to-get-a-modern-makeover/articleshow/79650319.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||How hunger gripped Gujarat post lockdown||Ahmedabad: To track the hunger situation among the vulnerable and marginalized communities in context of the Covid-19 pandemic, Anna Suraksha Adhikar Abhiyan, Gujarat, conducted a ‘Hunger Watch’ Survey launched by National Right to Food Campaign in September and October. In Gujarat, the survey was conducted in nine districts including Ahmedabad, Anand, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Dahod, Morbi, Narmada, Panchmahals and Vadodara. Responses were collected from 403 households which fall under the most backward communities in both rural and urban regions of the state. Commenting on the findings of the report, Sebastian Morris, professor, Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad, said, “The situation clearly reflects the poverty in Gujarat and this will further increase the turnaround time in reviving demand, as a significant population is struggling to meet basic needs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/how-hunger-gripped-gujarat-post-lockdown/articleshow/79668898.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||Fog grounds flights, flyers left in lurch at Patna airport||PATNA: The grounding of flights, cancellations and delays of more than 14 hours created a chaotic situation at the Patna airport on Tuesday evening, which continued till Wednesday afternoon. More than 300 passengers were forced to spend the night at the city airport without any food and lodging arrangement provided by the airlines. Due to long delays owing to poor visibility in the city, the Patna airport looked like a railway station or bus stand with people sleeping on the floor. Low visibility due to dense fog had brought flight operations at the Patna airport to a grinding halt on Tuesday evening with four flights — two of SpiceJet for Chennai (SG- 798) and Kolkata (SG- 3508), and one each of GoAir and Indigo for Delhi- G8- 134 and 6E- 2724 failing to take-off due to poor visibility. The visibility plunged to a low of 100m at 11 pm on Tuesday. “The minimum required runway visual range (RVR) visibility for landing was achieved at 12.15 pm on Wednesday,” the Patna Meteorological Centre said. The AAI officials at Patna airport said the first flight of SpiceJet’s Guwahati- Patna (SG- 3724) landed at city airport at 12.30 pm on Wednesday and the first departure took place at 1.10 pm. Patna airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said most of the incoming and outgoing morning aircraft have operated with delay. “Two flights- each of SpiceJet and GoAir have been diverted to Varanasi due to poor visibility in Patna, however, both the flights landed at city airport when the situation got normal,” he said. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the airport as passengers of the delayed flights created a ruckus at the airport. When Vinod Kumar (36) along with his wife and five- year- old son reached Patna airport after covering the 150-km long journey from Rohtas, little did he know that his trip to Delhi would turn into an ordeal. The family spent the night awake at the airport. “Around 11.30 pm, the airlines informed us that the flight has been scheduled for December 9 after we already spent two- and- half hours at the airport. There were so many people with small kids and senior citizens, people with health ailments, but none of the airport staff bothered to respond to our repeated request to reopen the cafeteria or provide accommodation. There were no shops, no vehicles plying on airport road. We were treated like some kind of animal,” Vinod said. He added, “From midnight till morning, there was not a single staff at the airport. We were left on our own. The situation turned pathetic with more passengers coming in to board the flight in the morning.” Sandeep Jalebar, who hails from Begusarai also experienced a similar situation after his flight to Chennai was rescheduled for Wednesday. “The pilots were keeping telling that the weather is improving. Several passengers slept in the plane and when they woke up they thought they reached Chennai. The airline staff deplaned the passengers around 11.15 pm saying that the flight cannot take off,” he said. Suyash Kumar, a bank employee, travelling to Mumbai said, “They don’t even have the courtesy of announcing the exact status flight as several passengers with small kids and senior citizen were waiting since last night for their flight.” Several irate passengers took to social media to voice their anger about the hardships being faced due to long delays and cancellations. Some complained that the airlines didn’t provide any update on their flights. Ankita Thakur, wrote on Twitter: “People waiting from last night did not even get any food for the whole night. Flights were cancelled and delayed, but no representative of yours available at boarding desk (sic).” Prakash Singh tweeted: “My father is stuck in Patna airport for nearly 20 hours now…If you can’t provide a flight at least cancel the flight so that further can be planned (sic).” Several passengers missed their connecting flight due to delays owing to poor visibility in Patna. Shivani Sinha, who works in the corporate sector, wrote on Twitter: “Delayed departure of SG- 8722 from Patna. My mom missed connecting flight to Udaipur, and now you can’t even offer another flight today? Is she supposed to spend the night at Delhi Airport?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-grounds-flights-flyers-left-in-lurch-at-patna-airport/articleshow/79650266.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 11, 2020||Patna||Crackdown on notorious criminals, Nitish tells cops||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday expressed concern over involvement of youngsters in criminal activities and asked senior police officers to deal with them with “sensitivity” as well as “harsh action”. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the law and order situation in the state, the second one in last two weeks, Nitish said there has been a growing tendency among some youths to indulge in criminal activities. The CM also asked police officers to initiate stern action against professional criminals. “There is a need to instil fear among notorious criminals. Identity the police stations where the number of criminal incidents has gone up, conduct reviews on a regular basis and take action against the officers found to be lax,” the CM told the police officers. He also stressed on the need for use of modern technology in investigation of criminal cases. During the five-hour long meeting, the CM directed the police officers to intensify patrolling during night. He said two GPS-fitted vehicles should be provided to each police station for carrying out proper patrolling. He also asked the officers to strengthen the on-foot patrolling. The CM asked the officers to identify the police stations where crimes are taking place at regular intervals during festivals. He said the rate of conviction through speedy trial should also be increased. The CM said there should be proper coordination between investigation and prosecution. The issue of traffic jam at various places in the state was also discussed at the meeting. The CM directed the officers to sort out the problem at the earliest. He told the officers to deal sternly with overloaded vehicles. Earlier, ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar apprised the CM of the action initiated against the police personnel for their lapses in crime control. He also presented detailed information about the measures taken by the police headquarters to maintain law and order in the state. Director general (special branch) J S Gangwar talked about the initiative taken against those involved in cybercrimes. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani and DGP S K Singh also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crack-down-on-notorious-criminals-nitish-tells-cops/articleshow/79650094.cms||Ramashankar
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rivals Congress, BJP join hands to elect zila pramukh||UDAIPUR/JAIPUR: In a surprising development, arch rivals BJP and Congress joined hands to elect a candidate of the saffron party, Surya Ahari, as the zila pramukh of Dungarpur on Thursday. In the 27 zila parishad seats in Dungarpur, 13 independent candidates supported by the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) had emerged victorious, while the BJP and the Congress had won eight and six seats, respectively. Since BTP does not have an MP, it cannot field candidates for local body polls and put them up as independents. Though speculations were high that the BTP would manage to constitute the board with the help of a single vote from Congress, things took a surprising turn on Thursday afternoon. Read AlsoCongress in shock as BJP sweeps Panchayat and Zila Parishad polls in RajasthanIn a major shock to the ruling Congress in Rajasthan, the opposition BJP swept 1,989 seats in the recently-held panchayat samiti elections while the Congress was limited to 1,852 seats.Things took a surprising turn on Thursday afternoon when local Congress leaders decided to join hands with the BJP to elect Ahari as zila pramukh. Read AlsoBJP upbeat over Rajasthan local bodies election results, says West Bengal nextThe BJP is upbeat over the results of the Rajasthan panchayat samiti and zila parishad election. Coming close on the heels of major gains in the recent Bihar assembly elections and the Hyderabad civic body polls, the Rajasthan panchayat samiti and zila parishad poll results are expected to come as aAhari received 14 votes of the BJP-Congress combine, while BTP-supported Parvati Devi polled only 13 votes. The 'alliance' came as a shock for Congress leaders who said they were neither consulted nor informed of any such move. The BJP though said there was nothing 'unusual' about it. The 'alliance' is likely to pose a threat to the state government as the BTP had supported chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the Rajya Sabha polls and stood with his camp during the recent political crisis. Angered by the move, BTP has called off all ties with the Congress. Read AlsoBig blow for Congress in Rajasthan as BJP sweeps local body pollsJAIPUR: In a major upset for Congress, BJP relegated the former to the second position in the Rajasthan local body elections by winning many more seats in both panchayat samitis and zila parishads than the governing party. BJP won 1,989 seats in the panchayat samiti elections while Congress couldObservers said the 'alliance' between arch rivals was simply an attempt to keep BTP away from the political sphere. In recent times, BTP had managed to consolidate its position in south Rajasthan and its increasing popularity, especially among youth, had become a matter of concern for leaders of national parties here. So far, both the national parties have had their say in the tribal region and the entry of BTP in the electoral space has damaged them in all polls held after the state assembly polls in December 2018. In the rest of the district, BJP managed to get their candidates elected as pradhans in Sagwara, Galiyakot, Aaspur and Simalwara panchayat samitis, while BTP bagged four - Sabla, Chikhli, Jhontri and Dogda samitis. Congress had to be satisfied with two pradhans in Dungarpur and Bichhiwada panchayat samitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rivals-congress-bjp-join-hands-to-elect-dungarpur-pramukh/articleshow/79669840.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nitin Gadkari opens three of six new Koilwar bridge lanes||PATNA/ARA: Union minister for surface transport Nitin Gadkari on Thursday inaugurated three lanes of the newly-built Koilwar bridge on river Sone through video conference on Thursday. Addressing the virtual meet, Gadkari assured that the bridge will be named after famous mathematician from the state, Vashishtha Narayan Singh, and announced that three more lanes would be ready by May 2021. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who presided over the function, thanked the Union minister for road transport and highways for the new bridge, which he said will provide relief to commuters. Nitish said people were using the 158-year-old rail-cum-road bridge so far and because of the increase in the number of vehicles there used to be frequent traffic jams. He also thanked Gadkari for accepting several proposals made by the state government, including Danapur-Bihta elevated road and connectivity of Bihar to Poorvanchal expressway. He said the work on Bihta airport is on and this elevated road will provide easy accessibility to the airport. The 1.5 km-long bridge has been built for Rs 266 crore and is parallel to the 138-year-old rail-cum-road bridge constructed during the British era. Gadkari also made several other announcements and said the ministry approved various suggestions made by the chief minister and other public representatives. “Honourable CM and Rajiv Pratap Rudy had suggested connectivity of Bihar to Poorvanchal Expressway. For this, a four-lane elevated road from Bharauli in Buxar to Haidaria will be constructed. This elevated link road will be 17km long and its DPR will be ready by June next year,” the Union minister said. He said, as per the suggestions made by RK Singh, a new alignment had been prepared for the Sasaram-Ara-Patna greenfield. The ministry has also approved the widening of 70km Mokama-Munger road and its DPR will be ready by April next. The proposal of the four-laning of Khagaria-Purnia road (NH-31) has also been approved and its DPR will be ready by next April. The four-laning of Muzaffarpur-Sitamarhi-Sonewarsha road (NH-77), which is part of Ramjanki Marg, will simplify the travel to Jakanpur Dham (Nepal) and its DPR will be ready by May next year. He said the 7km four-lane Kosi bridge worth Rs 1,478 crore is likely to be completed by 2023 and tender for a 4 km long Vikramshila bridge has been awarded and the construction will be completed in 2024. The tender for six km Sahibganj bridge connecting Bihar and Jharkhand has been issued and the construction work is scheduled to be completed by September 2024. He further said the work on the remaining two-lane bridge in Patna would be completed by next year and a sum of Rs 1742 crore was being spent on reconstruction of this 5.5 km. bridge. He also announced a new four-lane bridge over Ganga near the existing bridge in Patna which will be 5km long for which an agreement was signed in this October and added, “This will be a unique bridge with 242-metre span facilitating the movement of large ships under it.” Gadkari even requested CM Nitish to expedite the process of land acquisition saying there was no dearth of money for roads and bridges. He said road projects worth Rs 30,000 crore were going on in Bihar. The CM later said the state government was providing land for free. He then added that because of various developments in the state, including laying of road networks, aspiration of people has increased and even the price of land has gone up. Nitish said there are several occasions when the state government also gives some compensation amount to the farmers when they are not satisfied. “I request that the centre should be liberal while fixing land acquisition rate.” Nitish said while the centre was spending Rs 50,000 for construction of roads and bridges in Bihar, the state government had also spent over Rs 54000 crore on national highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gadkari-opens-three-of-six-new-koilwar-bridge-lanes/articleshow/79667235.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Notice to Haryana on cadre post appointments||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea challenging the state government’s decision to appoint non-IAS or non-HCS officers on cadre posts of IAS or state civil services officers. “Counsel for the petitioner submits that non-state civil service officers are being posted on the post meant for the HCS (executive branch) as specified under the cadre rules. This is in violation of the rules framed by the state government itself,” observed Justice Rajbir Sehrawat while issuing notice to the state seeking reply by January 22. The matter has reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Haryana Civil Service (executive branch) Officers Association through its president Vandana Disodia, alleging that the “state’s decision operates to abrogate the secretarial and administrative control of officers of the civil services”. The main grouse of the petitioner’s is that without application of mind, members of various other services including the IPS, IFS, IRS, Haryana Police Service and executive engineers, senior lectures/principals in service of the state government are being posted as executive and administrative officers on posts strictly meant to be occupied by members of IAS and HCS (executive branch) officers. It has been argued that posting of such officers against the cadre posts meant for IAS, HCS (executive branch) is greatly prejudicial to the interests of the state civil service as the functions and status of the service is being deteriorated. It has also been contended that the posting of other services officers is prejudicial to the prospects of the members of the IAS and HCS as well as to the interest of good administration. “Posting individuals from other services as superior officers to members of HCS (executive) is arbitrary as it ignores this operational structure, hierarchy and destroys the administrative control and risks complete failure of the system,” the petitioner association has argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notice-to-hry-on-cadre-post-appointments/articleshow/79668807.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Mumbai||Post-vax effect: Heart, chest doctors on panels||MUMBAI: District-level committees that review adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been asked by the health department to add cardiologists and respiratory medicine specialists to their existing experts’ pool. AEFI committees exist at the district, state and national levels to review serious and mild adverse reactions post immunisation. Till now, they included an epidemiologist, a paediatrician, a microbiologist, a neurologist, a physician, a cold chain officer and representatives from WHO. “It is for the first time that millions of adults, including many with co-morbidities, will be vaccinated. Hence, the Centre had asked states for expansion of AEFI committees,” said Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer, adding the primary mandate would be to address complications arising post vaccination that may not be necessarily linked to it. Workshops underway to sensitize med officers to vaccination’s adverse effectsThe Centre has also asked the states to boost the stocks of kits for management of anaphylaxis, a severe allergic reaction, and for basic treatment of adverse effects. The states have also been asked to identify a medical college as the State AEFI Technical Collaborating Centre. Dr Patil said that workshops to sensitize medical officers and health workers on AEFI reporting following adult vaccinations are being carried out. Such cases are likely to be discussed during monthly or weekly review meetings. According to the existing definitions, fever, swelling at the injection site and irritability are all classified as minor adverse effects, whereas pain and swelling which spreads beyond the nearest joint or high-grade fever come in the category of severe adverse effects. Serious AEFIs are those that require hospitalization or lead to death or disability. A senior doctor, though, said mentioning strokes and heart attacks as adverse events was being discussed too. Preliminary figures show an estimated one crore healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the first round, followed by roughly two crore frontline workers. The third category will be of general public aged above 50 years and those below 50 with comorbidities. Vaccination expert Dr Naveen Thacker, who was a former civil society member of the GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, called inclusion of more experts a welcome step. “India has a robust AEFI system due to the universal immunisation programme. However, adult vaccination at this scale would be completely new. The role of the specialist could be more of managing any health complications arising after vaccination and not necessarily due to vaccination,” he said. A national committee usually decides on the causality of such cases based on information provided by the local committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/post-vax-effect-heart-chest-docs-on-panels/articleshow/79671020.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Development projects worth Rs 254 crore in progress: Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||CHANDIGARH: Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Thursday that development and expansion projects worth Rs 254 crore are in progress in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali and Patiala milk dairies. Besides, Punjab government and Nabard assisted mega dairy project at Bassi Pathana, with a total outlay of Rs 138 crore, is likely to be completed by June next year. The minister also revealed that recruitments to 125 posts have been made at deputy manager, assistant manager and senior executive level and Milkfed will start recruitments to fill 540 technical posts soon. Randhawa gave the information while handing out appointment letters to 11 fresh recruits in the field of production, quality control and procurement against the post of assistant manager. Randhawa said recruitments have been made through campus interviews at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu), Ludhiana. These officers will be on two year’s in-service training and then appointed as assistant manager in their respective streams. The minister also launched four variants of Verka natural fruit ice creams on the occasion. On the occasion, registrar cooperative societies Vikas Garg said Markfed’s Sohna honey had figured among the three brands that passed the stringent quality control measures of the Centre for Science and Environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/development-projects-worth-rs-254cr-in-progress-minister/articleshow/79668812.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Eluru mystery illness: Focus on high chemical input use||AMARAVATI: In the aftermath of the mysterious illness that gripped Eluru, the issue of intensive usage of fertilizers and pesticides by farmers in the state has once again come to the fore. Andhra Pradesh is one of the biggest consumers of fertilizers and pesticides in the country, with farmers in Guntur, Kurnool, Krishna and the Godavari districts spraying crops with high quantities of fertilizers with an eye on yield. Usage of chemical pesticides and fertilizers in the state is nearly 150 per cent more than the national average and almost 100 per cent higher than the recommended dosage. Further, an abundance of irrigation canals and drinking water supply channels makes it easy for pollutants and run-off from agricultural fields to reach water filtration plants and contaminate drinking water sources. Repeated appeals by the government to bring down usage of chemicals have had little impact with farmers increasing the quantity of chemical inputs each year. Aggressive marketing strategies adopted by chemical pesticide firms is also pushing farmers to purchase higher quantities. “It is high time that we switch the farming sector over to organic cultivation as the high usage of chemical pesticides and fertilizers is actually producing poisonous produce and causing huge damage to the public health,” said Padma Shri awardee farmer and activist Yadlapalli Venkateswara Rao. The fight against chemical pesticides has been going on for the past few years, he added, but convincing farmers to switch to organic farming is not easy. “About 70-80 per cent of our farmers are tenant cultivators who are more worried about saving the crop and getting more yields to recover their costs. Conservation of soil health is not their headache because they are not sure that they will return to cultivation next season,” analysed agricultural scientist Dr Praveen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mystery-illness-focus-on-high-chemical-input-use/articleshow/79667462.cms||Samdani MN
December 11, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Rivals Congress, BJP join hands to elect zila pramukh||UDAIPUR/JAIPUR: In a surprising development, arch rivals BJP and Congress joined hands to elect a candidate of the saffron party, Surya Ahari, as the zila pramukh of Dungarpur on Thursday. In the 27 zila parishad seats in Dungarpur, 13 independent candidates supported by the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) had emerged victorious, while the BJP and the Congress had won eight and six seats, respectively. Since BTP does not have an MP, it cannot field candidates for local body polls and put them up as independents. Though speculations were high that the BTP would manage to constitute the board with the help of a single vote from Congress, things took a surprising turn on Thursday afternoon. Read AlsoCongress in shock as BJP sweeps Panchayat and Zila Parishad polls in RajasthanIn a major shock to the ruling Congress in Rajasthan, the opposition BJP swept 1,989 seats in the recently-held panchayat samiti elections while the Congress was limited to 1,852 seats.Things took a surprising turn on Thursday afternoon when local Congress leaders decided to join hands with the BJP to elect Ahari as zila pramukh. Read AlsoBJP upbeat over Rajasthan local bodies election results, says West Bengal nextThe BJP is upbeat over the results of the Rajasthan panchayat samiti and zila parishad election. Coming close on the heels of major gains in the recent Bihar assembly elections and the Hyderabad civic body polls, the Rajasthan panchayat samiti and zila parishad poll results are expected to come as aAhari received 14 votes of the BJP-Congress combine, while BTP-supported Parvati Devi polled only 13 votes. The 'alliance' came as a shock for Congress leaders who said they were neither consulted nor informed of any such move. The BJP though said there was nothing 'unusual' about it. The 'alliance' is likely to pose a threat to the state government as the BTP had supported chief minister Ashok Gehlot during the Rajya Sabha polls and stood with his camp during the recent political crisis. Angered by the move, BTP has called off all ties with the Congress. Read AlsoBig blow for Congress in Rajasthan as BJP sweeps local body pollsJAIPUR: In a major upset for Congress, BJP relegated the former to the second position in the Rajasthan local body elections by winning many more seats in both panchayat samitis and zila parishads than the governing party. BJP won 1,989 seats in the panchayat samiti elections while Congress couldObservers said the 'alliance' between arch rivals was simply an attempt to keep BTP away from the political sphere. In recent times, BTP had managed to consolidate its position in south Rajasthan and its increasing popularity, especially among youth, had become a matter of concern for leaders of national parties here. So far, both the national parties have had their say in the tribal region and the entry of BTP in the electoral space has damaged them in all polls held after the state assembly polls in December 2018. In the rest of the district, BJP managed to get their candidates elected as pradhans in Sagwara, Galiyakot, Aaspur and Simalwara panchayat samitis, while BTP bagged four - Sabla, Chikhli, Jhontri and Dogda samitis. Congress had to be satisfied with two pradhans in Dungarpur and Bichhiwada panchayat samitis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rivals-congress-bjp-join-hands-to-elect-dungarpur-pramukh/articleshow/79673473.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Trial in Sister Abhaya case concludes; verdict on December 22||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CBI special court will deliver its verdict in the Sister Abhaya murder case on Dec 22. The trial in the case concluded on Thursday with the prosecution’s reply arguments. Judge K Sanil Kumar posted the case for verdict on December 22. The final argument in the case began on Nov 18 and continued till Thursday. Prosecution’s arguments were based on the statements of witnesses Adakka Raju and Kalarkode Venugopalan and also on the medical reports that had found injuries on the head of Sr Abhaya that were ‘not inflicted by a fall into the well’. Prosecution’s effort to present the narco-analysis report as evidence didn’t succeed as the accused got an order from the high court asserting that the report is not an admissible evidence. The court also didn’t allow to examine doctors who had performed narco-analysis as witnesses. While arguing against the prosecution’s findings, B Raman Pillai, counsel for Thomas Kottoor, stressed that the prosecution had cooked up a tale and Kottoor became an accused as per that story only. The counsel argued that the statements of the witnesses against Kottoor were unreliable, doubtful and hence couldn’t be accepted as evidence. J Jose, the counsel for Sr Sephy, argued that the case was a suicide. Jose — who had argued for five days in defence of his counsel — died in Kochi last Saturday, two days after concluding the arguments. On Thursday, the court asked CBI counsel whether they planned to prosecute witness Sanju P Mathew who turned hostile despite submitting a sworn statement before the magistrate. Counsel M Navas said CBI would file a petition in that regard soon. The trial in the 28-year old case in which Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sr Sephy are the accused began in CBI special court on Aug 26, this year. During examination of witnesses, a few prosecution witnesses turned hostile by contradicting their original statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/trial-in-sister-abhaya-case-concludes-verdict-on-dec-22/articleshow/79667459.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy launches Jagananna Jeeva Kranthi to boost rural economy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the government has set its focus on helping farmers increase revenue through cattle and sheep rearing and agricultural allied activities, including poultry. It will not be possible to revive the rural economy without backing farmers, the chief minister said. The chief minister on Thursday virtually launched Jagananna Jeeva Kranthi scheme, under which 2.49 lakh sheep and goats will be distributed to women in a phased manner. The government is spending close to Rs 1,869 crore on the scheme. To ensure better livelihood of women by providing them a stable source of income, Hon'ble CM @ysjagan has launched… https://t.co/9nvEz7HhOK— CMO Andhra Pradesh (@AndhraPradeshCM) 1607592954000Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister said the scheme is aimed at raising living standards of the rural poor, particularly women. “This scheme is one that is close to my heart as it gives direct benefit to the rural poor from economically backward sections,” said Jagan. The chief minister said the government has signed MoUs with Reliance, Allana Group, Amul, HUL, Procter & Gamble and ITC to empower women beneficiaries of YSR Cheyutha and Aasara schemes. “The main objective of partnerships is to provide more business opportunities and bring self-reliance among women,” said Jagan, adding that Allana Group would buy meat from sheep and goat farmers at better prices. However, farmers would be free to sell their stock if they get a better price. Allana Group is setting up meat processing units in East Godavari and Kurnool districts, the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-launches-jagananna-jeeva-kranthi-to-boost-rural-economy/articleshow/79667474.cms||Samdani MN
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Electoral spirit wins in grama panchayats||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If Covid scare and errors in voters’ lists pulled down the polling percentage in urban wards, none really mattered in grama panchayats in the district. The fact that only in four panchayats’ voter turnout went below 70% shows how well the electors in grama panchayats took part in the elections. Even among these panchayats, exceptional voter turnout was recorded in a few panchayats. While Perumkadavila panchayat took the lead with 81.54%, six panchayats in the district recorded close to 80%; Kottukal, Kunnathukal, Kallikad, Aryamcode, Athiyannur and Kulathur. While Kottukal recorded 79.15%, Kulathur polled 78.25% and the other panchayats saw 77% voter turnout. There were around six wards in Kottukal panchayat which recorded polling percentage of 80 and above. Perumkadavila panchayat with 16 wards has over 20,000 voters. Since the draft list was published in January 2020, the field staff and office team worked together to process over 700 new additions and 116 names were eliminated from the list. “We deployed field-level teams for close scrutiny of voters’ list and despite the challenges posed by Covid-19, field-level verification was never compromised. A flawless voters’ list enabled candidates and parties to reach out to voters easily,” said Krishnakumar, panchayat secretary and assistant returning officer, Perumkadavila panchayat. Wards like Anamugham, Aruvikkara in Perumkadavila panchayat had added 83 and 75 new voters respectively. All the other wards recorded an average addition of 20-30 new voters. Kottukal panchayat had made use of 38 Asha workers, 19 facilitators and 10 clerical staff to complete the final voters’ list. Panchayat secretary A O Aju said that it was a strenuous work filtering the voters’ list and that it was made possible through a combination of political support and administrative efficiency. Former panchayat members said that unlike in urban wards, familiarity and access are two key features that determine presence of a voter in polling booths in grama panchayats. “Many of the candidates would be known to people in their locale. When parties begin to prepare for elections, they would know whom to add and whom to eliminate and this knowledge would be far deeper than in urban areas. Knowledge of new voters helps in preparation of an updated voters’ list and people are generally drawn towards polling booths in panchayats,” said Thressiamma Antony, deputy director, panchayats, Thiruvananthapuram, and a former panchayat president. While sure presence of names in voters’ roll guaranteed casting of votes in booths, real time update about availability of a voter at booth level will also increase polling percentage. “Due to lesser number of electors per booth, parties maintain a live update on how many are available for voting. If at all somebody fails to make it to booths by noon, a team would make sure that the voter casts ballot at least by evening,” said a former panchayat member. Covid was hardly a concern in panchayats, going by the poll percentage. Some of the panchayats, which had been badly hit by Covid-19, like Anchuthengu, also recorded 75% voter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/electoral-spirit-wins-in-grama-panchayats/articleshow/79668842.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Nine infantsdie in 24hrs at Kota hosp||Kota: Nine infants, one to four days old, died in a span of 24 hours at the city's JK Lon Hospital. While five of them died in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, the other four died on Thursday. Following the tragedy, the Kota district administration swung into action and deputed six more doctors and 10 nursing staff at the hospital for night duty to monitor the situation. The hospital had hit national headlines last December also after the deaths of an unusual number of infants. However, hospital superintendent Dr Suresh Dulara claimed that the deaths were natural and not unusual or due to any severe infection. While three of the infants were brought dead during the night, three others had congenital issues. One of them had an undeveloped head, another enlarged brain and a third had a condition called hydrocephalous or brain filled with water. Two other infants, who were referred, had septic shock and another suffered from abnormal growth, Dr Dulara said. The deaths are not unusual and the paediatric medicine department at the hospital have treated them as normal, he claimed. Kota divisional commissioner K C Meena and district collector Ujjawal Rathore visited the hospital in the evening and took stock of the situation. A meeting was later called by them which was attended Kota Medical College principal Dr Vijay Sardana, JK Lon Hospital head of the paediatrics depatrtment Dr B L Bairwa and superintendent Dr Dulara. Other than deploying extra staff, medical authorities were directed to train new mothers in the ward on feeding and caring for newborns. In December 2019, at least 91 infants died in a month at JK Lon Hospital, triggering national concern and political turmoil in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nine-infantsdie-in-24hrs-at-kota-hosp/articleshow/79669863.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Maha Medical Council doctors to keep non-emergency services shut||NAGPUR: About 1.10 lakh doctors registered with the Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC), including 45,000 from 219 branches of Indian Medical Association (IMA) in Maharashtra, will take part in the nationwide strike call given by the IMA on Friday. Non-emergency services at all clinics, dispensaries and OPDs will remain closed from 6am to 6pm. About 15,000 students studying MBBS from 36 government and private medical colleges in Maharashtra will actively participate in the strike on behalf of IMA’s wing of Medical Students Network (MSN). Doctors are protesting the notification published in the gazette of the Government of India on November 20 by Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), the body that regulates ayurveda education in the country. The notification allows ayurveda graduates with BAMS in postgraduate education to take training in 58 surgeries from modern medicine. IMA has strongly opposed this at the national level. “Most of these 58 surgeries are performed by super specialist surgeons. Many specifications in these subjects are not taught in BAMS curriculum of ayurveda. So, it would be disastrous for the patients if these surgeries are performed with half hazard knowledge,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA. “IMA is not against ayurveda. Our contention is mixing of different pathies will be detrimental to patients and ayurveda will not grow,” said Dr Sanjay Deshpande of IMA Maharashtra. “Instead of mixing the different branches of medicine and creating a superficial mixopathy, the government should promote research in each pathies in order to develop them and make them more useful and effective for the citizens,” said Dr Prashant Nikhade, former IMA Nagpur president. NIMA opposes strike National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA) has issued an official statement in which it has opposed the strike call given by the IMA. According to Dr Pankaj Bhoyar, secretary of NIMA Nagpur, ayurveda has detailed mention of surgery and Acharya Sushruta is considered as father of surgery even by modern medicine doctors. “We will keep our clinics and hospitals open and work wearing pink badges to welcome the CCIM notification,” he said adding that most RMOs and ICU staff in all private hospitals are ayurveda graduates and they will work defying the strike call. “Our doctors are serving in rural areas in large numbers and they will also work. The so-called strike won’t have any effect on health services,” said Dr NIMA coordinator Dr Mohan Yende. Chandrapur district unit president of NIMA, Dr Laxmikant Sarbare, claimed the organization has brought all unions and organizations working for AYUSH (ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homeopathy) on one platform to oppose the strike called by IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-medical-council-doctors-to-keep-non-emergency-services-shut/articleshow/79667501.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 11, 2020||Delhi||They don’t till the land, but are here to farm support||New Delhi: Though not a farmer like his father, Gurpreet is active in the farmers’ protest at Singhu in his own way. He exhibits his art works depicting stories of struggles and protests. “Mere paas zameen nahin hai, zameer hai (I don’t have land, but I have a conscience),” quipped 44-year-old Gurpreet near the main stage at site of the farmers’ protest at the border. He is not the only one from a generation that is no longer into farming but still fervent about the cause. Truck driver Sarabjit Singh also reached Singhu on Thursday night, while government school teacher Sukhwinder Singh has been at the protest site since November 26. On Friday, Gurpreet, a resident of Bathinda, put up his works on the shutters of the wine and beer shop at Singhu. His exhibition of drawings of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, political satires and humorous paintings depicting Diljit Dosanj and Kangana Ranaut attracted the protesters and 20 prints were snapped up in no time. “These are stories of those who are discriminated, with the government towering above them,” explained the artist. “Right now, just one section of the farmers has risen in protest. Imagine what would happen when farmers across India remonstrate. I paint stories of such struggles.” Gurpreet also recently joined Twitter to counter false narratives about the tillers’ protest. A few metres from the police barricades stood Sarabjit Singh’s colourful truck carrying both a large poster of an old farmer and the flag of Canada and Australia. Sarabjit explained, “My two brothers stay in Canada and Australia. They wanted to show their support even if they could not be here in person.” Sukhbir Singh, who is a small-time farmer, interjected to add, “Sarabjit gathered all of us from the village and drove us here to support the protesters.” Science teacher Sukhwinder Singh from Fatehpur hasn’t let the fact that he is not a farmer cloud his vision. Present at the protest for two weeks now, he said, “Though I may not be farming for a living, the new laws are going to affect us indirectly. We were required to stand up to the government, which passed the three black Acts consulting the farmers. That is why we have to stand shoulder to shoulder with the older farmers.” On Friday, even budding cricketers from Dharoki village from Patiala sat in protest to express solidarity with the older members of the community. Punjabi singer Nirvair Pannu also arrived at Singhu to support the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-dont-till-the-land-but-are-here-to-farm-support/articleshow/79686030.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM to discuss exams, school reopening on December 17||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government will discuss the school/college reopening schedule and conduct of examinations at a meeting that will be chaired by CM Pinarayi Vijayan on Dec 17. There were recommendations from general education department that the schools be opened for Class X and XII students by January first week. However, there was no confirmation whether it would be feasible to open schools, even partially, while the pandemic is lingering. According to sources, education minister C Raveendranath and higher education minister KT Jaleel and the secretaries of each department and director general of public education (DGE) will participate in the meeting. Decisions will be taken in consultation with health authorities. Since there is considerable delay in covering portions of various subjects, including Class X and XII, KITE has increased class timings. However, education department is yet to take a decision on whether syllabus for school/college classes should be whittled down or not. Such important decision, say sources in the government, would be made on the basis of school/college re-opening date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-to-discuss-exams-school-reopening-on-december-17/articleshow/79667490.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Water disruption to continue in Thiruvananthapuram till Sunday night||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The partial water supply disruption that the city started experiencing on Thursday will continue till Sunday night. While the water supply disruption on Thursday, Friday and Saturday is related to the annual cleaning work of overhead water tanks located at Observatory in the city, several regions will experience water shortage on Saturday and Sunday owing to the final stage of work of the newly-constructed 75MLD water treatment plant in Aruvikkara. According to Kerala Water Authority officials, the work is related to interconnecting pipes from the new plant to the existing 74MLD plant. Due to this, the 74MLD plant will not function for two days (Saturday and Sunday) resulting in partial disruption of water supply from 10am to 10pm on both days. On Saturday, regions under Thirumala, Karamana and Kuriathi sections of KWA will face water supply disruption. This include PTP Nagar, Maruthankuzhy, Kanjirampara, Pangode, Vattiyoorkavu, Nettayam, Moonnammoodu, Manalayam, Manikanteswaram, Kachani, Vazhottukonam, Mannarakonam, Melathumele, CPT, Thozhuvankodu, Arappura, Kodunganoor, Ilippode, Kundamankadavu, Kulashekharam, Thirumala, Valiyavila, Punnakkamugal, Thrikkannapuram, Kunnappuzha, Poojapura, Karamana, Mudavanmugal, Nedumcaud, Kaladi, Neeramankara, Karumam, Vellayani, Maruthoorkadavu, Melamcode, Mearannoor, Kaimanam, Killippalam, Pannamcode, Nemom, Attukal, Manacaud, Poonthura, Beemapalli, Vallakkadavu, Valiyathura and Muttathara. The regions that will face water supply disruption on Sunday are Vellayambalam, Sasthamangalam, V J Lane, Althara Nagar, Sreeragam Lane, Kurup’s Lane, Panickers’s Lane, Judge Lane, Janvilla, Madankovil Lane, RNP Lane, Kanaka Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Nanthencode and Bain’s Compound. Meanwhile, many other parts of the city will experience water supply disruption on Saturday owing to the ongoing annual cleaning of overhead water tanks. The regions that will be affected on Saturday include Museum, Barton Hill, Govt Law College, Varambasseri, Vadayakkad, Mulavana, Mulavana, Pottakuzhy, Gowreeshapattom, Kumarapuram, Kannammoola, Oruvathikotta, Venpalavattom, Karikkakom, Veli, Shangumugham and Thumba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/water-disruptionto-continue-in-citytill-sunday-night/articleshow/79668941.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||‘Surgery’ triggers allergic reaction between ayurveda, allopathic doctors||NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) has directed all its members to write their graduation degree i.e. MBBS in bold letters on their letterheads, prescriptions, publicity material, identity cards, name plates and boards henceforth. This decision was taken to differentiate them from PG ayurveda doctors, whose degrees in medicine and surgery too have the same abbreviations like MD and MS. However, ayurveda doctors have refuted the claim made by the allopathy doctors. “PG degree holders in ayurveda specifically mention ‘ayurveda’ while writing their names,” said Dr Mohan Yende, coordinator of the National Integrated Medical Association (Nima). According to him, a doctor who has PG degree in Shalya (Surgery) writes ‘MS (Ayurveda)’ and so there is no confusion or identity crisis. He also refuted the allegation that ayurveda doctors in rural areas don’t mention their stream before their names. Nima Nagpur president Dr Pankaj Bhoyar said ayurveda doctors have been performing surgeries since many years. The present notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) in fact restricts them to 58 surgeries. “There are 14 specialized courses in ayurveda and our doctors are performing surgeries since years. The CCIM notification in fact restricts us to 39 general surgery processes and 19 other processes involving ENT. The modern medicine doctors should welcome this notification as it is bringing clarity,” he said. Generally, specialist doctors of modern medicine mention only PG degree like MD (Medicine), MS (General Surgery) or their specialization, because the graduation degree of MBBS is understood even by patients. Now, they will write MBBS too. MMC vice president Dr Vinky Rughwani said the MMC supports demand of modern medicine practitioners. “We are in support of our members. They work hard for years to get perfection in one particular surgical field. Allowing non-MBBS doctors to perform important 58 surgeries is unacceptable,” he said. MMC has passed a resolution against the CCIM notification and appealed to the central government to withdraw the said notification. MMC has also asked its members not to visit ayurveda medical colleges and hospitals to perform surgeries henceforth. Doctors of modern medicine are up in arms against the notification by CCIM. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is going close OPDs and clinics on December 11. Now, subordinate bodies of modern medicines are also coming out in support of their members. “I don’t think this government will listen to the agitation and strikes. Going to Supreme Court and bringing stay on this notification will be the final option for us,” said veteran surgeon Dr Ashok Adhao, past national president of IMA and patron of IMA Maharashtra. Allopathy-AYUSH Tussle Intensifies - MMC passes resolution against CCIM notification that allows ayurveda PGs to perform surgeries - Also asked its members not to visit ayurveda medical colleges and hospitals to perform surgeries henceforth - Directs them to write their graduation degree ‘MBBS’ in bold to avoid identity crisis with surgeons with degrees in ayurveda stream||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/surgery-triggers-allergic-reaction-between-ayurveda-allopathic-docs/articleshow/79667523.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Several research bodies busy decoding the Eluru ‘mystery’||HYDERABAD: For the first time ever in Andhra Pradesh, about a dozen research bodies, labs and hospitals are involved in decoding the ‘mystery’ behind the acute symptoms including seizures in over 500 people in a span of four days in Eluru town of West Godavari district. The ‘disease’ that was first noticed on December 6 has since been named ‘Eluru mystery’ ailment in absence of proper scientific diagnosis. Though there have been instances of such ‘mystery’ ailments in AP in the past, this is the first time that about a dozen leading scientific institutions, laboratories and hospitals are involved. Earlier, the state reported similar cases of medical ‘enigma’ which, after thorough research, turned out to be that of yaws (in Agency areas of Visakhapatnam), acute flaccid paralysis (in Machilipatnam) and viral fever (in Vijayawada). The kidney disease at Uddanam in Srikakulam district is yet to be solved and continues to be one of the five places on earth where the exact cause of ailment is yet to be decoded. In the case of Eluru ailment, scientists and health experts are not ruling out any possible angle behind the sudden outbreak. Each leading research body has been handed over a specific task and only after all reports are analysed, health officials will come to a conclusion on what triggered the acute symptoms across social, sex and age groups. While the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi and Mangalagiri will look into the medical aspects, the National Institute of Nutrition will study nutritional angles. The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology will check for changes at the cellular or molecular level, while the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology will find out if there are any toxins behind the ailment. The National Institute for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation will look into epidemiological aspects and suggest measures to prevent recurrence. Local laboratories and hospitals too have analysed blood and water samples for chemical or biological contaminants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/several-research-bodies-busy-decoding-the-eluru-mystery/articleshow/79667503.cms||Syed Akbar
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||In Vijayawada, untreated waste released into Eluru canal||VIJAYAWADA: The Eluru canal, the major source of drinking water for residents of Eluru, is getting contaminated in Vijayawada with untreated water from side drains entering the canal for years. The Ryves, Bandar and Eluru canals pass through Vijayawada and are major sources of irrigation for the Krishna delta while also supplying drinking water to Gudivada, Machilipatnam, Kaikaluru and Eluru. However, civic apathy has led to dumping of waste, especially in Eluru canal which passes through Railway Station Junction, Hanumanpet, Ayodhyanagar, Madhuranagar and Gunadala. Farmer’s associations and residents of downstream villages who rely on the canals for drinking water have for years demanded the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation stop mixing drain water into canals. “Lakhs of people in Eluru, Gudivada, Machilipatnam drink water from the irrigation canals. These canals are filled with drain water. I have raised this issue several times and asked officials to construct sewage treatment plants. But there is no response,” said Yerneni Nagendranath, a farmers’ association leader. VMC authorities have said they will soon construct SWD plants on drains and release treated water into the canals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-vij-untreated-waste-released-into-eluru-canal/articleshow/79667557.cms||Venu Lanka
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||IAS conferred on 3 state officers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Centre has conferred IAS on three officers of the state civil service who are currently in the rank of deputy collectors. These include additional district magistrate (Thiruvananthapuram) V R Vinod, deputy collector (elections, Thiruvananthapuram) John V Samuel and deputy collector in housing board Shibu Abdul Majeed. Joining the state civil service as deputy collector in 2009, Vinod served as revenue divisional officer in Idukki, Adoor and Kollam. He has also served as additional district magistrate in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Thiruvananthapuram. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, before joining the state civil service as deputy collector, Vinod served as sub-inspector in CBI and in central excise. Presently, deputy collector (elections, Thiruvananthapuram) Samuel joined the government service in 1999 in the ground water department and served the revenue department in 2000. He was selected as deputy collector in 2009. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, Samuel also served as deputy collector in Kollam, Alappuzha, Idukki, Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram. Majeed, who is currently serving as deputy collector in Kerala State Housing Board (KSHB), also belongs to the 2009-batch of deputy collectors. He has served in the land board as assistant secretary and as deputy collectors in multiple districts. The total cadre strength of IAS in the state is 231, of which 161 officers are filled from directly-recruited IAS officers. While two-thirds are selected through direct recruitment, one third is from the state civil service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ias-conferred-on-3-state-officers/articleshow/79667554.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Amid protests, freshers queue up for jobs||New Delhi: A short distance from Singhu border, where farmers have been protesting against the new agri laws, a small portion of the otherwise deserted Kessel Grand mall has been constantly buzzing with activity. Aspirants have been making way to a placement office on the ground floor, which provides job opportunities to freshers free of cost, after trudging for a couple of hours due to lack of conveyance. Abhishek, an aspirant, walked for an hour from Narela taking several shortcuts to reach the office of TDS Placement Services Private Limited on Friday. Despite the effort, he could not qualify for a job at the warehouse of an e-commerce major. “I was employed earlier, but the office shut down during the lockdown. I need a job. I came to know about this office through my friends. At this moment, I will take any job that comes my way,” said the graduate from Delhi University’s School of Open Learning (SOL). Jyoti, who had walked for even longer from Swaroop Nagar to reach the placement office, had come for the same job interview. “There was a lot of traffic at Tikri border, so I walked till here. Sadly, I did not qualify for the job. I will try again whenever there is another opportunity,” said the girl who had reached there with her friend Poonam, a first-year student of SOL. “At this time, any kind of opportunity cannot be ignored. It was a huge effort to walk for so long, but at least I could appear for the interview,” said Poonam, adding that she and her friends had submitted their details for future openings. While the crowd was thin on Friday, around 150 people had gathered at the office to appear for an interview a day earlier. Narendra Chauhan, who runs the agency, said, “Currently, fewer candidates are coming here as they don’t know how to reach the office due to the farmers’ protest. There have been days when 400 aspirants have come for interviews. We have a direct link with companies and sometimes they come here to conduct the interviews.” “As the service is free of cost, a large number of candidates make a beeline to the office. We have been doing this for the past 15 years. We have a robust network and WhatsApp group of successful candidates, who give us leads about opportunities,” added Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amid-protests-freshers-queue-up-for-jobs/articleshow/79686039.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||No JD(S) backing, Karnataka government defers tabling anti-cow slaughter bill in council||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government, which was celebrating the passage of the tough anti-cow slaughter bill in the assembly, suffered a major embarrassment a day later on Thursday after it didn’t introduce it in the council. The BJP does not have the numbers to counter the combined strength of Congress and JD(S) in the Upper House. The BJP with 31 members in the 75-member council was banking on the support of JD (S), which has 14 members, to pass the bill. The Congress has 29 members. This is the third contentious bill that has not passed the test in the council. The house was adjourned sine die without tabling of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill- 2020 after JD(S), facing flak from farmers for backing the BJP in passing the Karnataka Land Reform Bill, backed out from supporting the anti-cow slaughter bill at the last minute. The JD(S) feared its support would lead to more resentment from farmers considered its major vote bank. Ordinance against cow slaughter likelyJD(S) had supported the ruling party in passage of the land reforms bill in the council on Tuesday and BJP had expected the same gesture for the anti-cow slaughter bill. Introduction of the bill was part of Thursday’s agenda and animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan came prepared. But, when he got the indication JD(S) may not back the bill, he was forced to beat a hasty retreat. “We wanted to introduce the bill on Thursday after mustering enough support, since we don’t have enough numbers, but the session got cut short. We’ll introduce the bill in the next session, or will consider promulgating an ordinance in the interim,” said BJP MLC N Ravikumar.  Congress boycotted the assembly on the last day of winter session, to protest BJP’s attempt to get the bill passed in a hurried manner. Earlier in the day, party insiders said Congress reached out to JD(S) requesting it not to support the bill and reportedly had a pact to force the government to refer it to a joint select committee. “We wanted to urge the government to refer the bill to a house panel as the bill in its present form violates the very spirit of the Constitution as it goes against Article 48. While many high courts have ruled that unproductive animals can be sent to slaughterhouses, the bill gives no clarity about it,” said senior Congress MLC BK Hariprasad. BJP’s hopes were dashed when former CM HD Kumaraswamy opposed the bill. “The government seems to have forgotten the fact that maintenance of unproductive cattle would result in an unbearable burden on farmers. It is going to be difficult for a farmer when a cow gives birth to a male calf or when it gets old or falls sick” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ordinance-against-cow-slaughter-likely/articleshow/79671594.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Shakti Act to cover defamatory social media posts: Deshmukh||Nagpur: After making provisions for harshest punishment like death penalty and life imprisonment for perpetrators of heinous crimes against women and children, apart from bringing social media under the purview of the proposed Shakti Act, the new legislation would be a game-changer and prove to be deterrent, said Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.The draft bill of Shakti Act also has provision for stricter punishment for offenders who post defamatory messages, including pictures of women, on social media. The bill, approved by the state cabinet on Wednesday, will be tabled in the forthcoming winter session of the state legislature, scheduled from December 14 in Mumbai.Speaking to the media on Thursday, the home minister said 36 special courts, each having a special public prosecutor, would be set up at the district level to deal with cases registered under the Act and a provision of Rs45 crore would be made for the purpose. These courts would be in addition to the existing fast track courts, set up to deal with cases related to crime against women, he said.“We’ve sought amendments to Section 354E of Indian Penal Code (IPC) to make a provision for two years jail for defaming women on social media by uploading their pictures. To prevent filing of false complaints by women, a provision for one year imprisonment has also been made, if the allegations are found to be untrue,” he said.The NCP leader added that the government has also sought to amend relevant provisions of IPC, Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for making the new legislation tougher against criminals.“The perpetrators of crimes like gang rape would face life imprisonment and also hefty fine. The proposed law also stipulates completion of trial in 45 days, including 15 days for investigation and 30 days for trial. Earlier, the accused were granted two months to file an appeal, which too has been brought down to 45 days,” said Deshmukh.Deshmukh, MLA from Katol, had visited Andhra Pradesh with a team of senior officials from his department to study the Disha Act enacted by the state, on which the Shakti Act is modelled.“The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed the new law. We had invited suggestions from women legislators from all parties and women’s organizations for making the Act comprehensive. I would appeal all legislators across party lines to support this bill wholeheartedly,” said the home minister.Deshmukh, who is also NCP leader, hinted at the three major constituents of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) — NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena — contesting all forthcoming polls together after the stupendous success in the recent MLC elections, wherein the ruling alliance won four out of six seats against the BJP.Deshmukh slammed Union minister Raosaheb Danve, former Maharashtra BJP chief, over his “China and Pakistan behind farmers’ protest” claim, saying his remark was a “crude joke” on the protesting cultivators and an insult to them. “Such kind of statement is a crude joke on farmers, who have been agitating to demand repeal of three controversial farm laws introduced by the central government,” he said.# Deshmukh speaks:Cybercrime increasing in state, but govt’s social crime branch doing good jobPolice seeking help of IT experts to solve cybercrime casesEx-BJP state chief Raosaheb Danve’s comments against agitating farmers insensitiveDecision to fill up 12,500 posts in police dept in transparent manner historic5,298 posts to be filled up in first phase despite financial constraintsPolice caught perpetrators of crime against women at Raigad & JalgaonState govt committed to early implementation of Shakti Act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shakti-act-to-cover-defamatory-social-media-posts-deshmukh/articleshow/79667574.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Want No 1 licence plate for your car? Cough up Rs 6L||Nagpur: Want to drive a car sporting 'No 1' licence plate? Be prepared to shell out Rs 6 lakh. For two-wheelers, the price for same privilege is set at Rs 1 lakh. With demand rising for choice registration numbers, the state transport department is revising the rates for special numbers for all types of vehicles. The department has published the revised rates and asked for objections and suggestions within 30 days. “After that, revised rates will come in force,” said a senior official from the transport department.The No 1 licence plate will cost Rs 1 lakh less for cars in jurisdictions of RTOs other than Mumbai city, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Raigad, Pune, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, and Nashik districts, the draft rules stated.Currently, the price for No 1 registration number for cars is Rs 3 lakh, while it is Rs50,000 for two wheelers. This year due to pandemic, the revenue from selling choice numbers has dropped. According Nagpur city RTO figures, 601 vehicle owners in the city paid Rs 5.52 crore for numbers of their choice. During the same period last year (from April to November 2019), the city RTO had generated Rs 7.81 crore by allotting 884 choice numbers.Besides this, additional charge for any number that is 1,000 more than the last serial number allotted will be Rs 15,000 for cars and Rs 6,000 for two-wheelers, three-wheelers and transport vehicles. Similarly, additional charge for any number which is a non-serial number even within the 1,000 limit will be Rs 10,000 for cars and Rs 5,000 for other category vehicle, the draft said.An RTO official told TOI the fee was being revised after eight years in almost all categories of two-wheelers, cars, three-wheelers and transport vehicles. More than 300 numbers have been listed as special numbers in every series. Buyers can apply at the RTO at the prescribed rates. If someone wants a number by jumping the series, the buyer will have to pay an additional fee. According to the draft revised rates, registration numbers such as 9, 99, 786, 999 and 9999 will be available at Rs 2.50 lakh for cars and Rs 50,000 for two-wheelers, three-wheelers and transport vehicles. Numbers like 111, 222, 333, 444, 555, 666, 777, 888, 1111, 2222, 3333, 4444, 5555, 6666, 7777, 8888 are available at Rs 1 lakh (cars) and Rs 25,000 (two-wheelers). Earlier, the numbers were available at Rs 70,000 and Rs 15,000 respectively.For CarsNumbers——Old (in Rs)———Under revision (in Rs)0001——-3lakh——6 lakh0009, 0099, 0786, 0999, 9999—- 1.50lakh—- 2.50lakh0111, 0222, 1111, 3333, 5555—-70k——1 lakh0002, 0003, 0004, 0066, 0077, 1818—-50k——70k0088, 0101, 0200, 9900—-15k—- 25kFor 2 &3-Wheelers, transport vehicles Numbers——Old (in Rs)———Under revision (in Rs)0001——-50k——1 lakh0009, 0099, 0786, 0999,9999—-20k—-50k0111, 0222, 1111, 3333, 5555 —- 15k——25k0002, 0003, 0004, 0066, 0077, 1818 —-10k——15k0088, 0101, 0200, 9900 —- 5k—-7k||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/want-no-1-licence-plate-for-your-car-cough-up-rs-6l/articleshow/79667618.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala to get Rs 2,261 crore loan under ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Central government would grant an additional loan of Rs.2,261cr as part of the schemes announced by the Union government to revitalise the debilitated state economy. Kerala, along with eight other states, has become eligible for the loan, which is earmarked only for those states that have successfully implemented the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme. The centre would grant a total of Rs 23,523 crore as loan to a group of nine states together. The loan is part of the conditional financial aid announced by the Centre as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ scheme announced by the Centre to boost the economy reeling under the Covid-19 effect. As part of the scheme, the Centre had increased the loan cap of states by 2% of the GDP. Of this, only 0.5% loan can be availed for any purpose the states deem fit for. The rest 1.5% can be availed by only those states that meet a set of conditions prescribed by the Centre. States that implemented one nation one ration card scheme are eligible for 0.25% of the conditional loan part of the scheme. Kerala was one of the states in the forefront to ask the Union government to increase the loan ceiling from the existing norm, ie, 3% of the state GDP. However, the state would not be able to take leverage of the new loan ceiling, ie 5% of the GDP, as it has already decided not to implement the changes the Centre asked to carry out in power sector. The one nation one ration card scheme was introduced to check pilferage of subsidized food grains distributed through public distribution network. It has also facilitated portability of card, using which card holders can buy ration goods from any PDS outlets of their choice. Apart from Kerala, the other states that have introduced the scheme are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujrat, Haryana, Karnataka, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. Apart from these states, those who implement the scheme before December 31 would also be eligible for loan under this scheme, an official statement said here on Wednesday. Apart from the one nation one ration card and power sector reforms, other bench marks set by the Centre for states to claim the rest of the conditional loan are based on ranking in ease of doing business and reforms carried out in city corporations and municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-to-get-rs-2261cr-loan-under-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme/articleshow/79669086.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Harassed, couple attempts suicide in Guntur district||VIJAYAWADA: Claiming to be victims of a call money racket, a man and his wife tried to consume phenol on Wednesday, stating that they were being harassed by loan sharks at Tadepalli town in Guntur district. According to one Bullaiah, he had borrowed Rs 1.95 lakh two years ago and has been paying Rs 15,000 installments every week. However, Bullaiah claimed the lender was harassing them, citing that the amount paid is the interest and the principal amount remains unchanged. Bullaiah and his wife Bhargavi approached Tadepalli police and lodged a complaint. Cops said they had summoned the lender and were investigating the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/harassed-couple-attempts-suicide/articleshow/79667592.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Most boards for social welfare don’t have heads||JAIPUR: Majority of the boards created for the welfare of socially backward people in Rajasthan do not have any heads. Except Child Rights Commission and Right of Information (RTI), none of the commissions has any heads. These include the State Women’s Commission, State Human Rights Commission, State Minority Commission, State Schedule Caste Board, State Schedule Tribe Board and others. On the occasion of Human Rights Day on Thursday, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) said that they wanted clarification from the government about their lackadaisical attitude towards these boards. “This is sheer case of lack of interest of the Ashok Gehlot government which doesn’t want these boards and commissions to work efficiently since they will be keepting a watch on the government. These commissions were formed by the government for the protection of minorities and downtrodden but they are completely dysfunctional,” PUCL chief Kavita Srivastav said. Nomadic Tribes Board was formed by Gehlot in his last tenure, but wasn’t given any funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-boards-for-social-welfare-dont-have-heads/articleshow/79669088.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Jamia writes to UGC over exam norms row||New Delhi: After facing objections from students over the guidelines for proctored examinations, the vice-chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia has written to University Grants Commission (UGC) for a solution. VC Najma Akhtar told TOI that the decision to hold the exams with only laptops/ desktops was as per UGC guidelines. “We have written to UGC to guide us about the exams,” she said, adding that several demands and suggestions made by students have also been forwarded to the commission. On students’ suggestion for assignment-based tests, Akhtar said this system was followed during the last round of examinations. “But we were told by UGC that we have to conduct an exam that should be time-bound,” she added. The purpose of proctored exams is “to maintain the sanctity of the exams”. The university has said exams could only be conducted using PCs or laptops with a functioning webcam and in a room with no one but the student. Several students have complained that this will exclude those without any of these devices or internet facilities. The VC, however, pointed out, “Students can always avail the facility of cyber cafes and make sure that there is no one around them.” She admitted that the university “cannot have students travelling large distances and be exposed to novel coronavirus”. Jamia is also studying Delhi University’s method of exmainations, Akhtar said. “We will not hold physical exams as it will go on for 10 days and will be risky for students.” In a tweet, former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti called the requirement of a computer and “high speed data for three hours... deeply problematic for students hailing from J&K”. Later, she tweeted saying that Jamia controller of examination Nazim Hussain Jafri had assured her of necessary changes and “suggested that students unable to take these exams email them @jmiu_official”. J&K student association members wrote to the Union education minister for scrapping the exam, claiming the guidelines “reinforce the spirit of elitism into the education system”. The majority of Jamia’s students come from backward districts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, J&K and other southern states, the letter stated. Several students assembled at the campus on Friday to oppose the move. They submitted a memorandum and met university officials who “assured them that their concerns will be considered”, said Jamia official Ahmed Azeem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-writes-to-ugc-over-exam-norms-row/articleshow/79686053.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 11, 2020||Pune||ATM skimming: Two from Mumbai, 1 Nigerian nabbed||Pune: The Pune cybercrime police have arrested two Mumbai residents from Nashik and a Nigerian national from Handewadi in Hadapsar on the charge of installing skimmers and pinhole cameras at various ATM kiosks in the city. “We have recovered Rs38,000 in cash, 359 cloned cards of various banks, 13 skimmers, 12 digital pinhole cameras, two walkie-talkies, 15 micro batteries, a card printer, four laptops and other electronic gadgets from Mohammed Akil Adil Bhoraniya (37) and Mohammed Faizan Farooq Chhatriwala (37), both residents of Dongri in Mumbai,” Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said on Thursday evening. “Chhatriwala is an electrical engineering diploma holder and has knowledge about electronic circuits,” Gupta said. A police team headed by deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Bhagyashri Navatake and inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure received information about unidentified people installing skimmers and pinhole cameras at various ATM units in Camp, Hadapsar and adjoining areas. The police team also got to know that data of some cards were stolen and cash withdrawn with cloned cards in Nashik in the last week of November. A police team was sent to Nashik to keep a track of any transaction involving cloned cards. The police arrested Bhoraniya and Chhatriwala on December 6 evening. Gupta said, “Chhatriwala and his gang members, including Bhoraniya, had installed skimmers and pinhole cameras at several ATM units in Mumbai, Thane (Kalwa and Mumbra), Hyderabad, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. Chhatriwala was arrested by the Kalwa police in 2017. But after securing bail, he first went to Nepal and then to Dubai. He stayed in Dubai for two years. But after returning to India, he again started the illegal activity.” On being questioned, the duo revealed they had installed skimmers and cameras at five ATM kiosks in the city in November. “There are possibilities that Chhatriwala and Bhoraniya might have had installed skimmers and cameras at more ATM units in the city,” said Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police (crime). On Tuesday evening, the police arrested Nigerian national Lucas William (31) from Handewadi while he was installing a skimmer and pinhole camera at an ATM unit. The police recovered from him six cloned ATM cards, two skimmers, several micro chips and other electronic gadgets used to execute the crime. Wakchaure said William was staying illegally in India for the past six years. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shishve said “All the incidents occurred at the unmanned ATM kiosks. There is a need of awareness among the bank authorities. We will conduct meetings with them and tell them to beef up security at the ATM kiosks to avert such incidents. We will also tell them to paste awareness stickers or posters in the kiosks for the people to check if any extended equipment has been attached to the units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atm-skimming-two-from-mumbai-1-nigerian-nabbed/articleshow/79669097.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Standing panel nod to digitize Gunthewari layout papers||Nagpur: Even though Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is reeling under severe financial crisis, its standing committee on Thursday gave nod to spend Rs2.06 crore for appointing an agency for computerized documentation of Gunthewari layouts, purchase of office stationery, computers, printers and scanners.Standing committee rejected town planning department’s proposal to appoint IT Craft firm to carry out computerization works of Gunthewari layouts, transferred from Nagpur Improvement Trust to the civic body, and instead directed it to float a short tender for the job. For the purpose, the cash-strapped NMC will pay Rs69.95 lakh to the firm, which will prepare and maintain computerized records of Gunthewari layouts for three years. “Earlier, the panel had kept the town planning department’s proposal on hold,” said standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke. He also said earlier the department had invited tenders for the purpose without even taking administrative approval. On being informed, we have kept the tender process on hold since September 10 this year, he added.“Now we have allowed the job as it has affected documentation of properties in Gunthewari layouts,” said Zalke.Along with this proposal, the standing committee has also approved six other proposals pertaining to various works and these include sanctioning of Rs50 lakh to purchase stationery items and Rs38.86 lakh for purchase of computers, printers, scanners and other IT-related consumables through Maharashtra government e-marketplace portal. The panel also gave nod to purchase insecticides worth Rs47.29 lakh. The panel has also allowed leave applications of deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade and transport department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/standing-panel-nod-to-digitize-gunthewari-layout-papers/articleshow/79667629.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||No double stamp duty on assets bought in UP's industrial areas||LUCKNOW: Providing relief to entrepreneurs from paying double stamp duty on purchase of assets during auctions at units in industrial areas, chief secretary RK Tiwari on Thursday directed officials to abolish the practice of charging stamp duty on sale and lease deeds. The CS said the stamp duty on this transaction should be charged just once as it only pertains to the transfer of lease. The direction was issued in light of a case pertaining to the UP State Industrial Development Authority, where it had charged M/s Tribula Exports, Kanpur, stamp duty twice for an auction under the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act. With a decision in this case, 12 other similar cases will also be resolved. During an inter-departmental review of investment promotion and problems being faced by entrepreneurs, the CS directed all district magistrates and departments concerned to “adopt a positive approach” towards promoting and facilitating investment and industries in the state. Tiwari was reportedly miffed with the officials for failing to provide complete information on issues related to investment promotion and facilitation listed for the meeting.  He warned the officials against showing up unprepared for future meetings, threatening them with action for any unnecessary delay in resolution of issues. In another issue of a pending electricity bill of the previous unit that was purchased in auction by M/s Sadahari Shakti Pvt Ltd, Fatehpur, the CS said appropriate valuation of assets should be done in the event of pendency of dues of the previous unit and directed the department concerned to issue a government order in this regard. During the meeting, nine issues related to the departments of infrastructure and industrial development, energy, housing, stamp and registration, agricultural marketing, cooperative and UPSIDA were discussed and officials were directed to resolve the issues in a time-bound manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-double-stamp-duty-on-assets-bought-in-states-industrial-areas/articleshow/79670014.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 11, 2020||Chennai||JP Nadda to visit Tamil Nadu to equip BJP for polls||CHENNAI: BJP national president J P Nadda will visit Tamil Nadu and Puducherry this month-end to take stock of the party’s assembly election preparedness. BJP state leaders said Nadda would be in Tamil Nadu for two days and meet party functionaries at various levels to discuss organisational structure and efforts taken to strengthen the party base, keeping in view the 2021 assembly elections. Nadda would also meet right wing ideologues and influential people in the state to collect inputs regarding the polls. Unlike the past, the BJP is showing greater interest in Tamil Nadu politics in recent months. Union home minister Amit Shah, who visited the state a fortnight ago, had called upon party functionaries to pull up socks to make inroads into the Dravidian heartland. Actor Rajinikanth’s subsequent announcement that he would launch his party in January came as no surprise. Laying the roadmap, Shah said the party leadership was looking at the BJP emerging as a major force in the state in the next five years. The ultimate aim is to form a government of its own in 2026. “Apart from a series of meetings and discussions with party leaders and cadres in Chennai, Nadda is likely to travel to Madurai to meet the functionaries from central and southern districts of Tamil Nadu. His visit would most likely be on December 30 and 31,” said party vice president K S Narendran. It is planned as part of the national president’s 100-day nation-wide tour. A similar exercise would be carried out in Puducherry before or after his Tamil Nadu visit, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nadda-to-visit-tn-to-equip-bjp-for-polls/articleshow/79666162.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Another Pocso case against ex-CWC chief||Kozhikode: Police registered one more case against E D Joseph, the former chairman of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC),), Kannur, for using sexually-coloured language against another survivor of sexual abuse. Police had earlier registered a Pocso case against him for the same charge. The second complainant is the younger sister of the earlier complainant. Both the sisters were sexually abused by two persons at their house under Kudiyanmala police station limits and both accused have been arrested. The 17-year-old girl had given a statement to the magistrate that Joseph used vulgar language when she went for counselling, and accordingly a case was registered. The second case was registered after the 15-year-old girl also gave a similar statement to the magistrate. Joseph had maintained that he did nothing except trying to elicit correct information from the girls on the incident. He stated that a female counsellor was also present when he interacted with the girls. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/another-pocso-case-against-ex-cwc-chief/articleshow/79667619.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||‘Frame law against love jihad’||JAIPUR: Women belonging to various groups on Wednesday staged a protest against rising cases of ‘love jihad’ at Central Park in the city on the occasion of Human Rights Day. They demanded that state government should enact law against it. An organisation called Nimiketam Sanstha released a data of ‘love Jihad’ incidents in 20 districts of the state. Members of the organisation alleged that so far 20 incidents have occurred in Jaipur, 23 in Ajmer, 13 in small districts like Tonk. For the past few years, 15 cases of ‘love jihad’ have also been reported in Mewat region. Watch Jaipur: Women stage protest, demand law against love jihad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/frame-law-against-love-jihad/articleshow/79669115.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Cops track money embezzled from Bobde family to immovable properties||Nagpur: City police have managed to trace the money trail of Tapas Ghosh, who is in custody for cheating Chief Justice of India Sharad Bobde’s mother Mukta. Ghosh had invested embezzled wealth of around Rs2.50 crore in purchasing several properties.Ghosh was working as caretaker of a banquet lawn owned by the Bobde family near Akashwani Chowk for more than a decade. He was a trusted employee of the family, and had been managing the banquet lawn and operations, including financial dealings. Taking advantage of the advanced age of Mukta Bobde, Ghosh and his wife, both made accused in the case, had been siphoning off money from the business account of the lawn and banquet hall.Sources said police have come across several property documents at the residence of Ghosh at Friends Colony and other places during searches. This exposed how the accused diverted money to create immovable assets. Some banking transactions were also found, which clearly showed the amounts were transferred from the account of the business to his personal account, said a highly placed source.It’s learnt the Bobdes were stunned to realize that substantial cash was embezzled by their once trusted employee Ghosh. The Bobdes had also tried to seek information from Ghosh regarding the shortfalls and irregularities in the accounts, and gross mismanagement in the lawn’s administration before approaching police. In his deposition to the police, Ghosh has denied any embezzlement of the lawn’s funds. “He (Ghosh) has been arrogantly denying his role in any malpractice and refused to cooperate,” said an officer closely associated with the probe. It’s also learnt Ghosh had roped in a doctor to get a fake medical certificate to be able to operate a bank account of Mukta Bobde with merely her thumb impression instead of the signature. This is crucial evidence of the fraud, said police. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, who has handed over the probe to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the crime branch, said the case would be taken to the logical conclusion. “We may make more arrests if any other person’s role comes to fore,” he said. Police are trying to get more information from Ghosh regarding the fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-track-money-embezzled-from-bobde-family-to-immovable-properties/articleshow/79667633.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Hospitality industry pins hope on Christmas, New Year||Aurangabad: The hospitality industry in Aurangabad is pinning hope on Christmas and New Year after losing out business during this year’s festive season to coronavirus pandemic. The district administration’s approval to reopen some of the important historical monuments has come as a breather for the industry that continues to remain seriously hit due to lockdown. Keeping in mind the social distancing as well as other Covid-related norms, hotels are considering to avoid organising dance and large gatherings and instead are making arrangements for family functions. Aurangabad Hotel and Restaurant Association president Anjali Pratap told TOI, “Considering the norms to be followed, we are gearing ourselves up for this year’s last festive season and preparations are being made to cater the guests while ensuring social distancing and all the other norms are met.” She said that the industry is hopeful of the businesses getting revived and, accordingly, things are being pushed in this direction by the industry members. Members of the association unanimously said that the district administration’s decision to reopen tourist places will definitely help in reviving the hotel and restaurant industry in Aurangabad as the flow of visitors will increase. General manager of a hotel in Aurangabad city said, “Currently, all hotels are focusing on weddings, family get-togethers and alike events as majority of educational institutions, pharmaceutical companies, medical and industrial houses are keeping away.” He also said that the flow of business from industrial areas as well as corporate houses has witnessed a considerable dip as the industries have switched over to online conferences, video meetings while travelling has been limited to urgent need basis only. To instil confident among their guests and customers, some hotels are offering that the rooms would be sanitized in the presence of customers. Aurangabad being administrative, industrial, educational and also medical hub of the region, the hotel industry is largely dependent on the flow of guests from these sectors, but the pandemic has put a check this flow. Those from the industry said that amid lockdown, the industry has witnessed a large number of lay-offs. However, they are hopeful that with the revival of business, the lost employment will also return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hospitality-industry-pins-hope-on-christmas-new-year/articleshow/79669130.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: UDH invites suggestions on parking draft made for NCR||JAIPUR: The urban development and housing (UDH) department has invited objections and suggestions for implementing the parking management and control guidelines in the National Capital Region (NCR), Alwar and Bharatpur. A month’s time has been given to stakeholders and residents for the same. The draft of the guidelines comprises regulation of parking of private vehicles at public places. Also, the local bodies will have to prepare a parking plan for commercial areas after analysing the size of visitors. The local bodies will also frame the rules to curb the parking menace in colonies. An official at town planning wing said, “As vehicular traffic has increased, guidelines to control parking are necessary. Under this, a short-term and long-term planning will be done to curb parking menace. A 20-point draft has been framed to prepare short-term parking policy, in which various agencies will work simultaneously.” A source said an initiative was also launched in Jaipur, but nothing has been done till date. Other than this, to discourage vehicles, smart mobility projects were proposed under the Smart City mission. However, out of 10 proposed smart mobility projects, the JSML failed to initiate a single project in the three years. An official said under the smart mobility plan, the JSML had to take up projects such as footpath development, carriageway improvements, including bus shelters for providing universal access, e-rickshaw stands, intelligent auto & taxi stands, signage and marking, road infrastructure along with major corridor for non-motorized transport modes, including segregated cycle tracks, digital signage with smart features (variable message sign board) for traffic/tourism, intelligent traffic management system, synchronised traffic signals for optimum traffic flow, intelligent parking at Jaleb Chowk, Badi Chaupar, Ramniwas Bagh and seven on street parking. “The JSML should have initiated these projects as these are easy to implement. However, lack of will and funds hindered the implementation,” said an official source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-invites-suggestions-on-parking-draft-made-for-ncr/articleshow/79669125.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||18,000 ‘missing’ teachers face STF investigation||LUCKNOW: In a final warning to more than 18,000 ‘missing’ primary school teachers, the basic education department has asked them to either verify their service books uploaded on the Manav Sampada portal or face the music. The department has, despite several reminders since February, set December 17 as the deadline to check service records and upload educational documents. Failure to do so will result in an investigation by the STF to ascertain whether they are fake teachers. Data gathered by the education department shows that 18,110 teachers are yet to verify their service books, which are personal and professional details, uploaded by the department on the Manav Sampada portal, an online database of teachers created for digitization of records. In June, TOI had blown the lid off the ‘fake’ teacher case where a full-time science teacher named Anamika Shukla was found working at 25 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas simultaneously for 13 months and taking home approximately Rs 1 crore as salary. After the scam, STF probe in identifying fake teachers had intensified. So far, STF has held about 350 primary teachers working on the credentials of others. Director general school education Vijay Kiran Anand told TOI, “We have given a last chance to teachers to upload their educational records or they will be dealt with as suspicious.” Anand added, “We will also check whether it was a data-related issue or a case of fake teachers. It may be that data of teachers who have retired or died has not been uploaded at block level. As of now, we can’t say that all 18,000 teachers are fake.” According to the service book status report of December 2, about 97% or 5.9 lakh teachers out of 6.1 lakh appointed in basic education have verified their details. In this mammoth exercise, teachers were asked to make corrections (through a Google sheet), if any, in their uploaded service books. They also had to upload their educational documents from high school to degree level. The report shows that Sant Kabir Nagar district is the worst performer with 9% pending verifications, followed by Pratapgarh and Kanpur Nagar which have 6% verifications pending. Sambhal and Lakhimpur Kheri districts are top performers with 99% verifications completed. In Lucknow, 353 teachers out of 8,041 have not checked records or uploaded the documents. “There are technical issues due to which many teachers are unable to verify details on the portal. The service books are available at the block office. So why only blame teachers and not block education officers for the pending work,” questioned Vinay Singh, president of UP Primary Teacher Trained Graduate Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/18k-missing-teachers-face-stf-investigation/articleshow/79670043.cms||Isha Jain
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Dalit groom defies diktat, rides horse to bride’s place in Rajasthan||AJMER: A dalit groom rode a horse to the bride’s house at a remote village in Pagara of Pisangan block of the district, defying the local community diktat of not allowing dalit grooms to ride a horse. The man reached the bride’s house amid tight police security on Wednesday. The locals claimed that this was the first incident in the village when a groom from the dalit community rode a horse for his wedding, as dalits in the village are not allowed to ride a horse. SP Ajmer received a request from one Vinod Kumar, who is also a ward panch from Pagara gram panchayat, that his sister Minakshi is about to marry Anand from Muhami village. Looking at the local tradition, no dalit groom is allowed to ride a horse in his baraat in Pagara village, as there is a ‘fatwa’ (diktat) from the Bahubalis of the village that dalits are not allowed to sit on a horse while passing the village. SP Ajmer then directed SHO Preeti Ratnu of Pisangan police station to provide security to the groom when he enters the village riding a horse. Police said that extra police force was deployed and on Wednesday late night, when the baraat started from the school in Pagara to reach the house of Minakshi, the groom was riding a horse and the police remained alert. As the groom reached the bride’s house, the police felt relaxed as no untoward incident took place. Villagers and members of the community said that the incident has made history in the village as it was the first such incident. Meanwhile, a leader from the powerful community said on condition of anonymity that there was no tradition of dalits riding a horse in the village, but with the change in the times, things have changed and now, no villager would protest or oppose such a thing because they know that everyone is equal in the eyes of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dalit-groom-defies-diktat-rides-horse-to-brides-place/articleshow/79669137.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gaur death sparks demand for special wildlife policies||PUNE: Former forest department officials and experts have emphasized on specialized policies for wildlife management and more awareness to avert a situation that led to the gaur’s death in the city on Wednesday. The gaur, commonly called Indian bison, had strayed into a housing society in Kothrud and ran wildly over 3km for more than four hours before it was tranquillized and captured by forest officials with hundreds of people. However, the animal could not be revived and it died. Officials and experts said exhaustion due to the animal’s run and stress due to the crowding of people, who had gathered to watch and capture footage of the rescue operation on their cellphones, and the ensuing commotion were the probable causes of its death. “The gaurs are often found in the hilly areas of the region and they could not in the past find a way to get out of those places. However, the animals have now found corridors to escape with land being cleared for agriculture. It is time to frame a separate policy for wildlife management not just for Maharashtra, but for the entire country as well, said Prabhakar Kukdolkar, a former state forest department official and wildlife observer. Shubhobroto Ghosh, wildlife research manager, World Animal Protection, India, said the incident reflected the “lack of awareness on the rights of non-human species, combined with general insensitivity towards animals”. He said mass awareness among people and more training and drills for such situations among forest officials were a must. “Massive environmental awareness drives and lessons have to be undertaken to imbibe the spirit of science, combined with a morality that can lead to a better understanding of the links between mankind and ‘animal-kind’, between humans and the rest of creation. Mock drills to simulate human animal conflict situations to ensure preparedness and appropriate reactions during human wildlife encounters can improve the skills of forest department staff to deal with these crises,” Ghosh told TOI from Delhi. He said, “Film and television constitute a hugely influential sector in our mass media scenario today. The recent series of ‘Cosmos: Possible Worlds,’ produced by Carl Sagan’s wife, Ann Druyan, is an excellent example of a television show that presented the interconnectedness of all life. India is in dire need of educational shows like it.” Ghosh added, “It is worrisome though that environmental education efforts are failing in India as apparent in the behaviour of people like the gaur incident in Pune, the fishing cat and jackal lynching in West Bengal and the Kerala elephant killing. There has to be robust collaborations between NGOs and governmental agencies with active participation from civil society members. In India, it has been well over two decades that environmental education has been made mandatory in institutions. But the gaur incident in Pune shows that there is a wide gap between theory and practice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaur-death-sparks-demand-for-special-wildlife-policies/articleshow/79669151.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad SP initiates probe to ascertain status of CCTV cameras at police stations||Aurangabad: Osmanabad superintendent of police Raj Tilak Roushan has initiated a probe to ascertain claims of policemen that the CCTV cameras installed at police stations are lying defunct. Roushan told TOI, “I am carrying out a probe in this matter and will submit a detailed report to the HC before December 18.” The inquiry by the SP has been initiated after Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court, while hearing a criminal writ petition filed by Wajid Shaikh, came down heavily on police. In the petition filed through lawyer Sachin Panale, Wajid had demanded footage of CCTV cameras installed at Omarga police station of Osmanabad district for substantiating his complaint of police’s alleged excesses committed on him on April 20 this year. Responding to it, assistant inspector of the said police station, through additional public prosecutor BV Virdhe, submitted before the HC that ‘CCTV footage of the police station of the relevant day is not available as on that date, system of CCTV was not working.’ Taking serious cognizance of the incident, division bench of the HC comprising Justice TV Nalawade and Justice G Sewlikar observed, ‘This is not a first instance when the concerned police station has informed that CCTV system was not working. Some specific directions are given by this court at this seat and at the principal seat also to see that CCTV systems are installed in every police station and it should cover lock-up and other portions of the police station.’ The HC observed that ‘Such system controls activities like atrocities against persons who are brought to police station. It is surprising that in many cases submission is made that on that particular day, CCTV system was not working.’ The HC ruled that when such system is installed, an officer needs to be appointed to oversee the working of the system and every day the recording needs to be reviewed by some officer and entry about it needs to be made in some register. This procedure must have been followed by every police station. ‘This court wants to see that the registers are maintained in respect of CCTV system in concerned police station to ascertain truthfulness of the submission that CCTV system was not working on that day. If the CCTV system was not working on April 20, 2020, ordinarily entry of the same in the register could have been taken immediately when fault was found with the CCTV system,’ the HC ruled. While directing the SP to personally conduct an inquiry, HC stated, ‘This court is again observing that in many cases it is informed to the court that on that particular day the CCTV system was not working. This cannot be allowed to happen as the purpose behind installing the CCTV system itself is defeated when such submissions are accepted.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-sp-initiates-probe-to-ascertain-status-of-cctv-cameras-at-police-stations/articleshow/79669139.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||3 arrested with counterfeit notes||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police on late Tuesday night arrested three suspects with fake currency notes of Rs 100, Rs 200 and Rs 2,000 denominations. On Wednesday, a team of policemen raided a customer service center located in Dharur taluka of Beed district and seized counterfeit currency notes totally to the tune of over Rs 2.76 lakh. The probe has revealed that the suspects would sell notes of Rs 1 lakh in exchange of Rs 20, 000. Cidco police station inspector Ashok Giri said that the suspects have been identified as Sandeep Argade (32) of Nathnagar, Vaitagwadi, Nikhil Samberao (29) of Pahadsingpura and Akash Mane (32) of Jadhav Galli in Dharur. The suspects were moving around on a bike while looking for prospect buyers when they were arrested. During the preliminary investigation, it came to fore that they had sourced these currency notes from Akash Mane. Police said that several counterfeit notes of different denominations and equipment used for printing them, including computer, scanner and printer, worth Rs 3.70 lakh have been seized from the suspects. They were produced before judicial magistrate first class Dhanashri Bhandari who remanded them to three-day police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-arrested-with-counterfeit-notes/articleshow/79669153.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||19-year-old labourer injured in Kota flyover mishap dies||KOTA: A 19-year-old labourer, who was rushed to a private hospital with 12 others after they sustained injuries as a slab of an under-construction flyover fell on them, succumbed to his injuries on Thursday morning. The incident occurred at a flyover being constructed under Smart City Project in front of City Mall on Kota-Jhalawar Road under Vigyan Nagar police station on Wednesday night. Four others are still undergoing treatment. Police lodged a case against the private construction company, however, the three-member expert committee formed by the state government on Wednesday night to probe into the matter is yet to begin investigation. At least 13 labourers had sustained injuries in the mishap and the one, who died during treatment, was critically injured, said Kota district collector Ujjawal Rathore. A truck loaded with cement and concrete at the site could have hit the flyover span causing one of its slabs to collapse, said Rathore. The state government formed a three-member committee of experts to look into the matter and it is yet to begin the investigation to ascertain the actual reason of collapse, Rathore said. The deceased Ramesh Bheel, 18, son of Dayal Bheel, was a native of Bhalta police station of Jhalawar district, circle inspector Amar Singh said and adding the body was handed over to the family after postmortem later in the day. On a report by executive engineer of Urban Improvement Trust, Kota, police lodged a case against the company engaged in construction of the flyover, the CI further said. The rescue operation continued till 1am at the site in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, assistant fire officer, municipal corporation, Kota, Devendra Gautam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/19-year-old-labourer-injured-in-kota-flyover-mishap-dies/articleshow/79669142.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Case against CPM activists||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The clash between CPM and Congress workers that erupted at Vaduvachal near Vizhinjam on the night of local body  has become a grave issue after a 30-year-old pregnant woman, who was trying to resist attack of CPM activists, suffered miscarriage following which the Vizhinjam police on Thursday registered a case. The police have invoked sections 316 (causing death of quick unborn child by act amounting to culpable homicide) and 354 (outraging modesty of woman) under IPC in the case. The woman was two months pregnant. The police officials concerned said that the woman sustained injuries when CPM activists stormed the house of a Congress worker, Jaffar, at Fishermen’s Colony at Vaduvachal, to attack him. The complainant, Seeba, who lived nearby, is also learned to be his relative. She sustained injuries when she tried to intervene. She was rushed to a private hospital at Neyyatinkara. From there she was shifted to Government Hospital for Women and Children at Thycaud in the city. “We have registered the case based on the statement given by the complainant. We are yet to receive the doctor’s opinion,” said an officer attached to Vizhinjam police station. He added that the doctor’s opinion will be taken on Friday. Only after that they could know the actual cause of miscarriage. On Tuesday evening, a group of Congress workers had allegedly attacked the CPM booth agents. The CPM activists attacked Jaffar’s residence in retaliation. The police had already registered a case in connection with that attack and launched a probe. However, the police are yet to record any arrests in connection with both the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/case-against-cpm-activists/articleshow/79669149.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kanpur||Tanneries to shut three days before Magh Mela snan days||KANPUR: As many as seven teams have been constituted to check the functioning of tanneries in Kanpur and keep a tab on them in view of the upcoming Magh Mela slated to be held from January next year. The UP pollution control board has issued a roster for all industrial units which are likely to pollute water during Magh Mela. All such units have been asked to close their production three days before each holy bath. The Magh Mela, which will be held from January 14 to March 11, will have six bathing days. DM Alok Tewari constituted seven teams to monitor the functioning of tanneries a few days ago. Anil Mathur, an official of regional pollution control board (Kanpur) informed, “Each team will be led by an additional city magistrate, and will consist of one member each from state pollution control board, Ganga pollution control unit, Jal Nigam and a police department. Talking to TOI, Mathur informed that six teams would be deputed at Jajmau and one team would be deputed at Panki industrial site. He stated that besides the Magh Mela roster, earlier schedule for the operation of tanneries and other units would also be enforced. According to the earlier roster, tanneries attached to pumping station no. 1 and 2 will operate with 50% capacity in the first fifteen days, and tanneries attached to pumping station no. 3 and 4 will operate in the next 15 days. Anand Kumar, regional pollution control board officer of Kanpur Dehat and in-charge of Kanpur office, the teams will check the industrial units and their discharge from time to time and take action in case of violation. He informed that the first bath of Magh Mela will be held on January 14 (Makar Sankranti), and hence, all units will be shut from January 11 to 14. Likewise, second bath will be held on January 28 (Poush Purnima) and units will be shut from January 25 to 28. Third holy bath will take place on February 11 (Mauni Amavasya) and industrial units will be shut from February 8 to 11. Fourth holy bath will be on February 16 and units will be closed from February 13 to 16. Fifth and sixth holy baths will be on February 27 (Maghi Purnima) and March 11 respectively, and hence, units will be closed from February 24 to 27, and from March 8 to 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/tanneries-to-shut-three-days-before-magh-mela-snan-days/articleshow/79670094.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
December 11, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam records 77.13% polling, lower than in 2015||KOCHI: Despite concerns over the pandemic, the second leg of the local body polls on Thursday saw an enthusiastic response from voters in Ernakulam with the district registering a voter turnout of 77.13%, which is nearly 8% lower than last election held five years ago. In 2015, the district had registered a polling percentage of 84%, while in 2010 the percentage was 79.90. A total of 19,96,327 voters out of the registered 2,58,8182 electorate, exercised their franchise in the district. This included 99,5,073 men and 10,01,241 women. Men (79.38%) outnumbered women (75.02%) in polling. The voting percentage of transgender voters was 24% with 13 out of total 34 casting their votes. Among municipalities, Muvattupuzha (83.91%) registered the highest polling percentage, while the lowest was in Thrikkakara (71.99%). Kochi corporation registered a poll percentage of 62.01. The district has 13 municipalities with total voters numbering to 4,33,132. Eight out of 14 block panchayats, Vazhakkulam (84.11%), Kothamangalam (82.14%), Parakkadavu (81.72%), Koovappadi (81.85%), Muvattupuzha (82.16), Paravur(80.66%) and Angamaly (81.69%)- registered more than 80% voter turnout. Among panchayats, Kizhakkambalam, the most keenly watched local body in Ernakulam, registered the highest polling (87.88%) followed by Ayyambuzha (84.91%). The lowest was in Elanji, which recorded 69.15%. In Kizhakkambalam, where Twenty20, a group backed by corporate entity Kitex stormed to power in 2015 winning 17 out of the 19 wards and two block panchayat seats, both the LDF and UDF are putting up a spirited fight. This time, Twenty20 has widened their footprint to three nearby local bodies and is contesting in a total of 79 panchayat wards. Similar apolitical groups, though not having any corporate support, have sprouted in several local bodies in Ernakulam district. The most prominent among that garnered media attention is an outfit which adopted the same name, and is contesting polls in Chellanam panchayat, were residents have for long been agitating against the apathy of LDF and UDF. A statement from the district administration said the polling was by and large peaceful. Though electronic voting machines developed glitches in some polling booths, they were soon replaced from the pool and polling could be resumed without delay. No untoward incidents were reported from booths marked as sensitive. The district administration had made arrangements for webcasting in 38 booths deemed sensitive but the polling was peaceful and incident-free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ernakulam-records-77-13-polling-lower-than-in-2015/articleshow/79667651.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Pune woman booked for abetment of suicide||Aurangabad: Police have registered an abetment of suicide case against a Pune-based woman almost a week after a 25-year-old Beed resident ended his life. The woman had allegedly been harassing and blackmailing the youth over social media platforms. On December 4, Deepak Sangle, a resident of Kasari Phata in Dharur tehsil of Beed, hanged himself. Initially, an accidental death case was registered with the Dharur police station. Later, based on a complaint lodged by his sister, it was converted to abetment to suicide case. The police said Sangle belonged to a financially stable family that owned farmland and heavy vehicles. Beed superintendent of police R Raja said: “His family was initially clueless about why the youth took the extreme step. Later, when the police were investigating different leads, his sister came to the police station with his cellphone and showed the alleged conversations between him and a woman from Pune.” As per the sister's complaint, Sangle had come in contact with a married woman from Pune via social media. The duo became friends, and Sangle started visiting her. Later, the woman allegedly started blackmailing him and wanted him to transfer his truck and farmland to her name. While threatening to lodge a rape case against him, she also started pestering Sangle to marry her. In her complaint, the youth's sister has alleged that her brother had even changed his cellphone number to avoid the woman. However, one of his friends, who had also come in contact with the Pune woman, shared Sangle's new number with her. On getting the new number, the suspect allegedly started harassing him, following which he took the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pune-woman-booked-for-abetment-of-suicide/articleshow/79669167.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kochi||Wayanad records a stellar voter turnout of 79.5%||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad witnessed an impressive voter turnout of 79.5% on Thursday, making it the highest among the districts in the second phase of polls being held amid the pandemic. The polling for local body elections passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements at 132 booths that were identified as ‘Maoist-affected’. A policeman on security duty and a woman voter collapsed and died during the day. Senior civil police officer Karunakaran M (45) attached to the AR Camp, who was on duty at the election strong room set up at Assumption School in Sultan Bathery, collapsed around noon. Though he was immediately taken to the hospital he died at around 4.30pm. Earlier, Devi (58) collapsed soon after she cast her vote at the polling booth in Thrissilery government higher secondary school in Mananthavady at 10am. She had come to vote along with her husband Kalan of Varinilam colony. The voting percentage for men and women were 80.1% and 78.9%, respectively. Only one of the six transgender voters voted. Among the three municipalities, Mananthavady recorded the highest voter turnout (80.8%) followed by Sultan Bathery (79.1%) and Kalpetta (78.6%). In block-level poll percentage, Bathery recorded the highest turnout (81.7%) Mananthavady (80.3%), Kalpetta (79.6%) and Panamaram (76.8%). Long queues, especially women from plantations, were seen in many polling stations. Tribal belts also witnessed heavy turnout. While UDF claimed that the high voter turnout would help in retaining its dominance in the district panchayat and help regain power in three municipalities ruled by LDF, the LDF leaders said that the high poll percentage was reflective of the spirited contests even in traditional UDF strongholds which will help Left front better its performance. Polling was suspended briefly after EVMs developed a snag at Arimula in Kaniyambetta panchayat, Chulikkal in Meppadi and some other booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wayanad-records-a-stellar-voter-turnout-of-79-5/articleshow/79667671.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Post poll, TVM clears all campaign materials||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam, the organisation that contested in the city corporation  for the first time with city development as their main slogan, set an example to other parties by clearing their campaign material from public places. Soon after the polls, volunteers of the organisation started removing posters and flexboards erected at public places. During the campaigns, TVM leadership had asked their candidates to abstain from sticking posters on walls and painting graffiti as it would amount to defacement of public property. TVM president S N Raghuchandran Nair said in a statement issued here on Thursday that they wanted to present a new culture that others can emulate. All parties should look for innovative methods of campaigning so that environment pollution is minimum. The parties must also look for scinetific ways to ways to remove and treat the waste created during campaigns. TVM, who fielded their candidates in 14 wards in the city corporation, had relied largely on door-to-door visits and online campaigns. TVM was floated by pro-development organisations and individuals who strongly believed that conventional parties had repeatedly failed to address the development needs of the capital. The district administration had earlier ordered parties to remove campaign material at their own expense. The city corporation too on Thursday issued an order stating that if the parties failed to remove the materia from public spaces, the corporation officials would remove them and levy the charges from candidates concerned based on the locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/post-poll-tvm-clears-all-campaign-materials/articleshow/79669170.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Smuggled cigarettes from Jaipur also sent to Delhi||JAIPUR: Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths on Thursday said smuggled cigarettes coming to Jaipur were also sent to neighbouring states such as Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Authorities said recent cases have shown that demand for smuggled cigarettes was high and since many international flights are not operating during the pandemic, smugglers have taken the road route to enter in India via Assam. Four days after unearthing a cigarette smuggling racket valued at Rs 67 lakh, the Jaipur unit of DRI on Wednesday seized 2.6 lakh sticks of foreign-made smuggled cigarettes worth Rs 52 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/smuggled-cigarettes-from-jaipur-also-sent-to-delhi/articleshow/79669165.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: A grasshopper named after Shiva’s trishul||KOZHIKODE: A new species of pygmy grasshopper discovered by researchers from the forests of Eravikulam National Park and on the basis of a 100-year-old undescribed specimen found in a museum in Spain has been named Tettilobus trishula for its trident-shaped protrusion in the pronotum resembling Lord Shiva’s three-pronged spear. According to the researchers, the wide-nosed pygmy grasshopper species has been given the common name Shiva’s pygmy trishula (Tettilobus trishula) as it has protrusions in its pronotum shaped like the three-pronged spear used by Lord Shiva. The three prongs are made of highly-compressed median carina and elevated curved external (large trishula) and internal (small trishula) lateral carinae of the pronotal apex. The new wide-nosed pygmy grasshopper species has been described by a team of researchers comprising Dhaneesh Bhaskar, regional vice-chair for Asia, IUCN SSC Grasshopper Specialist Group, Switzerland, wildlife expert P S Easa and researchers Sara Stermsek, Damjan Franjevic and Josip Skejo from department of Biology of the University of Zagreb, Croatia. The researchers had found an old specimen collected more than 100 years ago from the border between Kerala and Tamil Nadu during their visit to MNCN (National History Museum in Madrid, Spain. Though it was recognized already by Ignacio Bolívar as a new species, and labelled “Potua suspecta” (París 1994), it was never published as a new species. Later, the species was observed by researcher Bhaskar in its natural habitat from the shola forests of Eravikulam National Park and a male specimen was collected and documented. Bhaskar said that Tettilobus trishula was spotted on the bark of a tree from the shola forest ecosystem of Eravikulam NP at 2,200m elevation, in the wet, humid habitat with trees fully covered in moss. He said that the new species inhabits dense rainforests of the Western Ghats and it can be found on tree trunks where it probably feeds on mosses and detritus. Tettilobus trishula is a bark-dwelling species and not a leaf-litter species like Deltonotus subcucullatus and D gibbiceps. According to researchers, pygmy grasshoppers exhibit great diversity in India and Sri Lanka due to the heterogeneity of Indian biogeographic zones and there are around 200 pygmy grasshopper species in Indian subcontinent alone. Dhaneesh said that wide-nosed pygmy grasshoppers are restricted to small geographical areas, as they are unable to fly and spread, and comprehensive research is needed to document the diversity before it is lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/grasshopper-species-named-after-trishul/articleshow/79667649.cms||K R Rajeev
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||PIL seeks freezing of BJP’s ‘lotus’,HC seeks EC reply||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday directed the Election Commission of India (ECI) to file its reply in a PIL seeking freezing of ‘lotus’ as election symbol of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as it is the national flower and its visibility on several government websites could influence the minds of voters. The petitioner, Kali Shankar from Gorakhpur, also said that political parties should be allowed to use their symbols only once for polls and barred from using them as logos. This was discriminatory against unregistered parties and independent candidates as they a new elections symbol in each election, the petitioner added. The ECI as well as the BJP national president have been arrayed as respondents in the PIL. Fixing January 12 as the next date of hearing, the division bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal also directed the petitioner's counsel to implead other national political parties as respondents in the petition. The petitioner has also appealed to quash the ECI order dated April 4, 2019, by which the commission had rejected the application of the petitioner seeking freezing of ‘lotus’ as BJP's election symbol. The PIL also sought directions for the ECI to issue fresh guidelines for the use of political symbols in accordance with law. Appearing for the petitioner, his counsel contended before the court that “lotus is being shown as the national flower and is also visible in various government websites. Therefore, no political party can be allowed to use it as its symbol as it would influence the minds of voters and the political party in turn will get undue advantage”. According to the petitioner’s counsel, “the life of election symbols — even a reserved symbol with a contesting candidate — or of a recognized political party, is only for a specific election and a political party cannot use the symbol as its logo”. Further, if political parties are allowed to use election symbols perpetually for the purposes other than elections, then that would be highly unjust for the candidates who are not affiliated with recognized parties or independent candidates as they get fresh symbols before each election. It has also been asserted that under the Representation of People Act as well as under the Election Symbols (Reservation & Allotment) Order, 1968 (Order of 1968), the concept of election symbols is applicable only for the purpose of elections and such symbols cannot be used as a logo of any political party. The petitioner’s plea was that in most of the democratic countries, the concept of election symbols has already been withdrawn on attaining higher levels of literacy. But, in our democratic set up, there is no intention of the government to withdraw election symbols and go for elections by showing names of the candidates in the applicable script. Further, the petitioner ahs said that BJP violated the model code of conduct by using its electoral symbol in the government website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pil-seeks-freezing-of-bjps-lotushc-seeks-ec-reply/articleshow/79670096.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Blood donation camp held at Sutgirni Chowk||Aurangabad: Members of the Prahar Janshakti party organised a blood donation camp at Sutgirni Chowk in Aurangabad city on Wednesday, attracting the attention of a large number of commuters passing by the area. Earlier, they had planned agitation followed by blood donation camp in front of union minister Raosaheb Danve’s house. However, police denied permission to the members for holding any kind of protest or gathering in front of the union minister’s house, but the members still managed to give slip to the police and gathered in front of the minister’s house on Wednesday afternoon. Not taking any chance, heavy bandobast was already deployed at the minister’s bungalow. Party’s Kunal Raut said, “To register our support for ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi and also to protest against union government failing to address farmers’ demand of repealing the newly-introduced farm laws, we first held an agitation in front Danve’s residence at Shivajinagar in the city.” Members of this party roped in blood donation bank’s van for holding a camp at the venue of agitation. It was only after the police warned the blood bank staffers of legal consequences, they backed out and went to Sutgirni chowk where they parked the van on roadside and held a symbolic blood donation in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi. Jawahar nagar police inspector Santosh Patil said that though none of the agitators have been arrested, the incident has been taken on record. “The agitation went off peacefully and police did not had to use force to handle the situation,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/blood-donation-camp-held-at-sutgirni-chowk/articleshow/79669162.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP government ties up with US university for AI, machine learning courses||LUCKNOW: The UP government has collaborated with Austin University of the US for courses in artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning for cybersecurity management and data analytics for students of the state. The students will get a certificate or degree from the Austin University, recognized in over 65 countries and the course fees would be shared by the university and the UP government. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) and export promotion minister, Siddharth Nath Singh told TOI that an MoU for collaboration between the technical education department of the state government and the Austin University has been signed on Wednesday. “This is a game changer in the field of higher and technical education as students will get a certificate from one of the best US universities while residing in any UP city. The certificate will make them useful for global brands,” Singh said, adding that the North Californian university is producing over 30,000 students from its technical institutes every year and as compared to the progressive states of the country, UP lacked such advanced courses. “The governments world over as well as corporate houses need people skilled with such advanced courses and UP can play a very vital role in fulfilling this gap,” Singh said. The minister, who is head of technical education institutes also, said that the degree courses will be of two year duration while the diploma would be a one year course. He said that initially there would be online courses, hybrid online live sessions and one or two semesters or the internship could be done at the Austin University in the US and at later stages, if required, the Austin University could also open its campus here. “Our aim is to equip students with the best courses and make them most sought after and employable as many students struggle for jobs despite having a degree in conventional courses while the industry and corporate sector need people skilled in cyber security management, artificial intelligence and data analytics,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-ties-up-with-us-university-for-ai-machine-learning-courses/articleshow/79670126.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Child welfare council names baby at Ammathottil as Maradona||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala state child welfare council has named a new-born baby found in ‘Ammathottil’ after legendary footballer Maradona. The baby was found in the cradle at 12.30am on Tuesday. Shiju Khan, general secretary of child welfare council, said that the baby was named Maradona as tribute to the footballer who passed away recently.  Maradona is the 18th baby to be found in the hi-tech cradle which was set up on February 1, 2019. The baby was taken to Thycaud hospital for detailed health check-up and was subjected to Covid-19 test. Further steps were taken as per instructions given by health authorities. Earlier, a baby, who was found in Ammathottil last month, was named Jacinda. She was named after New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. Since 2002, when Ammathottil was launched in Thiruvananthapuram, Maradona is the 279th baby to be found here. Shiju Khan said that the adoption procedures will be initiated soon and if there are any persons with rightful claim on the baby, they shall contact the child welfare council soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/child-welfare-council-names-baby-at-ammathottil-as-maradona/articleshow/79669178.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Plea to remove barricades erected on highways||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to remove barricades put up on the state and national highways in the state as they are causing more accidents. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Saravanan from Madurai district. The petitioner stated that as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), 10,525 people died and 67,137 sustained injuries in 57,228 road accidents which were reported in the state in 2019. In order to contain traffic, police are putting up metal barricades at roads which are causing hindrance to commuters, especially during night hours as there are no reflector stickers. He stated that since these barricades are put up in the middle of the roads in an unplanned manner, instead of reducing the accidents, they are causing accidents. The petitioner stated that there are no signboards or lights to indicate that a barricade is situated in a place. The ministry of road transport and highways manual also says that placing of barricades should only be a temporary arrangement. Since the barricades cause accidents, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking to remove them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-remove-barricades-erected-on-highways/articleshow/79670127.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||CP initiates process to stay punishment meted out to 5 cops||Aurangabad: Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has initiated a process to set aside the punishment granted to five policemen by deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Meena Makwana. Senior officers said that the process has been initiated and soon they will be summoned for hearing their side of the story. There are also reports that one of the constables was on a fortnight-long leave at the time of incident, but still faced the action by DCP. On the eve of Diwali, five policemen from Satara police station were shunted out to police headquarters while citing their alleged negligence in an incident of attempt to murder that took place at a gambling den. It was on August 31 that a 34-year-old man named Vilas More visited a hotel at Golwadi Shivar where five men accused him of giving a tip-off to the police about the alleged gambling den being run from the hotel and brutally assaulted him. The incident left the man injured, following which on September 1, the Satara area police registered a case of attempt to murder, rioting and unlawful assembly against five suspects and arrested them. Following the incident, the then deputy commissioner of police Rahul Khade had sent a default report against five police constables and a police sub-inspector. After the matter was recently brought to the notice of Gupta, he mentioned some remarks on the default report. Going a step ahead, Makwana issued show-cause notices to all five policemen and despite getting unanimous reply from them, on November 12, issued orders to the police headquarters. Gupta took a cognizance of the same and decided to personally look in to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cp-initiates-process-to-stay-punishment-meted-out-to-5-cops/articleshow/79669174.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: New Parliament Building will last 150 years, its Houses can seat 150% more MPs||NEW DELHI: The New Parliament Building will have a life of more than 150 years with a more than 150% increase in seating capacity, the central government said on Thursday. While the interior of the new Lok Sabha will have the theme of peacock, the national bird, Rajya Sabha will have national flower lotus as its theme. Besides the two Houses, the triangular building will have a Constitution Hall that will exhibit an original Constitution and a digital form for people to read page-by-page. This will be the only portion of the building that will have no storeys. The rest of the complex will have four floors. Each floor will have offices of ministers and committee rooms. The first floor will have dining space for member of Parliament, VVIPs and visitors. It will also have a central lounge. Triangles are considered sacred in various religions and cultures in India. Besides being earthquake proof, the new building will be eco-friendly and consume significantly less power. “The project will be completed in time in 2022 and the winter session will be held here. This will meet future requirements,” housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said. The government said the New Parliament Building is a necessity in the 21st century. The statue of Govind Ballabh Pant, currently located between Raisina Road and Red Cross Road, will be shifted to GB Pant Marg as the new building will require more space. Union housing and urban affairs secretary Durga Shankar Mishra told TOI that all minute details were worked out while planning the building. “The four national symbols will find a place in the building. The National Emblem will be the crown of the building. In the courtyard, we will have a peepal (banyan), which is our national tree,” he added. Mishra said the building will have state-of-the-art facilities and a souvenir shop for visitors to buy mementos related to the Parliament. Officials said the building will have the most modern security and surveillance system. “The security check will be mostly non-intrusive. Artisans from different parts of the country will be involved in this project,” said Bimal Patel, the designer of Central Vista redevelopment project. Dholpur and red stone from Rajasthan will be largely used, as is the case with the existing Parliament. In some of the interior portions, red granite may be used in place of red sandstone. Sources said provisions will be made in the furniture inside the Houses for smart displays and biometrics for ease of voting for members. The digital audio visual system, which will be placed in front of every seat, will have “programmable rules-based microphones”, which will put the Speaker in control of who gets to speak and who doesn’t. Every member of parliament, minister and political party will get office space in the New Parliament Building and in the lawmakers’ enclave, which will come up on the plot where Transport Bhavan and Shram Shakti Bhavan are currently located, an official added. These buildings will be connected to the Parliament complex with a tunnel and will have enough parking space. “Reports of Sardar Patel Bhavan being demolished are speculative. There is no such plan,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-parliament-building-will-last-150-yrs-its-houses-can-seat-150-more-mps/articleshow/79670131.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Aditaynath’s plane fails to land due to fog||LUCKNOW: The aircraft that was carrying Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to Lucknow from Gorakhpur on Thursday night was forced to turn back due to thick fog. The CM is now scheduled to return to Lucknow on Friday. Sources in the home department said that the state government aircraft carrying the CM started from the Gorakhpur airport just before 9 pm. However, with dense fog threatening the safety of the aircraft, the pilot took the decision to turn back and the flight returned to Gorakhpur airport by 9.50 pm. “The CM will be spending the night at the Gorakhnath Temple and will return to Lucknow on Friday morning. He is absolutely safe and put his faith in the pilot’s decision and allowed the flight to return,” said a senior government official. The CM was in Gorakhpur to attend the opening ceremony of a three-day seminar for drawing up a development roadmap for Purvanchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogis-plane-fails-to-land-due-to-fog/articleshow/79670161.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Voters braving tough terrains get forest department cover||KOZHIKODE: In a bid to ensure that wild animals do not play spoilsport with the grassroots-level democratic exercise, forest officials escorted voters – residing in villages located deep inside the forests – to their polling booths at many places in Wayanad. In some areas, the department’s 4W drive vehicles were pressed into service so that the voters did not have to walk through roads cutting through forests that have tiger and elephant presence. Many areas had reported frequent instances of elephant menace and also there have been a number of cattle liftings, with tigers even straying into human habitat along forest fringes. T Sasikumar, officer of Chethalath range under South Wayanad forest division, said special patrol teams were also deployed from 6am to ensure that wild elephants didn’t trouble voters. “Forest paths from many remote settlements to polling booths have heavy elephant presence and we took steps to ensure that the residents could exercise their franchise without fear of encountering them on their way. There were around 3,000 voters from seven villages who voted and returned home safely,” he said. Chandran, a resident of the Vettathoor Kattunayikka colony under Pulpally panchayat, said he had to travel 4km to the polling booth of which 2km was through forests. “There are 20 voters in the colony and the forest path to polling booth at Chekady government school is full of wild animals. We used to encounter elephants regularly and tiger presence has been confirmed in the area through pug marks. Officials arranged transportation to polling booth,” he said. Also, residents of Velikolli near Pakkam, situated 3.5km away from the nearest forest road, were taken in forest department vehicles to booths. “Velikolli area has constant tiger presence and a tiger had attacked two forest staff including myself in August. We arranged transport for voters,” Sasikumar said. A tiger had pounced on Sasikumar and forest watcher Manuel George while they were trying to drive it back to the forest in August. The duo had a narrow escape as they were wearing helmets. He said that forest guards were posted and patrolling was done in areas prone to animal movement to provide a sense of security to voters in Chekadi, Cheeyambam, Kappikunnu, Vattapadi, Madapparambu and Kommanchery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/voters-braving-tough-terrains-get-forest-dept-cover/articleshow/79667692.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ban on visit to beaches, fishing withdrawn||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ban imposed on visiting beaches, fishing activities, mining and quarrying in the wake of cyclone threat was lifted on Wednesday. As per the order issued by collector Navjot Khosa and chairman of district disaster management authority, restrictions on going to sea for fishing, entry to beaches have been completely withdrawn. Besides, temporary ban which was imposed on authorized quarrying activities and legal mining activities was also withdrawn on Wednesday. The collector also cancelled the ban on visit to high ranges like Ponmudi which was imposed following cyclone alert. However, tourism activities at Ponmudi haven’t yet resumed as local residents had objected to outsiders visiting the area during the pandemic season. IMD had warned of rough sea and heavy rainfall after depression took shape in Bay of Bengal. Yellow, orange and red alerts were issued on December 1,2 and 3, respectively. The district administration had geared up for any kind of emergency response and initiated evacuation from high range locations and places susceptible to natural disasters. Restrictions were also put in place on fishing activities. However by December 8, weather had improved and cyclone threat waned and all restrictions were decided to be withdrawn. The fishermen community was relieved after ban on fishing was lifted in the district. After a prolonged lock down that spanned for nearly two months due to community spread of Covid-19 in coastal areas, the fishermen community had barely started to recover when cyclone alert forced them to remain at homes. Meagre savings and lack of any relief support were making matters worse for fishermen for the past one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ban-on-visit-to-beaches-fishing-withdrawn/articleshow/79669186.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on boy’s torture, death||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday directed CB-CID to submit a copy of the final report in a case where a 17-year-old boy died due to custodial torture in 2019. Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that the CB-CID officials who had completed investigation had filed the final report before the jurisdictional court. Taking cognizance of the submissions, justice J Nisha Banu directed the CB-CID to produce a copy of the final report before the court. The court was hearing a petition filed by M Jeya of Kochadai who sought to probe her son’s custodial death at S S Colony police station in Madurai. The petitioner stated that her son, a class 10 dropout, was taken into police custody on January 13, 2019 in connection with a jewel theft case and kept in illegal custody. Four days later, she received a phone call from her son asking her to come to the police station. She stated that he complained of severe pain as he was physically tortured by the police personnel into accepting to have stolen the jewels. After Jeya complained to the magistrate on January 18, 2019, regarding the custodial torture, an official from the juvenile justice board visited them two days later, and took statements. However, the boy who was undergoing treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital died on January 24, 2019. Based on an earlier direction, the investigation was transferred to CB-CID. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-boys-torture-death/articleshow/79670164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Pak, China behind farmers’ stir: Danve||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: Union minister of state for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Raosaheb Danve on Wednesday claimed that China and Pakistan are behind the farmers’ protest in Delhi. Danve, who is Jalna MP for fifth time in a row, had been to Takli village in Phulambri tehsil of Aurangabad district to inaugurate a primary healthcare centre. Danve made the statement while addressing a gathering in the village. The minister stated that the union government gives a subsidy of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for purchasing foodgrain from farmers at minimum support price (MSP), before giving out wheat for Rs 2 per kilogram and Rs 3 per kilogram of rice to the poor. “For the welfare of the farmers, this government is ready to spend money from its treasury but there are forces that do not want it to happen. The on-going agitation is not a farmers’ agitation but China and Pakistan are behind this agitation,” he said. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna’s Raju Shetti told TOI, “The statement also means that the PM has failed to keep a check on external forces interfering in our country’s internal issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pak-china-behind-farmers-stir-danve/articleshow/79669183.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Muslim-Sikh amity continues, Guru Gobind to Singhu border||NEW DELHI: During the communal frenzy of Partition in 1947, Malerkotla was the only district in Punjab that did not see any violence. While lakhs of Punjabi Muslims chose to move to the newly created Pakistan, the people of the Muslim majority Malerkotla opted to remain in India, putting their faith in a blessing announced on their ancestor by Guru Gobind Singh. Today, the newer generations of those families are at the farmers’ protest at Singhu border, strengthening the message of Sikh-Muslim brotherhood. Mobin Farooqi, an advocate, arrived from Malerkotla two weeks ago and is working at the langar the Muslim community has set up at the protest site. “This langar is our way of supporting our Sikh brothers and sisters. Though our scale is smaller than the others here, we feel blessed to be able to feed the people zarda and namkeen chaawal.” Video: Muslims from Malerkotla district in Punjab serve langar to Sikhs and other protesters at Singhu border in De… https://t.co/XphhMgMw1j— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1607666200000Zarda is yellow sweetened rice. Calling it prasad, Tariq Manzoor, another Malerkotla resident, told TOI, “This dish is associated with weddings and special occasions in our district. This protest is an important event, so we prepared zarda for our farmer brethren.” Manzoor added that just as the Sikhs engage in seva, Muslims similarly revere the concept of khidmat and mandatorily offer help to everyone. Farooqi, Manzoor and the 50 volunteers from Malerkotla harken back to the time when the Muslims stood up for the Sikhs. History has it that when the sons of Guru Gobind Singh, Sahibzada Fateh Singh and Sahibzada Zorawar Singh, were ordered to be tortured by the governor of Sirhind, the nawab of Malerkotla, Sher Mohammed Khan, opposed the order, earning the respect, support and blessings of the tenth Sikh guru. Underlining the idea of brotherhood, Manzoor said that Sikhs too faced religious and ethnic bias like the Muslims. “We don’t feel happy about this because we all want to live in peace and tranquillity,” said Manzoor. “None of my ancestors ever thought of making Pakistan home even when there was so much animosity between the communities at that time.” Enjoying the zarda at the langar was Daljinder Singh, a sarpanch of a village in Punjab’s Fatehgarh district. “These people are our brothers and there is no doubt in my mind that they have been true to this special relationship for centuries in Punjab,” said Singh. “We share the same culture, the same literary inspirations and the same music. For us, Gurdwara Uch da Pir is a holy site built at the home of brothers Ghani Khan and Nabi Khan who saved our Guru. This amity has prevailed for centuries, and the people of Malerkotla have proved it once again by coming here to support us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/muslim-sikh-amity-continues-guru-gobind-to-singhu-border/articleshow/79670206.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR’s sanctions sops worth Rs 440 crore for Siddipet; LI project and hospital on cards||HYDERABAD: Turning emotional, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday said Telangana won’t be there without KCR even as he showered sops worth Rs 440 crore on Siddipet. The sops include a lift irrigation project for providing drinking water around Siddipet, developing Ranganayaka Sagar area as a tourism spot, beautification of Komati Cheruvu, construction of an auditorium and integrated market complex in the town. “KCR is not there without Siddipet and Telangana is not there without KCR,” he said while addressing a public meeting at the Government Degree College in Siddipet on Thursday. Before addressing the meeting, the CM said when he was a legislator representing Siddipet, he had requested then CM of united AP NT Rama Rao to make Siddipet into a district. “After I contested from Karimnagar Lok Sabha and handed over Siddipet, Harish Rao turned Siddipet into a wonderful town,” KCR said, lauding Harish, who represents Siddipet in the assembly now. CM said Siddipet water supply scheme which Harish had launched as an MLA has now shaped into Mission Bhagiratha scheme for the entire state. “Mission Bhagiratha is the only scheme in the country which has provided tap connections covering 98.3% households in the state. Even the Centre has appreciated the scheme and replicated it in the country,” the CM said. He announced Rs 100 crore for developing Ranganayaka Sagar reservoir surroundings into a tourism hub, including construction of international convention centre, and other projects in 65 acres.  He said a lift would be constructed at ‘Irukodi’ for providing drinking water facility for villages under Kaleshwaram project in three assembly constituencies around Siddipet at a cost of Rs 85 crore. “With Siddipet developing rapidly, there was a demand for a ring road connecting 22 villages around Rajiv Rahadari. About Rs 161 crore will be released for the ring road and orders will be issued soon,” the CM said. On the requests of local MLAs and Harish, the CM said a four-lane road from Siddipet to Illanthakunta would be taken up. On the lines of Mahati auditorium in his assembly constituency, the CM sanctioned an auditorium with 2,000-seat capacity for Siddipet at a cost of Rs 50 crore and another Rs 25 crore for development of Komati Cheruvu in the district headquarters. He sanctioned 1,000 2BHK houses. Prior to the meeting, the CM inaugurated Rythu Vedika at Mittapally near Siddipet and a government medical college. The college covering an area of three lakh square feet was constructed at a cost of Rs 715 crore.  CM laid foundation stone for a 1,000-bed government hospital. He also inaugurated 2,460 2BHK housing units in Siddipet constructed at a cost of Rs 145 crore, a function hall and an integrated market in the colony, which was named as ‘KCR Nagar’. He inaugurated an underground drainage system in Siddipet at a cost of Rs 278 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcrs-sanctions-sops-worth-rs-440cr-for-siddipet-li-project-and-hospital-on-cards/articleshow/79667702.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Speed up power sub-stations work, min tells officials||LUCKNOW: State energy minister Shrikant Sharma has directed power officials to expedite work on sub-stations being set up to ensure uninterrupted power supply as well as to tackle the problem of low voltage during summers. Reviewing the functioning of the UP Power Transmission Corporation Limited here on Thursday, the minister directed the officers to enhance the capacity of all those sub-stations which are functioning on 90% or more capacity before the onset of summers. He said that this year the maximum power demand was 23,867MW which was successfully achieved by the department. “We are continuously improving the power network in the state,” he said. Sharma said that in the next summers the maximum energy demand may go up to 26,500MW. To meet this demand both import and transmission capacities are to be increased to 14,000MW and 28,000MW. Currently, the import and transmission capacities are 13,500MW and 25,500MW respectively, the minister added. Claiming that the corporation is in the process of setting up 52 transmission sub-stations in the state, he said work on 13 sub-stations has been completed and the remaining 39 would be completed by March 31 next year. After the completion of all these sub-stations the tripping and low voltage problems of at least 50 districts would be easily tackled, he added. The corporation is also working on a plan to develop a transmission network to meet the projected power demand of 31,500MW by 2025. For this 198 transmission sub-stations would be set up in the state, the minister said. He also advised the officers to ensure that minimum agricultural land be acquired for laying of transmission lines in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/speed-up-power-sub-stations-work-min-tells-officials/articleshow/79670185.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Delhi||‘BJP goons’ attacked Manish Sisodia’s house: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday alleged that “goons from BJP” attacked the residence of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia even as Delhi Police personnel remained mute spectators during the incident. However, Delhi BJP refuted the claims, while police detained six people for jumping the barricades and entering the premises in the afternoon. Sisodia tweeted in Hindi, “Today, in my absence, goons of BJP broke the doors of my house, entered inside and tried to attack my wife and children. @AmitShah Ji, if you lost in politics in Delhi, is this the way you will tackle us?” He also posted CCTV footage showing a group of men marching towards his house and barging through the main door. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I strongly condemn the systematic, organised and violent attack on deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s home. The goons entered his house in the presence of police while he was away. Why is BJP getting so desperate by the day in Delhi?” Later, quoting a tweet by defence minister Rajnath Singh, Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi: “Rajnath Ji, don’t you think that a violent attack on Delhi’s deputy CM’s residence in the presence of police is wrong? Why is there so much anger in BJP over the support of the farmers’ movement by AAP and Delhi government?” Saurabh Bharadwaj, AAP chief spokesperson, alleged that while Kejriwal was under house arrest for the past several days, Delhi Police personnel, who were responsible for protecting Sisodia’s residence, had prior information of the attack and intentionally removed the barricades. AAP MLA Atishi said such an incident had never occurred in the political history of Delhi. “Protests happen in offices, during visits, public dealings, but never on the family. Especially at a time when the minister was not available,” she added. Senior police officers said Hukum Chand, a BJP functionary, had applied for permission to protest outside Sisodia’s house, but the application was rejected. On Thursday afternoon, around 150 BJP workers had reached Sisodia's house. DCP Eish Singhal, Delhi Police PRO, said, “Adequate force was deployed and arrangements were made. Some workers managed to jump the barricades and reach the camp office. Six of them were detained and the rest were dispersed. Based on a complaint by C Arvind, secretary to the deputy chief minister, a proper offence has been registered under appropriate sections of law and investigation is on. Allegations of damage to the gate are incorrect.” Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said not a single party karyakarta had entered Sisodia’s house. He claimed that the video shared on social media was made on July 12. He alleged that AAP functionaries had, instead, threatened to kill the mayors protesting outside the CM’s residence. “BJP fights for the interest of the people of Delhi in a dignified and democratic manner and plays the role of the opposition with honesty,” he claimed. Watch Protesting BJP workers barge into Delhi dy CM Manish Sisodia's residence||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-goons-attacked-sisodias-house-aap/articleshow/79670170.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Agra||Agra police seizes 37 boxes of illicit liquor from a dry well||AGRA: In a joint operation, a team of excise department and Agra police on Thursday recovered 37 boxes of illicit liquor worth Rs 1.15lakh hidden in a 30-feet deep dry well in Agra’s Chaunsingi village. The raid was conducted on the basis of information extracted from liquor smugglers who were arrested with seven boxes of illicit liquor a day earlier. Superintendent of police (east) K Venkat Ashok, said that each box contains 48 small bottles and one of the accused, Tinku, who belongs to the village, had dumped them in the dry well, outside his house. The FIR was registered under relevant sections of IPC along with a few sections of Excise Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-police-seizes-37-boxes-of-illicit-liquor-from-a-dry-well/articleshow/79666743.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||Ustad of modern Indian dance Deboo dead at 73||Legendary choreographer and Padma Shri awardee Astad Deboo — who created a unique Indian contemporary dance vocabulary and whose loving yet firm instruction to his dancers that, “If it doesn’t kill you, it’s no good”— passed away on Thursday at age 73. He was diagnosed with cancer last month. “He left us in the early hours of December 10, at his home in Mumbai, after a brief illness, bravely borne. He leaves behind a formidable legacy of unforgettable performances combined with an unswerving dedication to his art, matched only by his huge, loving heart that gained him thousands of friends and a vast number of admirers,” said a social media announcement by Deboo’s family. Born into a Parsi family on the brink of India’s independence in Navsari, Gujarat, Deboo began to train in kathak under Prahlad Das in Kolkata and in kathakali under E K Pannicker. But finding the styles too restrictive, he boarded a cargo ship with a backpack and sat next to goats and sheep to explore international dance forms and, over time, collaborated with other styles from Indonesia and Japan to reach a stage where every Deboo show promised aninnovation. Slowly, the unitards were replaced by flared dhotis and long, layered homespun angarkhas that created aesthetic illusions as he spun and bent gracefully onstage. Deboo also forayed into other disciplines, like cinema, choreographing for directors such as Mani Ratnam, Vishal Bhardwaj and legendary painter M F Hussain for his film “Meenaxi: A Tale of Three Cities” In the mid-2000s, when Deboo performed with his troupe of deaf dancers in the Rashtrapati Bhavan, then president APJ Abdul Kalam was moved to tears and offered to serve the deaf performers dinner himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ustad-of-modern-indian-dance-deboo-dead-at-73/articleshow/79671662.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
December 11, 2020||Delhi||10,000 Covid patients go home from Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital||NEW DELHI: In the last 10 months since Delhi reported the first case of Covid-19, Lok Nayak Hospital has treated over 10,000 patients affected by viral disease. The hospital claims this is the highest number of Covid patients treated at any single government hospital in the country. According to Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, which has 2,000 dedicated beds for Covid-19 patients, the first patient infected by the novel coronavirus was admitted on March 17. “In the initial period, we didn’t know much about the disease or how it should be treated,” Dr Kumar said. “Our healthcare workers were afraid because they were at highest risk of catching the infection. But everyone continued to make efforts to save lives, sometimes at the cost of their own.” Three hospital staff — a doctor, a technician and a safai karamchari — have died due to Covid till date. More than 300 others got infected by the virus but recovered, according to hospital officials. The Delhi government-run hospital was among the first few hospitals in the country to give plasma therapy to aid recovery in persons suffering from mild symptoms of Covid. Also, it was the first government hospital where Remdesivir — an anti-viral drug developed originally to treat Ebola — was tried in the case of Covid in India, said a senior doctor. The doctor added that Lok Nayak Hospital had admitted 15,113 suspected or confirmed cases of Covid since March. Of them, 10,145 patients who were confirmed positive for the infection were cured of the disease and discharged. They included 388 (4%) children. There were 8,014 (79%) patients with co-morbidities such as hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and kidney diseases, among others, while 1,913 patients underwent dialysis while undergoing Covid treatment. “We also conducted successful deliveries for 524 Covid-positive mothers,” the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital said, adding that because of the threat of the infection spreading, many private nursing homes and hospitals weren’t delivering babies in the initial phases of the Covid outbreak in the capital. “We made special arrangements to ensure this essential service was not neglected. A special neonatal ICU and critical care facility was readied for the babies of Covid-positive mothers. Also, a dedicated labour room and a separate emergency operation theatre for Caesarean sections were prepared,” Dr Kumar said. The hospital also created a special Covid ward for children, the first-of-its-kind in Delhi, to keep the juniors entertained as they recuperated from the infection. It has television sets, a small play area and a painting station, among other facilities. “Most children don’t have severe symptoms. But they require isolation and medical monitoring if they have co-morbidities. In some cases, children have to be kept in the isolation ward if their parents are infected and they have no one else to take care of them at home,” said an official. He added that the hospital has video-calling facilities and when the children cry a lot, the nurses attending to them make them speak to the parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10000-covid-patients-go-home-from-lnjp/articleshow/79670228.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||After Centre’s clearance for removal of inner-line permit restrictions, U’khand’s own ‘Amarnath-like yatra’ to begin from March next year||Dehradun: In a fillip to the state government’s efforts to promote a pilgrimage to Timmersain Mahadev in Chamoli district on the lines of the Amarnath Yatra of Kashmir, the central government has removed restrictions of applying for inner-line permit to visit the area. Nestled in the picturesque Niti Valley of Garhwal Himalayas, Timmersain is home to a unique cave where ice ‘Shivlings’ take shape in the winter just like the Amarnath cave in Kashmir. The site has been revered by locals for several years, and the state government has been trying for long to boost tourism in the area with an Amarnath-like yatra. However, the pilgrimage could not take off as the area fell under the inner- line limit (measured from international border to the ITBP or Army post) due to its proximity to the Tibet border and visitors required special permission from the district authorities to travel here. Confirming the development of the inner-line permit restrictions having been removed, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the state government is now planning to start the Timmersain Mahadev yatra from March next year. “I had written to Union home minister Amit Shah in August 2019 requesting him to remove Timmersain from the inner-line limits. This will not only promote religious tourism in the area but also help reverse migration from the hills.” The minister added, “The ice Shivlings in the area are visible till May. We will work out the modalities for the yatra to be started in March. Snow-cutters will be deployed and the route made ready. Based on the response that we receive, we will further improve the infrastructure and other arrangements.” Timmersain is a 3.5-km trek from the nearest town Joshimath. As it is a tough terrain, the journey is likely to take nearly two hours. According to the preliminary plan prepared by the state government, pilgrims would trek to the area and return the same day after spending a few hours at the cave. In the event of either snowfall or heavy rain, locals would make the requisite arrangements for overnight stay. Political analyst Udit Ghildiyal, who visited Timmersain over a year ago, said, “People avoid going to Timmersain due to the inner-line restrictions. With the removal of restrictions, the yatra will boost tourism in the region and popularise it among more travellers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-centres-clearance-for-removal-of-inner-line-permit-restrictions-ukhands-own-amarnath-like-yatra-to-begin-from-march-next-year/articleshow/79666765.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Woman and her two daughters die in suicide pact||HYDERABAD: A 48-year-old housewife and her two daughters committed suicide by consuming poison at their house in Khammam town on Wednesday night. They resorted to the extreme step reportedly due to financial problems. The family is scheduled to perform a marriage next month. The deceased were identified as Govindamma, 48, her daughters —Radhika, 30, and Ramya, 28 — from Gandhi Chowk in Khammam town. Govindamma’s husband, G Prakash, works as a gold polisher in Mahbubabad town. Prakash leaves home early in the morning for work and returns late in the night. Despite his long working hours, the financial condition of the family was bad. Recently, elder daughter Radhika’s marriage was fixed. Though the marriage is scheduled for January 9, the family could not arrange sufficient money from relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-two-daughters-die-in-suicide-pact/articleshow/79669199.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Agra||UP court defers hearing on Mathura’s Sri Krishna Janambhoomi case||AGRA: A court in UP’s Mathura on Thursday adjourned the hearing on a petition seeking ownership of 13.3acre of Shri Krishna Janmasthan temple land and removal of a mosque. The next hearing will take place on January 7. The same plea was dismissed in a civil court on September 30, following which the petitioners moved the district court against the order in October. The appeal was admitted in the court of district judge Sadhna Rani Thakur. The petition was filed by a Lucknow lawyer and five others, on behalf of deity ‘Lord Sri Krishna Virajman’ Meanwhile, two new pleas were filed, one each by a priests’ body and by a social organisation, pleading that the sensitivity of the matter needs to be understood since the issue can disrupt the “communal harmony of Mathura town”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-court-defers-hearing-on-mathuras-sri-krishna-janambhoomi-case/articleshow/79666749.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||International airport for Siddipet in future: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said a second international airport would come up in the state at Siddipet, which is about 100 km from Hyderabad, in near future. The present international airport at Shamshabad is about 120-130 km from Siddipet district. The CM made these remarks after laying the foundation for construction of an IT tower at Duddeda, near Siddipet. IT Park would come up at Duddeda at a cost of Rs 45 crore in a sprawling area of 3,000 acres with 60,000 square feet office space. On the occasion, four IT companies from the US signed MoUs with the state government to set up their offices in the IT Park. Four entrepreneurs from Siddipet settled in the US have come forward to set up establishments in IT tower, which will provide employment to 900 people. 3,000 people would be getting employment directly and indirectly. The IT tower will be completed in a year. The second phase will be taken up in another 60,000 sq feet area. TNN Siddipet is located close to Hyderabad and we can expect another international airport in the area around Siddipet in the future. The establishment of an IT tower will facilitate development of Siddipe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intl-airport-for-siddipet-in-future-cm/articleshow/79667707.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Minister violated poll code, alleges Congress||THRISSUR: Minister for local self-government department (LSD) A C Moideen violated the poll code by voting before 7am, the scheduled time to kick off the polling, Congress leaders alleged on Thursday. In their complaint to the state election commissioner (SEC), Thrissur MP T N Prathapan and DCC president M P Vincent said the minister cast his vote at 6.55am in the polling booth at ward 16 in Thekkumkara panchayat. They demanded that the SEC should take action against the minister and the poll officer concerned. Anil Akkara, MLA also strongly condemned the alleged violation by the minister. “The minister is supposed to ensure that the poll process is conducted completely as per the law, and it is condemnable that he has indulged in such violation,’’ Akkara said. District collector S Shanawaz denied the allegations and said as per a report received from the returning officer, he followed the time shown on his watch. “The RO can follow only his watch, and his report will be sent to the SEC,’’ the collector said. Sources close to the minister said he had cast his vote after standing in the queue for about 20 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/min-violated-poll-code-alleges-cong/articleshow/79667716.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Maoist ‘courier’ held in Cherla||HYDERABAD: An alleged Maoist courier was arrested and explosives were seized from his possession in Cherla in Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Wednesday evening. Acting on specific information that Maoists were planning to trigger landmine blasts targeting police during the ongoing People’s Liberation Guerilla Army’s (PLGA) 20th-anniversary celebrations, police conducted a combing operation at Chintaguppa-Bodhanelly forest area near Cherla on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-courier-held-in-cherla/articleshow/79669214.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Tariff reduced, new parking system introduced at airport||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The new reduced tariff for parking vehicles at Thiruvananthapuram International Airport has come into effect from Saturday onwards. Besides the reduced rates, airport authorities have also modified the vehicle parking system in a bid to ease the congestion at entry and exit points off terminal buildings of the airport. As per the new system, vehicles have to be parked inside the designated parking islands and the toll on parking will be collected at the exit of the island. In the earlier system, a token was issued at the terminal entrance and the toll was collected at the exit terminal. This often used to create long queues of vehicles at the entry and exit points. The new system will help decongest the entry and exit points of the terminals. The parking fees for various types of vehicles have been reduced considerably to promote customers to park vehicles inside the designated area, thus avoiding unauthorized parking along the road in front of the terminal building. No access fee shall be levied from private vehicles and airport taxi which enter the arrival area for pick-up of passengers. However, there will be access fee for commercial vehicles entering the arrival area for the same purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tariff-reduced-new-parking-system-introduced-at-airport/articleshow/79669270.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Reopen schools as teachers being forced out of jobs: Managements||Hyderabad: Claiming that the closure of schools since March is forcing teachers to leave profession permanently, Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association on Wednesday said the state should immediately reopen schools so that talented faculty members are not forced out of the field. They said that TRSMA will also help the National Independent Schools Alliance (NIS) in making a documentary showing struggles that students and teachers are facing during the pandemic. “Teaching and non-teaching staff are forced to take up odd jobs for survival,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA. “Many are moving out of the teaching field in search of better opportunities. Unless schools are reopened, and they are assured of job security, talented people will not be part of the teaching field any more. Losing good teachers will have an adverse impact, especially on the coming generation.” They said that about 33 crore children are forced to stay at home due to Covid-19, which in turn, is having an effect on their mental health. “Parents are deeply concerned about the future of their children,” said Kulbhushan Sharma, president, NIS. “With many children getting addicted to television, electronic gadgets, and online gaming, parents are a worried lot. Our documentary will talk about all such issues. It will also highlight the struggles of teachers and non-teaching staff during the pandemic.” S Madhusudhan, general secretary, TRSMA, said: “Malls, theatres, among other establishments are all doing their business. People are attending weddings and visiting their relatives. When children or their parents are not scared of coronavirus or contracting the virus by going out or doing other activities, why are they worried that their children will contract the virus if schools are reopened? Can the government stop children from stepping out of their homes.” The TRSMA members questioned why the state government is not reopening schools when it has already given permission to all other establishments to reopen||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reopen-schools-as-teachers-being-forced-out-of-jobs-managements/articleshow/79667718.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Pune||PMPML proposes Metro Neo corridor along Swargate-Katraj BRTS stretch||PUNE: The district administration has urged MahaMetro and PMC officials to look into the option of having a Metro Neo corridor along the Swargate-Katraj BRTS route aligning with the city bus services. Metro Neo is a rail-guided urban transport system with rubber-tyred electric coaches powered by an overhead traction system running on elevated or at-grade sections. The issue was discussed on Wednesday during a Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority meeting attended by Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) and Pune Municipal Corporation officials and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap, among others. “A proposal on Metro Neo was moved during the meeting. The divisional commissioner urged the PMC to look into the proposal,” Jagtap said on Thursday. “The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is considering to have a Metro Neo corridor from Chakan to its high capacity mass transit route. In Pune city, the Metro is supposed to proceed underground along the Swargate-Katraj bus rapid transport system (BRTS) corridor. Instead, Metro Neo will be a cost-effective option,” he said. “MahaMetro officials have pledged to look into the option. The cost of having an underground tunnel along the corridor for the Metro project is high. A Metro Neo corridor can bring down the cost by almost 15%. The PMPML’s air-conditioned buses can provide the feeder services,” Jagtap added. The 5.5km-long Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor is still under construction. Among the major bus stops along the stretch are Dhankawadi, Katraj, Padmavati and Market Yard Chowk among others. “We have requested MahaMetro to support us for capital expenditure and viability funding for these services. The feeder service to ensure integration between Yerawada, Ramwadi and Kalyaninagar Metro stations will be prioritized,” Jagtap said. The Centre is planning to approve national standard specifications for Metro Neo projects for tier 2 and tier 3 cities. Maharashtra has already given a green signal for this transit system in Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-proposes-metro-neo-corridor-along-swargate-katraj-brts-stretch/articleshow/79669240.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Recast anti-Romeo squads book 2,500 repeat offenders||LUCKNOW: The remodelled anti-Romeo squads operational in and around Lucknow have handed out written warnings to over 30,000 youths indulging in objectionable acts over the past month and booked 2,491 repeat offenders, many of them under Goonda Act. In its new avatar, anti-Romeo squads are tracking and initiating action against youths, who despite warnings were indulging in objectionable activity. Heading the operations, inspector general of police, Lucknow, Laxmi Singh, said, an intensive drive will reveal results within next few months with a dip in molestation, eve-teasing and other such crimes. “We made a presentation before chief minister Yogi Adityanath and after his nod, the remodelled units were made operational,” said Singh. The same model was implemented across the state and all anti-Romeo units were directed to follow suit. First, stalkers and those passing lewd remarks are nabbed and counselled in public. When they refuse to reform, they are booked under Goonda Act.” A senior officer at DGP headquarters said, the squads have patrolled and checked 10 lakh areas across the state, challaned 16,299 youths for breach of peace, booked 1,000 for obscenity and 1,491 under Goonda Act over last one month. In some districts those booked under Goonda Act have been banished from villages after a name-and-shame drive. “Externment of repeat offenders for six months will send a strong message,”said IG Laxmi Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recast-anti-romeo-squads-book-2500-repeat-offenders/articleshow/79670233.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Palakkad sees unusual rush of women voters||PALAKKAD: There was an unusual rush of women voters to cast their votes since early morning, both in the rural and urban areas of the district, which has baffled political parties and political observers alike. This polls also saw a reversal of the trend of women voters turning up in the afternoon after completing the home chores. In the first hour of the election, the polling percentage in the district was 8.11%, which rose to 17.34% by 10am and crossed 34% by 11 am. At 12 noon, the polling was 44.62% and it shot up to 72.58% by 4pm. At 6pm, it was 77.51%. Long queues were found in many polling booths even after the polling time ended at 6pm. The Covid-19 positive voters were allowed to vote after the voters in the queue exercised their franchise. In all probability, the average final polling percentage in the district could cross the last 2015 election’s percentage of 80.41. Meanwhile, all three fronts claimed that the brisk and high polling could help them. Leaders of each front expressed hope that the new trend of women turning up in large numbers from the very beginning of the polling at rural and urban areas would work in their favour. The UDF leaders said that the women have turned up in large numbers to vote against the LDF government while the BJP said that it was a clear sign of pro-Narendra Modi wave as the people had benefited from many Central government schemes. A top LDF leader said that the safety and security of women ensured by the LDF government, the valiant fight against Covid-19, the distribution of free food kits, etc. prompted women voters to support to the Pinarayi Vijayan government. He said that it was a similar trend that brought the V S Achuthanandan government to power in 2006. Voters protest against faulty EVMs: Voting was disrupted for a few minutes at St Sebastian School polling station in ward no. 23 of Palakkad municipality on Thursday after electronic voting machines (EVMs) became defunct. Some voters returned in protest without casting their votes. Polling was restarted after rectifying the error.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pkd-sees-unusual-rush-of-women-voters/articleshow/79667737.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Engineering cut-offs may rise, computer science favourite||PUNE: Several top engineering colleges in the city expect the first-round cut-off marks in the centralised admission process to go up marginally when compared to last year. The computer science stream will still remain the top choice among students bagging the highest cut-off marks, they said. Students have scored more marks this year in the common entrance test, with 41 bagging a perfect score in both mathematics (PCM) and biology (PCB) groups, as opposed to the last two years. The provisional merit list will be announced on December 18 and the final merit list and the provisional categorywise seats on December 22. College of Engineering Pune’s director B B Ahuja said stiff competition is expected, especially in the general category seats. He said the cut-off marks for all engineering branches will go up. There are just two centralised rounds and a third round will be at the college level. Seats in the computer science-IT streams will not be available in the college-level round as both branches have the highest demand. There could be seats at the institute level for the other engineering branches, Ahuja said. “Some students who do not get into computer science or IT branches in their choice of colleges tend to take admission in BCA or other such courses which gives them programming knowledge, instead of taking admission in another branch of engineering,” he said. Shitalkumar Rawandale, training and placement officer at Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering, forecast a marginal rise in cut-offs but advised students who wish to take admission in mechanical or civil engineering courses to not be deterred because of ‘less placement’ value associated with these branches. “Mechanical students will never remain unplaced if they agree to join medium-scale companies. Most jobs in the government sector are for civil engineering students and not for computer-IT or electronics students. All students must learn programming in the first year. An engineering student without good programming skills would be almost illiterate in future,” Rawandale said. R M Jalnekar, director of Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said the cut-off marks will be higher but fluctuations in the admission process will be less. Every year, the state admissions would be held first, followed by JEE and NEET. Students would take admission in the colleges here after the CAP rounds, but later cancel them when they got into the IITs, NIT or other such institutes, he said. “This year, since JEE and NEET admissions started first, students, who got through these colleges, would have confirmed their admissions there. This will lead to a stable admission process for us due to fewer cancellations,” Jalnekar added. Some said the delay in admissions, reluctance among parents to send their wards to faraway colleges, and the commencement of classes in deemed universities may have a dampening effect on the cut-offs which then may remain as before. Madhuri Kambete, principal of Cummins College of Engineering for Women, said a small number of students may have taken admission in the deemed universities already. “Moreover, many parents would not want to send their children away from their home towns due to the pandemic this year,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engg-cut-offs-may-rise-comp-science-favourite/articleshow/79669201.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Usilampatti–Andipatti BG work done, CRS to inspect on Dec 16||Madurai: The 21km Usilampatti-Andipatti broad gauge conversion work will be inspected by commissioner of railway safety (CRS) Abhai Kumar Rai on December 16. Senior railway officials said that the CRS will conduct a trolley inspection from Andipatti to Usilampatti from 10.30am till afternoon. It will be followed by a speed trial at up to 120km/hr at 4pm. On Friday (December 11), a speed trial at 80km/h will be conducted by the officials to check the track’s readiness for the CRS inspection. Speed trial will be conducted from 2pm to 4pm. Public are requested to stay away from the track during the trial. Of the 90.4km Madurai-Bodi broad gauge conversion work in Madurai and Theni districts, the 37km Madurai-Usilampatti stretch was completed and inspected by the CRS in January. Once, inspection on the Usilampatti-Andipatti section is completed and approval given, it would mark the readiness of the 58km stretch between Madurai and Andipatti. The section comprises 60 minor bridges, 12 subways, one major bridge (36m-long with three spans of 12m each for a width of three metres) and a three km Andipatti–Kanavai ghat section. Though the 21km project was sanctioned in 2016, less than 10% of the work was completed in two years, resulting in the termination of the contract in September 2019. “The new contract was awarded in December 2019 and the remaining 90% of the work was completed thereafter,” an official said. The most challenging part on the stretch was blasting rocks for a height of 34m in the Kanavai ghat section. The newly-completed section has a 90m elevation from the 42nd to 49th km to clear the pass. The elevation at this stretch is one meter for every 80m, against the usual elevation of one meter for every 100m. Goods trains have been plying between Usilampatti and Andipatti for the railway construction work for nearly 40 days with one train operated at a speed of 30 to 50km/h. A senior official told TOI that the 17km Andipatti-Theni stretch is likely to be ready for CRS inspection by next April and the remaining 15km from Theni to Bodi by September next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/usilampattiandipatti-bg-work-done-crs-to-inspect-on-dec-16/articleshow/79670248.cms||M K Ananth
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||City records highest December temp in 5 yrs||Ahmedabad: Even as December is approaching its midpoint, Amdavadis are still to get their woolens out and are depending on ceiling fans to survive the heat – the reason is apparent, on December 9, the maximum temperature of the city was 34.3 degrees celsius, which was 3.9 degrees higher than the normal. The minimum temperature of 16 degrees was also 2.3 degrees higher than the normal. To put the figure in perspective, it was the highest maximum temperature during December for the city in past five years – in 2015, the city had recorded its all-time high maximum December temperature of 35.6 degrees. The mercury was over 34 degrees earlier in 2012 with 34.2 degrees and 35 degrees in 2011. On Thursday, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Ahmedabad city were 33.3 degrees and 17.5 degrees respectively – which were 2.9 and 3.8 degrees higher than the normal respectively, mentioned the India Meteorological Department (IMD) website. Except Amreli and Diu, all other major weather stations of IMD recorded maximum temperature of 30 degrees or above on Thursday. Explaining the phenomenon of ‘hot winter,’ Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, told TOI that the chill starts setting in for Gujarat with onset of northerly winds. “But this year, the wind direction pattern got disturbed due to the recent cyclones in the northern Indian Ocean, which also brought in rainfall for several southern states. Even Gujarat recently got sporadic rain in isolated spots and overall, the state experienced cloudy atmosphere,” he said. So, is winter coming for the state? Sarkar said that there will be no large change for the next two days. “Afterwards, there would be a drop of 3 to 4 degrees in minimum temperature,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-records-highest-december-temp-in-5-yrs/articleshow/79669274.cms||Parth Shastri
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Gelatin sticks & detonators seized||Hyderabad: Bhongir police arrested two persons on Wednesday night and seized 1792 gelatin sticks and 1600 detonators from their possession. Acting on specific information, Bhongir town police kept a watch near the Dolphin eatery and intercepted a car. Police arrested, K Venkat Reddy, a businessman from LB Nagar along with his driver, Bhaskar and seized 1792 gelatine sticks and 1600 detonators from their possession. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gelatin-sticks-detonators-seized/articleshow/79669249.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Union min regrets not replying to MP in English||Madurai: The central government on Thursday informed the Madras high court that Union minister of state for home affairs has expressed regret for not sending an English version of his Hindi reply to Madurai MP Su Venkatesan. The court was hearing a petition filed by Venkatesan, who had sought a direction to ensure that all communications between the central government and state of Tamil Nadu and its people and also Tamil Nadu MPs shall be in English alone. When the case was taken up for hearing on Thursday, assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri circulated a letter to the court in which the minister had expressed his regret. The petitioner had stated that after a notification was issued for CRPF paramedical recruitment drive, he had sent a representation on October 9, to the ministry of state for home affairs seeking to set up exam centres at Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. He stated that he received a reply dated November 9, which was in Hindi. Since he hails from a non-Hindi speaking state and does not know to read, write or speak Hindi, he sent a representation to the ministry protesting the act of sending the reply in Hindi. Despite the representation, the ministry had not chosen to recall the communication in Hindi and also did not send any reply in English, . During the hearing, the petitioner’s counsel submitted that the Lok Sabha speaker had sent an invitation in Hindi to the MP for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the new Parliament building. Only after the MP sent an objection, the English version of the invitation was sent belatedly. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the court feels that such kinds of problems should not continue in the future as India is a multi-linguistic country. Hence, the judges directed the central government to file a counter on the grievance expressed by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/union-min-regrets-not-replying-to-mp-in-english/articleshow/79670241.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Sacked VC of Manipur Univ in dowry row||Varanasi: A case under Dowry Act and domestic violence was lodged against the dismissed vice-chancellor of Manipur University Prof Adya Prasad Pandey, his wife and former Bharatiya Janata Party MLC Veena Pandey, and their two sons on the complaint of his daughter-in-law on Thursday. Inspector, Lanka, Mahesh Pandey said that on the complaint of Neha Pandey, an FIR against her father-in-law Adya Prasad Pandey, mother-in-law Veena Pandey, husband Dr Shivesh Pandey and brother-in-law Dr Nilesh Pandey has been lodged under section 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 504 (intentional insult)), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 313 (causing miscarriage without consent of woman) of IPC, section 3 and 4 of dowry prohibition act. Police said the complainant alleged she was married to Shivesh in 2014 and since then she was tortured for not fulfilling her demand of gifting a vehicle worth Rs 25 lakh to Shivesh .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sacked-vc-of-manipur-univ-in-dowry-row/articleshow/79670246.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Range Hills-Civil Court tunnel work didn’t harm bldgs||Pune: Over 225 buildings along the Range Hills-Civil Court underground Metro stretch did not suffer any damage because of the tunnelling work, the MahaMetro said on Thursday in a bid to allay fear of residents near the Civil Court-Kasba Peth-Mandai-Swargate section of the project. A survey of all the buildings near the Range Hills-Civil Court underground Metro stretch was conducted before the excavation work started. The buildings were classified into good, moderate, severe and very severe categories. Four structures were in the severe and the very severe categories, but even they did not suffer any damage because of the tunnelling work, said a senior official of the MahaMetro (Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited).The MahaMetro has initiated a similar survey of building structures on the Civil Court-Kasba Peth-Mandai-Swargate stretch, where the Metro’s tunnel would be aligned.There was continuous monitoring of vibrations and their impact on the buildings when the tunnel boring machines (TBM) started digging the tunnel from the Range Hills towards the Civil Court. The instrumentation and monitoring of 226 buildings from the Range Hills depot to the Civil Court station was done.The allowed peak particle velocity (PPV) was 12mm/s. The maximum PPV was observed at 2mm/s, an official from the MahaMetro said.The MahaMetro said both the machines had been pulled out at the Civil Court station site. The next phase of excavation from the Civil Court towards Kasba Peth would begin soon.The plans for the next phase of work were being finalized, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/range-hills-civil-court-tunnel-work-didnt-harm-bldgs/articleshow/79669272.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar administration may levy ‘solid waste charges’ on pilgrims||HARIDWAR: Haridwar district administration has planned to impose solid waste management charges on tourists and pilgrims who come to the city and stay in hotels and dharamshalas. The actual amount is yet to be decided but sources said it could be around Rs 10 or 15 per room. The Haridwar Municipal Corporation (HMC) is responsible for the disposal of solid waste collected from the residential colonies and commercial institutions of the city. But the municipal corporation claims that there is an acute shortage of funds for the disposal of waste which is why, tourists and pilgrims are now proposed to be charged. Haridwar’s district magistrate C Ravishankar told TOI, “A large floating population reaches Haridwar every year and contributes to the waste accumulation in the city, which is why charges are proposed to be levied on them. The Haridwar Municipal Corporation has limited resources and therefore, we are planning to collect money through solid waste management charges which will help us to dispose of the garbage effectively. A meeting with the hoteliers will be held soon to take the proposal forward.” Meanwhile, the hoteliers are unhappy with the new proposal and said that it is the government’s duty to keep the city clean.  “It is not the right time to impose any new charges because we have been facing huge losses due to Covid-induced lockdown. Also, it is the government’s responsibility to dispose of the garbage and allocate a budget for the same,” said Vibhash Mishra, a hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-administration-may-levy-solid-waste-charges-on-pilgrims/articleshow/79666826.cms||MS Nawaz
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Plea on Qutub mosque: Historians slam taking history out of context||NEW DELHI: The suit filed in a Delhi court demanding placing of Hindu and Jain idols and their worship inside Quwwat ul-Islam Masjid at the Qutub Minar complex has been frowned upon by historians. While some have lamented the lack of understanding of history, a few others are of the view that this can lead to further communalisation of the discourse. “History is not a matter of public opinion,” said historian Professor Harbans Mukhia. “Historical events take place in their context. You can’t isolate a 12th-century fact from its context and present it in the 21st century and claim victimhood. Where does logic find a place in all this?” Historian Professor Catherine B Asher was aghast too. “Giving a full, even imagined, history of the site could be important, but to actually transform it into a Hindu or Jain temple would be a matter of serious erasing of history,” she said. Historian of Delhi Dr Swapna Liddle, who edited the English translation of the 19th-century work, ‘Sair ul-Manazil’, expressed her dismay at this “never-ending, fruitless quest to right historical wrongs”. “Nobody denies the fact that temples were destroyed in a moment of war. But this was not because they were symbols of a rival faith but because they were symbols of power of the regime that was supplanted. That context is important,” Liddle said. Liddle said the entire record needs to be looked at for anyone to have a proper understanding. “A grand Jain temple built by a minister of the Tomars, named Sahu Nattal, in 1132 was destroyed by the Ghurid army that conquered Delhi. That was possibly selectively chosen for its association with power. But other shrines nearby that enjoyed popular support, like the Dadabari Jain temple in Mehrauli and the Jogmaya Temple, were spared,” she pointed out. The petitioners have claimed that 27 Hindu and Jain temples were destroyed and a mosque was erected in their place and named ‘Quwwat ul-Islam’ or ‘Might of Islam’, just to poke Hindus in the eye. This claim is based on the inscription put up at the mosque by Sultan Qutubuddin Aibak, which says that material from 27 temples was reused to construct the mosque. But historians once again advise caution. “This name that carries a sense of bellicose hostility, however, was not the complex’s original one. Inscriptions on the mosque dating to the late 12th century call it simply a building (imarat) or mosque (masjid),” Prof Asher writes in ‘Delhi’s Qutb Complex: The Minar, Mosque and Mehrauli’. Historian of the early Delhi Sultanate Minhaz us Siraj Juzjani describes Delhi in his Tabakat-i Nasiri as the Qubbat al-Islam. Since qubba means ‘refuge’ or ‘sanctuary’, historian Professor Sunil Kumar argues in his ‘The Emergence of the Delhi Sultanate’ that Juzjani’s use of the phrase referred to the role of Delhi as the sanctuary of Islam “at a time when the central Islamic lands were feeling the brunt of Mongol invasions”. “Qubba, however, also meant the centre, the axis, and in that sense, Qubbat al-Islam referred to the newly gained role of Delhi as the paramount power in north India, the centre of Islam,” Kumar writes. At a later time, the term came to be used for the dargah of Qutubuddin Bakhtiyar Kaki, argues Asher. This eventually got attached to the mosque as Quwwat ul-Islam. Both Mirza Sangin Beg’s 1820 work, ‘Sair ul-Manazil’, and Sir Syed Ahmad Khan’s 1854 work, ‘Asar us-Sanadid’, refer to the mosque as Quwwat ul-Islam. But even in this, historian Professor David Lelyveld argues, the name didn’t have a militant sense. “I agree with this view,” Liddle says. “It was just called the Jami masjid in its time.” But what explains Hindu and Jain motifs in an Islamic building? Asher highlights an important fact in her book where she points out that the Ghaznavids and Ghurids had been employing Hindu artisans for a long time before their armies actually entered Delhi. So, there was a familiarity with Hindu imagery. Artefacts found in Ghazni point to that. “You will find the lotus and the kalash at Muslim monuments. Look at Maulana Jamali’s tomb (Jamali-Kamali Mosque and Tomb). Right above the mihrab, there is a kalash with Allah written on top of it. Look at Gandhara art, for example. Today, we only see specimens of it in museums. But these Turkic people came from those same lands where Gandhara art was practised. Islam is a religion accepted by so many different cultures. But architecture was cultural. They grew up in that culture, so they were familiar with it. Why is it so difficult for us today to understand that?” Liddle said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-on-qutub-mosque-historians-slam-taking-history-out-of-context/articleshow/79670254.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
December 11, 2020||Pune||PMRDA expects civic body to fund part of flyover cost||Pune: The PMRDA authorities stressed that the Pune Municipal Corporation should fund a part of Rs270 crore — the estimated cost of the proposed integrated University flyover with the third Metro line between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar.The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) authorities made the proposal at the Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (PUMTA) meeting on Wednesday. “The final cost would be clear only after the plan is approved by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s general body, but the cost-sharing issued was discussed,” said a PMRDA official.The PMC’s general body would have to clear the integrated flyover’s plan as it would be built on the civic body’s land.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said PUMTA had cleared the plan. He said the PMRDA would construct the main structure, while the PMC would construct the underpasses.“The cost factor will have to be worked out. But the plan put out by the PMRDA is perfect for this route and the double-decker flyover would address the traffic jam situation along the route,” he said.The flyover would have three intersections as well as ramps from Senapati Bapat Road and underpasses.The old University flyover was pulled down in August. The integrated flyover of 1.25km would be below the Metro line. It would have three extension lines connecting Aundh, Baner and Pashan. It would have ramps connecting other roads to the main road and the Metro station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrda-expects-civic-body-to-fund-part-of-flyover-cost/articleshow/79669278.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC introduces home delivery of parcels in twin cities||Hyderabad: Buoyed by the significant increase in revenues from the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s Parcel, Courier and Cargo service, the state transport corporation has now launched home delivery of parcels in the twin cities. To overcome the revenue deficit, after passenger transport was abruptly stopped due to the pandemic, TSRTC launched the parcel service in June. Till recently, parcels have to be collected from designated offices, but from Thursday they will be delivered at the doorsteps for customers living in the state capital. “On arrival at receiver counters in JBS and MGBS, the parcels will be segregated as per the pin code of the area for its subsequent handing over to the receiver at the doorsteps of the customer,” said TSRTCPCC special officer S Krishna Kanth. e TSRTC has roped in three agencies, Dunzo, Smart ship logistics and Adnigam for dispersal of parcels at JBS, MGBS and Kukatpally.  Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said, “TSRTC is providing a fast, reliable and effective parcel service to people of Telangana and other states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-introduces-home-delivery-of-parcels-in-twin-cities/articleshow/79667778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Madurai||139 new cases, 1 death in south TN, 82 and nil in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 139 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Thursday taking the tally to 1,30,860, which include 1,206 active cases. The lone death was recorded in Tuticorin district. He tested positive on Tuesday and died on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 82 new cases taking the tally to 71,850, which include 836 active cases. There was no casualty in the region that maintained the toll at 904. Kanyakumari (31) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the southern region, followed by Madurai (29). Other districts recorded less than 20 cases each. Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi recorded four cases each, the lowest in the region, followed by Sivagangai (7), Tuticorin (8), Theni (11), Tirunelveli (12), Dindigul (16) and Virudhunagar (17) districts. The number of active cases has dropped for the third consecutive day in the south. Madurai (223) has the highest number of active cases. Ramanathapuram (31) has the least number of active cases, followed by Sivagangai (54), Theni (55) and Tenkasi (80). In the central region, Trichy reported 18 fresh cases taking the tally to 13,687. Nagapattinam recorded 16 fresh positive cases pushing the tally to 7,824. Thanjavur registered 15 fresh positive cases as it has 16,673 active cases. Tiruvarur and Karur reported 11 and 10 new cases, while Pudukottai and Perambalur reported six fresh cases each. There were no fresh cases in Perambalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/139-new-cases-1-death-in-south-tn-82-and-nil-in-central-dists/articleshow/79670259.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Control dust or construction will stop in Delhi-NCR: CPCB||NEW DELHI: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Thursday issued directions to construction agencies across the National Capital Region (NCR) asking for dust-mitigation measures to be put in place. Track the pollution level in your cityIn its letter, the board said violations have been observed at NHAI, DDA, DSIIDC, MTNL, PWD, DJB, CPWD and DMRC’s construction sites, asking agencies to take adequate measures. It said otherwise not only an environmental compensation will be levied on them, but construction activity can also be stopped. Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said dust was a major factor in Delhi-NCR. “Delhi-NCR has a very particular problem, as it has alluvial soil due to being in the Gangetic belt. It is the Himalayan winter and there are no surface winds. At the same time, there is moisture and so dust becomes a pollutant. The pollution control board has issued an order to all the agencies involved in construction and demolition activities to ensure dust does not mix with the city air. A notice was already served and now we have issued a reminder to all agencies to comply,” the minister said. “You are requested to personally review the adequacy of dust mitigation measures at all construction sites in Delhi and direct concerned officials to take necessary actions to ensure guidelines for dust mitigation at construction sites are strictly adhered to,” said CPCB in its letter. “It may be noted that in case of violations, actions will be initiated,” it added. The board said its 50 teams, which had been deployed on the ground to keep a tab on polluting activities since October 15, 2020, had found several dust-norm violations at construction sites. CPCB said it has also conveyed about these violations to agencies in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/control-dust-or-construction-will-stop-cpcb/articleshow/79669321.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Once backward Purvanchal now beacon of progress: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Speaking about the need to identify the strengths of Purvanchal on the basis of which the region could be developed, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that “Harvard and Cambridge” were not going to come to the rescue of the state but it would have to be developed on the back of its youth, women and local strengths. He was speaking at the opening session of a three-day seminar-cum-webinar organized by the planning department and the Deen Dayal Upadhyay University, Gorakhpur, to draw up a blueprint for the development of Purvanchal under ‘Sustainable Development of Purvanchal: Issues, Strategy and Future Course of Action’. Yogi said that before 2014, India was a copycat, trying to ape Europe, US and other foreign countries and was seen as a country that wanted to do nothing new. “In the past six years, this perception has changed. Over the years, while we kept getting stamped as a backward area, those who did not want us to succeed kept progressing in life,” the CM said. He said that Purvanchal had lost the battle of perception some years back and was stamped poor and backward by people who had failed in bringing development to the area. Even academics, he said, had persisted with this impression of Purvanchal. He said that while thinking made Purvanchal backward, it was blessed with nature. “People had a similar perception about UP before 2017 but now nobody can raise any question about its law and order, development or administration. For the development of Purvanchal, we will need to take into account its ground reality. Data and reports are of no use. It is like the Bihar elections when exit poll data said something but the result said something else,” the CM said. Eastern UP, Yogi said, has a huge potential for the service sector and tourism, both spiritual and natural. He said that tourism would lead to employment generation, opening of good hotels, and transport. Focussing on the need to recognize the potential of each area and work towards developing it, he said that the state and central governments had already started work to include it in the development of the rest of the state. The CM emphasized on the need for making policies as per local requirements and not creating white elephants which would not help anyone. He said that the Purvanchal Vikas Board in DDU University will communicate with each department and work with the planning department to achieve better results. “UP has nine climatic zones and we can grow several products as per national and international demands. We have ignored the state for several years which has so much water, fertile land and connectivity. When Prime Minister Narenadra Modi said ‘look east and act east’, it was because the sun rises from the east and Purvanchal has the potential to lead not just UP but the country,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/once-backward-purvanchal-now-beacon-of-progress-cm/articleshow/79670262.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police foil bid to marry off 4 minor girls||Aurangabad: The Jalna police thwarted the attempt to marry four minor girls during a mass marriage ceremony on Wednesday evening. Investigations revealed that the parents of the girls were marrying off their daughters as the pandemic-related restrictions shielded them from fulfilling huge dowry demands and other expenses. A total of 17 couples were scheduled to tie knot in the mass marriage organized by members of Rajput community in Lodhi Mohalla on Wednesday evening.Authorities said that the child helpline received an anonymous call on November 30 informing that one minor girl was being married off during the mass marriage scheduled of December 9 in Lodhi Mohalla. Accordingly the information was passed on to Sadarabazar police station, which carried out a discreet probe, but failed to get any specific information about it.Senior inspector Sanjay Deshmukh told TOI, “We feared that the organizers would get alert and may change venue, so we waited until Wednesday evening and formed multiple teams comprising woman officers and reached the spot.”Police teams faced resistance for interrupting the scheduled mass marriage. However, the police remained adamant on checking proof of age of all the brides, only to find there were four minors.“During the counselling, we found that two girls were orphans and were being married off by their guardians. The other two belonged to very poor families. In all the four cases, not having to pay dowry during the marriage was the key reason for marrying off the girls” Deshmukh said.A couple of months back in Jalna, a minor girl who too was married off silently by her parents. A week after her marriage, she came to her parents’ house for the first time and committed suicide by hanging. Later her father, the youth to whom she was married along with his parents were booked and arrested for abetment of suicide and were also slapped with sections of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act.Jalna superintendent of police Vinayak Deshmukh said, “During the current crisis of pandemic, many incidents of child marriage have come to fore. We have remained on toes to keep a check on such incidents and have successfully prevented all the child marriages that have come to our notice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-foil-bid-to-marry-off-4-minor-girls/articleshow/79666844.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Home minister to perform ‘kanyadaan’ of deaf-mute couple brought up at shelter home||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh will perform the ‘kanyadaan’ at the marriage of a deaf and mute couple. Both, groom and bride, had been abandoned as infants and grew up at the Late Ambadaspant Vaidya Matimand Mukbadhir Bewaris Balgruh, at Vazzar near Paratwada, Amravati. Deshmukh, who is a regular visitor to the shelter home, had some time back ‘adopted’ Varsha, now aged about 24 years.Sources said Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakare may remain present as ‘father’ of the groom, with NCP supremo Sharad Pawar attending as special guest.Deshmukh, along with wife Arti, are organizing the marriage in Nagpur on December 20, and will perform Varsha’s ‘kanyadaan’. Deshmukh said the society must feel responsible toward orphaned and abandoned children, especially the hearing and visually challenged ones, who are often left to fend for themselves at an early age. “Like me and my wife, others too should come forward to perform ‘kanyadaan’ and organize marriage of such persons, who have no one to support them,” he said.Journalist-turned-social worker Shankarbaba Papalkar, who established the shelter home on a 25 acre plot in 1990, said Deshmukh had vowed to take care of Varsha as her guardian and also marry her off as the dutiful ‘father’, during one of his visits after becoming home minister. “We were overwhelmed when he volunteered to do the kanyadaan,” said Papalkar.Varsha was around one-year-old when she was found abandoned at Nagpur railway station. She is tying the knot with Sameer, who too is deaf and mute. He was rescued from Dombivli and brought to the shelter home, where he grew up. Papalkar ensured Varsha got elementary education and also groomed her with several domestic skills.In a similar manner, Papalkar not only brought up Sameer and educated him till Std X but also made him an executive member of the trust formed to manage and administer the shelter home in future. “I believe in rehabilitation,” he said. “After marriage, Varsha and Sameer would move into their new house at Paratwada, which we have built for them,” he said.Like Sameer and Varsha, Papalkar has lent his name to the other 121 inmates of his shelter home as their ‘father’ in their Aadhaar card and voters’ ID. Always championing the rights of visually and hearing-impaired, Papalkar aims to capitalize on the occasion of the marriage to push his agenda to change the law. He wants to ensure that the visually and physically challenged persons are allowed to continue staying at shelter homes even after attaining 18 years of age. At present, such inmates are compelled to leave the shelter homes after reaching 18 years of age.Papalkar said every year around a lakh such inmates are compelled to leave shelter homes at the age of 18, and then no one knows what fate they meet. “The women are often dragged into flesh trade and some of them may fall into the trap of organ dealers,” he said. “We will appeal to the senior politicians to consider the gravity of the situation and push to amend the law,” he said.Home minister Deshmukh said he would forward Papalkar’s suggestion to the social welfare department regarding amending the law of age limit for staying at shelter homes. City police chief Amitesh Kumar too had performed ‘kanyadaan’ of an inmate of this shelter home a few years ago. The woman now has two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-minister-to-perform-kanyadaan-of-deaf-mute-couple-brought-up-at-shelter-home/articleshow/79650794.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Sign bond at time of admission to curb seat block: Kaloji varsity||Hyderabad: Kaloji Narayana University of Health Sciences has asked candidates seeking admission in medical and dental colleges to sign bond at the time of admission in order to curb blocking of seats. The bond states that students will have to furnish Rs three lakh in the event of discontinuing the studies after joining the course after the last date for free exit for admissions. Sources said that every year, almost 50 per cent of the medical and dental seats in private unaided colleges are blocked by students but later converted into management quota as they drop out. Meanwhile, in government colleges, these seats remain vacant as there is no provision of converting convenor quota seats into seats of other categories. The bond sought by the varsity is likely to put an end to such practices through which private colleges will not be able to make more money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sign-bond-at-time-of-admission-to-curb-seat-block-kaloji-varsity/articleshow/79667794.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Eminent music composer Narendra Bhide dead at 47 in Pune||PUNE: Music composer Narendra Bhide, who composed the soundtrack for many award-winning films, television soaps as well as plays, died of a heart attack in the early hours of Thursday at the age of 47 in Pune. He leaves behind his parents, wife and two children. A statement from his family said Bhide’s last rites were performed at Pune’s Vaikunth crematorium. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol was present for the last rites, along with many of his colleagues from the world of cinema, television, music and theatre, including actor-filmmaker Girish Kulkarni, Avdhoot Gupte, Rahul Deshpande, Anand Bhate, Raghunandan Panshikar, among others. A civil engineer by education, Bhide trained in music with Ustad Mohd Hussain Khan, Chhota Gandharva, Shaila, Sudhir and Suhas Datar. He had trained in western music under Hemant Godbole and was known for his experiments while composing music. Besides composing the acclaimed soundtrack for films like Mulshi Pattern, Lathe Joshi, Sane Guruji, among others, he also composed the background score for films like Shwaas and Maati Mae. Sarsenapati Hambirrao was Bhide’s last film as a music composer. In his television credits, Bhide composed the music for Avantika, Un Paaus, Gharkul, besides dozens of others. He was also known for composing the background score for dozens of commercial plays in Marathi, including Love Birds, Kaatkon Trikon and Final Draft. Bhide founded and was the director of Dawn Studios at Erandwane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eminent-music-composer-narendra-bhide-dead-at-47/articleshow/79669293.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Schools in Telangana start admission process||HYDERABAD: Even as there is no clarity on when the physical classes for the current academic year will begin and how exams will be conducted, several schools in the city have started the admission process to fill seats for the next academic year. “Yesterday, I received a message in my child’s school group from his class teacher about the commencement of admissions for the academic year 2021-22. I was surprised to see that the last date for application forms is December 29. At a time when there is no clarity about the current academic year, I felt starting admissions for the next academic session, this early, is unnecessary,” said Krishna V, a parent. Some even used the closure of schools since March to their advantage. “Prolonged physical absence from school can result in unwarranted behavioural changes among children. It needs a dedicated and well-qualified set of teachers to ensure a smooth transition,” read a message from a school. Education department officials, meanwhile, said that schools cannot start admission process before they release notification and added that action will be initiated if schools are found violating norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/schools-in-t-start-admission-process/articleshow/79667788.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 11, 2020||Pune||Four held for robberies, Rs 2.2L booty recovered||Pune: The rural police on Wednesday busted a four-member gang involved in robbing truck drivers and others by offering them lift near Daund, around 95km from the city. Two gold rings, eight cellphones, cash and a motorcycle, collectively worth Rs 2.2 lakh, were recovered from the arrested suspects Omkar Gawde (21), Rajesh Bibe (19), Ajay Pawar (19) and Vishal Atole (24), all from Daund. Senior inspector, local crime branch, Padmakar Ghanwat said Gawade, Bibe and Pawar were involved in robberies. Around 9.30pm on December 5, Sanjay Munot was waiting at Kurkhumb for transport to reach home at Daund when one of the suspects offered a lift on a motorcycle and rode to a secluded spot, where his two accomplices were already waiting, Ghanwat said. The trio then threatened to kill Munot and robbed his belongings,” Ghanwat said. Police received a tip-off that three persons were trying to sell smartphones at throwaway prices near Kurkumbh bus stand. “We laid a trap and took them into custody,” Ghanwat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-held-for-robberies-rs-2-2l-booty-recovered/articleshow/79669285.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Boy doxes girl for not playing online game||Ahmedabad: A 40-year-old man lodged a complaint at Adalaj police station on Wednesday, alleging that a boy from Kanpur called his wife on Sunday and told her to tell their 14-year-old daughter to play an online game with him or he would make certain pictures of her go viral on Facebook. As the girl did not comply, on Monday the boy allegedly posted pictures of her on two Facebook accounts, including that of her father, with a comment saying she was a call girl. He also allegedly posted her phone number (doxed her) and other lewd comments. Adalaj police officials said they have asked service providers for the IP address log of the device from which the pictures and comments were posted. According to the complainant, the boy from Kanpur had given his name. Police sources said that the girl told her parents that there was such a boy from Kanpur and they had played online games in a group. When he sought a relationship with her, she stopped playing the online game. “The girl has provided the boy’s phone number. We have told our counterparts in Kanpur to find him on the basis of the number,” said an Adalaj police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/boy-doxes-girl-for-not-playing-online-game/articleshow/79669288.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand HC issues notice to state govt on killing of man-eaters after PIL claims over 200 animals killed by private shooters in state since 2012||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday issued notices to the state government, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), chief wildlife warden (CWLW) and director general of police (DGP) giving them four weeks to respond to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which demanded a ban on engaging private shooters to kill the animals that have been declared man-eaters. The case was heard by the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani. According to the petition, filed by wildlife activist Sangeeta Dogra, more than 200 animals have been killed by private shooters in Uttarakhand since 2012. “In one case, the leopard killed was 35-days pregnant. Hunting has been banned in the country since 1970 but in these cases, sports weapons have been used by the hunters to kill animals. What is shocking is that the hunters have received licence for target practice and competition. But they are using their guns to shoot animals which is against the Arms rules,” Dogra said. She further alleged that forest authorities have not focussed on saving the animals and instead, permits have been issued, declaring them man-eaters so that they can be hunted down. “The procedure for declaring an animal a man-eater has been blatantly flouted by the authorities. No efforts are being made to tranquilise and capture these animals, rather the preferred mode has been to invite the private shooters and shoot these animals. The procedure laid down by the central government states that under no circumstances should an animal resorting to cattle depredation be declared as man-eater, even if it ventures close to human settlement. But in Uttarakhand, this procedure is being flouted,” the activist claimed in her petition. The petition goes on to say that “by employing these private shooters, the authorities have not only violated the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 but also the Indian Arms Act, 1959, and Arms Rule, 2016, and therefore strict action should be taken against them. Gauri Maulekhi, a wildlife activist and member secretary of the NGO, People for Animals (PFA) also came out in support of the points raised in the petition, saying that “the entire process as to how an animal is declared a man-eater is questionable since in most cases, the chief wildlife warden issues the same one page order without much verification of facts.” “Private shooters are most of the times trigger-happy and little is done to actually tranquilise and capture the animal. The verification of the fact that the animal killed is the actual man-eater is also rarely done,” Maulekhi said, adding that the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines of 2018 also say private shooters should not be employed to kill man-eaters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-issues-notice-to-state-govt-on-killing-of-man-eaters-after-pil-claims-over-200-animals-killed-by-private-shooters-in-state-since-2012/articleshow/79666850.cms||Prashant Jha
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 1,000 visit monuments on the first day of reopening||Aurangabad: The historical monuments in and around Aurangbad received a good flow of visitors on Thursday, when the sites were opened for public after nearly nine months. Earlier this week, the district authorities allowed for opening of five monuments around Aurangabad. It immediately prompted opportunities for several small businesses. On Thursday, a total of 1,250 tourists, including a foreign national, visited the five monuments. Cabs, taxis had lined up outside these places, apart from stalls selling artefacts, semi-precious stones, paintings and snacks. Authorities said that the total number of tourists that visited on Thursday have been amongst the lowest number visitors to visit each of these sites in past few decades. As per the figures obtained from the Archaeological Survey of India’s Aurangabad circle office, Ajanta caves were visited by 86 tourists, Ellora caves by 359 domestic tourists and one foreign tourist, Daulatabad fort were visited by 170 tourists, Aurangabad caves by 94 tourists and 540 tourists visited Bibi-Ka-Maqbara. To encourage people to visit tourism places, revenue minister of state Abdul Sattar personally visited to Ellora caves and appealed people to visit the places while following all the covid-19 related safety norms. Authorities have decided to issue online tickets. Moreover, 2,000 tourists per day have been allowed for now at each of the tourist places, out of which 1,000 would be allowed in the first half of the day, followed by the remaining in the second half of the day. However, 17th century marvel ‘Panchakki’ or the watermill was not opened by the authorities .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-1000-visit-monuments-on-the-first-day-of-reopening/articleshow/79666853.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Gorakhpur link e-way will put east UP in fast lane of growth’||LUCKNOW: Directing officials to complete the earth work for Gorakhpur Link Expressway before the 2021 monsoon season, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the project, one of his government’s most ambitious, would give a boost to the social, economic and industrial progress of eastern Uttar Pradesh. Reviewing the progress of construction at the link expressway and Purvanchal Expressway during his visit to Gorakhpur on Thursday, the CM directed officials to maintain quality of construction and ensure availability of soil for the earth work. “Once they are completed, commuters will get an alternative route between Gorakhpur and Lucknow and the entire region will see development,” he said. The CM reviewed package-1 of the 91km-long Gorakhpur Link Expressway at Sikriganj. The road will start from Jaitpur on NH 27 in Gorakhpur and connect with Purvanchal Expressway in Azamgarh. The CM said that PGCIL, Power Transmission and UP Power Corporation should make this project a priority and should relocation power lines as per requirement. The CM also planted a sapling on the site. Gorakhpur Link Expressway is scheduled to be completed by March 2022. It is being constructed at a total cost of Rs 5,876 crore under two packages. The six-lane Purvanchal Expressway will connect Ghazipur with Lucknow via Azamgarh and Ayodhya. The 340km expressway is being constructed at a cost of Rs 22,494 crore and will pass through nine districts: Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Sultanpur, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. This is expected to be made operational by March 2021. UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi said that 68% work has been completed till now. It will be linked with Lucknow-Agra Expressway. The CM also inspected the under-construction Ghagra bridge at Kamhariya. Awasthi informed the CM that the bridge had been designed by IIT Roorkee. He added that work on 18 of 50 wells of the bridge had already started and the remaining would also be taken up before monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpur-link-e-way-will-put-east-up-in-fast-lane-of-growth/articleshow/79670272.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula BJP ‘campaigns’ in 20 wards||PANCHKULA: BJPPanchkula has ‘campaigned’ in all the 20 wards and named these meetings as ‘workers’ meet’. Besides this, the local unit of BJP also formed a special war room team, including IT and media cell, to avoid fake allegations against the party on social media. Local MLA-cum-Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, former cabinet minister and election in-charge of BJP Capt Abhimanyu and co-election in-charge-cum-Yamunanagar mayor Madan Chauhan and senior leaders of BJP held various gatherings in all the wards of Panchkula and met residents. They also prepared a list of issues faced by them. The BJP named these meetings as ‘karyakarta sammelan’ (workers’ meeting), however, these were similar to mass campaigning. BJP claimed that they have completed two phases of their publicity, leaving Congress behind. Senior BJP leaders also claimed that they have done major development works in the Panchkula constituency in the last six years and Congress did nothing for the residents, despite being in power for 10 years. Gupta claimed that they brought development works of over Rs 25,000 crore in the Panchkula constituency in their six-year tenure, including six-laning of the NH-73, foundation stone of INIFD fashion institute, ayurvedic institute, new government schools, community centres and other day-to-day works. Gupta raised questions against Congress and asked them to show works done by their party to the public. He also alleged that due to internal tussle between Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Kumari Selja, they ignored the development works. He said infighting in Congress is still going on. When asked about starting campaigning beforehand, the BJP local unit said it is not campaigning. Gupta said during the first-phase, senior leaders met residents and prepared a report, while in the second-phase, they held meetings in all the 20 wards and residents also participated. Gupta also inaugurated a war room at the local BJP office. Media in-charge Naveen Garg and IT cell in-charge Gaurav Goel will keep a strict eye on news published at various platforms, including print, electronic and social media. “Social media platform is used to defame a person or a party and our team will keep a check on the same. All the right information related to our party will be provided to the public,” added Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-bjp-campaigns-in-20-wards/articleshow/79667808.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||CM to inaugurate 4 major projects in Aurangabad on Sat||Aurangabad: Maharashtra chief minister Udhhav Thakarey is scheduled to inaugurate four major development projects including the Rs 1,680 crore water supply scheme in Aurangabad, which is the largest in terms of cost in the state, on Saturday. The water supply scheme has stayed a contested matter between BJP and Maha Vikas Aghadi. The water scheme once completed will cater water to 90, 000 tap connections. Under this scheme, a total of 49 elevated reservoirs will be constructed, apart from the four underground. He will also lay the foundation stone of the safari park, which will be set up on over 200 acre in Mitmita area. Apart from this, he will also inaugurate the memorial formed in the memory of his father late Balasaheb Thackeray. Road works for which Rs 152 crore has been sanctioned, will also be inaugurated by him. As a part of the preparations for the event, which will be attended by several ministers from the state, many meetings were being held at the district collector’s office on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cm-to-inaugurate-4-major-projects-in-aurangabad-on-sat/articleshow/79666862.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Medical, dental colleges unlikely to open before Feb||Hyderabad: Despite National Medical Commission (NMC) recommendations, medical and dental colleges in Telangana are unlikely to reopen for the fresh batch until February. In a letter sent by NMC to chief secretaries of all states, it stated that the delayed new academic session for 2020-21 should commence from February 1, 2021. “The academic session for the fresh MBBS students for the academic year 2020-21 has already been delayed by four months and as the undergraduate counselling has started, it is imperative that the new MBBS session should also be initiated at the earliest,” the letter said. Following the NMC guidelines, the director of medical education (DME) had asked college managements to check with parents on their willingness to send students to college. The DME found that many of them were not keen to do so, citing the safety concerns amidst a pandemic. “Not just that, many points from the NMC guidelines are not feasible to be implemented locally and we need to find solution to reopen colleges in a manner that is feasible to all. The government is yet to take a decision on reopening of colleges in view of the NMC guidelines,” director, medical education, Dr Ramesh Reddy said. DME said classes for the fresh batch of medical and dental students might be conducted online and for the final year students, the government would have to devise some other feasible options. While the admission process for all undergraduate medical and dental courses concludes by December 31, Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) officials were awaiting clear instructions from government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medical-dental-colleges-unlikely-to-open-before-feb/articleshow/79667800.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||35,000 vaccination units to be established in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The state government will resort to generous use of technology while rolling out the Covid-19 vaccine implementation programme across the state. Over 35,000 vaccine centres are coming up across districts to roll out the vaccination programme which is surely the biggest in the country and among the top six in terms of coverage size in the world. Officials engaged in the process revealed that following recommendations from the Dr Vinod Paul Committee, an Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) is being created to undertake real-time monitoring of Covid-19 vaccine delivery, recording data and to enable people to get them registered for vaccination. In addition to this, the platform will be used to upload the group of beneficiaries like health workers, Covid-19 warriors and also people in the priority group like those with co-morbid conditions and those above 55 years of age. The state government has already passed instructions to the home department to ensure that the vaccine vans are transported safely. For this, they are to install a global positioning system in the movement vans specially designed to maintain the cold-chain. At the vaccine centres, a system to keep track of the power supply is being installed. According to insiders, SMS alerts will be sent to the officials concerned the moment power trips and the moment it is restored. Though all the centres will be provided with heavy power back-ups, the system will ensure that there is no time-lag in the switch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/35000-vaccination-units-to-be-established-in-state/articleshow/79670284.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 11, 2020||Pune||Youth held under POCSO Act||Pune: The Pimpri police on Wednesday arrested a 20-year-old youth on the charge of outraging the modesty of a 17-year-old girl and demanding sexual favours from her. The girl’s father in his complaint on Wednesday stated that the youth had forcibly kissed his daughter and took her photographs. “The suspect then sent the photographs to an another youth known to the girl and her family. The suspect also threatened to upload the girl’s photographs on social media platforms,” an officer from the Pimpri police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-held-under-pocso-act/articleshow/79669300.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Sector 14 college is strong room for polls||PANCHKULA: The Panchkula administration has made Government College for Girls, Sector 14, as the counting and strong room for the municipal corporation (MC) elections. The officials said they are all set to accept nominations papers from Friday. The decision was taken by additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Mohammad Imran Raza, who is also the returning officer (RO) for the MC elections, in a meeting with the assistant ROs at his office. The ADC said a letter to the police department requesting to provide adequate security outside the strong room, has also been written. Following the guidelines of the election commission for Covid-19, to maintain social distancing at the polling booths having over 1,000 voters, the booths have been divided into two sections. ADC Raza said, “We are all set to take nomination applications from tomorrow. We request all the political parties to follow Covid-19 guidelines. We have appealed residents to come for voting as it is their right.” The BJP-JJP alliance cleared that they will file nominations on Saturday, while Congress will do the same on Monday. No nominations will be accepted on Sunday. The last date of filing the nomination is December 16. All the nominations will be accepted between 11 am and 3 pm. The last date of withdrawal of candidature is December 18. The department will issue symbols, list of candidates and polling station on December 18. The polling will be conducted on December 27 and re-poll (if any) will be conducted on December 29. The timing for the poll will be between 8 am and 4.30 pm. The result will be declared on December 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sector-14-college-is-strong-room-for-polls/articleshow/79667819.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Only few seats for kids not under any category||CHANDIGARH: With all private schools, including missionary schools, giving preference to certain categories within the general category, chances of admission for children not falling under any preferred category have become lean as only a few seats will be left open for them. With admission process going on, schools have already stated in their admission form that draw of lots will be conducted for seats that are left vacant after giving to preferred category. In the past, it has been seen that schools opened less seats for general category candidates. The education department in its common admission schedule had asked schools to upload the number of seats along with seat breakup. However, schools, instead of giving the breakup of seats, have ended the matter in two lines - preference will be given to siblings, children of alumni, staff members, Christians etc. and all schools have clearly mentioned that the selection for free and open seats, if available after allocation of other seats, will be made by draw of lots. Except for Bhavan Vidyalaya School and Chitkara International School, no other school has given percentage of seats under different preferred categories. Bhavan Vidyalaya School has clearly stated in the admission notice that 10% seats are reserved for management, 20% are for siblings. Children and grandchildren of the employees of the school will be given seats as per demand, for children of the alumni 5% seats are reserved and 25 % will be reserved under the RTE Act for children of the economically weaker section. The school has total 100 seats in pre-nursery. Chitkara School has stated that they will give 50% seats to general category and 50% will be reserved for faculty, staff and alumni of the institutions run by Chitkara. Missionary schools i.e. St John’s High School and Sacred Heart School in Sector 26, Carmel Convent School in Sector 9 and St Anne’s Convent School in Sector 32 - uploaded the admission notice on Sunday and mentioned that conditions apply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/only-few-seats-for-kids-not-under-any-category/articleshow/79667821.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||PSI arrested for attempted rape||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Wednesday arrested a PSI Riteshkumar Mishra, 28, for allegedly molesting and trying to rape a 35-year-old woman in a hotel room. The PSI is posted in city cybercrime unit. Crime branch sources said the incident happened on October 16, 2019, but the woman had not lodged a complaint then as she was allegedly threatened by Mishra and another PSI A P Parmar. “On July 13, 2020, the woman mustered courage and lodged a complaint against Mishra under sections 354(b), 506(1) and 114 at Vadaj police station,” said a senior police official. The complaint was then transferred to assistant commissioner of police, crime branch. ACP, crime branch, D P Chudasama, said that after recording the statement of the woman and gathering evidence, Mishra was arrested on Wednesday after his Covid-19 test. “We are also probing the role of A P Pamar, then posted at Vadaj police station,” he said. On October 7, 2019, the woman had gone to Vadaj police station with her father to lodge a missing person complaint about her husband. “At that time, Mishra was present at the police station and he made a station diary entry about the missing person and took the mobile number of the woman. Though the probe was handled by an ASI rank officer, Mishra used to message her on her phone frequently,” said Chudasma. Chudasma said on October 16, 2019 the investigating officer called the woman to the police station at Old Vadaj police chowky at about 7pm. “At that time, Mishra came there in civil dress and went to the back side of the chowky. From there he called up the woman seven-eight times through WhatsApp and asked her to meet him for 10 minutes. Mishra told the woman that he wanted to meet her alone and took her to Hotel Red Apple near Old Vadaj Circle. According to the woman, the PSI then forcibly tried to rape her but she defied his attempts and ran away from there,” said Chudasma. After a week, Mishra and Parmar allegedly threatened the woman not to lodge a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-arrested-for-attempted-rape/articleshow/79669303.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Guard charged with molesting 6-year-old girl||Pune: The Wanowrie police on Wednesday night arrested a security guard on the charge of molesting a six-year-old girl in the parking lot of a housing society on Monday. Sub-inspector Vishnu Wadkar of the Wanowrie police said, “The girl had taken a break while riding her bicycle when the guard approached her and touched her inappropriately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-charged-with-molesting-6-year-old-girl/articleshow/79669301.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Prahar men climb 70-ft high water tank to protest against Danve||Aurangabad: Demanding an apology from Union minister Raosaheb Danve, some members of Prahar Janshakti Party on Thursday climbed a water tank in protest against Danve’s statement claiming China and Pakistan are behind farmers’ protest in Delhi. About 17 members of the party led by Sudhakar Shinde and Kunal Raut climbed 70-foot overhead water tank situated in Shivajinagar and refused to come down ‘until Danve issues an apology’. This water tank with a capacity of 26 lakh liters, is one of the largest water tanks in the town. Each time policemen tried to climb up, the protesters threatened to jump. Despite several attempts made by police and social workers, they refused to come down. Jawahar nagar police inspector Santosh Patil, who has been camping at the water tank since Thursday afternoon, told TOI, “After we failed to convince, senior police officers including assistant commissioner of police and even deputy commissioner of police personally visited the spot, but in vain.” The officer said they agitators have said they can consider withdrawing their agitation, if even they get a call from their party president and MLA Bachu Kadu asking them to withdraw the protest. Till the time of going to the press, police were trying to make the protestors come down. The protestors have appointed two of their party workers to carry water and food for them to the top of the tank. Authorities were worried about the night and feared for the worst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prahar-men-climb-70-ft-high-water-tank-to-protest-against-danve/articleshow/79666871.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||FIR against man, son for duping woman won’t be quashed||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court has dismissed a petition by a transporter duo of father and son and their accountant in Jalgaon who are accused by a woman banana trader of duping her to the tune of Rs 2.8 crore. In the FIR registered in July 2017 in Jalgaon district, Mayur Khandelwar, his father, Kailashchandra, and their accountant, Akhil Shaikh, was booked on the charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy after complainant Saniya Kadri stated that she would purchase banana from farmers and through the transporters would sell them off to different states. Kadri stated that a total of 248 truck deliveries were made between April 26 and June 18, 2017, out of which no amount was paid for any delivery between May 21 and June 18, 2017 by the trio. She claimed, due non-payment by the trio, she could not pay the amount of over Rs 2.8 crore to the banana growers. A division bench of Justice T V Nalawade and Justice M G Sewlikar expressed serious displeasure over the alleged cheating of farmers. It observed, "Such instances are increasing day by day. It is unfortunate, but it is a fact that all the systems are not showing sensitivity towards the problems faced by the farmers. The farmers have no resources and they cannot afford indulging into litigation." The bench further said, "The inability of the farmers to legally contest such matters is ‘used’ by traders like the applicants and they make money on the agricultural produce which farmers gets after working hard. The suicides of farmers are increasing day by day as farmers are facing all kinds of problems and present problem of cheating is additional circumstance which is compelling the farmers to commit the suicide."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/fir-against-man-son-for-duping-woman-wont-be-quashed/articleshow/79666891.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||UT proposes bus corridors from Zirakpur, Panchkula, Mohali||CHANDIGARH: The heavy flow of traffic from the adjoining areas of the city is a major concern for the Chandigarh administration. The newly notified policy of the UT considers starting dedicated bus corridors from Zirakpur, Panchkula and Mohali on experimental basis. Moreover, it also speaks about the proposal of parking at the entry-level of the city for tourists coming to Chandigarh, incentive for public transport users and disincentive for private vehicles. “Since thousands of people from the adjoining areas of Zirakpur, Mohali and Panchkula come to the city daily and many come to government offices, thus, dedicated bus corridors can prove to be a solution to the ongoing traffic issue. This will also decrease parking chaos in most of the areas of the city. If we are able to provide the facility and encourage people for the same, this could be one of the successful mechanisms to control traffic and minimise parking problems,” said sources from the UT administration. Besides other major issues, infrastructure and parking demand management have been given importance in the parking policy. “Multi-level parking structures will be developed. Design competition will be held by the Chandigarh municipal corporation for inviting innovative designs with latest technologies, trends to optimally utilise land for parking. Multi-level parking shall have separate entry and exit ramps,” mentions the policy. While putting in efforts on bus services, the policy mentions that bus movement pattern, timings and dedicated routes will be optimised by the transport department of the Chandigarh administration. It has also been focused that the grid system of Chandigarh, reliable and regular services of buses and more frequency will be ensured by the transport department. Sumit Kaur, former chief architect of the Chandigarh administration, said, “The idea of dedicated bus corridors is right and feasible. Since talks are going on over Bus Rapid Transport Service (BRTS) in Chandigarh from past many years, it now needs to be implemented through this idea of dedicated bus corridors. Since we have good roads, there is a dire need of such corridors to discourage use of private vehicles and encourage use of public transport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-proposes-bus-corridors-from-zirakpur-pkl-mohali/articleshow/79667835.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Medics step up as protests take toll on elderly, women||NEW DELHI: Stomach problems are, of course, expected when gatherings have community food, as at the farmers’ protest at Singhu border. But the doctors at the medical camps there are more worried about the older farmers, who are exposed to health risks spending so many days out in the open. Parvinder Singh Nanda and Jasmeet Singh, directors of United Sikhs, an international community organisation, said that some senior tillers had been complaining of backaches, knee pain and other such ailments. Jasmeet Singh said they were providing care to many others who are hypertensive or require to keep their blood sugar levels in check. And yet the farmers are unwilling to leave the protest site. “We are making sure that their health is looked after,” said Nanda, while Jasmeet Singh added, “On Thursday, we had to send one patient to the hospital as his health deteriorated.” United Sikhs arrived at Singhu intending to provide meals to the protesters. But they soon realised that while food was aplenty, a medical camp was sorely needed. The group then arranged for a team of doctors to keep the medical needs of the farmers in check. One important service the camp provides is hygiene for women. Mukesh Kumar, one of the medical camp organisers, explained, “After arriving here on November 27, we saw that instead of feeding the protesters, it was better to provide medical care. After a couple of days, noticing the number of women protesters here, we also started making free pads available at our camp.” Dr Rajan, a volunteer doctor from Kerala, falters as he tries to speak in Hindi, but has picked up a few words in Punjabi, which he uses with delight when speaking to his patients. He said the women were discreet in asking for the pads “but it is good they are taking the initiative for their health and hygiene”. Gurpreet Pal Singh of Ropar complained of chest pain, which he felt was a result of uncontrolled eating. Indeed, Dr Sarinder Kaur, a doctor from Ludhiana, admitted that the cases of acidity and diarrhoea was the result of the food the protesters were consuming. Many are also complaining of headaches due to lack of good sleep, especially because of the cold at night, said the doctor. A private hospital has also sent its doctors to the protest site. Prabhjot Singh, member of the hospital’s management, was relieved that there hasn’t been a serious medical case till date. “Most come with minor ailments, including injuries sustained in the huge community kitchens,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/medics-step-up-as-protests-take-toll-on-elderly-women/articleshow/79670303.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 cases under home isolation below 10,000 in UP||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 cases under home isolation went below 10,000 in the state on Thursday to reach 9,516. “The situation is comparable to the pandemic situation in July, but the decline does not mean dropping guards against the coronavirus,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar while reminding that prevention will remain important even after the vaccine arrives. He said so far the expected rise in cases, which was being anticipated in the wake of festival and wedding season, has not arrived. “The chief minister, however, has said that though the number of cases has declined and the second wave is not being seen yet, the state must stay prepared. Therefore, the number of beds must be maintained and more beds be added wherever needed,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, 1,677 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s tally to 5,61,161. They covered 5,32,349 recoveries, including 1,495 fresh entries. The state also recorded 25 deaths, which took the total number of Covid-19 deaths to 8,011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-cases-under-home-isolation-below-10000-in-up/articleshow/79670289.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pan masala firm owner held for Rs 94 crore tax evasion||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad zonal unit of Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI), on Wednesday arrested Basant Makhija, the owner of a pan masala brand, for an evasion of GST worth Rs 94.5 crore. According to DGGI officials, the owner of the firm Ashish Enterprises was involved in illicit manufacturing of pan masala and zarda from its manufacturing units, without payment of GST. Makhija has been remanded to judicial custody till December 22. Searches were conducted by the DGGI, Ahmedabad, at various premises related to business transactions of the company at Gwalior and their dealers in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. During this, DGGI officials found several incriminating records and documents. “A well-orchestrated modus operandi was hatched to manufacture and supply the pan masala with chewing tobacco, illicitly without the cover of any GST tax invoice and without payment of applicable GST and cess. The company has supplied zafrani zarda with every consignment of pan masala, in the ratio of 4:1, suggests evidence,” said a statement issued by the DGGI-Ahmedabad zonal unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pan-masala-firm-owner-held-for-rs-94-crore-tax-evasion/articleshow/79669323.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Prioritise patients with mental illness too: Experts||CHANDIGARH: With vaccine manufacturers applying for emergency use authorisation, doctors and experts have started appealing the government to prioritise patients with mental illness, particularly those with dementia, to be placed on priority list for Covid-19 vaccine shots. Though there is no data base or registry of any comorbidities in the country, the same can be collected from hospitals, feel the experts. PGI is working on the database of dementia patients and has recorded 200 such patients till date. Dr Sandeep Grover, who has been working on the database from the department of psychiatry at the PGI, said, “People with dementia and other mental illness should be included in the priority group for vaccination. This should be inclusive of those with severe mental illness. The ones who have dementia are elderly and have multiple comorbidities.” He said, “Hospitals can provide a list of patients. We have a database at the PGI and are working on it. We have 200 dementia patients registered with us, who were coming to us before the lockdown.” Alzheimer’s disease International (ADI), a global federation for dementia association, has also called for people living with dementia to be prioritised for Covid-19 vaccines. The UK is the first country in the world to approve vaccines and has determined priority groups for access for the first available doses to be distributed this week. They are focussing on both residents of long-term care facilities and caregivers and those with underlying medical conditions. Meera Pattabiraman, chairperson, Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India, said, “Those with dementia are in a vulnerable group. The pandemic has hit them more than the average people as it affects the primary caregivers also. These patients were confined inside homes during the lockdown and it affected their treatment regime. This has deteriorated their condition and now when they have started moving out after the lockdown, they are more exposed.” She said, “In India, there are 5.29 million affected with dementia and only 10% get diagnosed. Diagnosis happens in the later stage. So, this group must be included in the comorbidity category being considered for vaccination along with their primary caregivers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prioritise-patients-with-mental-illness-too-experts/articleshow/79667841.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 11, 2020||Pune||Over 60k FYJC seats vacant mostly in tier II, III colleges||Pune: As many as 60,000 seats have remained vacant in the first year junior college (FYJC, std XI) admissions at the end of the second round on Wednesday. A total of 40,000 students confirmed their admissions so far in the centralised admission process. Education experts said the demand for popular colleges in the city left many seats vacant in tier II and III colleges. There are 304 colleges in Pune region for FYJC with an intake of 1.07 lakh seats. Meenakshi Shendkar, in-charge of the CAP committee, said, “There is huge competition for seats in the popular colleges. Students should take a look at the cut-offs and then fill up the preference forms.” The seats for in-house and management quota are being filled at the college level. The cut-offs for the second round also remained above 90% in many of the reputed colleges due to improved results this year in the secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) exams. A principal of a tier III college in the city said they still had 50% vacancy in their college, especially for the science stream. “The trend is pretty much as it was in the previous years, but the problem is with students who do not fill the form preferences based on their scores. Even those scoring in the 80s are aiming for the popular colleges despite knowing that it will not be possible to get admissions there.” For the second round, 46,794 applications were received and 23,120 students were allotted colleges. Of these, 9,954 students have confirmed the admissions in the colleges allotted. The applications of 13 students were rejected due to some flaws, and 12,452 students did not respond to the admissions allotted to them. Shendkar said, “These students are mostly those who have applied to other courses as well and may have confirmed their admissions elsewhere and may have filled up the FYJC form only as another option.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-60k-fyjc-seats-vacant-mostly-in-tier-ii-iii-colleges/articleshow/79669319.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Panchayat samiti member, son held on charge of bid to kill shopkeeper||Pune: Balasaheb Mokashi, an Independent elected member of the Haveli Panchayat Samiti, and his son, Shantanu, were arrested on Wednesday on the charge of attempt to kill a shopkeeper with a broken bottle during a brawl over fetching water from the tank of their society at Shivane. Tension prevailed in the locality for some time as the politician, his family members and about 70 of his supporters later created a ruckus at the police station. Senior inspector Vaishali Chandgude of the Uttamnagar police said, “Two separate cases have been registered. First, an attempt to murder and molestation under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 354 (molestation) of the IPC. The second is of obstructing police personnel from executing their official duty under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.” After arresting Balasaheb and Shantanu, police are searching for their three accomplices, all residents of Shivane, on the charge of molesting a woman and participating in the attack on her husband with the Mokashis. Chandgude said, “A city court on Thursday remanded Balasaheb and his son in two-day police custody.” The woman (38) said in her complaint that Balasaheb and his son were illegally taking water from the society’s tank on its roof and residents opposed it. Balasaheb in a fit of rage hurled abuses at her and molested her. When the woman’s husband (40) intervened, the suspects stabbed him in the stomach with the broken glass bottle. When TOI visited the site on Thursday, the residents of the area refused to comment. The woman complainant was not available for comment. The residents said she and her husband were at a private hospital in Warje. The police said the woman’s husband was out of danger. Balasaheb’s relatives were also not available for comments. The neighbours said the Mokashi family members had gone to the court for the hearing. “The residents called the police after the incident. A police team took the complainant as well as Balasaheb and his son to the police station. About 70 supporters of Balasaheb reached the police station and created a ruckus,” a source in the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panchayat-samiti-member-son-held-on-charge-of-bid-to-kill-shopkeeper/articleshow/79669325.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||11 booked on charge of murdering dalit man in Madurai||Madurai: Police booked 11 people belonging to the piramalai kallar community on charges of murdering a person from the scheduled caste community on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as M Senthil Kumar, 37, of Panniyan Colony near Checkanurani. He was a functionary of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and belonged to the paraiyar community. Police booked Paraman, Ramachandran, Velmurugan, Kodipuli, Pandi, Sivapandi, Kasi, Ganesan, M Vayakadu, R Vayakadu and R Ananth.In her complaint, S Jothi, wife of Kumar, said that she and her husband were returning to their village on a two-wheeler on Wednesday evening when the accused intercepted them and asked Kumar to meet them after leaving her home. As Kumar received many calls after reaching home, he left the house. A few minutes later, Jothi got information that her husband was found dead at Panniyan junction on the Sholavandan-Tirumangalam Road. She stated that there was a dispute between the two communities in 2017 in which houses and other properties of the scheduled caste people were damaged. Kumar developed enmity with people from the piramalai kallar community during the incident.Last month, there was a dispute between Kumar and Ramachandran, Kodupuli and Pandi. The trio had threatened that they would hire goons and murder him, Jothi stated. Police registered a case under sections of IPC including 302 (punishment for murder) and under sections of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The case is being investigated by Usilampatti deputy superintendent of police Rajan. Police said that the postmortem was completed by Thursday afternoon, but the relatives did not receive it till late in the night. They held a protest at Panagal Road, where the body was kept, demanding immediate arrest of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/11-booked-on-charge-of-murdering-dalit-man-in-madurai/articleshow/79670291.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Meerut||Woman, 30, slits throat of her 3 daughters, youngest girl dies||MEERUT: A 30-year-old woman said to be of unsound mind allegedly slit the throat of her three minor daughters, leaving one of them dead. She later tried to kill herself with the same knife. The incident occurred in the Brahampuri area of Meerut on Thursday evening. Asma attacked her three daughters before slashing her own throat with a knife, sources said. Two girls along with their mother were admitted to a hospital. SP city Akhilesh Narayan said, "The mother and her two daughters are injured while her third daughter is dead. The deceased girl is three years old." The woman's family has said that she often suffered from mental fits and was not keeping well for the last few days. Shaheen, the woman's sister in-law, said, "We have a two-storey house. I live on the ground floor. I sent my elder daughter upstairs for some cloves. She was in deep shock after seeing all of them in a pool of blood. I went upstairs too. And the neighbours came to see as well." Asma has been suffering from some unknown disease for a while, Shaheen added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-30-slits-throat-of-her-3-daughters-youngest-girl-dies/articleshow/79666886.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 11, 2020||Chennai||The great phone robbery: Tamil Nadu cops track down gang that fled with Rs 15 crore mobiles||CHENNAI: Few crime thrillers can match the audacity with which a multi-crore mobile phone heist was pulled off by an inter-state gang enjoying international patronage. It was on October 20 that a truck carrying 13,920 mobile phones, manufactured at Flextronics facility near Chennai and bound for Maharashtra, was intercepted by highway robbers who attacked the crew, drove away the vehicle and shifted the consignment valued at Rs 15 crore to another truck. During the next four days, the truck travelled 1,400-odd kilometres, crossed at least 33 toll booths and its number plates were changed more than 30 times, before it reached a godown in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. The gang then struck a deal with one ‘Dubai’ Abbas who transferred Rs 6 crore to Madhya Pradesh through hawala channels. Once the money was paid, the goods were split into packs of 1,000 phones and sent to places like Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Delhi and Guwahati as air cargo. Minutes after they landed in these places, all parcels were rebooked and sent to Kolkata, from where they were taken to Agartala by road before being smuggled into Bangladesh and sold there. “It is hard to trace the stolen mobiles even if we have the IMEI numbers as the consignment has gone into a foreign country. Minor tweaks will make them untraceable,” said an expert. Special teams of Tamil Nadu police, led by the additional superintendent of police S Sakthivel and comprising deputy superintendents of police C Murali and K Sankar and 32 others, set off 48 hours behind the truck and spent about 40 days to dismantle the whole criminal network. The team scanned over 1,200 CCTV cameras and travelled criss-cross in all the roads leading out of the NH-44 and NH-47 to track the stolen truck. The reward, however, was not much. They identified 30 suspects, but were able to arrest 10, including kingpin Rajendra Chouhan, who has several aliases like mama, kaka and Rajen. Police were able to recover just seven out of the 13,920 stolen mobile phones and no cash was recovered from the arrested suspects. Chouhan, 45, his accomplices Bhawani Singh Hada, Kamalsingh Hada, and Hemraj Jala were arrested from a hideout in Dewas district in Madhya Pradesh. Additional SP S Sakthivel said, “These four are core suspects, while the other arrested six were hawala agents and mediators to transport the consignments.” Of the remaining six, hawala operator Bharath Tejwani was nabbed at Delhi airport on November 18. Later, police arrested Amitabha Datta, Shajahan Mia and Mohammed Jahid at Agartala on November 24. Based on their confession, police nabbed Ameer Khan and Bharath Aswani in Indore in Madhya Pradesh on November 30.  “One of the accused close to Rajendra Chouhan had met another accused Ameer Khan while being detained at an Indore jail and discussed modus operandi to sell stolen mobiles. Instead of stealing and selling phones in small numbers, they targeted a mobile phone consignment worth several crores. Once Chauhan brought the truck to Bhopal, Ameer Khan helped him contact ‘Dubai’ Abbas through Bharath Aswani and Bharath Tejwani. They received payment through hawala channels.” Superintendent of police, Bandi Gangadhar said special teams had been formed to arrest the other absconding suspects, and added: “We will track down Dubai Abbas and issue a red corner notice to all airports. We will also pursue an extradition process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-great-phone-robbery/articleshow/79669315.cms||Selvaraj A
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||LLB admission in aided LU colleges from next week||LUCKNOW: The admission process for LLB courses run by government-aided colleges affiliated to Lucknow University may start next week after a delay of over three months. Admissions to 500 seats in three such colleges were held up since September because of delay on the part of LU in providing guidelines for implementation of quota for economically weaker section as recommended by the Bar Council of India. These colleges had released LLB admission forms simultaneously with LU in August-September. While LU started LLB first-year classes in October, the colleges are yet to declare cut-off lists. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said that the guidelines have been dispatched on Thursday and admissions will be completed at the earliest. However, colleges said they have not got any communication yet. “Even if we get guidelines on Friday or Saturday, it will take at least a week to release the cut-off lists and start the admission process and another week to start classes,” said a college principal. Candidates who were not able to qualify for LU are now banking their hopes on colleges. “I couldn’t make it to LU and waited for Jai Narain PG College, DAV College and Bappa Shri Narain College to declare merit lists. If the delay continues, I would be forced to take admission in a private college by paying a huge amount as fees,” said candidate Rishi Shukla. Another candidate, Ritvik Gupta, said that ideally, the session should have started in July, but this year, it first got delayed due to the pandemic and now by another three months due to the quota policy. “We are already six months behind schedule and further delay could waste our entire year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/llb-admission-in-aided-lu-colleges-from-next-week/articleshow/79670296.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Animal, fish blood samples sent to labs, focus on lead||Hyderabad: Pursuing the two leads about the presence of lead and organochlorine compounds like pesticides in the blood samples of the patients, the AP health authorities collected blood samples from cows, buffalos, goat, sheep and fish from Eluru and sent them to labs. East Godavari district joint collector Himanshu Shukla said in all likelihood it was acute intoxication due to heavy metal or pesticide presence. Shukla said: “We received only 13 cases on Thursday. There are 31 active cases. We collected samples from animals and fish and sent them to AIIMS Delhi, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology and toxicity labs in Bhopal and Pune.” Though officials are saying water is not the source for the mystery illness, they do not have the samples of water before patients had shown symptoms. Shukla said water may not be the culprit as it was found clean. Eluru has a population of 2.5 lakh. Why only 500 people got affected as water is supplied to the entire town. NIN has collected vegetable samples and rice and are testing them. Seven brands of milk and local milk vendor samples were tested but there were no traces of heavy metals.” AIIMS Delhi clinical ecotoxicity facility head Dr A Shareef told TOI, “After finding lead, we have to check for organochlorine compounds. We sent the samples to the Central Forensic Science Labotarty.,” Several labs, including IICT, are looking at the possibility of a chemical contaminant like organachlorine compounds like DDT and other pesticides. IICT director Dr S Chandrasekhar said they have analysed around 240 samples. “The results will be handed over in a sealed cover to the AP government on Friday.” APFSL received samples of viscera and blood from the deceased but found no traces of heavy metals or organochlorine compounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/animal-fish-blood-samples-sent-to-labs-focus-on-lead/articleshow/79669336.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 11, 2020||Meerut||Miscreants performing tractor stunt try to run over cops during farmers’ protest, booked||Muzaffarnagar: Six unidentified youths were booked for allegedly performing dangerous tractor stunts in the middle of a busy street crammed with protesters and policemen during the Bharat Bandh protest in Titavi area of Muzaffarnagar district on Tuesday after a video of the incident showing a policeman trying to stop them had a narrow escape surfaced. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Titavi police station. Muzaffarnagar senior superintendent of police Abhishek Yadav, meanwhile, said, “Police are trying to ascertain the identity of the youths. They will be arrested soon and action against them will be taken as per the law.”According to police sources, a bystander had shot the entire episode on his mobile phone and later uploaded the clip on the internet. The clip shows several people on the tractor were trying to perform stunts on the crowded road, and when police tried to stop them, the driver accelerated the vehicle and fled the spot, said police sources, adding that a policeman had a narrow escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/miscreants-performing-tractor-stunt-try-to-run-over-cops-during-farmers-protest-booked/articleshow/79666889.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 12 research bodies are decoding Eluru mystery||HYDERABAD: For the first time ever in Andhra Pradesh, about a dozen research bodies, labs and hospitals are involved in decoding the ‘mystery’ behind the acute symptoms including seizures in over 500 people in a span of four days in Eluru town of West Godavari district. The ‘disease’ that was first noticed on December 6 has since been named Eluru ‘mystery’ ailment in the absence of a proper scientific diagnosis. Though there have been instances of such ‘mystery’ ailments in AP in the past, this is the first time that about a dozen leading scientific institutions, laboratories and hospitals are involved to study a health issue. Read AlsoEluru mystery: Two more die, Andhra Pradesh govt says not relatedTwo persons admitted with symptoms of mystery disease in Eluru died in Vijayawada on a day AP set up a panel to study reports from various national laboratories on the ailment that has hit 611 since December 6.Earlier, the state reported similar cases of medical ‘enigma’ that on a thorough research turned out to be that of yaws (in Agency areas of Visakhapatnam), acute flaccid paralysis (in Machilipatnam) and viral fever (in Vijayawada). The Uddanam kidney disease is yet to be solved and to date, Uddanam in Srikakulam district continues to be one of the five places on the earth where the exact cause of kidney ailments is yet to be decoded. Initially, Chikungunya, during its second outbreak in early 2000s, was also a medical enigma. Read AlsoEluru mystery illness: Focus on high chemical input useIn the aftermath of the mysterious illness that gripped Eluru, the issue of intensive usage of fertilizers and pesticides by farmers in the state has once again come to the fore.In the case of the Eluru ailment, scientists and health experts are not ruling out any possible angle behind the sudden outbreak. Each leading research body has been handed a specific task and only after all these reports are analysed, will health officials come to a conclusion on what triggered the acute symptoms in people across social, sex and age groups. The research ranges from identifying a pathogen, if any, to finding the cause at the cellular and molecular level. Scientific and health aspects involved will all be studied. While the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi and Mangalagiri, will look into the medical aspects, the National Institute of Nutrition will study the nutritional angles involved. The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology will find out if there are any changes at the cellular or molecular level, while the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology will find out if there are any toxins behind the ailment. The National Institute for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation will find out the epidemiological aspects and suggest measures to prevent recurrence. Local laboratories and hospitals too analysed blood and water samples for chemical or biological contaminants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-12-research-bodies-are-decoding-the-eluru-mystery/articleshow/79669347.cms||Syed Akbar
December 11, 2020||Pune||Online forms for PMC’s Std X, XII scholarships open till Jan 29||Pune: Over 10,000 students of secondary school certificate (SSC, Std X) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, Std XII) will get municipal scholarships. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to continue with the scheme despite its poor financial situation in the pandemic. On an average around Rs 20 crore is spent on these scholarships annually. Besides students from the civic schools, meritorious students from private schools, also get the scholarship. Any student, who has scored more than 85% marks in standard X and 80% marks in standard XII is eligible for this scholarship. The civic body will start the allotment of online forms from December 11 and they are available till January 29. “Funds allotted in the budget will be used for the scholarships. We will continue with the scholarships,” Ranjana Gage, head of PMC urban community development department, said. The civic administration has introduced scholarships instituted in the name of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (for SSC) and Lokshahir Annabhau Sathe (HSC). Another scholarship tilted ‘Sharadabai Pawar memorial scholarship’ is also given to students who have shown remarkable achievements in both exams. The PMC gives Rs 51,000 per student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-forms-for-pmcs-std-x-xii-scholarships-open-till-jan-29/articleshow/79669340.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||NFAI acquires rare footage of first Indian governor-general||Pune: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has acquired around 35 minutes of rare footage from the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MCCIA) featuring C Rajagopalachari, the first Indian governor-general.MCCIA’s director-general Prashant Girbane handed over the 1200 feet-long reels to NFAI director Prakash Magdum on Thursday. The film was found on the MCCIA premises here recently.Officials said that the condition of the footage, shot on 16mm film, is reasonably good. The film is about the history of MCCIA, celebration of its silver jubilee, inauguration of its Tilak Road headquarters, launch of its monthly magazine in 1947, as well as the growth of industries in and around Pune. C Rajagopalachari attended one of its conferences in 1948.“There is a title card in the footage that introduces C Rajagopalachari as the first governor-general of India. The footage is silent with no soundtrack, and it shows Rajagopalachari being felicitated and him addressing people in what looks like a conference,” Magdum told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfai-acquires-rare-footage-of-first-indian-governor-general/articleshow/79669344.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Meerut||Cops nail lie of man who blamed rivals for fire at home||Meerut: A man whose hut accidently caught fire and was gutted while he was cooking in UP’s Bulandshahr allegedly tried to frame his rivals by spreading rumours that they had deliberately caused the fire. When police probed the matter on Thursday, they learnt it was a lie. Santosh Kumar, senior superintendent of police (Bulandshahr), said Yogesh, who was out on emergency parole from jail due to Covid-19, tried to get even with his rivals on whose complaint on sexual harassment he was sent to jail a year ago. He allegedly spread rumours that the latter had set his house on fire on Tuesday. “When we learnt about the rumours, a team led by a circle officer was sent to the spot to ascertain facts,” said Kumar. During interrogation, Yogesh confessed to having planned to frame the complainants with the help of local mediapersons. Police are now planning to take preventive action against him though no FIR has been registered, the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-nail-lie-of-man-who-blamed-rivals-for-fire-at-home/articleshow/79666895.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Centres of excellence’ exempt: ABVP moves Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: The RSS’s student wing, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP), has approached the Gujarat high court against the state government’s policy of exempting those private education institutes on which it confers the status of ‘centre of excellence’ from the purview of fee regulation laws. The high court on Tuesday issued notice to the state government and the advocate general and sought an explanation in this regard by January 11. By inserting Section 13A in the Gujarat Professional Technical Educational Colleges or Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fixation of Fees) Act in 2013, and by issuing a notification in March, the government has exempted centres of excellence, which may include private institutes and universities, from this fee regulatory legislation. ABVP termed this “unreasonable, improper, arbitrary, discriminatory and illegal”, and demanded its removal, stating that it is in violation of constitutional provisions, said the petitioner’s advocate, Sudhanshu Jha. ABVP contended that the government has made the fee regulation law purposeless because it exempts private universities from its purview. It opposed the notification by which the government decided to treat private universities as ‘centres of excellence’. The student union also raised questions about the definition of ‘centre of excellence’. The petitioner further argued that the University Grants Commission (UGC) has evolved a process of granting assistance, but the Gujarat government instead of assisting or helping such institutions has granted exemption from provisions of the Act formed after the Supreme Court’s verdict. The government’s bid to grant exemption in the name of ‘centre of excellence’ is nothing more than mushrooming of private universities which will become haphazard and uncontrolled and will ultimately contribute adversely to the quality of education. ABVP also submitted that the amendment in law is discriminatory between institutes as some institutes, which are declared centres of excellence, will be out of the law’s purview while the rest will have to undergo the scrutiny on fee regulation parameters. Moreover, the notification does not provide any rationale for the government for declaring an institute a centre of excellence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/centres-of-excellence-exempt-abvp-moves-hc/articleshow/79669345.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mayors sweep street in front of CM house on 4th day of protest||NEW DELHI: The mayors, leaders of the Houses and senior functionaries of the three BJP-led municipal corporations continued to sit on a protest outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Thursday. For the fourth day, the mayors, camped in the open, pressed their demand for a meeting to sort out their claim of Rs 13,000 crore pending to the civic bodies from Delhi government. In the morning, the mayors swept the street there as a symbolic protest. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that all his fellow mayors, committee heads and more than 20 women councillors had been enduring the cold December nights in the open only to secure the release of salaries of two lakh employees and frontline Covid-19 workers. “The last time when we had to sit in protest to seek a meeting with the CM, Satyendar Jain met us and assured us that the matter of the dues would be looked into and cleared within 10 days. We believed him and lifted the protest,” he said. “This is not a personal fight, but a matter of upholding constitutional order, with the stated dues arising from the provisions of the Third, Fourth and Fifth Delhi Finance Commissions, all constituted by Delhi government. While SDMC mayor Anamika said women councillors were sitting under the chilly open sky and accused Kejriwal of not even checking to see if his ‘sisters’ were suffering in the cold as a humanitarian gesture, EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain alleged systematic deprivation of funds by the AAP government for sheer political gain. “I am sitting here on behalf of 50,000 pensioners and two lakh employees. How will their families sustain themselves if Delhi government does not speak to us or respond to our letters?” he claimed. “The government may have political differences with us but why is it making the poor workers suffer?” Mayor Anamika said that due to the delay in the release of funds, not only were the salaries of employees affected, but also the developmental projects undertaken by the municipal corporations. State BJP functionaries and city MPs like Hans Raj Hans also joined the protest of the municipal bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayors-sweep-street-in-front-of-cm-house-on-4th-day-of-protest/articleshow/79670342.cms||Paras Singh
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lifetime achievement award for Dr Prasad||LUCKNOW: Rajendra Prasad, director, medical education and head, pulmonary medicine, Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, has been awarded Prof MM Singh Memorial Lifetime Achievement Award of national college of chest physicians of India for contribution in developing and popularizing pulmonary medicine in India. The award will be presented to him during the inaugural function of 22nd national conference on pulmonary diseases scheduled from January 27-31. Prasad, who served as head of pulmonary medicine department, KGMU, and director of Vallabhai Patel chest institute, Delhi, has been a mentor to many students who now hold key positions in the country.  Prasad is also vice-chairperson of the national task force for involvement of medical colleges into the national tuberculosis elimination programme. Besides heading various organisations and recipient of over 50 awards, including BC Roy National Award, he has the distinction of being president of all five major scientific bodies in the field of pulmonary medicine in India. He has supervised 200 researchers, published 400 papers in national and international journals and authored 10 books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lifetime-achievement-award-for-dr-prasad/articleshow/79670316.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Meerut||For the first time, birdwatchers & scientists to count Indian Skimmers across the country||MEERUT: Hundreds of bird watchers and scientists will for the first time count the exact number of Indian Skimmer, which has now been classed as “vulnerable” due to its depleting numbers. Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) in association with Bird Count India has announced the first ever coordinated census of the bird with an orange bill. For this, 56 potential sites-- where the birds have been spotted -- have been selected in 15 states of India. Of them, six sites are in Uttar Pradesh. They include Ganga Barrage in Bijnor and nearby Jalalpur village (parts of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary), Narora in Bulandshahr National Chambal Sanctuary, Okhla Bird Sanctuary and Phaphamau in Prayagraj. Indian Skimmer was earlier distributed widely across the Indian subcontinent, along the major rivers of Myanmar and the Mekong in Indo-China. At present, the maximum population is confined to India, Bangladesh and Pakistan along with few spotting in Myanmar and Nepal. BNHS has identified Indian Skimmer under priority list of birds which need immediate conservation interventions. Indian Skimmer is also included in India's National Action Plan for Conservation of Migratory Birds. The census will be held in two phases – between December 20 and 21 and in early January 2021—and bird lovers are being roped in for the gigantic effort. According to Rajat Bhargava, senior scientist at BNHS, “It is a one of its kind effort involving bird lovers across the country and will go a long way in conservation of the threatened species. The bird lovers are encouraged to visit any of the short-listed sites and enter their count in either ‘eBird’ mobile app or other means as mentioned in BNHS official website. Western UP wetlands around Ganga are quite conducive for these birds and they are often sighted here in flocks. The biggest flock that I saw was of around 50 Skimmers.” Coordinator for Indian Skimmer count, Parveen Shaikh, said, “Although no count has been done before, if we go by rough estimate there must be around 2,000 Indian Skimmers in the country. They generally thrive near coastal areas. But for breeding, they move to river and freshwater wetlands in winter. So this is the ideal time for census. But, at the same time, we have also issued guidelines to the birders asking them not to disturb the birds’ habitat as after a while they will go into nesting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/for-the-first-time-birdwatchers-scientists-to-count-indian-skimmers-across-the-country/articleshow/79666894.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 11, 2020||Meerut||Bungalow of notorious criminal Badan Singh Baddo set to be razed as MDA issues notice||MEERUT: Meerut Development Authority (MDA) has issued notice for the demolition of notorious criminal Badan Singh Baddo’s imposing bungalow in the heart of the city. The authority has also written a letter on the matter to the district administration. Zonal officer of MDA, Dheeraj Singh, said, “We had issued notice against discrepancy in the structure of the house and adjoining shop. But Baddo’s relative Kuldeep Kaur and her advocate could not give a satisfactory reply to suggest that the construction was legally tenable. So, the demolition notice was issued by the MDA.” After permission from the district administration, police force will be provided and demolition will take place, sources said. Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him at various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017, for the murder of lawyer Ravinder Singh in 1996. Baddo is said to own businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are settled. He escaped in March last year after treating a police team, which was escorting him, to alcohol in a hotel. Nine accused, including six policemen, were initially arrested, but all were granted bail later. In the charge-sheet, police had named 21 persons for the escape of Baddo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bungalow-of-notorious-criminal-badan-singh-baddo-set-to-be-razed-as-mda-issues-notice/articleshow/79666897.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Senior PI from Ahmednagar gets anticipatory bail||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay has granted an anticipatory bail to a senior police inspector (52) from Ahmednagar in a case of rape lodged against him on September 29 by a 26-year-old side-actress from film industry. A single-judge bench of Justice R G Avachat observed in a recent order that "prima facie it is a consensual relationship." The bench observed, "He (accused) appears to have abused his position. His conduct is unbecoming of a police officer. The fact, however, prima facie, is that it is a consensual relationship." Ahmednagar superintendent of police Manoj Patil told TOI, “We have already placed the inspector under suspension. A departmental inquiry is being carried out against him by an officer of the rank of deputy superintendent of police.” Based on the woman's complaint, an offence under sections 376 (2) (A) for rape by a police officer, 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) was registered with the Kotwali police station in Ahmednagar. The woman, who has separated from her husband and has a son, claimed of coming in touch with the police officer after she went to Kotwali police station in March 2019 for lodging a complaint. The woman alleged, "After few interactions, the officer started visiting her house, and started making sexual advances against her, followed by repeated rape, assault and even forceful abortion." Soon after the registration of offence, the officer went incommunicado and applied for anticipatory bail which was rejected by the sessions court in Ahmednagar. He then moved the HC through his lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/senior-pi-from-ahmednagar-gets-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/79666896.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 11, 2020||Agra||Six die, three orphaned in two accidents on Yamuna and Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: In less than eight hours, six people died in two accidents on the Yamuna and Agra-Lucknow expressways on Thursday. Delhi-based businessman from Sarita Vihar Shashikant Agarwal, 50, was on his way to his nephew Rupak’s wedding in Jhansi on Thursday morning with his wife Aparna, 48, mother Susheela Devi, 70, and three children — Ishika, 12, Akshita, 8, and toddler Tanush. Around 9.30am, he spoke to his sisters on the phone. “A while later, we got another call from his number. But it was someone else speaking,” Sushma, a family member said. The person told them Shashikant and his family had been in an accident. Then, they got texts from Akshita — gruesome images of the accident. They were on the Yamuna Expressway in Mathura when the tyre of the car had burst and it spun out of control. “Another car in which five youngsters from Delhi were travelling rammed into theirs,” Mahavan police station inspector Praveen Mishra told TOI. Shashikant, Aparna and Susheela died. The couple’s three children were injured and admitted to a private hospital. “We don’t know what will happen to them now,” said Sushma. “Their aunts have reached Mathura. The cremation will probably be held there. They have no one left in Delhi now.” The five youths in the other car — Ravi Tewari, 24, Manish Tewari, 28, Nilesh, 25, Vishu, 23, and Vijay, 22, — have also been hospitalised. They are all from Delhi’s Karol Bagh. Hours before this and 170 km away on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, three others died in an accident. Mukesh Yadav, 25, had just gotten married in Deoria on November 30. On his way back to Gurgaon, where he worked at a pathology lab in Udyog Vihar, he may have fallen asleep at the wheel. There were four others in the car — his uncle Sagar, 35, who works with a private company in Gurgaon, Sagar’s wife Anu, 30, who ran a beauty parlour, Sagar’s father-in-law Mohan Yadav, 65, Mukesh’s nephew Ram Prakash Yadav, 32, and Sagar’s son Rishabh, 8. “It was around 2.30am when their car lost control and toppled over the carriageway, falling 12 feet below,” Karhal station house office Shiv Kumar Chauhan told TOI. Mukesh, Anu and Mohan died. Sagar and Rishabh have been admitted to Saifai Medical College in Etawah. Ram Prakash, the only one in a condition to speak, said the funeral will be held in Deoria on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/six-die-three-orphaned-in-two-expressway-accidents/articleshow/79667834.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Eluru ‘mystery’ ailment: Are veggies, fish the culprits?||HYDERABAD: Available laboratory data points towards vegetables and fish as the possible source of poisonous contaminants in the samples of patients suffering from what has come to be known as Eluru ‘mystery’ disease. Pollutants in milk and other dairy products too may have contributed to the development of acute symptoms in over 500 people in Eluru town. A scientific analysis of the laboratory reports and data on water and air pollution released by the state government makes it amply clear that water and air samples did not contain heavy metals. Those consuming bottled water and people in villages, where municipal tap water is not served, are also affected. Official data showed high levels of lead and nickel in some of the blood samples. If water and air are not the source of lead, nickel, or heavy metal poisoning, then the contaminants must have entered the bloodstream of the patients through food, say researchers. Vegetables, particularly leafy ones, and fish are known to gather heavy metals and pesticides from the earth through a process called bioaccumulation. A number of research studies have revealed the presence of heavy metals and pesticides in vegetables, fruits, and leafy vegetables like Gongura (Hibiscus sabdariffa) and Thotakura (Amaranthus), both local delicacies. Similarly, researchers had also found heavy metals and pesticide residues in fish collected from Krishna and Godavari delta. In this backdrop, the report of the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), which collected vegetable samples, will hold the key to solving the mystery. The government statement referring to mass convulsions in patients clarified that there was subsequent decrease of lead content in the blood after the patients were admitted. “This indicates that this is a case of acute exposure and not chronic exposure. This basically means that at this point in time it seems like a one-time spurt,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eluru-mystery-ailment-are-veggies-fish-the-culprits/articleshow/79669356.cms||Syed Akbar
December 11, 2020||Lucknow||Averted or delayed? Lucknow doctors divided over second Covid wave||LUCKNOW: Has the second wave of Covid-19 been warded off or slowed down in Lucknow? Doctors are evenly divided on it. Some are of the view that the situation is under control as more people are now following Covid protocols, while others say winter could be a deciding factor as the drop in minimum temperature below 10 degrees Celsius and fog may lead to a spike. However, all of them agree that there is no scope of complacency and people should continue to follow safety protocols. Earlier, it was feared that the second wave will start after Diwali. But an analysis of Covid-19 incidence in the past 25 weeks shows that the transmission rate has come down to the levels witnessed in July-end. Average daily cases, which had reached about 1,000 in September, are now between 200 and 300. This, doctors said, indicates that the virus is down but even slight laxity may trigger a surge. Cases have not spiked after Diwali as relatively more people are now wearing masks and targeted testing by the administration has prevented wedding and festivals from being super spreaders, they said, pointing out that the number of deaths is still high and a cause of concern. Prof Virendra Atam, head of medicine department at KGMU, said, “Decline in fresh cases does not suggest that severity is over. We are still witnessing four to five serious ICU patients daily besides 10 to 15 moderately infected ones.” Dr Anil Kumar Gulati, director of microbiology department, Institute of Medical Sciences at Banaras Hindu University, said, “Novel coronavirus is a respiratory virus and aerosols concentration during foggy conditions may play a host for them. We may see a surge when minimum temperatures will remain below 10 degrees Celsius for long.” “Since the body produces thicker and stickier mucus in winter in which viruses get stuck easily, people become prone to infections,” said medical superintendent for Covid-19 at RML Institute Dr Srikesh Singh. Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “The positivity rate has come down from 13 in September to 2.5 in December. We have controlled the transmission, but we do not know how the virus will behave in harsh winter.” Dr D Himanshu, communicable disease expert and medical superintendent, KGMU, said, “We can say the second wave has not come and in all probability, will not come, but public should understand that low immunity in winter may result in severity of cases and high mortality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/averted-or-delayed-city-docs-divided-over-second-covid-wave/articleshow/79670347.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Help’ at ATM costs GST staffer Rs 45,000||AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old employee of the goods and services tax (GST) department from Isanpur, Kanaihya Thakkar, was swindled of Rs 45,300 by a man who switched his ATM card while pretending to help him withdraw money from an ATM. According to police sources, the offence occurred on October 29 but as Thakkar and his wife had then tested positive for Covid-19 and were quarantined at home, they could not go to the police station to lodge an FIR. Thakkar finally lodged an FIR at Isanpur police station on Wednesday. According to the FIR, Thakkar had gone to an SBI ATM in Isanpur to withdraw cash. When he did not manage to do so, a man offered help but they still could not withdraw cash. “On October 29 and 30, over multiple transactions, a total of Rs 45,300 were withdrawn. That was when Thakkar learned that his ATM card had been switched by the man who offered to help,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/help-at-atm-costs-gst-staffer-rs-45k/articleshow/79669358.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolhapur||No deaths in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: The district reported 22 fresh Covid patients, including eight from Kolhapur city, since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 49,243. No deaths were reported in the city since Wednesday late night. While 47,731 patients have recovered from Covid, 222 patients are undergoing treatment currently.  Sangli district reported 40 fresh cases and four Covid deaths, taking the total number of patients to 47,165. Of them, 45,058 have recovered and 1,717 have died due to the infection. Meanwhile Satara district reported 114 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 53,193. The death toll has now risen to 1,756. As many as 50,089 patients have recovered from the contagion while 1,348 are undergoing treatment. Solapur rural reported 81 cases while 197 patients were discharged since Wednesday. Four deaths were also reported. Solapur city recorded 27 new cases and 20 patients were discharged. Solapur rural and Solapur city has 36,610 cases and 10,588 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-deaths-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/79666901.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court refuses to junk DV charges||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court rejected an appeal to strike down an order for compensation for domestic violence under the Domestic Violence Act after the man claimed that he was acquitted of criminal charges under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the FIR lodged by his wife. In this case, Narendra Rajgor of Morbi approached the city sessions court against a magisterial court’s decision to hold him and his relatives responsible for domestic violence on his wife, Shilpa, who had filed a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act in 2014. In 2017, Rajgor was ordered by the metropolitan court to pay Rs 10,000 monthly maintenance to his wife and Rs 2,000 for his minor son. Their elder son lives with Rajgor in Morbi. The metropolitan court also ordered Rajgor to pay Rs 5,000 compensation for domestic violence. One of the grounds behind challenging the order for compensation and his being held responsible for domestic violence was his and his family members’ acquittal by a district court in Morbi. Shilpa had lodged an FIR against Rajgor and her in-laws, accusing them of cruelty, mental harassment, assault and criminal intimidation. A magisterial court had convicted them but a district court later reversed the order. Rajgor contended that once the criminal charges levelled by his wife in the FIR could not be established and her testimony was demolished in a criminal court, he should be exonerated of the accusation of committing domestic violence also. The sessions court rejected the argument with the observation, “So far as the criminal offence under Section 498A of IPC is concerned, the petitioner-wife has to prove ingredients of cruelty under the criminal jurisprudence beyond reasonable doubt, but under the DV Act, the petitioner (wife) has to prove ingredients of domestic violence on the basis of the preponderance of probability. Therefore, mere acquittal of the respondent-husband and others, for the offence under Section 498A of IPC is not material to set aside the order of compensation passed under Section 22 of the DV Act.” While the husband sought removal of the accusation of domestic violence from the case, the wife had sought an increase in maintenance and rent for separate residence as she has been living in Ahmedabad for the last seven years. The court ordered the husband to pay her Rs 5,000 more every month for rent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-refuses-to-junk-dv-charges/articleshow/79669354.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Complainant gets police protection||Pune: The city police has provided 24X7 protection to an education officer, who is the complainant in a multi-crore teachers’ recruitment scam. The complainant had received threats in October and November. Kisan Bhujbal, currently posted with the Pune Zilla Parishad’s education department, had lodged a complaint on October 20, 2019, following which the police had booked 28 persons, ZP officers and various schools in the city and district. “There is a security threat to the complainant and, after assessing the situation, we provided him security cover recently. A police constable remains present with him 24X7,” said DCP, special branch, Mitesh Ghatte. He added, “A formal request was made by the economic offences wing to provide him security. We have done the needful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/complainant-gets-police-protection/articleshow/79669349.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Polls: Delimitation report likely to be submitted today||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district collector is likely to submit a report on the delimination of municipal wards on Friday in the run-up to the next civic body election expected to be held before monsoon.Sources in the election commission said that a formal procedure will be followed on receipt of delimitation of wards, which is considered the first major step before conducting the election. The commission would then call for objections and suggestions from the citizens on the proposed ward delimitation.The sources further said that finalization of ward delimitation would be formally announced after hearing objections and suggestions. This would be followed by a draw for the reservation of seats for various categories.The announcement of a reservation is also considered as a major milestone, after which formal dates of election may be announced. Sources said that the census report of 2011 would be considered for the announcement of reservation.Major political parties have already undertaken preparations for the civic election as they look at the civic polls as an opportunity to expand their base. Political leaders, however, are skeptical over Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP coming together to fight the Kolhapur city elections. Local Sena leaders are slightly upset as they do not find any space in local politics even if the party is in the government and it has one MP – Sanjay Mandlik. A powerful section in the party feels that party should go alone to expand its base. Congress and NCP fought the last election separately, but came together to capture the power in post-election period. The two parties, particularly Congress, have been dominating the civic polls for the past five years. Functionaries of the Congress and NCP said that they may fight independently, with some understanding, to prevent BJP from capturing the power. The decision of two parties is being closely watched in view of the power tussle between Hasan Mursrif of NCP and Satej Patil of Congress. BJP, for the first time, will contest the election on its own. Dhananjay Mahadik’s Tararani Aaghadi is yet to dissolve even though he had joined BJP a year ago. For BJP and Mahadik, civic election will be an opportunity to assert themselves. BJP is also banking upon the disgruntled elements in the three parties. This strategy, however, is being opposed by a section of workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/polls-delimitation-report-likely-to-be-submitted-today/articleshow/79666909.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chennai||Rain-battered North Chennai roads now unmotorable||CHENNAI: Rain that lashed the city in the wake of two cyclones last month has left roads in North Chennai riddled with potholes, making commuting difficult. In Mannady, residents said absence of illumination made riding two-wheelers with a pillion rider at night very risky. A S Bilal, an advocate at the Madras high court, said there were big potholes on Savarimuthu Street. “A brief spell of rain will fill the potholes,” he said. Bilal said he had sent representations to the local legislator and MP requesting them to use the local area development funds to rebuild the roads. Lanes opposite the Madras high court leading up to the Chennai Beach station were waterlogged after the rain and the service agencies have made them worse by digging up the roads for work, Bilal said. The Tiruvottiyur High Road has potholes on both sides. Abdul Kareem, a resident of North Chennai and a local activist, shared photographs and video of the damaged road from Tondiarpet RTO to the hospital treating communicable diseases. A senior official from Greater Chennai Corporation said interior roads in Mannady were damaged due to pipe-laying work by Metrowater. The road leading to the Tondiarpet hospital was cut by service agencies making it worse after the rain. The corporation has floated tenders to patch up the roads cut up by service agencies and it will be done this month, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rain-battered-north-chennai-roads-now-unmotorable/articleshow/79669343.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Safety takes back seat at NHAI construction site in Arumbakkam||CHENNAI: A day after the Madras high court came down heavily on the National Highways Authority of India asking the agency to collect only 50% toll at two toll booths where the road stretches are bad, the agency continued to flout norms while constructing drains. On Thursday, TOI found that in Arumbakkam on Poonamallee High Road, where NHAI is constructing storm water drain, there were neither barricades nor reflective tapes. A five-year-old child fell into a pit and was rescued by workers near the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board office. After TOI pointed it out to the authorities, they placed barricades and shared photographs. However, activists and residents said every time such construction and other civic projects are carried out, safety norms are flouted. Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption organisation, said in tenders issued by the highways, contractors are asked to include rates for barricading and safety measures at the construction site. “There is a clause stating that the contractor shall be responsible for the safety of all activities at the site. As per a circular issued by the ministry of road transport and highways, all executing agencies must ensure safety provisions during construction,” he said. Senior officials of the highways department told TOI that they have tasked all junior officials to ensure safety measures are implemented. Officials at the site in Arumbakkam told TOI that they did not barricade “only one stretch”. “We shifted the barricades to more vulnerable locations. We ensure all sites are properly barricaded,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/safety-takes-back-seat-at-nhai-construction-site-in-arumbakkam/articleshow/79669351.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Man stabs wife to death over domestic tiff||Pune: A 50-year-old man stabbed his wife to death near the Kothrud bus stand on Thursday evening following a domestic quarrel. The Alankar police identified the victim as Kirti Ravikumar Pote (43). The police said Pote and her husband had a fight. He then followed her to a clinic near the bus stand where she was working and stabbed her in her chest, the police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-stabs-wife-to-death-over-domestic-tiff/articleshow/79669364.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Pune||Three held on charge of throwing hot oil on woman||Pune: The Market Yard police arrested three women after one of them threw hot oil on a 31-year-old woman while the other two abused and attacked her over an old dispute at Ambedkarnagar slum around 8.30am on Wednesday. The victim, Sonali Udanshive, a homemaker, sustained 10% burn injuries. The arrested women Sangeeta Waghmode, alias Rukhsana Shaikh, Mangal Waghmode and Pooja Waghmode have been charged with voluntarily causing grievous injuries under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Assistant sub-inspector Sunil Munchade, who is investigating the case, said on Thursday that there was an old dispute between Udanshive and other women and they had filed cross complainants against each other in the past. He said, “Shaikh abused Udanshive’s mother over a previous dispute. Udanshive intervened and sought reasons from Shaikh for abusing her mother. After the dispute between the two parties became heated, Shaikh threw hot oil on Udanshive and her two accomplices abused and attacked her.” “We arrested three women after Udanshive registered an FIR,” Munchade said. In another development, one of the arrested women, Sangeeta Waghmode, registered a counter FIR against Udanshive and two others, including a woman, for attacking them. One of the suspects, Deepak Waghmode (28), was later arrested, Munchade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-held-on-charge-of-throwing-hot-oil-on-woman/articleshow/79669359.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||5 held with demonetized Turkish lira in Tuticorin||Tuticorin: The district police nabbed a five-member gang and seized 2 crore demonetized Turkey lira (Rs 9.37 per lira) from them when they were trying to sell them to a shipping company in Tuticorin on Thursday. The gang had 40 currencies each valued at 5 lakh lira before they were demonetised by Turkey in 2006. The seized currencies would have been valued at Rs 18.74 crore had they been valid. Tuticorin district SP S Jayakumar said the gang identified those with international businesses and got in touch with a private shipping company in Tuticorin a few days ago. They tried to cheat them by selling the lira at a throwaway price. Alerted by the shipping company, Sipcot police laid a trap ago and waited for the accused to come to the city. On Thursday, the gang was caught red-handed at Thermal Nagar beach. They were booked under section 420 (punishment for cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.  Those arrested were N Jeeva of Perur in Coimbatore, S Vijayamanickam of Surandai in Tenkasi district and their accomplices S Muhammed Bihari, A Mohammed Riswan and M Mohammed Askar of Nathahar Pallivasal Pettai in Kadayanallur, Tenkasi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-held-with-demonetized-turkish-lira-in-tuticorin/articleshow/79670386.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana & HP lagging in Covid-19 management: Report||CHANDIGARH: Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab have been found lagging in the state ranking on Covid-19 management, with the hill state emerging as the worst of the lot. In the ranking released by the State Bank of India’s (SBI) in its research Ecowrap report, Punjab performed better than the other two states of the region. The states have been ranked based on their performance in Covid-19 management and implementation of central government schemes. Punjab was ranked 14th, followed by Haryana in the 15th place, while Himachal Pradesh finished last by attaining 22nd spot. To evaluate the performance of each state, four indicators were used, including gap between actual estimated cases based on panel regression model, underreporting of cases — lower the underreported cases the better state performed — recovery and death rate. Though Punjab has the highest case fatality rate in the country, the number of actual cases was far less than the estimated number. Punjab’s recovery rate was also better than its counterparts. Against an estimated 2,25,347 cases between April and November, the actual number of cases in Punjab was 1,52,091 — about 33% less than estimated numbers. A total of 2,34,126 cases surfaced in Haryana against the estimate of 2,50,256, while in Himachal Pradesh, 40,518 cases were reported against a projected number of 49,983. Haryana and Himachal recorded a steep rise in Covid cases in November while Punjab was among the states having the same or lower number of cases in November. For management of Covid-19, Punjab secured 14th spot while Haryana attained 16th place. Himachal finished at 22nd spot. Haryana fared better than Punjab and Himachal Pradesh in implementation of five central schemes namely one nation one card, PM Svanidhi scheme, PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme. Haryana finished at 14th spot while Punjab and Himachal attained 15th and 17th place, respectively. However, HP secured second spot in macro parameters evaluated on gap budgeted estimate and collection of GST, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-hp-lagging-in-covid-19-management-report/articleshow/79669365.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 11, 2020||Madurai||DMDK can face poll alone: Premalatha||Madurai: DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakanth has said that the party was ready to contest all 234 seats in the assembly independently if needed, something her party cadres are demanding. The DMDK leader, who was in Andipatti in Theni to participate in a wedding, told reporters that party continued to be in the AIADMK alliance for now but a decision on the assembly elections will be taken at the its executive committee meeting next month. The Centre should come up with a solution on the farmers’ protest while the latter should also be receptive to suggestions from the government. On Rajinikanth’s move to launch a party, she said. ``Let him launch the party and tour the state, then I will speak about it.’’ While welcoming the steps taken by the state in tackling the cyclones and rain, she rued the absence of proper drainage facilities which could have saved rainwater. Meanwhile, DMDK Virudhunagar unit has urged its high command to consider contesting the elections alone. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmdk-can-face-poll-alone-premalatha/articleshow/79670432.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Govt’s priority was to save lives and livelihood of people: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot blamed Covid-19 for the party’s loss in the panchayat polls. Gehlot said results were not as per expectations of the Congress. He also accused the opposition of misleading the voters. Gehlot said in a statement, “The results of the district council and panchayat polls are not as per our expectation. For the past nine months, our government was involved in Covid management and our priority was to save lives and livelihoods of the people.” “Our entire focus was on the Corona pandemic, due to which we could not promote properly our plans and government’s actions. At the same time, the leaders of the opposition visited rural areas and misled voters by false propaganda,” Gehlot said. He said, “At the time of lockdown, labourers and migrants were conveniently brought to their homes. Financial assistance and ration was provided to the people. Employment opportunities in villages were increased through NREGA. No one was left to sleep hungry and no one died due to lack of treatment for Covid in the state,” he claimed. He said the government’s priority has been to save people’s lives and livelihoods and strengthen the state’s health infrastructure. “Due to coronavirus, we could not publicise our works while the opposition misled the people. But we will give a befitting reply to the opposition, after getting feedback from the people,” he added. Gehlot thanked voters and the Congress workers who, he said, strengthened democracy by participating in this election. “I congratulate all the winning candidates. I am confident that all the people’s representatives will succeed in public service,” he said. In elections held for the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats in 21 districts of Rajasthan’s 33 districts, the BJP bagged 1,989, the Congress won 1,852, Independents 439, the CPI (M) 26, the RLP six and the BSP five. Similarly, in elections held for 635 zila parishad seats in these 21 districts, the BJP won 353 seats and the Congress 252 with the result for one seat yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govts-priority-was-to-save-lives-and-livelihood-of-people-gehlot/articleshow/79669373.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Govt’s priority was to save lives and livelihood of people: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot blamed Covid-19 for the party’s loss in the panchayat polls. Gehlot said results were not as per expectations of the Congress. He also accused the opposition of misleading the voters. Gehlot said in a statement, “The results of the district council and panchayat polls are not as per our expectation. For the past nine months, our government was involved in Covid management and our priority was to save lives and livelihoods of the people.” “Our entire focus was on the Corona pandemic, due to which we could not promote properly our plans and government’s actions. At the same time, the leaders of the opposition visited rural areas and misled voters by false propaganda,” Gehlot said. He said, “At the time of lockdown, labourers and migrants were conveniently brought to their homes. Financial assistance and ration was provided to the people. Employment opportunities in villages were increased through NREGA. No one was left to sleep hungry and no one died due to lack of treatment for Covid in the state,” he claimed. He said the government’s priority has been to save people’s lives and livelihoods and strengthen the state’s health infrastructure. “Due to coronavirus, we could not publicise our works while the opposition misled the people. But we will give a befitting reply to the opposition, after getting feedback from the people,” he added. Gehlot thanked voters and the Congress workers who, he said, strengthened democracy by participating in this election. “I congratulate all the winning candidates. I am confident that all the people’s representatives will succeed in public service,” he said. In elections held for the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats in 21 districts of Rajasthan’s 33 districts, the BJP bagged 1,989, the Congress won 1,852, Independents 439, the CPI (M) 26, the RLP six and the BSP five. Similarly, in elections held for 635 zila parishad seats in these 21 districts, the BJP won 353 seats and the Congress 252 with the result for one seat yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/govts-priority-was-to-save-lives-and-livelihood-of-people-gehlot/articleshow/79676237.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to reopen schools for classes X, XII from December 14||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided to re-open private and government schools for classes X and XII students from December 14, with teaching scheduled from 10 am to 1 pm, and for classes IX and XI from December 21. A formal order in this regard was issued by the Directorate of School Education Haryana on Thursday. The decision to restart teaching for classes X and XII has been taken in view of their board classes and the pandemic situation. However, only those students who get a medical fitness certificate confirming that they have no Covid-19 symptom would be permitted to attend the classes. The consent of the parents of students would also be mandatory. All the deputy commissioners have also been asked to ensure free health check-up of students at the government hospitals or primary health centres of community health centres through the chief medical officers of their respective districts. Earlier on November 20, the state government had ordered the schools to close down till November 30 in view of the increase in Covid-19 infection and then extended closure till December 10. A large number of students of private as well as state-run schools across the state had tested positive for Covid-19 recently after the schools reopened after six-seven months.  The students had been allowed only after obtaining the permission/consent of their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-x-xii-from-dec-14/articleshow/79669372.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ajmer||Govt’s priority was to save lives and livelihood of people: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot blamed Covid-19 for the party’s loss in the panchayat polls. Gehlot said results were not as per expectations of the Congress. He also accused the opposition of misleading the voters. Gehlot said in a statement, “The results of the district council and panchayat polls are not as per our expectation. For the past nine months, our government was involved in Covid management and our priority was to save lives and livelihoods of the people.” “Our entire focus was on the Corona pandemic, due to which we could not promote properly our plans and government’s actions. At the same time, the leaders of the opposition visited rural areas and misled voters by false propaganda,” Gehlot said. He said, “At the time of lockdown, labourers and migrants were conveniently brought to their homes. Financial assistance and ration was provided to the people. Employment opportunities in villages were increased through NREGA. No one was left to sleep hungry and no one died due to lack of treatment for Covid in the state,” he claimed. He said the government’s priority has been to save people’s lives and livelihoods and strengthen the state’s health infrastructure. “Due to coronavirus, we could not publicise our works while the opposition misled the people. But we will give a befitting reply to the opposition, after getting feedback from the people,” he added. Gehlot thanked voters and the Congress workers who, he said, strengthened democracy by participating in this election. “I congratulate all the winning candidates. I am confident that all the people’s representatives will succeed in public service,” he said. In elections held for the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats in 21 districts of Rajasthan’s 33 districts, the BJP bagged 1,989, the Congress won 1,852, Independents 439, the CPI (M) 26, the RLP six and the BSP five. Similarly, in elections held for 635 zila parishad seats in these 21 districts, the BJP won 353 seats and the Congress 252 with the result for one seat yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/govts-priority-was-to-save-lives-and-livelihood-of-people-gehlot/articleshow/79676239.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Shimla||Covid rejuvenated Himachal peaks, but hit tourism||MANALI: With the world observing International Mountain Day on Friday, mountains in Himachal Pradesh are breathing freely, at least this year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the UN, environmental changes have posed great challenges to people around the world who are dependent on mountains for livelihood. While precious flora and fauna in mountains witnessed least human disturbance this year, scientists claimed that the Covid-19 imposed lockdown helped unprecedented growth of flora at many Himalayan regions. With almost no commercial mountaineering activities this year, the livelihood of thousands of people is at stake. Mountaineering industry of Himachal, which includes climbing expeditions to peaks, long and short treks, rock climbing and day hiking, is paused since March when nationwide lockdown was imposed. Peak mountaineering activities begin in May and last till November. A large number of foreigners also visit the state for eco-friendly activities. According to Adventure Tour Operators Association president Roshan Thakur, thousands of people including operators, guides, porters, cooks and helpers are associated with the industry from Himachal. “Most of them could not earn a single rupee this year. Some of us restarted work in October, but it was too late to get clients. Now that mountains are covered with snow, trekking and climbing expeditions cannot be organised,” he said. Thakur said operators had been celebrating International Mountain Day every year on December 11, but this year they would celebrate it virtually. “Though mountaineering is am eco-friendly activity, we spread awareness about keeping mountains garbage free. We live in the mountains and we respect them. Some large companies exploiting the mountains in the name of mountaineering are a big challenge for us. We feel proud that our association plants a large number of trees in forest areas every year,” he added. Unplanned tourism has been a big threat to the state’s biodiversity. Tourists camp illegally in forests and some operators have developed illegal camping sites. Traffic jams, carbon emissions and tourists littering mountains are major problems. However, during the pandemic, nature rejuvenated. KS Kanwal, scientist with GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment, said his team recorded 70 species of alpine plants near Rohtang area this year, while the highest number of species ever recorded was 50. “Less anthropogenic activities made conditions favourable for their growth. We have run campaigns for mountain biodiversity and sustainable development. Recently, we planted a large number of rakhal (texus wallichiana) saplings with help of villagers at many places,” he said. Mountains are home to 15% of the world’s population, but they provide fresh water to half of the world’s population. Mountains host half of the world’s biodiversity hotspots. According to the UN, conservation of mountains is a key factor for sustainable development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/covid-rejuvenated-himachal-peaks-but-hit-tourism/articleshow/79669367.cms||Suresh Sharma
December 11, 2020||Udaipur||Govt’s priority was to save lives and livelihood of people: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot blamed Covid-19 for the party’s loss in the panchayat polls. Gehlot said results were not as per expectations of the Congress. He also accused the opposition of misleading the voters. Gehlot said in a statement, “The results of the district council and panchayat polls are not as per our expectation. For the past nine months, our government was involved in Covid management and our priority was to save lives and livelihoods of the people.” “Our entire focus was on the Corona pandemic, due to which we could not promote properly our plans and government’s actions. At the same time, the leaders of the opposition visited rural areas and misled voters by false propaganda,” Gehlot said. He said, “At the time of lockdown, labourers and migrants were conveniently brought to their homes. Financial assistance and ration was provided to the people. Employment opportunities in villages were increased through NREGA. No one was left to sleep hungry and no one died due to lack of treatment for Covid in the state,” he claimed. He said the government’s priority has been to save people’s lives and livelihoods and strengthen the state’s health infrastructure. “Due to coronavirus, we could not publicise our works while the opposition misled the people. But we will give a befitting reply to the opposition, after getting feedback from the people,” he added. Gehlot thanked voters and the Congress workers who, he said, strengthened democracy by participating in this election. “I congratulate all the winning candidates. I am confident that all the people’s representatives will succeed in public service,” he said. In elections held for the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti seats in 21 districts of Rajasthan’s 33 districts, the BJP bagged 1,989, the Congress won 1,852, Independents 439, the CPI (M) 26, the RLP six and the BSP five. Similarly, in elections held for 635 zila parishad seats in these 21 districts, the BJP won 353 seats and the Congress 252 with the result for one seat yet to be declared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/govts-priority-was-to-save-lives-and-livelihood-of-people-gehlot/articleshow/79676238.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||BJP rebel wins Ajmer district head post with Congress support||AJMER: The BJP lost the zila pramukh seat in Ajmer on Thursday when Sushil Kanwar Palara of the BJP raised the flag of rebellion and won the election as an independent with Congress support. The saffron party camp was elated after winning 21 of the 32 seats in Ajmer zila parishad and was confident of winning the zilla pramukh’s seat. The saffron party fielded Mahendra Singh Majhewala, president of Jila Sarpanch Sangh, for the post, but Sushil Kanwar, who was an MLA from Masuda from BJP in the last assembly elections and was also Jila Pramukh in last tenure from BJP party, jumped into the fray as independent. Congress, which had fielded Shrilal Tanwar as its candidate, lost no time in sensing an opportunity and withdrew Tanwar’s nomination, thus clearing the path for Sushil Kanwar, who already had support of many BJP members. Late in the afternoon, when voting began, Sushil Kanwar garnered the support of 23 members, while Mahendra of BJP got only 9 votes. Sushil Kanwar managed to break away 12 members from the BJP, which created ripples within the party as the district unit was under the impression of keeping the flock together. According to sources, Sushil Kanwar was the first choice candidate for the seat, but later the party picked Majhewala which drove a wedge within the elected members. In zila parishad election, Sushil Kanwar won by 3,779 votes. On other hand Majhewala won by 1,713 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-rebel-wins-ajmer-district-head-post-with-cong-support/articleshow/79669371.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||2 children die, 2 injured as DJ system fixed on tractor-trolley falls on them||BAREILLY: Two children — both aged 10 years — were killed and two others critically injured after a DJ (disc jockey) music system, including three speakers, fixed on a tractor-trolley fell on them after coming in contact with the balcony of a house during a religious procession in Basai village in Budaun district on Thursday evening. One of the children Tillu Kumar died on the spot, said police, while another Udit succumbed to his injuries during the treatment at the district hospital. Two other children — Sunny (9) and Bablu (11) — are undergoing treatment, and their condition is stated to be critical. The children — all friends and students of a primary school — were dancing along with villagers to the tunes of religious songs played by the DJ during a religious procession taken out before establishing an idol of Lord Shiva in a temple when the DJ system accident took place, said police. The incident sent a shock wave across the village, turning an enthusiastic religious event into mourning. Police have, meanwhile, started inquest proceeding. Bisauli police station SHO said, “The preliminary investigation finds the tractor driver at fault. We are waiting for a complaint from the children’s families. We are also convincing the grieving families to grant us permission for getting the autopsy on the bodies conducted. No arrest has been made, so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-children-die-2-injured-as-dj-system-fixed-on-tractor-trolley-falls-on-them/articleshow/79666995.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 11, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh to decide on village inclusion on Dec 13||SHIMLA: Ahead of the coming panchayat elections in Himachal Pradesh, villagers opposing the inclusion of their villages under Town and Country Planning can hope for some decision from the state government. The cabinet sub-committee, headed by revenue minister Mahender Singh Thakur, will be finalising its report on December 13 and same will be placed before the cabinet on December 14. In Himachal Pradesh, many villages have been included under Special Area Development Authority (SADA) and planning areas and same is resisted by villagers who are demanding their exclusion from the planning areas. The state government has formed cabinet sub-committee to deal with the issue. Already sub-committee has held public meetings to hear the grievances of people and based on their suggestions now sub-committee will be submitting its recommendations to the government. Cabinet sub-committee held a meeting on Wednesday in which it was decided that another meeting of sub-committee will be held on December 13 to finalise its recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-to-decide-on-village-inclusion-on-dec-13/articleshow/79669381.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Vellaikkal to house Madurai’s new fish market||Madurai: The Madurai Corporation has identified a spacious site at Vellaikkal as the new place to construct the wholesale fish market, functioning earlier in Karimedu. The new place was chosen as the site in Virattipathu, which was proposed earlier, did not have adequate space for future expansion. The civic body had a few years back decided to shift the Karimedu market away from the city to prevent sanitation and traffic issues. Although it has been four years since the shifting of the market to Virattipathu was first proposed, it was mired in delay due to various issues. At present, the market is functioning at Mattuthavani as a temporary arrangement after Covid-19 outbreak, and due to lack of space in Karimedu. There were around 50 wholesale and 120 retail fish stalls in Karimedu. The new market building in Vellaikkal, which will come up near the sewage treatment plant will be constructed at a cost of Rs 3 crore, with Rs 1.5 crore funding from the central government, Rs 1.2 crore from the state and Rs 30 lakh from the corporation. A corporation official said the site will be ideal for future expansion also and added that since it is away from residential areas, sanitation and traffic problems can be handled better. “A team from the fisheries department visited the Virattipatti site and raised issues regarding space constraints. It seemed spacious enough before Covid-19 outbreak, but now with physical distancing and ventilation being stressed upon, it has been decided to take up construction in a more spacious place,” he said. An approval has to be obtained from the funding agency in the central government for the new place. Once it is obtained, tender works will follow, he added. A higher official said that though fish traders had expressed satisfaction at the present area in Mattuthavani and sought to construct the market there itself, it is not sustainable in the long run. “It would not take much time for sanitation and traffic issues to plague Mattuthavani,” he said and added that the temporary market will continue to function there till the permanent market is ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vellaikkal-to-house-madurais-new-fish-market/articleshow/79670461.cms||V Devanathan
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Jamia students oppose ‘only laptop or PC’ norm for proctored exams||NEW DELHI: Jamia Millia Islamia’s guidelines, which insist that the proctored semester examinations beginning December 21 would be conducted only through laptops and PCs, have been opposed by students, who have termed it exclusionary. The students alleged that over 10,000 of them would be affected adversely. The guidelines issued on December 10 state that the exams would be conducted through a portal and students would be allowed to appear from their chosen place of convenience and won’t have to visit the university campus. However, the students would need a Windows laptop or PC with a stable internet connection, a web camera and the latest version of Firefox browser. Smartphones won’t be allowed. Students would be required to give permission to use their web camera throughout the duration of the examinations for remote invigilation. Students won’t be allowed to open another browser window, tab or application. They would have to take the test strictly from a separate room with no other person being present there. Mohammad Yasir, a second-year physics (hons) student said, “Not all of us have laptops or PCs. The university took our assignments through Google classroom. They could have emulated the same for the exams. Asking students, many of whom live in cramped quarters, to find a separate room to take the exam is discriminatory.” The hashtag #ScrapOnlineProctoredExam started trending on Twitter on Thursday evening after the guidelines became public. The students were also troubled at being asked to make arrangements for “uninterrupted power and good internet connectivity for the complete duration of the test”. In a letter to the vice-chancellor, several students claimed the proctored exams could create a divide between students. “Many students are facing connectivity issues and a host of other technical problems in doing academic work and attending online classes. Many students come from remote areas of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, south and northeastern states where there is little availability of high-speed internet. Furthermore, the connectivity in these areas is highly unstable and inconsistent. In J&K, high-speed 4G internet is absent,” the letter stated. Jamia controller of examination Nazim Hussain Jafri told TOI he was surprised by the opposition and claimed that the guidelines were according to UGC norms. “If students face any problems, they can write their concerns to us on the mail ID provided in the guidelines and we will consider them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-students-oppose-only-laptop-or-pc-norm-for-proctored-exams/articleshow/79669388.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress elects a rebel BJP leader in Bundi zila parishad||KOTA: The ruling Congress in Bundi had to withdraw the party candidate from the contest and back BJP rebel for zila pramukh post who contested as an independent. He won by a margin of a single vote in the 23-member Bundi zila parishad, where the BJP candidates had won in 12 wards. BJP’s winning candidate from ward number 23 of Bundi zila parishad, Chandrawati Hada, on denial of nomination by the party for zila pramukh, filed the nomination independently and was proposed by another BJP rebel Shakti Singh of Ward No. 17. Interestingly, the Congress decided not to field its candidate and back Hada, who was declared winner by a vote. BJP fielded Purshottam Sharma for the post against the rebel and the opportunity was used by sports minister Ashok Chandana who hails from the district. He decided against fielding any party candidate and supported the independent. The locals, however, see it a repeat of 2010 when the then Congress rebel Rakesh Boyat contested for zila pramukh against Congress candidate with the support of opposition BJP won the election. The Congress was able to elect only the pradhan of Bundi panchayat samiti Pradahan and lost in rest of 4 panchayat samiti to the Saffron party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-elects-a-rebel-bjp-leader-in-bundi-zila-parishad/articleshow/79669390.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||After 20 years, BJP gets Jaisalmer zila chief||JAISALMER: Despite Congress having the majority, BJP made its zila pramukh. The 20-year-old Congress bastion collapsed in zila pramukh election. The Congress had won nine and BJP eight seats. However, during the voting, BJP's Pratap Singh got 12 votes and Congress candidate Rukia Khatoon got five votes. Four members of Congress voted in favour of BJP. Taratara math’s Mahant Pratap Puri was managing the show, while Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was campaigning for a BJP zila pramukh. BJP workers burst crackers at Hanuman Chowraha and distributed sweets. In zila parishad election in Jaisalmer, Congress won nine and BJP eight seats. Both groups were claiming that zila pramukh will be from their party. One group was trying to get ticket for Anjana Meghwal, daughter of MLA Ruparam, while other group was trying for Abdullah Fakir, brother of cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad. Looking at the fight, Rajasthan Congress chief made both groups agree to give ticket to Rukia Khatoon. Khatoon had won from Pokhran ward and is said to be very close to Abdullah. While Congress members who won the zila parishad election were annoyed on making Khatoon as the candidate and possibly four Congress members voted in favour of BJP and got BJP candidate elected as zila Pramukh. In this way, after 20 years, a BJP candidate became zila pramukh. Newly elected zila pramukh Pratap Singh said that it was people's victory and he will leave no stone unturned for the development of Jaisalmer and the villages. He said that with their good decision, nepotism has ended in Jaisalmer and democracy has won.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-20-yrs-bjp-gets-jaisalmer-zila-chief/articleshow/79669379.cms||Vimal Bhatia
December 11, 2020||India||Navlakha specs returned? Maharashtra launches probe||MUMBAI: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday ordered a probe into the complaints that Taloja jail authorities refused to accept a package containing spectacles for 70-year-old activist Gautam Navlakha who is an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Deshmukh said “BhimaKoregaon case accused Navlakha (was) denied spectacles by jail authorities as they refused to accept (a) parcel sent by his family. I have ordered an inquiry into this matter.” Deshmukh said on social media. He also said that such situations should be handled humanely, and such incidents need to be avoided in future. “If the family has sent his spectacles, he should be given those. We need to handle these things more sensitively,” said Deshmukh. Navlakha’s spectacles had been stolen from jail and he needed a new pair, his family had said. Earlier this week, Bombay high court had also taken note that jail authorities were refusing to accept a package sent by Navlakha’s family. The court noted that “humanity is most important” and also emphasised on the need to sensitise prison staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/navlakha-specs-returned-maharashtra-launches-probe/articleshow/79671677.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ajmer||Civic polls: Fate of 7,249 candidates to be decided today||JAIPUR: The fate of 7,249 candidates will be decided by 14.32 lakh voters as the polls to elect 1,775 ward members in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts will be held on Friday. Of the total municipal bodies, there are 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils. State election commissioner P S Mehra said elections will be held from 8am to 5pm. The 12 districts that are going to polls are Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi. Of the total voters (14.32 lakh), 7.46 lakh are male voters, 6.85 lakh female and 28 belong to the third gender. There are 2,622 polling booths in 50 municipal bodies. In Jaipur, polling will be held across 10 municipal bodies. District election officer Antar Singh Nehra said 1,205 candidates are in the fray for 320 wards in Kotputli, Viratnagar, Shahpura, Chaksu, Bagru, Kishangarh Renwal, Sambhar, Phulera, Jobner and Chomu. Over 2.30 lakh voters will exercise their franchise in Jaipur. Mehra appealed to the voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms and not to stand in groups near the polling booths. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. The elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20 and to the posts of vice-chairpersons will be held on December 1. All information related to polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic number. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/civic-polls-fate-of-7249-candidates-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/79677213.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Khalistan, farmers’ agitation separate causes; being unnecessarily clubbed’||HOSHIARPUR: Sikh group Dal Khalsa said on Thursday that Khalistan and farmers’ agitation are two separate causes which are being unnecessarily clubbed. “Like farmers and other sections of society, Khalistanis are participating in the agitation because they are also sons of the soil and they are farmers too. They are very much a part of our society and are equally concerned and bothered about the future of farming that is being threatened by new laws,” said Dal Khalsa president Harpal Singh Cheema, when asked about allegations that Khalistanis are driving the farmers’ protests during a press conference here on Thursday. Dal Khalsa released a poster dedicated to the rights of farmers and political prisoners from Kashmir to Punjab to other parts of India on International Human Rights Day. Citing an example, Cheema said, “I also participated and joined the Delhi sit-in. I believe in Khalistan ideology but at same time, I am a farmer too. It’s not possible to separate ideology and identity within me. There is a design to propagate their participation to create divisions and segregate Punjab farmers from farmers in the rest of the country.” He also demanded release of prisoners, “framed in false cases due to their political belief and ideology beside those who have completed their jail term”, saying their detention was illegal. Cheema, who was accompanied by senior leaders H S Dhami and Kanwar Pal Singh, urged farmer organisations spearheading the agitation not to lower their guard. They said the present government targeted all those sections that were politically and ideologically opposed to its policies and framed them in false cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khalistan-farmers-agitation-separate-causes-being-unnecessarily-clubbed/articleshow/79669393.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Civic polls: Fate of 7,249 candidates to be decided today||JAIPUR: The fate of 7,249 candidates will be decided by 14.32 lakh voters as the polls to elect 1,775 ward members in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts will be held on Friday. Of the total municipal bodies, there are 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils. State election commissioner P S Mehra said elections will be held from 8am to 5pm. The 12 districts that are going to polls are Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi. Of the total voters (14.32 lakh), 7.46 lakh are male voters, 6.85 lakh female and 28 belong to the third gender. There are 2,622 polling booths in 50 municipal bodies. In Jaipur, polling will be held across 10 municipal bodies. District election officer Antar Singh Nehra said 1,205 candidates are in the fray for 320 wards in Kotputli, Viratnagar, Shahpura, Chaksu, Bagru, Kishangarh Renwal, Sambhar, Phulera, Jobner and Chomu. Over 2.30 lakh voters will exercise their franchise in Jaipur. Mehra appealed to the voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms and not to stand in groups near the polling booths. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. The elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20 and to the posts of vice-chairpersons will be held on December 1. All information related to polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic number. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/civic-polls-fate-of-7249-candidates-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/79677211.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab farmers are ready for long struggle, more jathas join protest||SIALKA (AMRITSAR)/ BATHINDA: Groups of farmers from different districts of Punjab are leaving for protest sites at Delhi border to keep the agitation going strong. A large number of farmers are leaving for the sites as many protesters, who have been camping in protest for over a fortnight, are returning home to fulfill their work and family commitments. Hundreds of activists have already left for Delhi border on Wednesday and Thursday from Mansa, Bathinda, Barnala and Sangrur districts. Two buses full of arhityas (commission agents) headed for Delhi on Thursday from Sangrur. A large number of jathas will leave for Delhi from Amritsar on Friday after paying obeisance at Golden Temple. Rattan Singh, general secretary of Border Area Sangarash Committee and in charge of Attari, Majitha and Jandiala assembly constituencies, said a group of nearly 100 farmers returned from Delhi on Thursday. “Everybody has commitments to meet but at the same time farmers struggle is important so we have decided to rotate the struggle duties,” he said. Asked about the cost of sending a group of protesters to Delhi border, he said that diesel worth Rs 15,000-Rs 18,000 was spent on a round trip to Delhi on a tractor trolley. A bus trip donated by people costs around Rs 19,000-Rs 21,000. However, a hired bus costs around Rs 45,000-Rs 50,000 return trip within a week in addition to Rs 500 per day to the driver. “We are happy that people from all walks of life are voluntarily giving donations for the farmer agitation,” he said. Although farmers are worried about the long-drawn struggle, their optimism about the future is very strong. “We are sure that farmers will win and will force the central government to repeal the three laws, but we also know that our opponent (pointing towards PM Narendra Modi) is a very tough nut and hard to crack. We pray that our brothers at Delhi come out as victorious,” said Gurmukh Singh sitting at Barnala Railway Station. “We believe that the battle with the central government will be a long drawn one so we have decided to send a large number of farmers to join the struggle at Delhi,” vice-president of Jamhuri Kisan Sabha Rattan Singh Ajnala told TOI on Friday. Protester Karnail Singh, sitting at Lehra Bega toll plaza near Bathinda, said, “Our fight is against is very tough opponent and we have to defeat him at any cost for this cause of millions of farmers from across the country. We know we will have to face so many hardships for this and we are ready to face any eventuality.” Elderly Satbir Kaur said she was doing whatever possible for her farmer brothers and sons fighting for their survival. “Earlier, I gave 20 kg of wheat flour and Rs 500. Today, I gave another 10 kilograms of wheat and 20 kg of different cereals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-farmers-are-ready-for-long-struggle-more-jathas-join-protest/articleshow/79669410.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||Civic polls: Fate of 7,249 candidates to be decided today||JAIPUR: The fate of 7,249 candidates will be decided by 14.32 lakh voters as the polls to elect 1,775 ward members in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts will be held on Friday. Of the total municipal bodies, there are 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils. State election commissioner P S Mehra said elections will be held from 8am to 5pm. The 12 districts that are going to polls are Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi. Of the total voters (14.32 lakh), 7.46 lakh are male voters, 6.85 lakh female and 28 belong to the third gender. There are 2,622 polling booths in 50 municipal bodies. In Jaipur, polling will be held across 10 municipal bodies. District election officer Antar Singh Nehra said 1,205 candidates are in the fray for 320 wards in Kotputli, Viratnagar, Shahpura, Chaksu, Bagru, Kishangarh Renwal, Sambhar, Phulera, Jobner and Chomu. Over 2.30 lakh voters will exercise their franchise in Jaipur. Mehra appealed to the voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms and not to stand in groups near the polling booths. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. The elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20 and to the posts of vice-chairpersons will be held on December 1. All information related to polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic number. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-polls-fate-of-7249-candidates-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/79669396.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Udaipur||Civic polls: Fate of 7,249 candidates to be decided today||JAIPUR: The fate of 7,249 candidates will be decided by 14.32 lakh voters as the polls to elect 1,775 ward members in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts will be held on Friday. Of the total municipal bodies, there are 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils. State election commissioner P S Mehra said elections will be held from 8am to 5pm. The 12 districts that are going to polls are Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi. Of the total voters (14.32 lakh), 7.46 lakh are male voters, 6.85 lakh female and 28 belong to the third gender. There are 2,622 polling booths in 50 municipal bodies. In Jaipur, polling will be held across 10 municipal bodies. District election officer Antar Singh Nehra said 1,205 candidates are in the fray for 320 wards in Kotputli, Viratnagar, Shahpura, Chaksu, Bagru, Kishangarh Renwal, Sambhar, Phulera, Jobner and Chomu. Over 2.30 lakh voters will exercise their franchise in Jaipur. Mehra appealed to the voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms and not to stand in groups near the polling booths. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. The elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20 and to the posts of vice-chairpersons will be held on December 1. All information related to polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic number. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/civic-polls-fate-of-7249-candidates-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/79677212.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Deputy tahsildar held for taking bribe for reducing stamp duty||Salem: A deputy tahsildar was caught red-handed taking a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh from a person, who approached him for reducing stamp duty on land purchase, in the city on Thursday.According to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths, D Nishanth, 24, of Dadagapatty in Salem city, had approached them with corruption charges against K Jeevanantham, 47, who is the deputy tahsildar with the stamp duty office at the district collectorate.“The complainant said he was planning to purchase 1.18 acres land at Vagurampatty in Tiruchengode taluk in Namakkal district and approached the deputy tahsildar for reducing the stamp duty. The officer demanded Rs 1.5 lakh and the complainant agreed to pay the same,” a DVAC sleuth said.A team led by ADSP Chandramouli handed over chemical coated currencies to Nishanth and advised him to pay the same to the deputy tahsildar.Nishanth subsequently contacted the officer, who asked him to meet him on Gandhi Road area. “We caught Jeevanantham while he was receiving the amount from Nishanth and took him to our office for inquiry,” said a senior official who was part of the team. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/deputy-tahsildar-held-for-taking-bribe-for-reducing-stamp-duty/articleshow/79669416.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||SFJ’s London rally attracts no protesters, despite threats to ‘shut down’ Indian Mission||Not a single protester turned up at a Khalistani rally in support of farmers in India, which Sikhs For Justice had advertised would be held in London on Thursday. The banned outfit had threatened to “shut down” the India High Commission in London and consulate in Birmingham on UN Human Rights Day during an “Indian Embassy bandh” saying it was “emboldened by Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and UK MPs”. Instead, a bunch of around 20 protesters from Jesuit Missions — who were there on another protest about “the unjust detention” of Father Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old Jesuit priest from Jharkhand jailed in Mumbai on what they say are “entirely false” charges — found themselves inadvertently in the media spotlight. Their director, Paul Chitnis, told TOI: “He was harassed for a long time and then on October 8, he was taken into custody despite his age and having Parkinson's disease. He has spent his entire life fighting on behalf of the poor and the adivasis. We demand the Indian government releases Father Swamy from prison where he is at grave risk of catching Covid.” Meanwhile, the High Commission resembled a fortress as it was surrounded by barricades and guarded by police all day. The flop of the Khalistani rally was a stark contrast to last weekend when thousands turned up for a farmers’ rally. Forty nine Labour councillors, who represent areas with high proportions of Punjabi community, have fired off a letter to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab stating “they are very concerned by the Indian government’s reluctance to listen to their own citizens and their inadequate efforts to resolve the protest by peaceful negotiations with the farmers.” “The state-controlled media has been trying to portray the protesting farmers as ‘separatists’, this is simply not true,” the letter states. “Their voice is being suppressed using tear gas, water cannon and sticks. The situation is now fast approaching a tipping point as the Indian government has now deployed thousands of paramilitary troops around the protesting farmers, leading to fears that the use of force is imminent,” it says, urging Raab to “urgently intervene to avoid this undemocratic suppression of human rights by the Indian Government, in particular if it resorts to the use of force against its own citizens.” It also calls on him to “make representations to the ministry of foreign affairs” in India about the impact the new farm laws will have on British Sikhs and Punjabis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sfjs-london-rally-attracts-no-protesters-despite-threats-to-shut-down-indian-mission/articleshow/79669403.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Row over Punjab Sahit Akademi awards being conferred on dead writer||PATIALA: Controversy erupted over the names announced by Punjab Language Department recently for Sahitya Ratan and Shiromani awards as one of the award-winners was found to have been dead for years. The state language department announced these awards a week ago in 18 categories in literature and art since 2015. The awards, including Punjabi Sahitya Ratan, Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar, Shiromani Hindi Sahitkar, Shiromani Urdu Sahitkar, Shiromani Bal Sahit, Shiromani Raagi, Shiromani Dhadi/Kawishar award and others from 2015 to 2020. Balbir Singh Beela, who was announced as Shiromani Dhadi award winner for 2019, died in 2012. The family said he died of blood cancer. It is learnt that a few years ago, the state language department announced an award for a dead person and cancelled it after objections were raised by various writers and artists. Kismat Singh Raju, son of late Balbir Singh Beela said, “My father was diagnosed with blood cancer in 2009. He performed on various stages during his lifetime as Dhadi and died in 2012. We lived in abject poverty. He should have got this award when he was alive but we are happy that at least respect has been given to him, though after his death.” He added, “There might be some critics of my father protesting against this award as he is no more but we will abide by the decision of the language department.” A former president of Punjabi Sahit Akademi said it was unethical to give this award to a dead person as they were meant to promote and boost the morale of the recipient. “The prize money for Sahitya Ratan was Rs 10 lakh while for other categories, it was Rs 5 lakh. The purpose of the award was to boost the writers and artists. The language department formed a screening committee and then the list of winners was approved by a 45-member advisory committee of Bhasha Vibhag, Punjab that not only cleared the name of a dead person but also of those writers who were facing controversy in one or other way.” Karamjit Kaur, director, Punjab language department said, “A dead person cannot be given this award. We will cancel the award announced to the dead person. There has been some error. After cancellation, we will try to announce this award for someone else and if we cannot announce it this year, we may announce the Shiromani Dhadi award 2019 next year.” A noted Sikh scholar said, “One of the writers who recently landed in controversy for making distortions in the ‘Mahankosh’ published by the Punjabi University has also been given the award despite the university banning the sale of its Mahankosh in 2019. It had spent more than Rs 2.5 crore on the publication of Mahankosh. “The probe being conducted by the Punjabi University’s committee in the matter of Mahankosh is still underway. Besides proofreading for the translation of Mahankosh in other languages was also costlier and despite being a reference book, it was published in large numbers. How can one justify the honour being given to such a person?” Penned by Bhai Kahan Singh Nabha, ‘Mahankosh’, also known as encyclopedia of Sikh literature, was first published in 1930. However, after independence, it was first published in 1960 by the Punjab Language Department in Patiala in its original form. Later, Punjabi University Patiala published it in Punjabi and also got it translated and published in Hindi and English languages but it was found to be distorted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/row-over-punjab-sahit-akademi-awards-being-conferred-on-dead-writer/articleshow/79669415.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||NIMA to boycott IMA’s strike call||Chandrapur: The National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA) has come face to face with Indian Medical Association (IMA) over the latter’s decision to oppose Union government’s decision to allow ayurveda doctors to conduct surgeries. NIMA doctors here have decided to boycott the IMA’s strike call for Friday and have announced to sport pink ribbons to condemn the stand of allopathy doctors over the issue. District unit president of NIMA, Dr Laxmikant Sarbare, claimed the organization has brought all unions and organizations working for AYUSH (ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homeopathy) on one platform to criticize the IMA for opposing doctors other than allopaths to conduct surgeries. “IMA’s stand is dishonour to ayurveda, the oldest medicine system. IMA mocking government’s directives terming it as ‘Mixopathy’ and ‘Khichdification’ shows this reputed organization in low light,” said Dr Sarbare. Dr Sarbare said IMA is trying to blackmail the government by going on strike during the Covid pandemic rather than applauding the move which highlights lack of confidence of surgeons from other branches of medicine. He declared that NIMA has decided not to participate in the IMA’s strike on Friday. All NIMA members across the state would keep their clinics open to serve patients, but would flay IMA’s decision by wearing pink ribbons during the day; he added addressing a press conference. Past district president, Dr Sudhir Matte, said many allopaths prescribe ayurveda medicine for several critical ailments, but ayurveda doctors and NIMA has never objected to it. During the crucial time of Covid pandemic, when most of the IMA doctors closed down their hospitals, it was NIMA doctors who were at the forefront to deal with the crises. In fact, 32-year-old NIMA member Dr Sunil Ramteke is only doctor in the district who laid down his life serving Covid patients; recalled Dr Matte, flaying the rigid stand of the IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nima-to-boycott-imas-strike-call/articleshow/79681854.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Rajinikanth, Alagiri won’t affect DMK’s prospects: Kani||Coimbatore: Neither Rajinikanth nor M K Alagiri would dent the prospects of DMK in the upcoming assembly election, DMK women’s wing secretary M K Kanimozhi said here on Thursday.Talking to reporters on the sidelines of Vidiyalai Nokki Stalini-in Kural campaign, Kanimozhi did not rule out new parties joining the DMK alliance. “As far as DMK is concerned, party president M K Stalin has said the existing alliance will continue in the assembly election. If new parties join, he will announce,’’ she said.When asked if DMDK will join the DMK alliance, Kanimozhi said it was for that party to answer. “You should ask them,” she said.Reacting to the statement of AIADMK minister D Jayakumar that actor Rajinikanth will make a dent on DMK’s vote bank, Kanimozhi said that it was unnecessary to comment about the impact of someone’s political entry even before they launch a party. “But DMK’s victory will not be affected by anyone. Nothing can stop Stalin becoming the chief minister. AIADMK should worry about erosion of their vote bank.’’ On speculations about former DMK strongman M K Alagiri joining hands with Rajinikanth, Kanimozhi evaded a direct response. “It is for Rajinikanth and him (Alagiri) to decide. What is there for me to comment about?”But she took a jibe at Rajinikanth for the ‘spiritual politics’ he is proposing. “Politics should be for people. It should not be based on caste or religion. Then it will be divisive,” she said.Hitting out at BJP and AIADMK, Kanimozhi said there are threats to human rights in the country as well as in Tamil Nadu. “Protesters are shot at. Even after such a long time, there is no justice for the families of the deceased in Tuticorin. Farmers are threatened, protesters are harassed and media is silenced,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rajinikanth-alagiri-wont-affect-dmks-prospects-kani/articleshow/79669412.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 10 Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged only 10 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,628, even as 20 patients were recovered and discharged. The district has seen 7,392 patients recovering so far, keeping the recovery rate at 96.9%. The number of active cases now stands at 194. Of the new cases, three people tested positive after travelling to other districts, while the rest are primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. The new cases were reported from the four blocks in the district, mostly from rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-10-covid-cases/articleshow/79669413.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jaipur||BJP wins 12 zila pramukh posts, Congress 5 & independents 3||Jaipur: In a major boost to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), it won 12 of the 20 zila pramukh posts on Thursday. While Congress won five, independent candidates bagged three posts in the elections to the posts of zila pramukhs. However, there was a neck-and-neck battle in the elections to the posts of pradhans with BJP winning 98 posts, Congress bagging 97, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) two and CPI (M) one.BJP won in Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Churu, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Sikar, Rajsamand, Tonk and Udaipur, while the Congress candidates won in Banswara, Barmer, Bikaner, Hanumangarh and Pratapgarh. Three independent members were elected as zila pramukh in Ajmer, Bundi and Dungarpur. Meanwhile, in PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasara’s Laxmangarh constituency, the result for the elections to the post of pradhan in Laxmangarh panchayat samiti (Sikar) was not declared till late in the night. In the same panchayat samiti, both BJP had 13 members, Congress had 11 members and there was one independent member. Congress party had objected to voting by one of the voters, who according to them had given birth to the third child a couple of days ago. According to sources, hence, she (voter) was not allowed to vote and later she approached the local court. When the court allowed her to cast her vote, the local SDM denied her the permission to vote. The one independent candidate had supported the Congress, taking the Congress’ tally to 12. The counting of votes got embroiled in legal tangle till late night.The election to the posts of ‘pradhan’ and ‘pramukh’ in 222 panchayat samitis and 20 zila parishads of the state was held earlier in the day. Of the total 4,371 seats of the panchayat samitis, the BJP had won 1,989 seats and the Congress 1,852 seats. The independents bagged 439 seats while RLP bagged 60, CPM 26 and BSP five seats. In zila parishad elections, BJP won 353 seats while the Congress had to contend with 252.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-wins-12-zila-pramukh-posts-congress-5-independents-3/articleshow/79669414.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||NCSC issues notice to collector on ‘discriminatory caste wall’||Coimbatore: The national commission for scheduled castes has issued a notice to the Coimbatore collector seeking explanation on the compound wall constructed in the place of a similar structure that collapsed last year, killing 17 people in Nadur village of Mettupalayam.The notice, dated December 2, has asked the collector to respond within 15 days on the allegations that the compound wall built around the house was a discriminatory caste wall.On December 2 last year, a 20ft tall compound wall collapsed following incessant rains on tiled roof houses adjacent to it. Seventeen people, all of them dalits, were killed in the accident.Subsequently, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and other political leaders visited the place amidst allegations that the wall was a sign of caste discrimination. However, the dalits of Nadur village did not say that the wall was built to discriminate them or to block their movement.The government also clarified that the wall was built on the private land owned by an individual. However, the house owner was accused of negligence for failing to build a strong wall and ignoring complaints about the weak structure.After coming out on bail, the house owner started building a massive compound wall, this time of concrete. A few dalit outfits continued to oppose the wall.Karl Marx, an activist of Tamil Puligal outfit, sent a complaint to the commission, demanding demolition of the wall, based on which the commission sent the notice. “The commission has decided to investigate the matter. You are hereby requested to submit facts and information and action taken on the allegations within 15 days of the receipt of this notice,” the notice said.The commission also warned that it would issue summons to the collector and the superintendent of police to appear in person or by a representative if due reply is not sent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ncsc-issues-notice-to-collector-on-discriminatory-caste-wall/articleshow/79669417.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Move on to drop murder case against BKU men||AMBALA: The special investigation team (SIT) of Haryana Police in Ambala has started the procedure of cancelling the murder and rioting case registered at Naraingarh against seven farmers and others associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana (Charuni) after a 72-year-old BJP supporter died during the party’s tractor yatra on October 14, this year. Confirming this, SIT in-charge-cum-Ambala Cantt DSP Ram Kumar said on Thursday that the procedure to cancel this case would be started after seeking legal opinion as it has been confirmed that no such crime took place on the day of tractor yatra. “On the basis of the forensic science laboratory and viscera reports from Madhuban and BPS Medical College, Khanpur Kalan, Sonipat, the doctors have said that Bharat Singh, 72, of Baragarh village of Ambala died of a heart attack,” said DSP Ram Kumar. Bharat Singh had participated in the tractor yatra of the saffron party in support of the Centre’s three agriculture laws carried out under the leadership of central minister of state for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria and Kurukshetra MP Nayab Singh Saini from Naraingarh to Shahzadpur. The tractor yatra was allegedly blocked by BKU Haryana (Charuni) workers near Milan Palace on the National Highway (NH) 7 in Naraingarh. During this blockade, Bharat’s health suddenly deteriorated and he was declared dead by the doctors at the Civil Hospital, Naraingarh. His post-mortem was conducted by the board of medical officers at the hospital and the viscera was sent for FSL examination to confirm the cause of death. Meanwhile, on the complaint of Bharat’s son, Bhupinder Singh, a case was registered against BKU (Charuni) associated farmers, alleging that his father, who fell unconscious, was assaulted during the scuffle. BKU Haryana (Charuni) Ambala district chief Malkiat Singh, other union workers, including Fakir Chand, Amarjit, Jai Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Jaswinder Singh, and Junty, were booked on charges of criminal conspiracy, rioting, unlawful assembly, murder and wrongful restraint of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Naraingarh police station on October 14. A SIT was constituted by Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia headed by DSP Ram Kumar. However, the police said the case of blocking of NH-7 related to this incident, registered against the BKU Haryana (Charuni) members, will be investigated further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/move-on-to-drop-murder-case-against-bku-men/articleshow/79669425.cms||JK Singh
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||DFO booked for allegedly assaulting, manhandling senior officer||AMBALA: Police have booked Kurukshetra divisional forest officer (DFO) on allegedly for obstructing government work, causing hurt, manhandling and assaulting his senior officer on Wednesday. On the complaint of Ambala’s chief conservator of forests (CCF) G Raman (IFS), a case has been registered against DFO Virender Singh Gill under various sections of IPC at Baldev Nagar police station. In his complaint, Raman stated: “On December 7, 2020, Virender Gill, divisional forest officer, Kurukshetra, misbehaved and manhandled me. He threatened me in the presence of Ramit of Delhi and Rajat of Barara, Ambala, in my office room at Forest Complex, Company Bagh, Ambala City. Virender threatened to get me transferred if I did not approve the file brought by him and act according to his terms and dictates. Virender demanded the approval of an e-tender which was issued by him in violation of rules.” Raman told TOI, “I am already conducting an equiry into four CM window complaints against DFO Virender Gill, of alleged corruption in the plantation.” Virender refuted all the charges, saying, “I am being implicated under a pre-planned conspiracy by CCF G Raman. I was called to his office related to a file of labour payments which are pending for a long time. There was no discussion on any e-tender file related to the plantation in December. I have not manhandled or misbehaved with him. This normally happens in the department when senior officials target juniors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dfo-booked-for-allegedly-assaulting-manhandling-senior-officer/articleshow/79669419.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmer commits suicide in Sangrur||PATIALA: A 25-year-old farmer allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at Bhutal Kalan village of Lehragaga block of Sangrur district on Wednesday. Jugraj Singh is survived by wife and three-year-old son. A farmer leader claimed that the father of deceased had died of cancer a few years ago and the family had incurred a debt. The deceased, who was also a kabbadi player, owned three acres of agricultural land. Ballam Singh, uncle of the deceased, said that they are yet to know the exact reason behind the suicide. He said, “We are unaware why he committed suicide. But he was tensed for a few days. He owned some agricultural debt also. His cremation has been done”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-commits-suicide-in-sangrur/articleshow/79669428.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Stalin blocking TN’s development: Raju||Tuticorin: Calling DMK president M K Stalin a stumbling block to development projects in the state, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju said that the opposition leader should instead be a stepping stone for projects that would take Tamil Nadu on the path of growth. Raju was speaking to reporters at Kovilpatti after garlanding the statue of freedom fighter and former CM C Rajagopalachari on his 142nd birthday on Thursday. He made the statement in response to Stalin’s comment on the Salem-Chennai expressway project, that people will teach PMK and AIADMK a lesson in the assembly elections. “People are ready to teach DMK a lesson in 2021,” he said adding that the opposition should appreciate the ruling party for such good work. The eight-lane project sanctioned by the Centre at Rs 10,000 crore would have been the first of many such broad highways for the state to take the path of growth, he said. The minister said that the project would be a link to Kerala through Coimbatore and would have facilitated more traffic, trade and growth but it was being politicised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-blocking-tns-development-raju/articleshow/79670550.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||3 police stations get more manpower to check crime||Coimbatore: Alarmed at the spurt in crime in the extended areas of the city, the police department has deputed 10 cops each from the armed reserve police to Saravanampatti, Peelamedu and Singanallur stations.The three police stations fall under the east sub-divisions of the city police. Beat patrolling will be intensified in the three police station limits, deputy commissioner of police G Stalin said. “These stations cover vast newly-developed areas. To focus on these areas, 10 cops each from the city armed reserve police have been deployed there. They will conduct beat patrolling as well as vehicle checks,” he said.On November 8, burglars decamped with 10 sovereigns of old gold ornaments and 2kg silver ornaments from a jewellery shop at Viswasapuram in Saravanampatti.A 63-year-old Ganapathy resident lost her 10-sovereign gold chain and a 53-year-old Peelamedu resident lost five-sovereign gold ornament to chain snatchers on November 24.On November 27, a gang killed T Vignesh, 24, when he refused to hand over his mobile phone at SIHS Colony. A few days ago, 50 sovereigns of gold ornaments and Rs 2.5 lakh were stolen from a locked house at Pushpam garden at Nehru Nagar.Twenty-five sovereigns of gold ornaments and 42,000 were stolen from a house at Chinnavedampatti on December 8. The Saravanampatti police arrested two men for stealing Rs 30 lakh and 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a house at Chitra Nagar in Saravanampatti on September 4. Police could recover only Rs 16.57 lakh and 5.5 sovereigns from them.The city police registered 292 crimes, including house break-ins and robberies, till December 8 this year. Valuables worth Rs 2.63 crore were stolen. Police solved 231 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-police-stations-get-more-manpower-to-check-crime/articleshow/79669431.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||1.5 kg tumour between windpipe food pipe removed||Rajkot: In a major surgery, the surgeons of Rajkot Civil Hospital removed a thyroid tumour from the throat of a 70-year-old patient. The tumour found in the throat of Magan Sakariya weighed 1.5 kg. “Initially, Sakariya had difficulty in eating. Later, he started having difficulties in breathing as well,” said Dr Rajesh Makadia of the Rajkot Civil Hospital. “This type of tumour is rare in a patient. Usually such a tumour is developed in the middle of the throat. However, in case of Sakariya, the tumour was located between the windpipe and the food pipe,” said Dr Sejal Mistry, surgeon of ENT department of the Rajkot Civil Hospital. “I thank the doctors of the civil hospital to operate upon my father and cure him in just 15 days,” said Sakariya's son Karamsi Sakariya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1-5-kg-tumour-between-windpipe-food-pipe-removed/articleshow/79667028.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Panipat sex ratio up by 22 pts in 1 year, ranked 1st in state||KARNAL/PANIPAT: With 952 girls born per 1,000 boys, Panipat district has been ranked first in sex ratio at birth (SRB) in Haryana, followed by Sirsa at 941 and Kurukshetra, Nuh and Panchkula at 936 as per the data available up to November this year. Panipat’s SRB has increased by 22 points in one year. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s home district Karnal secured 19th position at 899 (January to November), while Charkhi Dadri bagged 22nd position with 881 points. However, home and health minister Anil Vij home district Ambala stood 8th with 927. According to the data provided by the Panipat district health department, Panipat has witnessed an increase of 60 points in sex ratio at birth during the last six years. During this period, the sex ratio increased from 892 girls for every 1,000 boys in 2015 to 952 girls this year. A total of 2,49,541 boys and 2,29,701 girls were born in the state between January to November this year and SRB at 920. Panipat district was notorious for skewed sex ratio before 2015. ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Panipat on January 22, 2015 with the objective to prevent sex-selective elimination and ensure survival, education, and empowerment of the girl child. The SRB of Panipat increased considerably after 2015 — 892 in 2015, 912 in 2016, 945 in 2017. But it had fallen to 900 by 45 points in 2018. Last year, it was 930. Health officials attribute the rise in SRB to strict compliance with the PC-PNDT Act by the department. Dr Sudhir Batra, deputy civil surgeon and nodal officer PC-PNDT Act, said, “Strict action is being taken against those involved in sex determination activities. As many as 65 raids had been conducted under the Pre-natal Diagnostic Techniques (PC-PNDT) Act in Panipat district. We are spreading awareness.” Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh congratulated the district health department team and said civil surgeon Dr Sant Lal Verma and his team had done commendable work. He urged officials concerned to keep up the good work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panipat-sex-ratio-up-by-22-pts-in-1-year-ranked-1st-in-state/articleshow/79669427.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Slow pace of rail underpass work draws flak in Erode||Erode: Motorists have requested the Southern Railway to complete the construction of rail underpass at Vendipalayam on Chennai-Erode section here at the earliest as they were forced to travel extra distance because of the ongoing work.The Salem railway division had commenced the work on the rail underpass in October 2019 to eliminate level crossings at a cost of Rs1.5 crore.Subsequently, the district administration had diverted the traffic to Molagoundanpalayam Road and old Karur Road to reach the city. Motorists said they had to travel an additional 6km because of the diversions.The pedestrians too are finding it difficult to cross the tracks, especially at night hours and rainy days.There are two level crossings - one manned and another unmanned - on Vendipalayam railway line with more than 100 trains to and from Kerala, Karnataka and Chennai crossing them daily.Residents of Vendipalayam, Molagoundanpalayam, Loganathapuram and several other villagers use the unmanned level crossing to reach Erode city. Motorists were at times forced to wait for nearly 30 minutes for trains to pass through the Vendipalayam railway gate.T Vinayakam, one of the residents, said, “We were happy when the construction of rail underpass commenced. Now, we are upset with the slow pace at which the mork is being carried out. We had petitioned railway officials several times, but to no avail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/slow-pace-of-rail-underpass-work-draws-flak-in-erode/articleshow/79669424.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Thyagarajan takes charge as chancellor||Coimbatore: Former Madras University vice-chancellor S P Thyagarajan has taken charge as the chancellor of Avinashilingam Institute of Home Science and Higher Education for Women on Thursday.The post was earlier held by P R Krishnakumar Warrier, who died of Covid-19 in September.Thyagarajan, who holds a doctorate in science (microbiology) in addition to PhD and MD degrees, had earlier served as the dean of research at Sri Ramachandra University.He has 51 years of teaching and research experience in Tamil Nadu medical colleges, University of Madras and Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research.Known for his passion for research, Thyagarajan has completed 60 research projects that were funded by the national and international funding agencies with grants of more than Rs 50 crore. He has published 347 research papers and 20 books in the areas of infectious and non-communicable diseases like hepatitis, HIV, H1N1, Covid-19 and diabetes/lifestyle diseases, and drug-discovery projects. He has guided 32 PhD candidates and 12 post-doctoral research candidates.Thyagarajan continues to serve as chairman and member of many expert committees of University Grants Commission, Indian Council of Medical Research, World Health Organisation, National Assessment and Accreditation Council, Department of Biotechnology and Biotechnology Industries Research Assistance Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/thyagarajan-takes-charge-as-chancellor/articleshow/79669426.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Ex-cop turns serial chain snatcher, held||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a former head constable attached to the city armed reserve police on Thursday for snatching gold chains from two women at the Police Recruitment School (PRS) premises and recovered seven sovereigns of gold chain from him.The arrested man was identified as R Muneeswaran, 32, of Thiruppuvanam in Madurai district. “He was recruited as a cop and posted in the Tamil Special Police (TSP) at Kovaipudur here in 2011. He was posted at the armed reserve police force in 2017. He was terminated from the service last December after he was caught stealing motorcycles and mobile phones. He later worked as a construction worker and was staying in a rented house. He had separated from his wife, also a cop,” a police officer said.A motorcycle-borne Muneeswaran had snatched a five-sovereign gold chain from 75-year-old Kanagam, mother of constable Rajendran attached to the city armed reserve police, last month. In October, he snatched a 10-sovereign gold chain from another cop’s 70-year-old mother while she was on the PRS premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ex-cop-turns-serial-chain-snatcher-held/articleshow/79669421.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for drug smuggling||Coimbatore: The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIBCID) of city police arrested a 53-year-old man from Trichy on Thursday for attempting to smuggle 1.2kg of methamphetamine to Sharjah from the Coimbatore International Airport on Saturday.The arrested person was identified as Arul, 53, of Thuvakudi in Trichy, a travel agent. Arul and Alibhai of Trichy, who are wanted in connection with the smuggling attempt, have been booked under sections 8 (c), 22 (c), 29 (1) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Arul told police that he had handed over a suitcase containing the drug to Rajarathinam of Trichy, who was working as a driver in Saudi Arabia. However, Rajarathinam informed the Central Industrial Security Force personnel, who recovered the drug.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-drug-smuggling/articleshow/79669418.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Temporary stoppage of 14 trains at Melmaruvathur||Madurai: Southern Railway has announced temporary stoppage of 14 special trains at the Melmaruvathur (MLMR) station from December 11 till January 29, 2021 in view of the Irumudi/ Thaipoosam festivals at Melmaruvathur. The below mentioned trains will have two-minute stoppages at Melmaruvathur (arrival/departure). Train No. 02635 Chennai Egmore - Madurai Vaigai special (3.03/3.05 pm); train No. 02637 Chennai Egmore - Madurai Pandian special (11.03/11.05pm); and train No. 02661 Chennai Egmore - Sengottai Pothigai special (10.03/10.05pm) from December 11 to January 29, 2021. Train No. 06063 Chennai Egmore - Nagercoil special (10.03/10.05pm) from December 17 to January 28; train No. 06012 Delhi Nizamuddin - Kanyakumari special (5.43/5.45pm) from December 12 to January 25; train No. 08496 Bhubaneswar - Rameswaram special (11.18/11.20am) on December 11, 18 and 25; and train No. 05120 Manduadih - Rameswaram special (11.18/11.20am) from December 13 to December 27. Train No. 02636 Madurai - Chennai Egmore Vaigai special (12.43/12.45pm) from December 11 to January 29; train No. 02638 Chennai Egmore - Madurai Pandian special (3.13/3.15am) from December 10 to January 28; train No. 02662 Sengottai - Chennai Egmore Pothigai special (3.53/3.55am); train No. 06064 Nagercoil - Chennai Egmore special (2.48/2.50am) from December 11 to January 22; train No. 06011 Kanyakumari - Delhi Nizamuddin special (6.43/6.45am); train No. 08495 Rameswaram - Bhubaneswar special (8.18/8.20pm) on December 13, 20 and 27 and train No. 05119 Rameswaram - Manduadih special (9.33/9.35am) on December 16, 23 and 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temporary-stoppage-of-14-trains-at-melmaruvathur/articleshow/79670558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||‘New PPCC body after issues are resolved’||CHANDIGARH: Congress incharge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat on Thursday said changes in the organisational structure of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) would be finalised only after the concerns of the agitating farmers against the Centre’s farm laws are addressed. In the morning, he also met local Congress leaders. Rawat, who met with Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, on Wednesday evening, said the topic of discussion was the farmers’ protest. Since farmers in his home state of Uttarakhand too were up in arms, “we wanted to get insights from the Punjab CM”, he said. On talk of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s return to the cabinet, Rawat said it was for the CM to decide but he was happy that both Sidhu and Amarinder had broken the ice. “My job is done and I am glad that the chief minister took the initiative to invite Sidhu over for lunch. Now it’s between the two of them. Sidhu too has been very open minded and told me that he holds CM in high esteem,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-ppcc-body-after-issues-are-resolved/articleshow/79669454.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Tohana out of dark zone after 7 years, NOC not required for tubewell connection||Fatehabad: The Union government has now struck off the Tohana area of Fatehabad district from the dark zone after seven years. The farmers were the most affected, as dark zone areas required no-objection certificate (NOC) for power connection for agriculture pumpsets or tubewells. A letter has been sent to Hisar zonal water resource officer, deputy commissioner Fatehabad, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Tohana, executive engineer electricity board and executive engineer public health department on behalf of the Jal Shakti ministry of the central government. Tohana was categorised under dark zone in 2013. Former state BJP chief Subhash Barala, who is the chairman of Haryana Public Undertaking Bureau, said he had met chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria some time ago regarding the problem of farmers in the area, after which the ministry concerned sent a letter to the departments concerned and now Tohana area struck off from the dark zone. He said now farmers will not need NOC for connection. According to a report of Rakesh Kumar, chief hydrologist, ground water cell, department of agriculture and farmers welfare, the average decline in water table in the state from June, 1974 to June 2018 is 10.38 metres. In Fatehabad district, decline water table is 19.30m from 29.78m to 10.48m in the same period. Similarly, decline in the water table recorded 24.23m in Fatehabad block, 33.88m in Ratia block, 33.07m in Jakhal block in the same period. There is huge depletion of groundwater due to fresh groundwater zones and paddy irrigation in districts Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal, Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Panipat, Rewari, Sirsa and Mahendragarh, said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tohana-out-of-dark-zone-after-7-years-noc-not-required-for-tubewell-connection/articleshow/79669438.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Saplings planted in mini forest named after late singer SPB||Coimbatore: The SPB Vanam project, which was launched on October 16 on the campus of the NGO Siruthuli, was officially started at a reserve site at Pachapalayam on Thursday. The land was allotted by Perur Chettipalayam panchayat.The initiative was launched by actor and Green Kalam founder Vivekh, who along with Siruthuli trustee Vanitha Mohan, planted the first tree sapling. The 1.8-acre site will house 74 trees to commemorate 74 years of the singer’s life. The Officers’ Colony Association of Pachapalayam has come forward to maintain the SPB Vanam and make it a unique model of community participation.The SPB Vanam will have trees that are used for musical instruments, the ones with fragrant flowers and sthala vrikshams of the temples that SPB had visited and sung. An ayilyam tree would also be planted to represent the singer’s birth star.A statement from Siruthuli said the site would be further developed into a public space with play areas for children, a library and a walking track in the shape of a musical note, among other amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/saplings-planted-in-mini-forest-named-after-late-singer-spb/articleshow/79669436.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Amritsar||Another writer to return Sahitya Akademi Award||BATHINDA: Another Sahitya Akademi Award winning writer has announced his intention to return his award. Nachhattar received the Akademi Award for his novel, Slowdown in 2017. He is also the author of cancer train, which goes from Bathinda to Bikaner, in which many cancer patients travel to Rajasthan to get affordable treatment. Nachhatttar belongs to Barnala town of Punjab but has been living in Delhi after retirement. Written in 2012, Slowdown is about the recession in Indian economy. It outlines the hardhsips and desperation faced by youngsters travelling to Delhi, Mumbai and other metros in search of jobs. “In view of the treatment being meted out to farmers, who are facing the brunt of winter for the past 15 days, I have decided to return the award. I wrote slowdown in 2012 after global meltdown,” Nachhattar said. Before him, Surjit Patar, Swarajbir Singh, Mohanjit, Jaswinder Singh and young writers Harmanjeet Singh and Yadwinder Singh announced that they will return Sahitya Akademi Yuva awards. A number of sportspersons have also announced their plan to return their awards and medals. Former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal announced the return of his Padma Vibhushan while former union minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa announced return of his Padma Bhushan award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/another-writer-to-return-sahitya-akademi-award/articleshow/79669445.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Amritsar||‘Agriculture laws unconstitutional, only meant to benefit corporates’||BATHINDA: Punjab’s protesting farm organisations have reiterated that three new laws are unconstitutional as agriculture is a state subject and central government should not have enacted them. Farm organisations said it had become clear that agri laws were only for benefiting corporates, but not farmers. They asked the central government what was the harm in repealing the laws if the government was for the welfare of farmers as farmers of the country wanted these to be withdrawn and it seemed these were not being repealed to benefit corporates. They said there was no meaning of talks on the draft sent by government on Wednesday, but farmers were ready for talks if the government was ready to roll back the laws. They also claimed that if the government could take back laws like TADA, then it could also roll back the agri laws. In the meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and commerce minister Piyush Goyal reiterated that the laws were for the benefit of farmers and the government was open to discussing any issue within them. The farm groups also rejected the benefits of laws listed by the ministers in a press conference on Thursday. They claimed that farm groups had already rejected those. Farmers said as the ultimatum given by farm organisations on relaxation for running passenger and freight trains in Punjab was expiring on Thursday, it had been decided that protests at railway parks or nearby would continue and matter will be decided with farm organisations of the country. They said they would block tracks at other places as well if the need arose. The farm organisations said if some toll plazas were still open in Punjab, these would be closed for toll fee on December 12. BKU Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal said that government was not clear on the constitutional validity of the laws as different ministers were speaking differently and it had become clear that these laws had been enacted for traders, business community and corporates, but not farmers. “Setting up different mandis is to defunct the APMC Act,” he said. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal and BKU Dakonda president Buta Singh Burjgill said there were no divisions among farm groups. The protests will continue and will be intensified as more are planned across the country, but the government is stopping farmers from Uttrakhand from reaching Delhi, he said. In the issue of pictures held by farmers at Tikri border of people facing UAPA cases and other cases, Pal said that this was in context of Human Rights Day and nothing more should be read into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/agri-laws-unconstitutional-only-meant-to-benefit-corporates/articleshow/79669437.cms||Neel Kamal
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: BJP, Congress prepare for civic body polls||GANDHINAGAR: The Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress have switched to election mode with the state election commission on Wednesday announcing that elections for municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats will be held in February. The Supreme Court directed the Gujarat state election commission (SEC) to conduct elections before the end of February 2021. The pressure will be on the BJP, as it had won all the six municipal corporations and the majority of the 55 municipalities in 2015. The Congress, meanwhile, had the edge in the district and taluka panchayats. The Congress is faced with the task of improving its performance in urban areas, as it has not won any major municipal corporation in 15 years. Over three crore voters will exercise their franchise in the local polls, which will be a rehearsal of sorts for the assembly election. The results will have an effect on the 2022 assembly elections as well. Bharat Pandya, state BJP spokesman, said, “Our most powerful tool is voter page committees which the Congress completely lacks. The central and state government and our organisation have worked tirelessly during the Covid-19 pandemic. We are confident the people will give the BJP a big victory. We will retain all urban local bodies and also wrest panchayat bodies presently held by the Congress.” State Congress president Amit Chavda said, “Sensing defeat, the BJP tried to delay the local elections, but the SC has intervened and elections will now be held. The SEC should take all precautions to ensure the safety of voters and staff. Congress will defeat the BJP in urban bodies and further improve our performance in panchayats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-congress-prepare-for-civic-body-polls/articleshow/79650919.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for making bomb threat call to stn||Coimbatore: A 28-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for making a bomb threat call for Tirupur railway station. A police source said the accused, identified as S Anand, of Ponnampadukadai at Kumananthur in Theni district, had called up the 108 ambulance services in Chennai around 9.30pm on Wednesday and said he had planted a bomb at the Tirupur railway station.The 108 staff alerted the Tirupur city police, who conducted a thorough check at the railway station only to realize it was a hoax bomb call.“Two teams of bomb detection and disposal squad and a sniffer dog were immediately pressed into service. In addition, 50 cops from the Tirupur south police station and nearby police stations were deployed to comb the entire area and check the passengers’ luggage. The Railway Protection Force and the Government Railway Police also joined them in the search that lasted until 1am on Thursday,” the source said.Meanwhile, police traced the call location, conducted searches in and around the Tirupur old bus stand, and secured and Anand from a lodge. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Anand was working with a private firm at Melur in Madurai, where he is facing a case.“An alcoholic, he moved to Dharapuram in Tirupur 15 days ago after he fought with his parents. While he found a job with a Tasmac bar, he quit the job on Wednesday and took a room at the lodge around 5pm. He consumed liquor and called up the 108 ambulance service. Later, he switched off the phone,” the source said.Police booked Anand under Sections 505 (1) (b) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquillity) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested him.Anand was produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded him in judicial custody, on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-making-bomb-threat-call-to-stn/articleshow/79669444.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Three killed as SUV overturns near Shyamlaji||Palanpur: Three residents of Ahmedabad were killed and as many injured when the SUV in which they were travelling overturned and rammed into a road-side pillar of a bridge near Gambhoai in Sabarkantha district Wednesday late night. The deceased were identified as Kamlesh Bhavasar (39), Kirit Raval (52) and Dharmendra Varma (41), all residents of Ahmedabad.According to police, the accident took place when the deceased and the injured were returning to Ahmedabad from Shyamlaji in Aravalli district after offering prayers at temple there.One of the injured person is in critical condition and was referred to Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-killed-as-suv-overturns-near-shyamlaji/articleshow/79667041.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||3 men held for pickpocketing DMK cadres||Coimbatore: A three-member gang was arrested for pickpocketing DMK cadres who were attending the meetings that party leader and MP M K Kanimozhi addressed at Sundarapuram and Kurichi on Wednesday. The Podanur police have recovered Rs 1 lakh from the trio. It is to be noted that Kanimozhi has been touring the district for the past few days as part of Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural (Stalin’s voice for a new dawn) programme. On Wednesday evening, she addressed the party cadres at Sundarapuram and Kurichi, where three cadres - Muthalif, Manikadanan and Sivamani - were pickpocketed. A police officer said, “Muthalif had Rs 30,000 with him, while Manikandan and Sivamani had Rs 1.15 lakh and Rs 22,000, respectively. Only after the programmes that they came to know they were pickpocketed.” With the help of CCTV footage and videos taken on mobile phones, the DMK cadres identified the trio - Azhagesan, 27, Sivakumar, 30 and Karthikeyan, 27, all residents of Sundarapuram - handed them over to police.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-men-held-for-pickpocketing-dmk-cadres/articleshow/79669435.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Rajasthan man flees with Rs 43L of angadia firm||Rajkot: A man from Rajasthan was booked for stealing Rs 43.20 lakh from an angadia firm owner in Morbi on Wednesday night.Police said the accused, Jitendra Prajapati, a native of Undh village of Sehore district in Rajasthan, was living on Sardar Bhavan Road in Morbi. He had stolen money from Magan Prajapati (50), a resident of Pramukh Society on Waghodiya Road in Vadodara, who owns an angadia firm. As Magan wanted to expand his business, he decided to open a branch in Morbi, for which he contacted Jitendra. “Both Magan and Jitendra knew each other since both hailed from the same village in Rajasthan,” said an official from Morbi A division police station. After Jitendra expressed his willingness to shoulder the responsibility of an angadia firm, Magan appointed him as the head of the branch of his firm in Morbi. On October 29, Jitendra allegedly pocketed Rs 43.20 lakh cash of some of their clients, downed the shutter of his office and fled from the town. “After Magan lodged a complaint, we launched a manhunt for Jitendra,” added the police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajasthan-man-flees-with-rs-43l-of-angadia-firm/articleshow/79667059.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Amritsar||Protesting bodies flag rights violations: ‘Release rationalists’||BATHINDA: Farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) observed International Human Rights Day at Tikri border on Thursday. Claiming that human rights violations have been on the rise in the country for many years, the organisation termed the current position of farmers facing the brunt of winter as another human rights violation by the Union government. The outfit also raised its voice for unconditional release of writers, intellectuals and rationalists, including Gautam Navlakha, Varvara Rao, Anand Teltumbde and Sudha Bhardwaj, who were mainly arrested in the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Activists of most of the 32 farm organisations are sitting at Singhu border but BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) members have been stationed at Tikri border for the last 15 days. “Apart from our core demands of repealing farm laws, we want many of the writers and intellectuals arrested by the government under UAPA to be released unconditionally. The occasion of Human Rights Day was an appropriate moment to reiterate this longstanding demand. The government is openly indulging in violating human rights, which needs to be reversed,” said organisation president Joginder Singh Ugrahan. Punjab Lok Sabhyacharak Manch president Amolak Singh, who is camping at Tikri border with activists of BKU (Ugrahan) said, “The government is branding all those who raise a voice against its excesses as ‘urban naxals’ or anti nationals. We do not subscribe to naxalism but at the same time, we feel it is our duty to raise a voice for those who are facing violation of human rights. Persons like Anand Teltumbde, Varvara Rao and Gautam Navlakha are example of state power being used to violate human rights. We are dead against all this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/protesting-bodies-flag-rights-violations-release-rationalists/articleshow/79669464.cms||Neel Kamal
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||KU extends last date for special mercy chance||Kurukshetra: Kurukshetra University (KU) administration has given a special mercy chance for students of all undergraduate and postgraduate (UG/PG) courses, including professional, diploma and certificate courses, to improve exam marks and clear reappear, as per the directions of KU vice-chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva. KU spokesperson said the UG and PG courses, including professional, diploma and certificate courses (semester/annual exam), students between session 1998-99 and 2010-11 can fill the examination form with general examination fee Rs 1,500 along with an additional fee of Rs 25,000. The spokesperson said at the same time, students of the session 2011-2012 could fill the examination form with an additional fee of Rs 20,000 along with the normal fee of Rs 1,500. He informed that interested students could apply for the chance by December 21, 2020. For more information, students can get information from the university website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-extends-last-date-for-special-mercy-chance/articleshow/79669456.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Farm union flags get vehicles through Haryana toll plazas for free||JIND: Amid farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws, all it takes to get through Haryana toll plazas for free is a flag of Bhartiya Kisan Union. The toll plaza employees have even established a separate line for farmers heading towards Delhi. In Jind, around 50,000 ‘Dilli chalo’ vehicles have crossed the toll plazas since November 26. On Thursday, vehicles from Punjab could be seen passing Khatkar’s toll plaza at Jind-Patiala national highway every other minute. According to the toll employees, nearly 1,500 vehicles are going towards Delhi every day. And from Haryana’s Data Singh wala border vehicles are seen going towards Delhi with a supply of firewood, milk, winter clothes, edibles items and other necessary items. Harbans, a village sarpanch who hails from Barnala town of Punjab, going in a jeep carrying edibles and other items, said, “The Union government has become adamant, but farmers have no plan to go back until demands are not met. We cross every toll plaza in Haryana free of cost and barriers are being lifted after seeing the farmer flag on the vehicles. We are doing this for the future of our nation and will fight till the end.” Vinod Kumar, safety in charge at Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza, said “Vehicles from Punjab are so many that we have established a separate lane to avoid jam at the toll gate. Around 50,000 vehicles have been crossed and we don’t charge them — if vehicles carrying farmer flags are allowed to go free of cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farm-union-flags-get-vehicles-through-hry-toll-plazas-for-free/articleshow/79669465.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||3 die, 8 hurt in 3 road accidents in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: Three people, including a woman, died, while eight were injured in three road accidents in Pilibhit since Wednesday night. A 32-year-old woman, Mithilesh, from Pareva Vaishya village under Jahanabad police station, was run over by a sugarcane–laden tractor-trolley on Bisalpur-Deuria road at about 1 pm on Thursday while she was standing by a stationary bike. She had accompanied her sister and brother-in-law who were heading to Shahjahanpur. They had stopped on the way to buy food from a roadside eatery when the accident took place. The tractor-trolley was impounded by police while its driver fled. Earlier, two bikers -- Prem Pal (30) and Hemendra (34) from of Sundarpur village, under Jahanabad police station – died near Siabadi Patti village on Bareilly-Haridwar national highway 74 late on Wednesday night in a hit-and-run case. They were returning home from Pilibhit city. Early Thursday morning, eight people were injured in a head-on collision of their cars due to the dense fog near Govalptipura village on Bisalpur-Bareilly road under Bisalpur police station. They were shifted to Bisalpur community health centre by the Dial 112 police response vehicle. The condition of four of the injured is stated to be critical. They were referred to Pilibhit district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-die-8-hurt-in-3-road-accidents-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79667068.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers, khaps, women mount pressure on Haryana leaders||JIND: Farmers, along with women and khap members held a protest in Jind on Thursday by playing a folk musical instrument in front of a buffalo (symbolising the saying - Bhains ke aage been bajana, conveying the futility of making a person understand a concept he has no ability to grasp). Farmers said they held the protest to urge the Centre to repeal the three farm laws promptly. Many women and members of the Sarvajatiya Khap gathered at Uchana town, represented by Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and staged a protest. They raised slogans against the government and sought relief for farmers demonstrating at the Delhi borders for the past 15 days. The protesters expressed their annoyance with deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, senior BJP leader and former union minister Birender Singh and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh for their silence on the issue. Paras Sheokand, vice-president, Daran Khap, said, “Earlier, we announced social boycott of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, Birender Singh and other Bangar leaders who always sought votes in the name of farmers’ welfare but didn’t do anything. Opposition to these leaders will continue till they resign from their post and join the farmers’ protest. Today, we sent a message to the Prime Minister that it would be better to listen to farmers’ demands at the earliest as we have planned for a long fight. The PM should not be so adamant.” Azad Singh Palwa, general secretary, Sarvajatiya Daran khap said, “We want to send a message to the Prime Minister that this is a democracy and he will have to listen to our voice. He should not act like a dictator. If he feels farmers will go back after some time, he should forget it. If our leaders, who are in the committee to talk with the government, order us, routes from Haryana will also be blocked soon. We will ensure a free toll on December 12 and gherao Jind mini secretariat on December 14 to press our demands.” Meanwhile, women protesters said they are taking care of the fields as the men stage protests. “Male farmers are heading to Delhi borders to take on the government and we are looking after the fields. We have no problems working in the field but have sent men to win the fight. We will not allow any leaders to enter the area until demands are met,” Sudesh Devi, a woman protester from Uchana, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-khaps-women-mount-pressure-on-hry-leaders/articleshow/79669470.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||CM lays stone for vet college and research centre in Theni||Madurai: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday laid the foundation stone for the Rs 265.87 crore Government Veterinary College and Research centre in Veerapandi village in Theni district, through video conferencing.The college and research centre will help farmers in Madurai, Theni and Dindigul districts to meet their veterinary needs. As it is coming up on the Tamil Nadu - Kerala border, it will help develop methods for preservation and processing of milk, meat and animal feed. A first batch of 40 students would be admitted in the academic year 2020-2021.It will have an administrative block, eight classroom blocks, separate hostels for girls and boys, principal’s quarters, hostel warden quarters, guest house and restaurant. The college is envisaged to have 15 different departments. Students would be able to learn treatment at the hospital for animals to be established here. Developing new technologies in processing of milk products, meat, livestock development among others would be among the major activities.The chief minister had on March 20 announced in the assembly that the college would be established in Theni district. An area of 253.64 was identified for establishing it in Veerapandi village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-lays-stone-for-vet-college-and-research-centre-in-theni/articleshow/79670674.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Women’s khap marches to Delhi||Rohtak: Extending full support to the ongoing kisan andolan by farmers’ unions at the Haryana-Delhi border, the Sarvkhap Mahila Mahapanchayat (SKMM), led by Santosh Dahiya marched for Delhi on Thursday. Addressing a women’s panchayat in Rohtak, SKMM president Santosh Dahiya said it is their duty to stand with the men out in the open in the winter. “The three newly-enacted agricultural laws will ruin a farmer’s family and women will suffer the most if the Centre does not repeal these,” she said. Dahiya said they have been supporting the farmers’ agitation from the beginning by sending food to the protest site and mobilising support in rural areas. She said members of SKMM would reach Tikri border in tractor-trolleys driven by her with food and raw flour, vegetables, pulses and other essential items. Daljit Sandhu, district president, Karnal unit of SKMM said farmers on the protest sites should know that they are looking out for them. “We hope that the Centre listens to farmers’ demands at the earliest,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/womens-khap-marches-to-delhi/articleshow/79669474.cms||Sat Singh
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Class X girl kills self over exam fears||Rajkot: A Class X student hanged herself to death from the ceiling fan of their house in Shankar Tekari locality of Jamnagar on Thursday morning. Police said the deceased, Madhvi Chavda (15), took the extreme step as she was suffering from exam phobia. “Madhvi’s uncle Prakash Chavda said that Madhvi was unable to cope with the current online teaching and had sunk into depression for the past few days. Her preparation for Class X examination was also not up to the desired standards, which depressed her even more,” said an official from Jamnagar C division police station. Both Prakash and Madhvi’s father Deepak Chavda work as labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/class-x-girl-kills-self-over-exam-fears/articleshow/79667074.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||709 dilapidated buildings of primary schools to be demolished in Kheri dist||BAREILLY: The office of basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) in Lakhimpur Kheri district has identified 709 primary schools with dilapidated buildings/rooms and sought permission to demolish those premises and use the debris for constructing boundary walls at the schools don't have one. There are nearly 4,000 primary and junior primary schools in Kheri district, and most of the dilapidated school buildings are situated in flood-affected areas. Out of 709, 128 such buildings are in Mohammadi tehsil, 81 in Dhaurahra tehsil and 98 in Palia tehsil. BSA Budhpriye Singh told TOI, “After a survey, we have prepared a list of 709 dilapidated school buildings and classrooms in the district. We have written to the government to grant us permission to demolish the building at the earliest and utilise the debris for constructing boundary walls at the schools which don't have one. The dilapidated school buildings and classrooms are posing a threat to the students, and thus, we cannot take a risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/709-dilapidated-buildings-of-primary-schools-to-be-demolished-in-kheri-dist/articleshow/79667080.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Officials tighten steps to keep dengue and typhoid threats at bay||Madurai: Health officials have tightened measures to ensure there is no outbreak of any mosquito-borne or water-borne illnesses as southern districts had been experiencing heavy and moderate rains during and after Cyclone Burevi.Across districts, though this year’s total dengue cases are much less compared to previous years, officials said that sporadic cases are still prevalent. In Virudhunagar, health officials said that one or two dengue cases were being reported once in 3-4 days in the district, particularly from Rajapalayam Sivakasi and Vembakottai areas. “The district is also witnessing some cases of typhoid infections. In the past few days here, chlorination of water in overhead tanks were intensified,” said a health official. In Ramanathapuram as well, a few sporadic dengue cases were recorded in Paramakudi. “However, the cases are less than 25% of last year’s numbers. Before the rains began in the district, a mass screening and awareness campaigns were held for dengue, especially across household areas,” said a senior health official from Ramanathapuram. More than 600 domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are carrying out surveillance and preventive work. Fogging is also being done regularly with the help of mobile units. Health inspectors regularly check if the chlorination is within the required limits of 2-3 ppm. Health officials in Kanyakumari said that dengue cases are only 30% of what was reported last year. “In general, all fever cases are on a decline in the district. Preventive measures have been intensified especially post the rains to ensure there is no outbreak of any mosquito-borne or water-borne diseases,” said a senior health official from the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/officials-tighten-steps-to-keep-dengue-and-typhoid-threats-at-bay/articleshow/79670689.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Dalit rape survivor, 21, files case after 7 years of silence as accused shares videos of assault||PILIBHIT: Seven years after she was allegedly raped and filmed, a Dalit woman in Pilibhit, now 21, broke her silence and demanded arrest of the accused after he shared the visuals of the assault with his friends recently. The woman said she remained silent all this while because the man had threatened to share the videos and photos with villagers, police said. She was a school girl, just 14, when the alleged incident took place. But, days after he allegedly shared the visuals of the rape, the woman decided to fight for the justice. After approaching police with a complaint over a month ago, she sat on a protest outside Pilibhit’s district magistrate office, demanding arrest of the accused. According to the victim, a resident of a village in Pilibhit’s Barkhera area, she was first raped on January 1, 2013 when she was a student of Class IX. The accused, Prempal, filmed the assault, and later raped her repeatedly while threatening to make the phone recordings public. In her complaint given to police, she had said that Premplal had a Jan Suvidha Kendra in her village. She had first visited the centre to file a scholarship form in the last week of December 2012. On January 1, when she had gone to a nearby town to buy some medicines and was waiting for a conveyance to return home, Prempal reached there and offered to drop her home. “I trusted him. But he sedated me, took me to a lonely place and raped me,” she alleged. Station house officer of Barkhera, Kamal Singh, said, “We had booked Prempal on October 24 under section 376 (rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 342 (wrongful confinement), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC, section 3, 4 of POCSO act, and section 3 (2) (v) of the SC/ST act. She sat on dharna because he has not been arrested. We will soon arrest him." Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav clarified, “The matter was brought to the notice of police after seven years from the date of incident. So, it was decided to investigate the case before making the arrest. The investigation is almost over and the circle officer has been directed to immediately arrest the accused.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-rape-survivor-21-files-case-after-7-years-of-silence-as-accused-shares-videos-of-assault/articleshow/79667086.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||New Covid cases, deaths dip more in city than state||Ahmedabad: In terms Covid-19 cases and deaths in the past ten days, Ahmedabad city – which has been reporting the highest number of cases in Gujarat for more than a month now – has seen a bigger dip than the state. Comparing figures pertaining to the pandemic for November 21 to 30 and December 1 to 10, there has been a 10% reduction in cases – from 3,244 to 2,913 in these 10 days in the city. In the same period, Gujarat recorded a 7% dip in cases — from 15,378 to 14,301. Likewise, in Covid deaths, the city recorded a dip of 10.7% — from 103 to 92 — compared to 4% for Gujarat – from 152 to 146. In the 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday, Gujarat added 1,270 new cases – the lowest one-day tally in the past 22 days – taking the total number of cases in the state to 2.24 lakh so far. The state also had 12 Covid deaths, which was the lowest one-day death toll in 19 days. Ahmedabad city reported its lowest number of new cases in 21 days. The state also recorded a dip in daily testing, with the number of tests conducted being below 61,000 for the second consecutive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-covid-cases-deaths-dip-more-in-city-than-state/articleshow/79669514.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Five booked for 26 thefts in Kutch district||Rajkot: Five thieves were detained in Bhuj of Kutch district on Thursday in connection with 26 theft cases. Police seized jewellery, cable wires and cash, all worth Rs 3.49 lakh, from them.Police said the accused, Amad Sama (22), Ali Gulam Hussein Jat (22), Hasam Vandha (31) and Rashid Sama (22), were detained after Ayub Sama (25), a theft accused, gave their names during his interrogation. Ayub was detained while he was coming to Bhuj in a truck from Khavda. “He was wanted in two theft cases reported in Nakhatrana. Ayub said that his gang had committed a total of 26 thefts in the past three years. During his questioning, he revealed the names of the co-accused, following which they were nabbed,” said S J Rana, in-charge inspector of Bhuj local crime branch. The police said the accused had committed thefts in Bhuj city and taluka, Nakhatrana and Mankuva in Kutch district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-booked-for-26-thefts-in-kutch-district/articleshow/79667081.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Mumbai||Doing away with IP controls during Covid won’t help in faster research: Int’l pharma body||Mumbai: Diluting national and international intellectual property (IP) frameworks during the pandemic is counterproductive, and will not lead to faster research and development or access, according to Big Pharma. This comes just ahead of a “landmark” proposal — for an IP waiver on Covid-19 drugs and vaccines — being taken up at the World Trade Organization. The joint submission by India and South Africa on October 2 is slated to come up for another round of discussions on December 10 before the TRIPS Council. The proposal has the support of nearly 100 countries, barring some wealthy nations, and was sought in the wake of challenges faced by developing nations in accessing crucial Covid medical products, including diagnostics. With rich countries cutting exclusive deals with companies cornering a majority of the global vaccine production, it has huge implications on millions across the developing world in accessing the vaccines. International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and Associations (IFPMA), representing big pharma companies across the world, said the industry stands by its commitment to fair and equitable access to Covid-19 treatment and vaccines, but feels that the dilution will undermine confidence in a well-functioning IP system. With three vaccines, and potentially as many as 10 in the coming months being approved by regulators and produced in billions by vaccine makers, there is hope of finding a lasting solution for the pandemic. IP enables research and development and ensures that the next generation of inventors and investors will remain engaged. “At a time when the focus should be on science and innovation, undoing the very system that supports it is dangerous and counterintuitive” says Thomas Cueni, director-general of IFPMA. Meanwhile, international medical humanitarian organization, Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), highlighted the need for a global approach to ensure that everyone can benefit from Covid-19 breakthroughs. Vaccines will only be available for everyone who needs them if pharmaceutical corporations share their product information and don’t block production by additional manufacturers. The hope that these vaccines will help end this pandemic will not materialize unless all corporations take urgent steps to increase cooperation with other producers and sell the vaccines at-cost. This will mean sharing all the necessary intellectual property (IP), technologies, data, and know-how so that many companies as possible can produce these life-saving vaccines that are desperately needed to end the pandemic, a MSF statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doing-away-with-ip-controls-during-covid-wont-help-in-faster-research-intl-pharma-body/articleshow/79664217.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Couple detained for blackmailing farmer||Rajkot: Of the four people accused of allegedly blackmailing a farmer for Rs 10 lakh in Rajkot, a husban-wife duo was detained on Thursday.Police said the accused, Meera Gujarati and her husband Ranjeet, both residents of Narsinh Ramani ni Vadi on Kothariya Road, had allegedly blackmailed Magan Rak (55), a farmer of Semada village of Gondal taluka with the connivance of two aides, Ranjeet Chavda and Hasmukh. According to the details of the case, Rak, who wanted to buy a buffalo, was advised by his friend to contact Ranjeet Gujarati who promised to get him a buffalo. After this, Meera started calling Rak frequently on his mobile. “On December 7, Meera called Rak to Narsinh Ramani ni Vadi and took him to a dilapidated house where Ranjeet and the two others reached. The accused allegedly tied Rak to a pole and thrashed him with a plastic pipe and threatened to frame Rak in a false rape case if he didn’t bow to their demanded for Rs 10 lakh and walk out of the situation,” said V J Chavda, inspector with Aji Dam police station. In order to free himself from the clutches of the accused, Rak agreed to pay the amount. The accused allegedly then took his thumb imprint on a stamp paper, which stated that he was bound to pay Rs 10 lakh to Meera. After he was released, Rak returned home and decided to lodge a complaint against the accused. “We have booked the accused under sections 387, 120 (B), 342, 330, 323, 504, 114 and 135 of the Indian Penal Code. The accused had also shot a video of Rak and had clicked his photographs,” added Chavda. While the police have detained Meera and Ranjeet Gujarati, they have launched a manhunt for the co-accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-detained-for-blackmailing-farmer/articleshow/79667119.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Man issues fake CMCHIS ID card to Trichy villagers, collects money, held||Trichy: The arrest of a man on charges of cheating people on the promise of issuing them the identity card of the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS) has brought out the continuing exploitation of villagers in the name of the scheme in Trichy. Taking advantage of the people’s ignorance on the matter in rural areas, a man claiming to be a government-appointed staffer cheated them of about Rs 60,000 by issuing a fake identify card under CMCHIS in Edhumalai village in Mannachanallur taluk. It was in October that the district administration received a similar complaint from Thappai village near Lalgudi. While the person was not implicated then, district collector S Sivarasu ordered arrest this time. Siruganaur police arrested G Dinesh, 25, of Mathur in Pudukottai district after the duped people raised a hue and cry at Edhumalai on Wednesday night. The police also seized a laptop, a printer and a lamination machine from him. Posing as a representative of an NGO appointed by the government to issue the ID card, he duped the people claiming that the existing card should be replaced with a new one issued by him to avail of the increased claim amount of Rs 5 lakh. He also collected Rs 100 each from 600 people for the card which was printed with the picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It all happened at a community centre in the village for three days. Some people grew suspicious of him and informed the officials concerned.“He took the people for a ride by claiming so when the eligible card holders can avail of the increased claim amount also with the existing card,” said district project officer (DPO), CMCHIS, S Ravishankar. He said the identity cards for CMCHIS and PM-JAY schemes can be obtained by anyone residing in Tamil Nadu having an annual income of Rs 72,000. The cards will be issued at the respective office in the district collector office. While people avail of CMCHIS for treatment in government and hospitals in Tamil Nadu, beneficiaries can get the treatment in hospitals in other states under PM-JAY scheme free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-issues-fake-cmchis-id-card-to-trichy-villagers-collects-money-held/articleshow/79669477.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Long way to go for city to achieve immunity from virus||Ahmedabad: The third seroprevalance survey conducted by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) in the city was not encouraging, and points to a long way ahead before the city develops immunity. In July, overall seropositivity (showing prevalence of Covid antibodies) was found to be 17.6 per cent, followed by 23.2 per cent in September and a marginal increase of 0.96 of a percentage point to 24.1% in October. “This is not an encouraging sign. We are worried as the vaccine campaign will also lead to complacency among citizens and there may be another wave of cases. Citizens should guard against complacency when it came to following distancing and mask rules,” said a senior municipal official.Elaborating on the earlier serological surveys, the AMC said that in the second half of June and first week of July, it carried out its first sero-survey on 29,891 samples. The second sero-survey was carried out in the second half of August, with 10,310 samples from the general population, which included samples from Covid infection cases, contacts of Covid cases and health care workers (HCW).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/long-way-to-go-for-city-to-achieve-immunity-from-virus/articleshow/79669510.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Sanitary workers in govt schools unpaid for months||Madurai: Sanitary workers posted in government schools on consolidated pay in Madurai district have alleged that they have not been paid salaries since March. Officials told them this was because they did not work when schools were closed due to Covid-19, and also due to lack of funds. “The pandemic and lockdown have affected everyone but we are unable to get the salary that is rightfully ours. When we raise the issue, the authorities send us away citing excuses. We are forced to fight for a Rs 3,000 salary when all other government employees are getting it,” said a sanitary worker who has been on the job for over 25 years. She said she has been working continuously, was forced to pay from her pocket for even travel expenses since schools have been functioning with limited staff for months post lockdown. “We are trying to support the workers the best as we can as they are the ones actively involved in cleaning and maintenance work at the school. But it is the responsibility of district authorities to ensure they get their salaries,” said a government school teacher. In Madurai district, there are more than 100 government schools. The district administration blamed the delay in disbursal of salaries to workers on lack of funds. “They will get the salary due to them but they are not active in work since the Covid-19 pandemic started and schools were shut. Panchayat Union funds were used to pay them for a while but even that is now not possible. The issue will be sorted out by the end of the month,” said a senior official from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-workers-in-govt-schools-unpaid-for-months/articleshow/79670725.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy open defecation free? Not under Palakkarai flyover||Trichy: It was intended to serve as a recreational spot, but the vacant space underneath Palakkarai flyover in the city, which was converted into a walking track, now reeks of urine and excreta. With homeless people occupying the space and no sanitary complex and urinals in its vicinity, traders said open urination and defecation are rampant there.This comes in the light of the efforts being made by Trichy corporation, which claims that open defecation had been eradicated, to achieve ODF+ city status in the national cleanliness ranking of the ministry of housing and urban affairs. The space below the Palakkarai flyover junction, where Heber road and Melapudur road merge, was converted into a walking track equipped with decorative plants in 2018. However, in the months after the pandemic struck, the track and fenced space were being utilised by homeless people to stay. “For the past few months, it has been a nauseating ordeal form us. Homeless people including women are urinating and defecating in the space below the bridge, located opposite to our shops,” V Ramadoss, a siddha medicine stall owner, said.The traders blamed it on the absence of sanitary complexes and urinals near the flyover. Even though the space was fenced, the traders said that the civic body failed to lock it during the night to prevent misuse. “As people had requested for space to park two-wheelers, we opened the locks. Proposal for a urinal near the flyover is taking shape,” a sanitary official with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-open-defecation-free-not-under-palakkarai-flyover/articleshow/79669479.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Residents plant saplings on road to protest official apathy||Trichy: Condemning the Trichy Corporation’s apathy in repairing the roads damaged in the recent rainfall, residents of Keezha Devathanam in the city staged a unique protest by planting saplings on a damaged road.Falling under ward 8 in Srirangam zone, Keezha Devathanam near East Boulevard road has about 250 houses. For the past two years, as the underground drainage work is underway, residents said that the streets were frequently dug up. Although the installation of pipes and UGD chambers are complete, residents said that the civic body was hesitant to repair the roads dug.Meanwhile, as the recent rainfall ravaged the area, residents said that even autorickshaws were refusing to visit the streets citing the bad condition of the roads. To attract the attention of authorities, the residents on Thursday planted saplings on the damaged roads. Subsequently, the engineering department officials from Trichy Corporation rushed to the spot and held talks after which the protest was withdrawn. Corporation officials told the residents that the damaged roads will be filled with gravel and levelled within days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-plant-saplings-on-road-to-protest-official-apathy/articleshow/79669482.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy’s death rate now among lowest in state||Trichy: Trichy continues to be one of the major cities in the state with the lowest number of Covid-19 deaths, as it has reported only one casualty in the past one month. The mortality rate has come down by more than 50%, and the health officials attributed this to the targeted screening, early intervention and increased awareness among public.As per the statistics shared by the district administration, the city recorded six Covid-19 deaths between October 9 and November 9. However, between November 9 and December 9, it has recorded only one death. The mortality rate of the city has come down to 0.43% in November from 1.02% in October, a near 58% drop. Although fresh infections have been consistently falling for the past three months since September, 10 deaths were recorded in October and two in November.“Early intervention, isolation and treatment made a significant difference in the recovery of patients. The stigma associated with the infection is gradually coming down. As a result, people are volunteering test and get treated,” district epidemiologist Aravind Kumar told TOI. Health officials said that people have become more vigilant than the early period of the pandemic. After realising loss of smell and other symptoms associated with Covid-19, residents were seen opting for RT-PCR testing either in government or private laboratories. The fall in virulence capacity of the infection cannot be ruled out too, officials added.Targeting the populations who have non-communicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension across the 65 wards through fever camps is another reason for safeguarding the vulnerable population. Corporation sources said that limiting the mortality and containing the infection from spreading has been the chief priority of the strategy in tackling Covid-19. Among the major cities in the state, Trichy has the lowest mortality, health officials said. “We are still testing around 1,800 people per day in the district. Though there is no alarming rise in infection, people have to cooperate to keep the situation under control,” the epidemiologist said. While Trichy district (excluding city limits) has recorded only one casualty in past one month, health officials said that improved treatment protocol has also played a role in limiting the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichys-death-rate-now-among-lowest-in-state/articleshow/79669481.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 11, 2020||Trichy||4 spas running as prostitution centres sealed in Trichy city||Trichy: Sending a strong message to spas in Trichy brazenly violating the norms by operating prostitution rackets, commissioner of police J Loganathan on Thursday warned of expediting action towards those involved and severe action against landowners of the rented buildings. “We are analysing the reasons for the offences cropping up again in a short period. The landowners will also be advised to check the background of suspicious people. The offenders will be chargesheeted,” Loganathan told TOI. The warning comes hours after five city police teams busted prostitution rackets operating in UNO beauty spa massage centre at Annamalai Nagar, Angel massage Spa centre, Vedha Ayur Vedic massage Spa centre and Orchid massage Spa centre in Thillai Nagar and Sun Spa massage centre in TVS tollgate, late on Wednesday. Police sealed the centres and arrested 10 people, including two women and rescued 12 women subjected to prostitution. Police said the pimps lured women living in poverty. The accused, identified as P Vignesh, R Ajith Kumar, K Ahamed Ibrahim, Ramani alias Ammani, B Sankar, N Rajasekaran, B Subbulakshmi alias Surya, S Dinesh, Sudhamani, S Uma, S Praveen, Balasubramanian and W Yesuraj Selvin were booked under the Immoral Traffic (prevention) ITP Act. Three of them are yet to be arrested. Two months ago, police launched its first operation against prostitution centres functioning under the guise of spas in Trichy and arrested seven pimps besides rescuing 13 victims. “The centres remained sealed so far. Steps are being taken to put an end to the offence,” the CoP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-spas-running-as-prostitution-centres-sealed-in-trichy-city/articleshow/79669476.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Former SP minister among 40 booked for burning effigy of Union government||PILIBHIT: Former Samajwadi Party minister Hemraj Verma was among 40 — nine named and 30 unidentified — people booked on Wednesday night for allegedly burning an effigy of the Union government in support of the farmers’ agitation. Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said after conducting a proper investigation, police would file a charge-sheet against the accused. Complainant sub-inspector Kamlesh Singh posted at Neuria police station said when he along with constable Sachin Kumar was on a round around 1 pm on Wednesday, he received the information of the burning of an effigy near a gurdwara in Almapur village. “We rushed to the spot and found Verma and his supporters burning an effigy of the Union government in violation to section 144 of the CrPC. The protesters had also violated Covid-19 guideline such as maintaining social distancing and wearing of face masks,” he stated. SHO Jagat Singh said Verma, along with nine named and 30 unidentified protesters, was booked under appropriate sections of different Acts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/former-sp-minister-among-40-booked-for-burning-effigy-of-union-government/articleshow/79667144.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||129 nabbed during surprise raid at Ganga Jamuna||Nagpur: A strong posse of around 150 cops rounded up around 89 women and 40 men during a joint raid of Lakadganj police and crime branch on Thursday at red-light locality of Ganga Jamuna. Around eight minor girls too were rescued by the cops.The action came at a time when the government was conducting survey across the nation at red-light areas for doling out Rs5,000 to female sex workers (FSW) and another Rs2,500 for their children who are studying. Even in Nagpur, the collector office had engaged NGOs to collect names and details of the FSWs of Ganga Jamuna for monetary assistance and dry ration. In a first, Lakadganj police would be registering five FIRs against around 40 persons rounded up during the same raid. The persons would be booked for soliciting, renting out and sub-letting premises and trafficking women and minors for prostitution. Police are also invoking stringent Protection of children from sexual offences Act, 2012 and also Juvenile Justice Act.City police chief Amitesh Kumar said the raid was conducted against the perceived illegal activities and malpractices at the red-light area. “It was a planned but suo moto action, based on the information being nurtured. The latest action is a multifaceted one which would include various components including bringing the illegality in the constructions done here for illegal activities,” he said. The raid was spearheaded by DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane and Zonal DCP Lohit Matani with their respective manpower. Matani said that he had been collecting data and information regarding the locality for the last one month following which the action was planned. “Our raid had nothing to do with government survey. The police action was directed towards breaking the trafficking network from here apart from other illegal renting out and sub-letting,” he said. “The owners have rented out to different persons and shifted elsewhere. Rescuing of minors and busting the traffickers’ rackets were more important than anything else,” he said.Hemlata Lohave, project director of the Indian Red Cross Society, said the police raid was a surprising action as the government is conducting survey on the FSW. “The FSWs were herded together and kept in proximity with each other in the time of pandemic. Many require medicines for HIV which could not be given on time to them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/129-nabbed-during-surprise-raid-at-ganga-jamuna/articleshow/79668129.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Green organizations, farmers want bunds near Pudukottai’s eucalyptus plantations removed||Trichy: Environmental organisations and farmers have sought removal of bunds constructed by Tamil Nadu Forest Plantation Corporation Limited (Tafcorn) in the eucalyptus plantations in Pudukottai district. According to them, the bunds have been preventing rainwater from reaching the tanks in the district.More than 23,000 hectare of reserve forest has eucalyptus plantations, which are raised and managed by Tafcorn – a forest plantation wing of the state forest department.S A Manikandan, Iyarkai Nalvazhvu Sangam, a Pudukottai-based environmental organization, said that the area received good rain over the last few days, but the numerous tanks in the district have not received water significantly as water gets stagnated in the plantations.While there are no hills in the district, forests are the catchment areas of the numerous irrigation and other tanks in the district. But, the bunds constructed to a height of 45 cm by Tafcorn around the plantation have been blocking the flow of water, said Manikandan. It is essential to remove these bunds to ensure proper flow of water to the tanks, he said.Pudukottai regional manager of Tafcorn S Nesamani said that no new bunds have been constructed by Tafcorn recently and the existing bunds are more than five years old. Moreover, the bunds were not erected on the path of the natural flow of water. Therefore, it would be unfair to say that activities of Tafcorn are affecting the flow of water. We are growing plantation by doing intermediate ploughing. They say that ploughing has been preventing the flow of water. But this is a policy scheme and the decision has to be taken by higher officials, he said.District collector P Uma Maheswari has forwarded the issue to the forest secretary. A team led by the revenue divisional officer is likely to be constituted soon to carry out an inspection to check whether the plantations are blocking the natural flow of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/green-organizations-farmers-want-bunds-near-pudukottais-eucalyptus-plantations-removed/articleshow/79669487.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Regional vaccine storage centre set up in Rajkot||Rajkot: The regional vaccine storage facility for the entire Saurashtra region was made operational on the Shroff Rod in the city on Thursday.According to district health officials, the vaccine will be supplied to eight districts and three municipal corporations of Saurashtra and Kutch from this centre. It has two walk-in coolers (WIC) and three ice-line refrigerators (ILR) to store two lakh vials at the temperature of 2-8 degree centigrade. There are six deep freezers with the capacity to store one lakh vials at minus 15 to 25 degree centigrade, said Dr. Rupali Mehta, regional deputy director, health and medical services. “The facility will supply vaccines to Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi, Bhuj, Junagadh, Gir-Somnath and Devbhumi Dwarka districts through a special van. Also, 101 storages have been created in Rajkot Municipal Corporation and district panchayat areas,” she said. Rajnikant Dobariya, regional pharmacist said, “Vaccines for other diseases like polio are currently stored here. We will be able to do online monitoring of freezer temperature and vaccine stock through a software.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/regional-vaccine-storage-centre-set-up-in-rajkot/articleshow/79667136.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 in Ahmedabad: AMC survey of those at virus risk begins||AHMEDABAD: About 1,500 people are involved in a survey in the city to identify people who are older than 50 years or have co-morbidities that make them vulnerable to Covid. The survey, preparation or Covid-19 vaccination, will cover the 48 wards of the city in seven days. AMC officials said the survey is being done to prepare a list of people who will be given the vaccine in the third phase. The officials said that to cover everyone, they have decided not to go to the election booth level but have identified 150 schools in 48 wards, where it will be administered. This is because the vaccine has to be preserved at a specific temperature which will be difficult to maintain at the booth level. Officials said the number of schools could be increased after looking at the number of people there, so citizens do not have to travel far. Medical health officer Bhavin Solanki said, “AMC has 100 machines where we can store the vaccine at the desired temperature. At present we are not aware as to which vaccine will be sent and we are waiting and watching. We are prepared to get more storage facilities on rent when required.” Solanki said that not just the AMC, but also doctors who have begun registration, are adopting a wait and watch approach. The doctors said registration will gain momentum once the vaccine type becomes clear. The teachers association of the Ahmedabad Municipal School Board has demanded that they be considered ‘corona warriors’ and be treated at par with medical staff as they are the face of AMC surveys pertaining to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-survey-of-those-at-virus-risk-begins/articleshow/79669506.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Black naped monarch 94th bird species to be spotted at TBCT||Trichy: Yet another bird species was spotted at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory, Trichy (TBCT) taking the total number of bird species spotted at the conservatory to 94. Black naped monarch, found mostly in dense forests and identified by the unique black patch on its back, was the new species spotted at TBCT. V Muthukrishnan, junior research fellow at the conservatory who spotted the bird, said that the bird has been spotted for the first time in Trichy district. He said that the species was found in mountains and it is not usual to find the bird in a place like Trichy which has a plain terrain. The ideal ecosystem in TBCT could be a factor in attracting such bird species to the conservatory, says forest officials. The lockdown has restricted movement of humans to significant extent and only forest staff were entering the conservatory for maintenance. This has helped in enriching the ecosystem of the conservatory. It is not the first time that such bird species are spotted in the conservatory. According to Trichy district forest officer, D Sujatha, some notable birds like orange headed thrush, Indian pitta, short toed snake eagle and booted eagle have been spotted at the conservatory in the past. The conservatory has recorded over 120 butterfly species and counting, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/black-naped-monarch-94th-bird-species-to-be-spotted-at-tbct/articleshow/79669489.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cocktail of pollution, Covid & fog poses lethal health risk||KOLKATA: A deadly combination of rising pollution levels, Covid-19 and a thick fog cover that has been engulfing the city over the last three days has posed a new health threat. It has led to a sudden spurt in respiratory illnesses, particularly among the elderly with a history of breathing distress, say doctors. Track the pollution level in your cityWith the air quality index (AQI) worsening progressively and the fog set to persist over the weekend, scores of Kolkatans have turned more vulnerable to Covid, they said. The health threat could remain till the pollution drops, which is unlikely before the winter ends. Fog causes aggravation of communicable and non-communicable cardio-respiratory ailments such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), heart diseases and pneumonia, pointed out Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “Pollutants are easily trapped in fog that hangs low at a respirable height. Breathing it in could be disastrous, especially if you have an existing airway disease. It can trigger an immediate breathing distress and worsen your asthma or COPD,” said Jain, adding that there has been a substantial rise in the number of lung ailment patients this week. Covid patients may suffer a relapse if they are exposed to the fog-laden polluted air, warned medics. “Covid survivors may have residual fibrosis in the lungs and are vulnerable to bacterial and other viral infections. Many would have breathed in the foul air and the fog over the last few days and a further spurt in respiratory illnesses could be imminent,” added Jain. The smog cover persisted for the third consecutive day on Thursday, with ambient air quality remaining ‘very poor’ (301-400). WBPCB officers said that the smog is a meteorological issue. On Thursday, the pollution level improved marginally with the wind flow resuming a bit. On Wednesday, the wind speed had dropped below 1km per hour, creating an absolute calm, allowing no dispersal of pollutants in the atmosphere. The smog, WBPCB scientists said, might be because of generation of secondary aerosols, which are introduced from north and north western regions. The aerosols are generated by chemical reactions of anthropogenic anions (from vehicular emission, thermal power stations, or open burning) with naturally occuring cations. The smog will disperse with the meteorological changes. The change has slowly started occurring. Since the proportion of PM2.5 is very high, the air is very toxic, warned WBPCB scientists. There has been a discernible rise in lung disease patients over the last three days, according to Fortis Hospital internal medicine consultant Joydeep Ghosh. “Many have had bouts of breathlessness and asthma attacks. Apart from fog, pollution is also responsible. Since the Covid virus can stick to polluting particles, this is a danger period for both Covid survivors and the elderly with co-morbidities,” said Ghosh. Morning walks should be avoided, especially by the elderly, advised doctors. “They can stick to freehand exercises at home. In case they venture out, woollens should be used and the head must be covered. The feet should remain dry and warm and grassy parks should be avoided since they tend to be wet and moist,” said Jain. The morning fog could persist for the next 2-3 days, said the Met office. “It forms when moisture gets trapped at the lower levels, forming a low cloud. Three major factors lead to its formation and all of them now exist. First, there is enough moisture in the air and the wind speed is low. Thirdly, there is a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cocktail-of-pollution-covid-fog-poses-lethal-health-risk/articleshow/79668086.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Molested & pushed from 3rd floor, girl fights for life, parents seek govt aide to save her||RAMPUR: Two days after she was pushed from the third floor of a building after an alleged failed rape attempt by a youth, a school girl, 15, continues to be in a critical condition with several fractures and internal bleeding in a Rampur hospital. Her parents, both manual labourers, meanwhile, continued to struggle outside to arrange money for her treatment. Whatever savings they had was spent on the CT scans of the girl. On Thursday, they met district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh and demanded monetary relief for the treatment from the Uttar Pradesh government. The DM, on his part, assured help to the family. “I have asked for a report on the medical treatment expenses. The entire medical treatment expenses will be given to the victim from the state exchequer.” Brother-in-law of the victim said, “The family managed to collect some money for the CT scan. The doctor has told us that she is suffering from multiple injuries. Today, we went to the DM office. He has assured help.” Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party’s state vice president Faisal Khan, along with the party workers, also met the DM and demanded the help for the victim. On Tuesday evening, the victim was allegedly thrown off the terrace of a building by a 21-year-old youth after a failed rape attempt. Police have arrested the accused and sent him to the jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/molested-pushed-from-3rd-floor-girl-fights-for-life-parents-seek-govt-aide-to-save-her/articleshow/79667128.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 11, 2020||Trichy||Regularize us if elected, guest lecturers tell DMK||Trichy: Guest lecturers working in government and university constituent arts and science colleges have urged the DMK to regularise them if the party comes to power in the state. They would support the party in the upcoming assembly elections if it gives such an assurance. Tamil Nadu Government Constituent College Guest Lecturers Association (TNGCCGLA) recently wrote a letter to the DMK’s poll manifesto panel seeking inclusion of their demands in its manifesto. There are roughly 8,000 guest lecturers working in 101 government arts and 41 constituent colleges under various universities in the state. Many of them have been working for over a decade in these colleges as ad hoc teachers for a consolidated pay of Rs 10,000-15,000 a month while those in the regular posts drew 10 times more. “Our primary demand is for a special recruitment drive though Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) for qualified guest lecturers while filling regular posts that are lying vacant in these colleges. We also seek preference in the recruitment of vacant teaching posts in these colleges,” said A Senthil Kumar, general secretary, TNGCCGLA. Some neighbouring states have been paying the UGC pay scale of Rs 57,200 per month to guest lecturers while Tamil Nadu has been evading it for years, he said while urging the DMK to ensure UGC pay scale on the principle of equal pay for equal work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/regularize-us-if-elected-guest-lecturers-tell-dmk/articleshow/79669488.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Karnal zila parishad member resigns||Karnal: Standing in solidarity with farmers, 25-year-old Kuljeet Kaur, a Karnal zila parishad member from Assandh block ward number 22, resigned from her post.  Kaur, who is also associated with the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), submitted her resignation to deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Thursday. She also announced that she will donate her entire allowance to the farmers’ movement. While interacting with media persons, Kuljeet said, “I belong to a farmers’ family and farmers are the backbone of our country. I stand with farmers. I resigned from my post against these laws. I, along with my family members, will go to the Delhi border to raise the voice for farmers on Friday. I am ready to quit the party if needed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-zila-parishad-member-resigns/articleshow/79669484.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||500 women apply for Haj trip sans male companion||NEW DELHI: Even as fear of Covid-19, stringent protocols and higher costs involved due to necessary safety arrangements, has so far kept away many prospective applicants from registering for Haj-2021, there are around 500 women without mehram (male companion) who figure on the list of 42,000 odd applicants who meet all the norms, reports Ambika Pandit. On Thursday, which was supposed to be the last day for submission of applications, Union minister for minority affairs, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said that applications for Haj 2021 (scheduled for June-July) can now be submitted till January 10. A tweak in policy two years back enabled for the first time Muslim women above 45 years of age to travel in groups of four or more without mehram for Haj. The number of Muslim women who travelled to Madina in this category was 1,340 in 2018 and 2,340 in 2019. Over the years the maximum applicants have been from Kerala and officials from the Haj Committee of India said this year too the maximum number of applications in the ‘without mehram’ category have been from Kerala so far. Besides these 500 new women applicants more than 2,100 women, who had applied in this category for Haj 2020 but could not go due to the pandemic-imposed travel restrictions, also have the option to travel next year based on their previous application. For Haj 2020, the Committee received nearly 2.15 lakh applications of which 1.40 lakh were approved. However, all approved applicants were reimbursed when it travel for Haj was put off due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/500-women-apply-for-haj-trip-sans-male-companion/articleshow/79671759.cms||Ambika Pandit
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Poacher with peacock carcass nabbed in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A poacher was nabbed on Thursday morning with the carcass of a peacock in Pilibhit tiger reserve’s Mala range on Thursday. The country’s national bird, the peacock is protected in schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act and its hunting and killing is prohibited. The poacher, identified as Prem Shankar of Raniganj village under Gajraula police station, was nabbed from the forest during routine patrolling, said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR. The poacher confessed that he had killed the peacock for meat, he said. The poacher was booked under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and sent to jail, Khandelwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/poacher-with-peacock-carcass-nabbed-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79667151.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Complete MBBS internships by May 31’||Ahmedabad: With disturbed internship training schedules of MBBS due to Covid-19 pandemic, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has on Wednesday issued instructions to medical colleges to reschedule the training for medical graduates and try to complete them by the end of May 2021. The commission has said that each medical institution should review the missed internship training for its own students and issue a revised training schedule so that their training is completed by May 31, 2021 or before. The rescheduling will depend on how much the internship has been affected during the lockdown periods. The institutions are also instructed to take into consideration while rescheduling the training programme that the departments, where interns are supposed to rotate, must ensure that the interns are able to acquire key clinical competencies as outlined in the Graduate Medical Education Regulations. The commission has said that the onus of ensuring that the interns have completed their training satisfactorily would lie with the medical colleges and the concerned universities. The colleges will have to ensure this before issuing internship certificates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/complete-mbbs-internships-by-may-31/articleshow/79669505.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU teachers object to online exam||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat University College Teachers Association on Thursday wrote a letter to the vice-chancellor objecting to the university offering the option of online exam to its students for semester tests as well. The association reminded the VC of the alleged irregularities that took place in the last online examination for the final year of graduation courses. The difference in marks between students who took exams online and those who appeared in-person was stark and those who took the test in person are now finding it difficult to secure admission to postgraduation courses. To avoid any injustice to students who take the pen-paper exam, the association has suggested that the university should offer uniform question papers in both modes of examination. The question numbers and options should not be uniform in question papers to avoid copying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-teachers-object-to-online-exam/articleshow/79669507.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ welfare possible only if we are part of government: Dushyant Chautala||CHANDIGARH: Fending off criticism for being part of the BJP government and not standing with the farmers in the ongoing protest, Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said on Thursday that the "welfare of farmers is possible only by having share in the ruling government". He also said if the central government is giving a written assurance on continuation of MSP, there is no need for farmers to prolong their agitation. "Chaudhary Devi Lal (former deputy prime minister) used to say ‘Kisaan ki baat sarkar tabhi sunti hai jab kisaan ki hissedari sarkar mein ho. Aaj kissan ki baat acche se sarkar mein rah kar hi rakh sakte hain’ (Government listens to the farmers only when they have share in the government. I think by being part of the ruling government, we can raise farmers related issues in a better way)," Dushyant said. On Centre’s draft proposal sent to farmers, he said, "If the Centre is ready to give in writingwhat is beneficial and relevant to the farmer, I think it is the victory of their struggle." He also asserted that he would remain part of the government as long as MSP for farmers’ crops continues and would quit if MSP is discontinued. The deputy CM made this statement following a query about his criticism by opposition for supporting the BJP government despite such a strong protest by farmers in the country. Dushyant also claimed that farmers of Punjab are being harassed by the government because of mismanagement and non-availability of seed and fertilizers at the time of sowing. Chautala made these statements after attending an informal meeting of the state cabinet held at his Chandigarh residence on Thursday. When asked about various statements made by his party MLAs in favour of farmers, Dushyant said that he is also part of farming community and has been giving suggestions to the central government on the issue. He also claimed that the Haryana government has deployed around 1,000 employees, including medical staff, people from Red Cross and sanitation workers, to ensure the farmers do not face inconvenience at the protest site. He also claimed that never in the history of the state had such a large quantity of Bajra crop been procured like it was done this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-welfare-possible-only-if-we-are-part-of-govt-dushyant/articleshow/79669490.cms||Ajay Sura
December 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Two accused in bogus billing case sent to 14-day judicial custody||LUDHIANA: On Wednesday, two accused in the Rs 158.10 crore bogus billing scam were sent to 14-day judicial custody till December 23 after the Central GST (CGST) commissionerate, Ludhiana, had arrested them and produced them in a Ludhiana court. In another development in this case, the hearing on the bail application of one of the other accused was adjourned till December 14. The CGST department has confirmed these developments. Giving insight into the entire case Ashutosh Baranwal, principal commissioner, CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, said, “Two more arrests have been made in the ongoing investigation into the Rs 158.10 crore bogus billing case, one of Tarun Kumar Vidyarthi, who created fake identities of partners Rajesh Kumar, alias Ajay Gupta, (already arrested), and second of Shreya Agarwal, who is partner in all three firms under investigation. Tarun turned out to be one of the key executors in the case of fraudulent availing of input tax credit by the three firms involved in bogus billing. Search was conducted at Tarun’s residence in Amroha, UP, along with Meerut CGST Officials and he was nabbed from Meerut after tedious efforts. Documentary evidences such as Aadhar card proofs were tampered with by the accused to mislead the department.” Baranwal added that, “During the search conducted at Tarun Kumar’s house at Amroha, Uttar Pradesh, one woman, was also found present there residing with Tarun, who turned out to be Shreya Agarwal, partner in all three firms under investigation. She has submitted in her recorded statement that other than Rakesh Arora, who was the kingpin behind this fake invoices racket, it was Tarun who operated from behind the scenes and created fake identities for opening new GST firms.  He further said, “Shreya also stated that on the directions of the kingpin, Tarun brought her to Ludhiana for opening of bank accounts in the name of three firms as she was made a partner in all of these. After sustained questioning, both of them accepted their roles on the basis of documentary evidences collected and shown to them.” “In all these firms under investigation, the accused and the co-accused issued fake invoices worth Rs 158.10 crore and the total fraudulent availing of input tax credit involved amount of Rs 21.59 crore and monetisation of Rs 5.02 crore. With the new arrests, total arrests made in this case have risen to six. All persons associated in the generation of fake invoices, passing of fraudulent ITC, monetisation of input tax credit have been arrested, breaking the entire chain,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-accused-in-bogus-billing-case-sent-to-14-day-judicial-custody/articleshow/79668146.cms||Mohit Behl
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Poppy husk worth Rs 1 crore seized in Budaun, two arrested||BAREILLY: Police claimed to have arrested two smugglers with 12 quintals of poppy husk — worth around Rs 1 crore — which they were smuggling in a tractor-trolley in Civil Lines area of Budaun district on Wednesday midnight. Police booked four accused in this connection, two of them are still absconding. Acting on a tip-off that a few people were smuggling narcotics substance in sacks containing fodder in a tractor-trolley, a joint team of the special operation group (SOG) and Civil Lines police intercepted the tractor. As soon as the police team signalled the driver to stop the vehicle, two accused fled in a nearby cane field while police nabbed two others and seized the poppy husk. SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “We have arrested Dharmendra Singh and Mohit Patel with a huge consignment of poppy husk worth Rs 1 crore, while two other accused Rajeev Patel and Lateef are still absconding. Police are searching for them. The accused hail from Budaun district. We have booked them under the NDPS Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/poppy-husk-worth-rs-1-crore-seized-in-budaun-two-arrested/articleshow/79667158.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Cop tips to drive through fog||Kolkata: Two fatal accidents in as many days amidst blinding fog have led traffic police to mull issuing an advisory for motorists, cautioning them to undertake certain precautions while driving when visibility is poor. The death of Bijoy Mondal, a bicyclist, near Bhojerhat at Kolkata leather Complex area on Tuesday was directly linked to fog (it took place at 5am when an unidentified vehicle hit him). However, police are still not clear whether the accident in which a motorcyclist died on Taratala Road on Wednesday morning was triggered by fog. “The second accident took place after 9am. The fog cover should have lifted by then. Locals though claimed that fog lasted longer in the suburbs,” said an investigating officer. According to cops, no undue risks from the motorists is the need of the hour. The Beliaghata traffic guard, which covers a long stretch of EM Bypass and has the accident-prone Captain Bhery stretch under it, has already taken a few steps to stop accidents. “We have replaced all old road signs with reflectors. We have put reflectors on our guard rails and are blocking a portion of the left flank,” said a senior officer. In the list of dos, police have urged the motorist to update themselves with weather forecast information before they setting out. “If there is a fog warning, delay the trip,” a cop stated. “Make sure the full lighting system of your vehicle is turned on. Use your low-beam headlights. If you have fog lights on your vehicle, use them in addition to your low-beans,” said the officer from the Garia traffic guard. The traffic advisory is also likely to urge people to exhibit patience and avoid changing lanes and defying traffic signals. Moreover, the advisory will direct the motorists to make use of pavement markings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-tips-to-drive-through-fog/articleshow/79668141.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||141 held sans masks||Ahmedabad: The solid waste department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Thursday caught a total of 141 people for allegedly not wearing masks. The civic body made 56 of them undergo Covid-19 rapid antigen tests. Of those tested, only one person was found Covid-19 positive and referred to the health department for further action. The Covid-19 positive person was from the south west zone of the city. The AMC officials said that for flouting mask norms, maximum 33 people were caught from Naranpura, Navrangpura, Uamanpura and Paldi areas of the west zone of the city followed by 28 from the south zone of the city including Behrampura, Maninagar and Danilimmda among other areas. “Once the news of social service at Covid centre had its impact on people. However, people are taking the mask norms very lightly these days. They tend to abuse the AMC officials, when they are caught without wearing masks,” said an AMC official. “We don’t allow drivers to get out of their four-wheelers without wearing masks. If they are found without masks, they are fined,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/141-held-sans-masks/articleshow/79669511.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Poor visibility casualty: 50 flights delayed, two diverted in Kolkata||KOLKATA: At least 50 incoming and outgoing flights were delayed by up to five hours and two flights had to be diverted in the season’s biggest fog disruption at Kolkata airport on Thursday. Flight operations came to a complete halt from 5am to 9.30am. Weathermen have forecast fog on Friday morning as well. If the fog is as dense, disruptions will be far greater as Friday has 50 more flights. The situation would have been as crippling on Wednesday had the visibility over the runway remained as poor as Thursday. On Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, flights from six high-traffic cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur — are allowed to operate to Kolkata. Hence, the flight count on these three days is higher than the other four days. “On Thursday, no flights could operate early in the morning. It was only after 9.30am that operations could be resumed. Meanwhile, 14 incoming flights were held up. So were 36 outgoing flights. Two flights were diverted,” said a senior airport official. Visibility began declining from 1am and plummetted to below 50m by 3am. It stayed that way for the next several hours before the situation began improving and cleared the 1,000m mark around 10am. Indigo, which had 64 flights operating in and out of the airport on Tuesday, was the worst-hit with around 17 delayed departures. Flights of Air India, SpiceJet and GoAir reported delays as well. On Wednesday, operations were not disrupted as the readings from the runway visual range (RVR) were higher than the general visibility reading provided by the Met. On Thursday though, even the RVR dropped to below limits that permit flight operations. An airport official said the fog was so intense that nothing could be seen even 5m away. Buoyed by multiple queries from harried passengers, IndiGo came up with a clarification on their Twitter handle at 8.40am about the current situation of the airport that was holding up flights much longer than usual. “Flights to and from Kolkata might get impacted due to prevailing bad weather conditions,” the airline tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/poor-visibility-casualty-50-flights-delayed-two-diverted/articleshow/79668173.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD warns Centre against ‘reckless, repressive steps’||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday urged the central government not to take any reckless or repressive steps that might deepen the emotional wounds in farmers’ minds and weaken the peace and communal harmony in the country. “Do nothing that weakens national unity or disturbs peace and communal harmony for which Punjabis, specially the SAD, have made supreme sacrifices,” said a resolution of the SAD core committee that met on Thursday. The meeting was presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to Sukhbir, said the SAD will observe the party’s centenary as “Sangharsh Samarpan Divas” for the welfare of all, with focus on farmers’ interests and justice for them. Asking the government not to be stubborn or stand on prestige against the ‘annadata’ of the country, the SAD resolution asked, “If the government is willing to change every clause of the old Acts, then why is it standing on prestige to revoke them? After all, if you are conceding all demands of the farmers, why not put it all in the new Act and end the debate once and for all?” The core committee strongly condemned the deep rooted conspiracy to paint farmers’ movement in communal and separatist colours. “The sons of a large number of the agitators are right now defending the borders of the country against China and Pakistan. The resolution expressed deep concern and anxiety over “ominous signs of a deep conspiracy to divide Hindus and Sikhs and farmers and traders.” It said that it fully backed farmers’ demands with regard to the three Acts and that the totally peaceful and democratic nature of the movement had proved that farmers were fully alive to their responsibility towards the country. The committee also condemned Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for allegedly weakening farmers’ movement in secret alliance with the central government by holding secret meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-warns-centre-against-reckless-repressive-steps/articleshow/79669491.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Complaint filed in court to book Kangana for hurting religious sentiments||PATIALA: A local lawyer has filed an application before the Fatehgarh Sahib chief judicial magistrate (CJM) appealing to register a case against Bollywood actress Kangna Ranaut for hurting the religious sentiments of Sikhs. Lawyer A S Dharni has appealed to the court under sections 156 (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to direct the police to book Kangana at the Bassi Pathana police station of Fatehgarh Sahib under sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), 505 (statements conducive to public mischief) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 of the Information Technology (IT) Act. In his complaint, Dharni alleged that Kangana had intentionally and maliciously hurt his feelings and religious beliefs by words written and spoken widely published through social media on the social media site. “I had filed a complaint with the Fatehgarh Sahib CJM to book Kangana, who described a baptised Sikh woman as a Muslim jihadi and said she was available for Rs 100 for protests. She compared a baptised Sikh woman with Shaheen Bagh protester Bilkis Bano, challenging the Sikh and Punjabi identity of Mahinder,” said Dharni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/complaint-filed-in-court-to-book-kangana-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/79669492.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||No mask: Couple fights with cops in Ahmedabad, three booked||AHMEDABAD: Chandkheda police on Wednesday booked three persons including a woman for arguing with and engaging in a scuffle with police near a mall in Chandkheda. The woman, Sampa Shah of Chandkheda was not wearing a mask, or helmet, and when police asked her to pay the fines she called her husband Mukesh Shah, who arrived in a car, and tried to intimidate the cops. Mukesh said he was well-connected. He also began to shoot a video clip of the cops. “Meanwhile, one Manu Patel, also from Chandkheda joined them and said the cops were wrongfully harassing people. Patel said he will frame the cops with ACB, and then all three got into a scuffle with police personnel, causing the cops minor injuries. All three were brought to the police station with their vehicles and booked under Sections 332, 186, 188 and 114 of the IPC,” said a Chandkheda police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-mask-couple-fights-with-cops-three-booked/articleshow/79669522.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Volvo bus services to Chandigarh resumes||GURGAON: After being shut for nearly two weeks due to the farmer protests, Volvo bus services from Gurgaon to Chandigarh resumed from Thursday afternoon. The route, however, has been modified and the buses will now go via the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway. The development came a day after the state government gave a green signal to the movement of buses to and from Chandigarh. Only six buses left from the city bus stand for Chandigarh, while the rush of passengers was limited. “Earlier, the roadways department was not ready to pay toll taxes on KMP, but in view of the long-running of the protest and the problems being faced by the passengers, it was decided to resume the services. As of now, there is no increase in the fare,” an official from the department said. He added that the count of passengers is expected to rise in the coming days. Many people had inquired earlier regarding the bus services to Chandigarh. Meanwhile, the bus drivers said that social distancing norms were being followed and it was being ensured that the passengers wore masks and their hands were sanitised before they boarded the vehicle. “There was no rush at bus stands during the afternoon, but many people expressed relief at the resumption of the services,” said Sandeep Singh, a conductor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/volvo-bus-services-to-chandigarh-resumes/articleshow/79669501.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur DM orders probe after ‘bribe’ video goes viral||Rampur: A probe has been ordered by Rampur district magistrate (DM) Aunjaneya Kumar Singh on Thursday after a purported video clip showing contractual staff of a district hospital demanding "bribe" from government teachers to obtain their medical fitness certificate went viral. Chief medical officer Subodh Sharma has terminated two contractual staff of the district hospital. The Rampur DM told TOI, "We have a zero tolerance against corruption. A probe has been initiated by chief development officer Ghazal Bhardwaj and the city magistrate. We are waiting for the report. Action will be taken as per the law once the results are out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-dm-orders-probe-after-bribe-video-goes-viral/articleshow/79667164.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 11, 2020||Rajkot||Lions at a kissing distance of Rajkot city; three spotted close to Aji Dam||RAJKOT: While taking a stroll near the picturesque Aji Dam, one of the favourite recreational spots in Rajkot, there are chances that visitors may even spot lions! ‘Gujarat’s Pride’ has moved so close to the urban area that lions are seen barely 10 km from Saurashtra’s commercial capital. A lioness and two sub-adults (aged between two and three years) have been sauntering in Tramba, which is a stone’s throw from the city. The trio is moving around in Sardhar, Padasan, Kathrota, Halenda and other villages adjoining the city for the last 10 days. Forest officials believe that the lions are exploring new locations and don’t rule out chances of the felines making this area their permanent home. At the same time the forest department has no plan to take them back in Amreli or Junagadh district as demanded by cabinet minister and Jetpur MLA Jayesh Radadiya. Earlier, the same pride was spotted in villages of Jetpur, Gondal, Jasdan and Vinchhiya talukas of the district and finally on the city’s outskirts in the last 10 days. Villagers have also reported hunting of animals in their vicinity. Incidents of at least 20 preyings have been reported to the department. However, officials say the villagers have not taken any objection and are learning to live peacefully with the lions. Chief conservator of forest, Junagadh, S K Srivastava said, “There has been a lot of movement by this pride in the revenue (non-protected) area for a month now. It’s a natural dispersal and they may find new areas and corridors.” Srivastav categorically denied any plan to shift these lions to Amreli or Junagadh forest. ““They have come as part of their natural movement,” he said. Trackers and forest department staff are keeping a close watch on the movement of these lions. Simultaneously, they are also educating people about lion behaviour so as to avoid human-animal conflict in the future. The villagers have also been convinced that they will be compensated for the loss of livestock as per the prevailing policy. Bhushan Pandya, a member of state board for wildlife said, “The protected areas can’t be fenced and wild animals are bound to roam in revenue areas. It’s helpful for farmers also in the long run because they are facing crop damage by nilgai and wild boars.” Villagers have been asked not to gather in big numbers if they spot the lions preying, lest it attacks them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-at-a-kissing-distance-of-rajkot-city-three-spotted-close-to-aji-dam/articleshow/79667174.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, baby die at illegal maternity centre; doctor, staff flee||PILIBHIT: A police from two stations had to be rushed to a maternity centre in Pilibhit city after family members and villagers of Piparia Aagru village created a ruckus following the death of a resident Jamuna Devi (28), and her newborn hours after delivery. They alleged that the doctor and staff had botched up the case. Maternity home owner, Dr Saumaya, and her medical staff fled from the hospital. Preliminary probe revealed that the maternity home was not registered with the district health department. Pilibhit city circle officer Virendra Vikram and city magistrate Arun Kumar Singh along with a force from two police stations had to rush to the maternity centre on Wednesday evening to control the protesters. Rajendra Kumar, the deceased’s husband, said he had shifted his wife to t Neuria community health centre on Wednesday morning when she went into labour. The medical staff there advised him to take her to the private maternity icentre n Pilibhit city. Village Asha worker Rakeshwati also recommended the same maternity centre. Soon after delivery of the newborn girl at noon, Dr Saumya advised Kumar to shift the baby to another private hospital as she was critical. But the newborn did not survive. His wife also breathed her last at 7pm, he added. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said police were yet to receive a complaint from the deceased’s family or the health department. Dr CM Chaturvedi, additional chief medical officer, said chief medical officer, Dr Seema Agarwal, was out of station and after she joins on Friday, an inquiry would be set up and a decision on an FIR against the maternity centre would be based on its findings. The Asha worker concerned would also be brought under the ambit of inquiry, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-baby-die-at-illegal-maternity-centre-doc-staff-flee/articleshow/79667212.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC to close for three days for sanitization of campus||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high has decided to close its campus completely and suspend judicial and administrative functioning for three days so that sanitization can be carried out, owing to the Covid-19 situation.The HC will remain shut from Saturday to Monday and its judicial functioning will resume on Tuesday. This is the fourth time the high court has closed completely, the HC said in a circular.Last week, a sitting judge, Justice G R Udhwani, died of complications due to Covid-19. He was among three judges who were infected by the coronavirus after the Diwali vacation. A couple of top HC officials are still in isolation after testing positive for Covid. The high court has been conducting its judicial functioning only through video conferencing since the last week of March. On the last occasion the campus had shut, in October, the HC decided to resume physical functioning and began testing on the campus. The high prevalence rate of the disease led to postponement of the opening of courtrooms. Last month, a communiqué from the chief justice said the court administration would review the situation on December 20 to decide on whether to open courtrooms from January 4. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) will carry out a thorough and comprehensive cleaning and sanitizing of the entire premises of the high court, the judicial academy, auditorium, Kayda Bhavan building, bank and post office etc. The high court told the home department to instruct security staff deployed at the campus to restrict their movements to only one place during the sanitization process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-to-close-for-three-days-for-sanitization-of-campus/articleshow/79669504.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Registrations can start in CARD mode, says HC||HYDERABAD: The high court on Thursday said all sub-registrar offices, which had suspended registration of non-agriculture properties in the wake of the state government’s move to launch Dharani portal, can resume registration from Friday through computer-aided administration of registration department (CARD) mode. Later in the day, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao tweeted that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the chief secretary to begin registration of non-agriculture properties from Friday. TOI was first to report on Thursday that government would revert to old system for property registrationsA bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy allowed the state to insist on people wishing to go for property registrations at sub-registrar offices to take time slots in advance through CARD mode and also on furnishing property tax identification numbers (PTIN). “If you do not have this number, the state will give you within two days,” the bench said, recording the assurance of advocate general B S Prasad. The bench was hearing pleas by advocates Gopal Sharma, K Saaketh and others who raised several concerns over Dharani portal and the suspension of registration of non-agriculture properties. They also questioned the compulsions created under Dharani for people to necessarily upload their property details on to the website along with details of their personal data such as family members, caste, Aadhaar number etc. The bench had earlier stayed all Dharani activities. The state was under the impression that even registrations in the old mode too were stayed. The bench said the state was free to conduct registrations in the old mode under CARD method. It allowed the state to insist on slot booking and PTIN particulars. “In fact, slot booking is good for people because it tells them when to go to the sub-registrar office,” the bench said, while making it clear that such registrations could be conducted outside Dharani mode. The bench said it would hear the objections of the petitioners on the GOs issued by the state, facilitating the emergence of a digital era in maintaining property records through Dharani portal. The bench gave time to the state to file counters on this till December 14 and posted the case to December 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-registrations-can-start-in-card-mode/articleshow/79670836.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Allen Park Christmas celebrations: No food stall, street music this year||KOLKATA: Christmas celebrations on Park Street will start from December 21 at Allen Park, but this year the food, fun and frolic will be largely missing as a slew of safety measures are being brought in by the state tourism department, the organizer of the event. The department has planned cultural events with the Roman Catholic Church and the CNI. However, food stalls on the sidewalks of Park Street from Asiatic Society till the Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road crossing and performances by street musicians will not be permitted this time. The crib with the nativity scene showing the birth of Jesus in the manger, will not be placed at Allen Park like other years. It will be brought out of the park and placed near the Christmas tree. “Allen Park will be treated like a pandal and the same rules will apply. Since it is an open space, 150 people will be allowed to attend at a time,” said a state tourism department official. In the previous years, selfie zones would see huge crowds. But this year, there will be none. The celebrations will start with chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Archbishop Thomas D Souza in attendance on December 21. Anglo-Indian MLA Shane Calvert has been requested to be the master of ceremonies. The special lighting arrangement on Park Street will be up till January 6. “As very few people can attend this time, the entire programme from December 21-30 will also be streamed live on social media,” said the official. The park will be closed on December 24 and 25. There will be choirs from different churches in English, Bengali and Hindi. Popular performers like Shane Hyrapiet, Christopher Lobo and Rodney Rodrigues will be seen on different days of the celebrations along with bands like Blue Mist, Urban Monkz, Grooverz, Hereafter, etc. The police band has also been invited to perform on December 26. This is the first time that a Nepali church choir, coordinated by Assembly of God Church, will perform. The church choir performances will be coordinated by Dominic Gomes, vicar general of the archdiocese of Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/allen-park-christmas-celebrations-no-food-stall-street-music-this-year/articleshow/79668250.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 11, 2020||Agra||44 more Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 9,754||AGRA: At least 44 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 9,754. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC). Besides, there were five patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection and two of coronary artery infection. A total of nine persons tested positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Also, 53 Covid patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 9,754 cases reported, 93.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases increased to 432. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.5%. So far, 9,111 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/44-more-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9754/articleshow/79666474.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Coimbatore||3 corpn school students to represent state in Kala Utsav||Coimbatore: Three corporation school students from the city would represent the state at the annual Kala Utsav organized by the education ministry. They will participate in vocal folk music, folk instrumental music and 3D visual art.Because of the Covid-19 situation, this year’s national-level event would be conducted online in the second and third week of January. In the state-level competition, which was conducted online from December 8 to 15, the three - S Dhanushya, Class XII student of RC Girls’ Higher Secondary School at Ondipudur; D Yashwanthm, another Class XII student of R K Srirangammal Higher Secondary School; and S Krithika, Class XI student of Kinathukidavu Government Higher Secondary School – had won first prize in their respective categories.While Dhanushya topped the folk instrumental music competition with her stellar performance in playing parai, one of the oldest drums in India, Krithika bagged the first place in 3D visual art with a sand sculpture on the traditional “mayilattam”. Dushyanth, meanwhile, won the first prize in traditional folk song.The students are excited at the prospect of competing at the national level. They are equally disappointed, as they can’t travel to New Delhi, where the national-level competitions are usually held.Krithika says, “I have travelled to districts such as Salem and Thanjavur. After such travels, I would tell my mother and sister all about the places, how they look, food we get there and where we stayed, as they don’t get to travel outside the city at all. While I won’t get to travel to Delhi, I am excited to travel to Chennai, from where we will participate in the online competition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-corpn-school-students-to-represent-state-in-kala-utsav/articleshow/79786260.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||City, state docs to join strike||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday announced that they will be part of the nationwide strike of the IMA on Friday. IMA member doctors will refrain from work from 6am to 6pm except for the emergency services and Covid-19 duties. Ahmedabad Medical Association has also said it will join it. IMA Gujarat president Dr Devendra Patel said that about 30,000 doctors were part of the IMA Gujarat and 10,000 of them were from Ahmedabad. “A majority of doctors have extended their support to the movement. We will, however, ensure that no patient of Covid-19 or person needing emergency treatment suffers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-state-docs-to-join-strike/articleshow/79669655.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Undeterred by Cov, Tejaswini takes e-way; next edition to go national||Kolkata: Tejaswini, the pet project of Kolkata Police for women empowerment, is set to go national. The pandemic-year version of Tejaswini — that was conducted virtually for the first time since its inception — concluded on Tuesday after five days. On Wednesday, Lalbazar announced that it intends to enrol more and more women enthusiasts from other states as well.“We had two women from Tripura and Maharashtra participating this year since it was a virtual event. We had more than 2,000 applications for the 300 seats up for grabs this year. We expect more participants from across the country next time,” said an officer at Lalbazar.Tejaswini — started in May 2018 — in its present avatar includes a host of training meant for girls and women aged 12 to 40 years. Self-defence is the most significant segment of the training. It includes four other crucial segments — managing social media and its challenges, dealing with cybercrimes, women empowerment and healthy food habits. “The virtual training this time was organized between December 5 and December 9. The final keynote address was delivered by Joint CP (organization) Neeloo Sherpa.Kolkata Police Sergeants’ Institute — one of the main organizers of Tejaswin — plans to launch an academy to provide regular self-defence training. According to KPSI sources, the three-hour training slots will be restricted to weekends to allow students and working women to participate and will be scheduled to avoid any overlap with the other two KPSI programmes — cricket and basketball. “These are big plans that we want to work on once the pandemic ends,” an officer said.“We shall try to organize both virtual and practical classes once the pandemic is over,” said an officer.“Countless women have found out the hard way that sexual harassment have become rampant on buses, trains, roads, at workplaces, or even in their own homes. It is practically impossible for any law enforcement agency to deal with these incidents individually. Therefore, it is best to teach women how to deal with a molester, without having to depend on anyone for help,” said one of the participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/undeterred-by-cov-tejaswini-takes-e-way-next-edition-to-go-national/articleshow/79668259.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||AAP opens Mohalla Clinic in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Looking to set up a base in Gujarat ahead of the local body polls next year and the assembly elections in two years, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) set up its first Mohalla Clinic in Ahmedabad amid the pandemic. AAP will make available free medical tests and provide free medicines and treatment to people even as it tweeted a picture of opening of the first mohalla clinic, saying, “Historic day for Ahmedabad today. Delhi’s health revolution has inspired doctors and social workers in Gujarat to open #MohallaCliicGujarat.” The party also tweeted, “Yes, it is possible with Aam Aadmi Party in Gujarat. ‘Ek Mauka AAP Ko, Fir Dekho Gujarat Ko’ (Give a chance to AAP, and then see the results).” AAP MLA Gulab Singh Matiala, who is also co-incharge of the party’s Gujarat unit, formally inaugurated the ‘mohalla clinic’. “It is a wel know fact how helpful mohalla clinics can be for the people. Our volunteers have done a commendable job by beginning the mohalla clinic concept in Ahmedabad,” Matiala said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aap-opens-mohalla-clinic/articleshow/79669545.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||Sharad Pawar to head UPA? Congress, NCP deny reports||NEW DELHI: Congress and NCP denied reports that senior leader Sharad Pawar was likely to replace Sonia Gandhi as the chairperson of the opposition alliance UPA, with the former calling it a ploy to divide the opposition in the wake of the agitation by farmers against the new agriculture laws. Congress general secretary Tariq Anwar said, “There is no truth in it. It is an attempt to sow confusion and divide the opposition.” Top NCP sources said there was no truth in the reports. Read AlsoCongress is weak, opposition needs to come together, strengthen UPA: Sanjay RautMUMBAI: Asserting that the Congress, which leads the UPA, has become weak now, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday suggested the opposition needs to come together and strengthen the alliance. "We will be happy if (Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad) Pawar sir becomes the UPA chairman. But IThe flurry of denials came after days of commentary that Pawar should lead the Congress. It started with newspaper columns which stated Pawar should merge with Congress and become the party chief of the united entity. On Thursday, the story moved further when a TV channel reported about Pawar heading the UPA which then spread to other media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharad-pawar-to-head-upa-congress-ncp-deny-reports/articleshow/79671778.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Lake cleaned up, but low oxygen in water a worry||Kolkata: As Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar returned to their pre-Covid-19 timings on Thursday, green activists — during a cleanup drive at the former — raised an alarm over the water body’s depleting oxygen level.Both the lungs of south and east Kolkata were opened for the full duration — 5.30am to 6pm — from Thursday with a rider that visitors wore masks and followed physical distancing norms.Keeping the gates open throughout the day would also call for intensified vigil from KMDA, their custodian, felt morning walkers and green activists. Both Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar were saved from the annual onslaught of Chhat rituals last month, thanks to the intervention of National Green Tribunal (NGT), Calcutta High Court and the Supreme Court. But morning walkers’ beloved Lake is hardly immune to continuous biodegradation. Over the past few days, dead fishes have been found floating in the 73-acre water body, due to low dissolved oxygen, which normally drops in the absence of strong sunlight. Morning walkers have also been complaining of garbage and plastic waste being strewn across the premises and the water.On Thursday, green activists from Saviours And Friend of Environment (SAFE), Sarobar Eco Lovers Forum (SELF), Cycle Network Grow (CNG), Earth Day Network and Bhawanipore Bike Club, joined hands for a two-day clean-up drive to clean the oily layer on the water that’s causing depletion of the dissolved oxygen. Garbage and plastic waste were picked up for disposal by KMDA, which supported the exercise with man power, boats and equipment.“A sustained approach is needed so the National Lake Conservation Plan goals, under which Rabindra Sarobar was included by the Centre, can be achieved,” green activist SM Ghosh said. The environmentalists are planning a similar drive for Subhas Sarobar at Kadapara off EM Bypass, fearing similar biodegradation there. Both spaces were ravaged by Cyclone Amphan.On Thursday, testing the Rabindra Sarobar waters, environmentalists found a 40% depletion of oxygen. In some pockets, more than 60% depletion was recorded. “Various sources contribute to the high alkalinity and biological oxygen demand (BOD) of the Lake’s water. It’s worse now because of the poor AQI,” said Sumita Banerjee, one of the petitioners at the NGT for protection of Rabindra Sarobar’s biodiversity.Sudipto Bhattacharjee, secretary, SELF, said, “Both the BOD and dissolved oxygen levels have become poor, affecting aquatic flora and fauna.” The plastic dumped in the lake seemed to have prevented the diffusion of oxygen into the water from the atmosphere. Garbage and dead leaves and trunks of trees have also reduced the oxygen in the water.A lot of oily substance came out of the water along with algal deposits. Fishes and other aquatic beings need the dissolved oxygen to survive. Any imbalance in the dissolved oxygen becomes fatal for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-cleaned-up-but-low-oxygen-in-water-a-worry/articleshow/79668283.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat businesses unable to run Facebook ads due to ‘error’?||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad-based entrepreneur, Shivangi Lahoty, was about to launch a design learning platform a month ago. To promote it, she tried to run ads through Facebook, but was unable to do so, eventually causing the account to get restricted. “The Facebook ad manager account that I operate is restricted, due to which I was compelled to defer the launch. I cannot open another account because I will lose the followers and reach I have on my page and could not even promote it well,” said Shivangi. A similar issue was faced by yet another Ahmedabad-based fashion and lifestyle startup. Neha Sheth, founder of the startup, said, “Our company forayed into the e-commerce segment a little more than two months ago and tried to run ads. Facebook disabled our main account which operates our company’s pages. We appealed and submitted the company’s documents. However, they concluded the account is of a four-year old minor (individual) as opposed to a four-year-old company. The account is still disabled.” “We understand such issues take place on a large platform which is technology-driven but the least we expect as customers is that there is a redressal system in place. We haven’t yet heard from Facebook despite a slew of representations from our company. Due to this, we’re losing business by the day,” said Sheth, whose firm has spent lakhs in the past four years for Facebook ads. In response to TOI’s email query regarding such issues and proposed resolution by Facebook, the company’s PR team responded on its behalf, saying, Facebook would first like “to understand the specific issues the businesses are facing,” and “investigate the situation and look into it themselves.” The email further added, “a thorough and independent investigation into the matter is the only way that will enable them (Facebook) to construct a comprehensive response.” Digital marketing experts claim that such issues are commonly faced by many small businesses in the city. Explaining the issue, Hetal Shah, a digital marketer, said, “These issues are commonly seen amongst at least four of my clients. From what I gather, the Artificial Intelligence-backed operations of the social media platform could restrict businesses from placing ads for several reasons. There have been reports of such issues being faced by companies abroad as well.” “For a small business, Facebook is providing a service of sorts and therefore, users may expect a redressal system in place. This way, businesses which are solely or largely dependent on it will end up losing business,” Shah added. Issue genuine but no law to protect users? According to consumer and legal experts, the issues faced by small businesses, even though genuine, may not come under the ambit of the consumer protection act. Uday Mawani, CEO, Consumer Education and Research Centre (CERC), said, “In the cases in point, these are businesses and not an individual seeking services from Facebook and therefore, will not get protection under the Consumer Protection Act. However, if an individual is running a proprietary business to support his livelihood, employing one or two people, an attempt could be made to have consumer court consider a grievance.” “The issue however, is certainly a genuine concern and does underline the requirement of stronger laws to protect businesses in case of such B2B transactions,” Mawani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-businesses-unable-to-run-fb-ads-due-to-error/articleshow/79669604.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: CRZ violating hotelier petitions all courts, but law catches up||PANAJI: The legal system finally seems to have caught up with the violator of CRZ laws in Candolim, who after being issued demolition orders for the illegal structures, left no stone unturned in a bid to get the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority’s (GCZMA) order squashed. The violator knocked on the doors of the high court, National Green Tribunal (NGT) and then the Supreme Court, both of whom eventually refused to intervene in the matter. GCZMA has now given the hotel owner a month’s ultimatum to demolish the illegal portions or cough up Rs 10 lakh costs, which will be incurred if the state machinery has to carry out the job post the deadline. The hotel owner fought the demolition orders for nearly two years, where GCZMA had asked to pull down ‘the pergola, compound wall, metallic staircase as well as the internal changes in the structure’ violating norms. The first show cause was issued to the hotel in October 2018, this was followed with a demolition order in May last year. But the hotel owner approached the high court, which directed GCZMA to carry out its proceedings afresh ‘in accordance with principles of natural justice’. The GCZMA review confirmed the violation yet again. But the hotel owner approached the high court a second time. This led to the violator submitting an affidavit before the high court in December 2019 that it would carry out the demolition within 30 days. However, the violator then appealed before NGT. But the tribunal called it defrauding of the high court proceedings and slapped the violating hotel owner with a fine of Rs 1 lakh. “It is mischief and fraudulent act on the part of the appellant. It may be taken as filing a false affidavit before the court or defrauding the proceedings of the court. It is called forum hunting and it is intended to continue till the appellant does not achieve a desired goal. The platform of the tribunal or the courts cannot be made a platform to compel the opposite party to pass the desired order,” NGT ruled in August this year. But the hotel owner was not to be deterred and filed a review before NGT, which was dismissed. The hotelier also approaching the Supreme. “We do not find any reason to interfere with the impugned orders passed by the NGT,” the apex court ruled earlier this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crz-violating-hotelier-petitions-all-courts-but-law-catches-up/articleshow/79669603.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Agra||Woman who tried to sell newborn, will get ration card, baby nutritional aid||AGRA: Days after a 30-year-old Dalit woman tried to sell her 45-day-old baby, the district administration has swung into action and announced that she will be issued a ration card. In addition, her malnourished baby will be provided with nutritional aid under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi on Thursday said, “The woman will soon be provided with a ration card. The child will be covered under the ICDS scheme and required nutritional aid will be provided for his healthy growth. The brother-in-law of the woman has agreed to take care of the baby after its discharge from hospital.” The baby was hospitalized as he was suffering from diarrhea and vomiting for a one week. On Wednesday, the woman, a resident of Gopalpura, had told TOI that she had tried to sell her newborn son for Rs 10,000 due to financial and health issues. Her family of four was not covered under any government scheme, be it PDS or Ayushman Bharat. She had no support from the local anganwadi centre nor was her child covered under the Integrated Child Development Service (ICDS). She further said her husband had lost his job during the Covid-induced lockdown and she herself suffered from recurring health issues, pushing the family to the brink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-who-tried-to-sell-newborn-will-get-ration-card-baby-nutritional-aid/articleshow/79666493.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 11, 2020||Goa||Poll panel ignoring BJP’s election code violations: Cong, GFP||Panaji: Congress and Goa Forward Party (GFP) accused the State Election Commission (SEC) of turning “a blind eye to poll code violations by the BJP”. The two parties also slammed chief minister Pramod Sawant and the BJP for violating the code of conduct. While Congress accused the BJP of distributing money using police protection, pictures of the chief minister campaigning and holding corner meetings gave the GFP a chance to question the state election commissioner’s silence. “The Goa State Election Commission has become an agent of the BJP in the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday night was seen campaigning at Nadora in Tivim constituency for zilla panchayat (ZP) polls despite a ban imposed on campaigning, and SEC has kept quiet,” said GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat. Meanwhile, GFP president Vijai Sardesai has called on all the opposition parties to join hands to defeat the BJP in the ZP elections. Sardesai also said that GFP did not field candidates on the party banner since it believes that these grassroots bodies should not be politicised. “Though the opposition is united in the fight against coal, double-tracking and the Mhadei issue, opposition parties should have come together and given an alternative to the voters for the zilla panchayat elections,” said Sardesai. GFP has accused Sawant of working for the interests of private firms involved in coal transportation from Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to steel plants in Karnataka. He also questioned Sawant’s earnestness in pursuing the contempt petitions filed against Karnataka in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-panel-ignoring-bjps-election-code-violations-cong-gfp/articleshow/79669613.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||High-end cars see steady demand in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Amid the doom and gloom of lockdown, job cuts and salary cuts, there’s some positive data thrown up by the Ahmedabad regional transport office, showing the money’s still there. When it comes to cars priced between Rs 50 lakh and Rs 2 crores, the sales post lockdown (September-November) remained close to that in the pre-lockdown period (January-March) this year. Even one Rolls Royce was registered this year with Ahmedabad RTO. There’s been almost no drop in demand. And the trend isn’t visible only in the tony western parts of the city. Transport officials said 60 such high-end cars were registered this year at the Vastral RTO (GJ-27), and rural Ahmedabad went a step ahead with 86 registrations of high-end cars at the rural Ahmedabad-Bavla RTO. At Ahmedabad RTO, 494 high-end cars have been registered so far this year, with 271 cars registered between January and March, before lockdown, and 213 registered between September and November, post lockdown. The scene is the same across the entire state of Gujarat. This year, 1,900 high-end vehicles have been registered so far with 977 of them registered before lockdown (January-March) and 903 registered post lockdown (September-November). Purvesh Mistry, the marketing manager of a high-end car showroom said, “There is no change in the number of registrations and even the inquiries. We continue to sell three to six cars per months and this has continued. The slowdown has not affected those who can afford to buy cars ranging from Rs 1 crore to Rs 4.5 crore.” He said that majority of the buyers are business tycoons and in the age group of 35-50 years. Another manager of a high-end car showroom on SG Road refusing to be quoted said youths have a craze for high-end cars. He said young buyers splurge on brands and customizations. He added that those who had expressed interest to buy a high-end car before lockdown, made their purchases post lockdown. N V Parmar assistant road transport officer, said that with easy finance available, citizens who can afford such high-end cars have not shelved their plans but gone ahead and made purchases. Moreover, the RTO has made the entire paperwork online and more vehicle registrations are happening due to this. An officer from Gandhinagar said that another factor behind more registrations of high-end cars may be recent seizures of costly cars that do not have proper documentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/high-end-cars-see-steady-demand/articleshow/79668327.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After an ‘extra’ cold start, winter turns warm in December||NEW DELHI: In contrast to both October and November, December has turned out to be much warmer than usual so far. Delhi recorded a maximum of 29 degrees Celsius on Wednesday — the third highest maximum temperature in December in the last 14 years, while the maximum temperature on Thursday was 28.3 degrees Celsius – four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the season. The record for the maximum temperature in December is 30 degrees Celsius, which was recorded on December 1, 2014. Cold winds are expected to return to the region only from December 13 onwards while light showers are forecast over the next two days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the regional weather forecasting centre in Delhi, says clear skies have led to an increase in maximum temperature over the past week, aided by lack of rain. “We have seen this in October and November too, with high maximum temperatures and low minimum temperature at night. With clear skies, more sunlight penetrates through and days are becoming warmer. Temperatures also drop when rain occurs, but we have not seen a western disturbance this month,” said Srivastava. Srivastava says relief is, however, around the corner, with an active western disturbance bringing snowfall to the higher parts, while light rain will occur towards Friday evening and also on Saturday. “Very light to light rain will occur on both days and this will bring the maximum temperature back down to normal. It could fall to around 24 degrees Celsius by December 24,” said Srivastava. IMD data since 2007 shows Delhi has only recorded a warmer December day on December 6, 2011 when the maximum was 29.5 degrees Celsius, while Delhi broke the all-time record for December on December 1, 2014 when the maximum touched 30 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature (10.9 degrees Celsius) on Thursday was also two degrees above normal. According to IMD, the maximum could stay around 28 degrees Celsius on Friday, while the minimum could rise further to hover around 12 degrees. Delhi’s air quality, meanwhile, improved to the ‘poor’ category on Thursday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 284, owing to an increase in wind speed and better ventilation. Higher temperatures also facilitate dispersal of pollutants. The AQI on Wednesday was 358 (very poor).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-an-extra-cold-start-winter-turns-warm-in-dec/articleshow/79668367.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Share of car sales in June-November higher than last year’s||AHMEDABAD: Not just high-end cars but the demand for other cars post lockdown has seen an increase and 4,000 more vehicles were registered in the state between this June and November than in last year during the same period. Overall registration of cars in this period was about 68% of total cars sold in the year, higher than the 52% of total sales achieved during the same period last year. Officials in transport department said that while there was negative sentiment when it came to buying two-wheelers and in the overall automobile industry, in Gujarat and Ahmedabad city, the sales of cars are growing. The sales of cars during the period of June-November, as compared to the total sales in the year till November, is the highest percentage achieved in the last five years. Officials said that post lockdown, festival muhurats helped in car sales, but there was not much sales in the two-wheeler segment. In Ahmedabad city, 13,000 vehicles were registered as against 10,000 in October. In the city, 4,500 cars were registered in November as against 2,900 in October, while in the state, against 32,500 vehicles sold in November the number was 32,400 in October. Pranav Shah, chairman – Gujarat region, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA) said, “Car sales have been steadily growing since June onwards. There is negative sentiment in the automobile sector in general, but when it comes to car sales there is certainly an increase.” Rajnish Arora, CEO of at a leading car dealership, said, “What we are seeing is the result of suppressed demand as people were planning to buy cars but had to put their plans on hold. Moreover with the Covid-19 outbreak people are in favour of travelling in their own four-wheelers rather than in public transport.” “The demand was high from Tier II and Tier III towns as they had the cash, and in order to keep away from public transport they have utilized their resources. The demand, which has increased in these towns, will definitely be higher in the days to come,” added Arora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/share-of-car-sales-in-june-nov-higher-than-last-years/articleshow/79668376.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Entry to Sankar Kendra to be ticketed?||Ahmedabad: The administrative wing of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has proposed imposing an entry fee for the heritage museum and kite museum at Sanskar Kendra in Paldi. If cleared by the standing committee on Friday, it will be the first time visitors will be charged for entry to Sanskar Kendra. The administrative wing has proposed charges of Rs 10 for a child, Rs 20 for an adult and Rs 50 for a foreign tourist. Those wanting to take a camera in will have to pay Rs 50. Photography using mobiles will not be charged, and visitors can use mobiles to take pictures. Sanskar Kendra is a museum designed by the architect Le Corbusier. It is a city museum depicting the history, art, culture and architecture of Ahmedabad. Also attached is the Patang (Kite) Museum which includes a collection of kites, photographs, and other artifacts. The museum was named ‘Museum of Knowledge’ during its designing. It was originally part of a large complex for the cultural centre of Ahmedabad, which had separate pavilions and areas for subjects like anthropology, natural history, archaeology, folklore, monumental sculptures and workshops in the open air. It was also to include a pavilion for theatre called Miracle Box, but of the planned cultural centre, only the museum was built. Its foundation stone was laid on April 9, 1954. The justification for the entry fee is that similar museums in cities such as Vadodara, Rajkot, Surat are ticketed and the AMC should also impose charges. BOX: Art gallery rent to be increased The administrative wing has also decided that the rent for the art gallery at Sanskar Kendra will also be increased. The AMC was charging Rs 200 per day with electricity and cleaning charges so far. The administrative wing has proposed to increase the per day charge as the cost of power and cleaning has also increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/entry-to-sankar-kendra-to-be-ticketed/articleshow/79669649.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||‘Goa Foundation delaying resumption of mining activities’||Panaji: With the state government failing to come out with the promised solution for early resumption of mining in the state, Goa Mining People’s Front (GMPF) urged the NGO Goa Foundation “to stop delaying the resumption of iron ore mining on flimsy grounds”. GMPF has called for action against NGOs, including Goa Foundation, for “causing immense harm to the interest of the people of the state.” GMPF president Puti Gaonkar said, “The state of Goa has lost the third consecutive mining season which has incurred a loss of Rs 3,500 crore to the state revenue because of continuous misrepresentation of facts by Goa Foundation. All of us are looking eagerly for swift resolution of the mining issue in the state and are hopeful towards the upcoming Supreme Court hearing, and hope that Goa Foundation does not further delay the process on some flimsy grounds.” Goa’s mining industry came to a grinding halt for the second time on March 15, 2018 after the Supreme Court (SC) of India quashed the renewal granted to 88 mining leases in the state. In a 102-page judgment, the apex court said that the 88 leases were hastily renewed by the Goa government in 2014 “virtually for a song” which in turn caused “damage to the state’s ecology”.  The Supreme Court order was based on petitions filed by Goa Foundation. Gaonkar also said that the state government is using the NGO as an excuse to to delay restarting mining operations. The front estimates that nearly 3 lakh people are dependent on mining, directly and indirectly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-foundation-delaying-resumption-of-mining-activities/articleshow/79669631.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Immigration firm manager booked for cheating||CHANDIGARH: The police have booked a Sector 34-based immigration firm manager for duping a Jalandhar resident of Rs 45,000 on the pretext of providing him a work visa for Singapore. In his police complaint, Jaswinder Kumar of Jalandhar said, “Zoya Khan, manager of Fast Immigration Consultant, Sector 34, cheated me of Rs 45,000 after promising general work visa of Singapore.” Kumar had contacted Khan in July. “Khan assured me that she would provide me the work visa and the deal was finalised at Rs 1.65 lakh. She took my passport and other documents. I also gave her Rs 5,000 as the processing fee.”  Later, the complainant paid Rs 40,000 more to the firm and said he would give the remaining amount after the work was done. “The accused promised to provide the visa in two months. When I did not get it, I tried to contact the manager, but she did not take my calls.” Kumar then gave a complaint at the SSP public window. The complaint was marked to Sector 34 police. After verifying the facts, Sector 34 police registered a cheating case against Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/immigration-firm-manager-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/79668392.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bareilly||Named in scam, teacher who faked his death found alive, terminated||BAREILLY: A primary school teacher in UP's Kheri who had faked his death after he was named in a special task force probe was found alive during police verification. The teacher's services have been terminated and an FIR has been registered against him for "forgery". Rajesh Kumar, the accused teacher, had worked for nearly nine years on fake documents. He was being probed for using fake documents in a teachers' scam. He joined as an assistant teacher at a primary school in Isanaga block of Kheri district in 2009, and was a resident of Sant Kabir Nagar, as per his "documents". Rajesh reportedly stopped going to the school in February 2018. In March 2018, his family told the school administration that he had "died" in a road accident in Bahraich. Later, a STF probe in the recent teachers' scam revealed that Rajesh had got his job due to fake documents. And the documents provided by him were forged and his address was also incorrect. Basic Shiksha Adhikari Budhpriye Singh told TOI, “We have terminated the services of assistant teacher Rajesh Kumar who faked his death fearing STF action as he was appointed using fake documents. His original identity is still unknown. An FIR has been registered against him for forgery."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/named-in-scam-teacher-who-faked-his-death-found-alive-terminated/articleshow/79667226.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||No electrical inspection for solar plants up to 250 kWp||CHANDIGARH: To achieve the target of 69MW solar power generation that the ministry of new and renewable energy has set for 2022 after enhancing it from 50MW, the UT administration has now decided that there will be no electrical inspection for installation of solar plants up to 250 kWp (kilowatts peak). The decision was taken in a review meeting UT adviser Manoj Parida held with the heads of different departments to sort out differences and to encourage them to work as a team. Sources said electrical inspection used to take about four months. Talking to the TOI, Debendra Dalai, director, Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest), said this major decision would cover installation of all solar plants in residential category and even government plants up to 250kWp. Besides, it was also decided that the electrical department would give a technical feasibility report within a week to further speed up installation, he added. Crest is the nodal agency for installation of solar projects in the city, but coordination was required with the UT departments of engineering, electricity, urban planning, chief architect office and municipal corporation. Sources said these departments had time and again raised objections and created hurdles in installation of key solar projects, thereby delaying them or hiking their costs. The objections were related to design, house inspection and no objection to projects. The administration has achieved a target of 37.5MW as of now. To encourage people, the Central government had even released Rs 5 crore to the administration, which is being used to transfer solar subsidy to the residents. The government had recently notified the new subsidy scheme for the rooftop solar units, wherein the subsidy amount has been raised from 30% to 40% for panels up to 3kWp capacity. For units from 4kWp to 10kWp, the subsidy will be 20%. There will be no subsidy for plants above 10kWp. Earlier, 30% subsidy was given to all applicants irrespective of the plant capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-electrical-inspection-for-solar-plants-up-to-250kwp/articleshow/79668430.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman kicked out during curfew rescued||Ahmedabad: A 32-year-old woman was kicked out by her husband after a domestic quarrel at 1am on Wednesday. The woman called up 181 Abhayam helpline and informed the counsellors that she wanted to end her life and had approached a canal near her residence. A team reached the spot and rescued the woman. “The woman told us that she had a married life of 13 years and that her husband had started abusing her physically for the past four years. Tired of this, she had also tried to commit suicide, but her neighbours rescued her,” said a counsellor. “After the incident, the husband became more violent and intensified his torture,” the counsellor added. The team, accompanied by the police, took her to her home, counselled her husband and took an undertaking from him to refrain from domestic violence. In another incident, Abhayam team approached a call centre owner after he repeatedly asked one of his employees to meet him in private if she wanted to get her dues cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-kicked-out-during-curfew-rescued/articleshow/79668455.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance department checks Mohali housing society||MOHALI: A team of the Punjab vigilance department inspected the Purab Premium Apartments here on Thursday. The project of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada) is under scanner for its poor workmanship. The vigilance team visited after residents’ association lodged a complaint with the Punjab chief minister, alleging poor infrastructure and civic amenities, and use of sub-standard material that was not in accordance with specifications in the brochure. The vigilance team, comprising executive engineer Suresh Kumar, DSP Harwinderpal Singh and supporting staff, conducted the check. The residents’ association has been fighting for their rights for the past many years and complaining of faulty structure and workmanship. General secretary of the association Harbhajan Singh said, “The project, which was to come up on 117 acres, was actually built on only 37 acres and the prime location was sold to a private builder at a hefty price of about Rs 200 crore. Gmada not only failed to complete the project in time, but also compromised with the quality. It was announced that all the defects will be removed by September 2016 after directions from Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, but nothing has been done till now.” Gmada failed to comply with the orders of the CM and the residents were feeling cheated, said Parwinder Singh, treasurer of the association. In July 2018, a team constituted by Gen B S Dhaliwal, technical adviser to the Punjab CM, had visited the apartments to probe the allottees’ allegations of poor construction. Dhaliwal constituted two teams of public health, electricity and civil engineering to probe the anomalies. Thereafter, the matter was handed over to the vigilance department for a parallel inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vigilance-dept-checks-mohali-housing-society/articleshow/79668436.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Chandigarh||UT and WWF to prepare Sukhna Lake management plan||CHANDIGARH: The World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) is now ready to prepare the Sukhna Lake management plan. The decision was taken in a recent meeting between UT chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai and WWF representatives. Dalai said the WWF representatives would submit a detailed roadmap on December 14 and the fund would not charge anything to prepare the plan as they were the knowledge partner with the UT administration for declaring Sukhna Lake as a wetland. In November last year, the administration had sought help of the NGO, which already was a knowledge partner, for declaring Sukhna Lake a wetland. The pandemic and the lockdowns delayed the plan. Under the proposal, the administration and WWF will prepare a rulebook to regulate and control activities, like boating, including number and types of boats and their timings; trekking in Sukhna sanctuary; facilities for tourists in and around the lake; desilting; water availability in case of poor rainfall; management of migratory birds; fishing; and maintenance of the lake. In 2012, a study report of the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee, was submitted to the administration and it had stated that water scarcity problem was mainly due to rainfall deficit. “If the administration desires to ensure availability of water in deficit years, it can be done only through an alternative source of water,” the study had added. The study had also said the main problems of the lake were lack of water availability, weed infestation and siltation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wwf-to-prepare-sukhna-lake-management-plan/articleshow/79668414.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Mahagenco gets green nod for Ch’garh coal mine||Nagpur: After a wait of over two years, Mahagenco has finally got environmental clearance from the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) for its captive coal mine in Chhattisgarh. The mine — Gare Palma II — will supply coal to Koradi, Chandrapur and Parli power plants. Coal ministry had allocated the block, located in Raigarh district, spread across 2,583.486 hectare with geological reserves of 1,059.761 million tonne in August 2016 to Mahagenco. Purushottam Jadhav, director (mining) of Mahagenco, told TOI, “We now have to acquire land and get forest clearance. Since we are acquiring forest land, we will have buy and transfer equivalent land to forest department. All these processes would be done through Raigarh collector. This will take some time and we plan to start mining by March 2023.” Mahagenco had appointed Adani Group as the mine developer and operator and Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) had granted approval for a coal mining agreement with it. The company is expected to launch production of 23.60 million tonne per annum (MTPA) from March 2023, which will increase to 29 MTPA from the seventh year onwards. State energy department officers said Mahagenco, with 10,000MW of thermal capacity, annually requires 25 million tonne coal, though the actual realization is 65% due to production constraints and hurdles in supply due to rain. The company had imported 3 million tonne coal in 2019-20. Mahagenco went through a difficult time in obtaining environmental clearance. It is mandatory to hold a public hearing for this clearance. The first hearing was scheduled on March 16, 2018, but had to be cancelled due to opposition from locals. After several postponements, the hearing was held on September 27, 2019. There was also delay in getting the green nod due to lapses on part of Mahagenco officials. The expert appraisal committee (EAC) of MoEFCC noted that the project details mentioned in the environment impact assessment (EIA) were not consistent with those presented in the meeting. The committee returned the proposal and sought several clarifications from the company, which it subsequently provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mahagenco-gets-green-nod-for-chgarh-coal-mine/articleshow/79668468.cms||Ashish Roy
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Reduce the stamp duty, registration fees by half’||Gandhinagar: Bodies of realtors have written to the state government, seeking a minimum 50% cut in stamp duty and registration fees. Recently, Maharashtra and a few other states slashed registration and stamp duty charges in a bid to boost real estate transactions. In Gujarat, stamp duty and registration fees are 5.90% of the cost of property. Earlier, the Hasmukh Adhia-led committee, formed to chart out an economic revival roadmap for the state in the post-Covid-19 scenario, had recommended slashing of stamp duty. The government however, has avoided taking such a bold decision. Jaxay Shah, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) and other members of the Gujarat CREDAI met the CM and other key authorities in the state government and handed over a written representation, demanding at least 50% cut in the stamp duty and registration fees. CREDAI in its written submission to the state government, said, “While the Gujarat real estate sector has got majorly impacted from Covid-19, government needs to accept the long-pending demand of reducing the stamp duty & registration fees, at least by 50%.’‘ The letter stated that the real estate sector helps a number of other sectors and it is a major sector for direct and indirect employment. The letter stated that stamp duty and registration fees are a big burden on home buyers, as majority of home buyers take long term loans and repay these with interest. “Many of the buyers have to take additional loans to pay stamp duty & registration fees, so the actual burden on the buyers is much more compared to the rates,” the letter said. “Maharashtra government took the progressive step and reduced the stamp duty & registration fees. Soon afterwards, the number of property registration increased substantially. If the Gujarat government reduces stamp duty & registration fees by at least 50%, it will be major boost to the home buyers and real estate sector,” the letter said. Realtors told the government in the letter that the Hasmukh Adhia-led committee has also recommended that stamp duty be slashed. “Like Maharashtra, we expect volumes of property registrations to go up substantially if rates are slashed. Effectively, the government revenue from stamp duty and registration fees will not be impacted,” the letter said, adding that the present unsold inventory is impacting both new projects and government revenue. Kaushik Patel, revenue minster said, “Associations have made a representation before the government, but no decision has been taken so far. The issue will be decided at CM level, so I will not make any comment.’‘||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reduce-the-stamp-duty-registration-fees-by-half/articleshow/79668424.cms||Kapil Dave
December 11, 2020||Madurai||Mobile app to help monitor new adult literacy scheme||Madurai: A new adult literacy scheme is currently under way for the ‘Karpom ezhudhuvom iyakkam’ programme wherein the attendance would be monitored through an app. The scheme is envisaged as per directives from the directorate of non-formal and adult education.In Madurai district, 10,843 learners and 543 volunteer teachers will be involved in the programme. The programme aims to provide basic literacy for those aged above 15 years. The programme is being conducted in a phased manner at 548 learning centres across the district with around 20 learners per centre. As per the directive issued to district chief educational officers (CEOs), the attendance for the classes conducted through the programme will be monitored through an app-based system.Details of the volunteer teachers and learners are to be uploaded and mapped in the Tamil Nadu - Educational Management Information System (TN-EMIS) application. Through the app, attendance can be marked for the classes by the teachers. The attendance has to be updated everyday and attendance once marked cannot be modified or deleted. District educational officials said the process to bring in this system is currently on. Technical training for installation and use of the TN-EMIS app is also being provided to teachers and government school headmasters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mobile-app-to-help-monitor-new-adult-literacy-scheme/articleshow/79670856.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand positivity rate plummets, but Ranchi remains vulnerable||Ranchi: While Jharkhand has managed to control the spread of Covid-19 at the onset of winter as far as positivity rate is concerned, the situation in the state capital Ranchi is yet to show any significant sign of improvement. Despite the festivals and marriage season, the statewide positivity rate has remained under 1% through December, but the figure for Ranchi has not fallen and new cases are being reported in large numbers. On Wednesday, 97 -- more than 50% -- of the 191 new infections reported in the state were from Ranchi alone. According to the Covid bulletin issued by the district administration, the positivity rate for the district on Wednesday stood at 3.71%, more than five times the 0.7% figure for the entire state. Ranchi also accounts for 768 of the 1,739 active cases in Jharkhand. “Of the 2,609 samples tested in Ranchi on Wednesday, 97 returned a positive result and the rate is 3.71%. But when we calculate the positivity rate taking the total number of tests and positives detected through the pandemic till date, the figure we arrive at is 7.22%,” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said. Making sense on the possible reasons for the high positivity rate of Ranchi, Prasad said the number of private pathological laboratories in the city is far more when compared to rural districts and the number of people entering the district is also much higher. “We are taking precautions and also planning measures in consultation with the district administration from time to time, but there is no doubt that the virus is there and with increasing public interaction, the infection will continue to spread,” he said. Dr Devesh Kumar, professor of preventive and social medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), who has been monitoring the outbreak since the beginning, said the positivity rate in Ranchi is higher because more people are coming forward for voluntary testing. “People with even minor symptoms are turning up for tests, increasing the chances of more positive results,” he said, clarifying that the positivity rate would have come down if more random tests were conducted. Devesh, however, added that the positivity rate in Ranchi should not be a cause of concern because it reflects the real picture and gives an opportunity to doctors for timely management of their patients. “Even if the positivity rate of Ranchi soars, we should be happy that the mortality rate is lower here in comparison to districts like Ramgarh and Hazaribag,” he said, emphasizing that other districts are getting patients in critical condition whereas in Ranchi even minor symptomatic patients are getting detected and treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-positivity-rate-plummets-but-ranchi-remains-vulnerable/articleshow/79668196.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||191 Cov cases, 202 cured, 3 deaths in state||Ranchi: The number of Covid recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases as Jharkhand recorded 202 recoveries and 191 new cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s caseload to 1,10,830, of which 1,739 are active. Meanwhile, after recording zero deaths on Tuesday, the state witnessed three casualties – one in Dhanbad and the rest in Ranchi -- taking the death count to 991. The death rate currently stands at 0.89% and with 1,08,100 recoveries till date, Jharkhand’s recovery rate is 97.53%. Of all the cases reported on Wednesday, Ranchi recorded 97, Dhanbad 16, Bokaro 14 and East Singhbhum recorded 10 cases. The rest of the districts – barring Chatra, Pakur, Sahebganj and Simdega which reported zero cases – recorded cases in single digit. Jharkhand’s seven day growth rate now stands at 0.14% compared to the national average of 0.30% while the doubling rate is 505.36 days against the national figure of 230.84 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/191-cov-cases-202-cured-3-deaths-in-state/articleshow/79651089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||Chatra school faces probe for holding physical classes||Chatra: A private school in the tribal-dominated Chatra district is being investigated for holding physical classes in violation of the state government’s lockdown norms, which has not allowed educational institutes to reopen in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The district authorities launched a probe after receiving complaints from locals that Nazareth Vidya Niketan School was calling its 400 students for daily classes on the campus. Chatra SDO Mumtaz Ansari, “I have asked the sadar block development officer and the district education officer to investigate the matter and submit a report. All educational institutions are closed since March to keep students safe from infection. If the school is found guilty, action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act.” Sources said the school was calling students from Class VI to X from 9am to 1pm without uniform, which, officials said, was an attempt to ensure that no one suspected the school of violatingthe lockdown norms. However, a few locals complained that students coming to school neither wore masks nor followed anti-Covid protocols like social distancing and accused the school management of putting the children at risk. When contacted, the school management said only those students unable to join online classes were called for classes. “We are calling students of Class VII and VIII on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Students of Class IX and X are coming in on Friday and Saturday. This is done only to complete the syllabus,” said principal Marry Grais, stressing that they called students to school from December 1 in a staggered manner. “Only one student is allowed to sit on one bench and we are strictly following the roster,” she added. The school, run by Christian missionaries, was set up in Chatra in late 1960s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-school-faces-probe-for-holding-physical-classes/articleshow/79668080.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vadodara||Scooter rider mowed down by private luxury bus||Vadodara: A commuter was mowed down by a private luxury bus near Gotri police station on Thursday late evening. Eye-witnesses said that one of the rear wheels of a staff bus being operated by a travels company ran over the deceased. The man was going towards Nilamber Circle from Gotri crossroads on his scooter around 8 pm on Thursday and was knocked down outside a hotel near Gotri police station. The bus driver is believed to have escaped from the spot after the accident. Police are trying to ascertain the identity of the man and contact his family members. A large crowd had gathered at the accident site creating a traffic jam. The narrow road leading to Nilamber Circle from Gotri crossroads witnesses huge traffic including that of heavy vehicles during peak hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scooter-rider-mowed-down-by-private-luxury-bus/articleshow/79667153.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Jamshedpur||4 more held for stripping woman in Seraikela||Jamshedpur: Seraikela-Kharsawan police in overnight raids on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday arrested four more named accused for allegedly stripping and beating a 34-year-old anganwadi worker in Gerakocha village on Monday night. Officer in-charge of Chowka police station Vijay Yadav said, “Search is on for the remaining three women accused. The main accused, Markar Hessa Purty, was arrested on Wednesday and later, we held four men who were named in the complaint by the anganwadi worker.” A case has been lodged against the accused under Sections 147, 148, 341, 342, 323, 325, 307, 354(b) and 509 of the IPC. Yadav said the woman, who was subjected to torture, is currently undergoing treatment at Santevita hospital in Ranchi. The anagnwadi worker in her complaint said three village women, whom she knew, dragged her out of the house on Monday night and allegedly stripped her and took her to another group that was waiting outside her house. Thenafter, around 10 villagers, including five men, thrashed her. The three women accused have been identified as Anjila Topna, Sisila Purty and Oliba Kusum. According to the victim, she was accused by her tormentors of being characterless and pressurized to leave the village as they wanted to remove her from the post of an anganwadi worker. Villagers also accused her of being in a relationship with a married man of the village, causing mental harassment to the man’s wife and forcing her to attempt suicide twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/4-more-held-for-stripping-woman-in-seraikela/articleshow/79668067.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||Former minister Hari Narayan Rai, wife sent to jail in DA case||Ranchi: Former minister Hari Narayan Rai and his wife Sushila Devi, who were arrested by CBI in a disproportionate assets (DA) case on Wednesday, were sent to jail by the court of special CBI judge A K Mishra on Thursday. Rai and his wife were found guilty in the DA case by CBI special judge Balkrishna Tiwary on December 14, 2016 and the court sentenced them to five-year imprisonment each. The court had also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 each on them. The couple had approached the Jharkhand high court against their imprisonment order but their appeal was dismissed on November 4, 2020. Following the dismissal of the appeal, CBI was on a lookout for the duo. Subsequently, they were arrested from the house of Rai’s father-in-law in Dumka after inputs provided by his driver. While coming out of the court Rai said, “I was preparing to surrender before the court but there was some paperwork to be done and it took time. I have to live in Jharkhand and I cannot flee from here.” Notably, CBI had taken over the DA case in 2010 and filed a chargesheet, accusing Rai of acquiring disproportionate assets while he was an Independent MLA from Jarmundi constituency and a minister holding various portfolios like urban development, tourism and forest & environment between 2005 and 2009 under different governments led by Arjun Munda, Madhu Koda and Shibu Soren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-minister-hari-narayan-rai-wife-sent-to-jail-in-da-case/articleshow/79668089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||Celebratory firing: Injured man left outside hosp, dies||Daltonganj: A man died in hospital on Thursday after he sustained injuries when celebratory shots were fired in the air at a wedding at Bhavnathpur village in Garhwa district on Wednesday night. Arvind Kumar Singh (35), a contractor, hailed from Aurangabad district in Bihar but lived in Ranchi and was a part of the marriage party that was staying at a guesthouse, police said. Town OC A K Mahatha, who visited the hospital, said Singh was dumped outside the Medinirai Medical College Hospital in Daltonganj by unidentified people and he had bullet injuries in both his thighs. Mahatha said the case will be investigated by Bhavnathpur police, but as Singh was found here, they have also begun a probe. Mahatha said the nature of the injuries hinted that it was case of celebratory firing. “Police will probe if it was a case of celebratory firing or a planned murder,” said another official. Palamu civil surgeon John F Kennedy said, “A three-member team conducted the post-mortem and found that the body had entry and exit wounds and no bullet was bullet in it. The man died of bleeding and shock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/celebratory-firing-injured-man-left-outside-hosp-dies/articleshow/79668151.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||India||PIL against lotus as BJP symbol: HC for EC reply||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court directed the Election Commission of India on Wednesday to file its reply on a PIL seeking freezing of the lotus as BJP’s election symbol as it is the national flower and its visibility on several government websites could influence the minds of voters, reports Rajesh Kumar Pandey. The petitioner, Kali Shankar of Gorakhpur, also said that political parties should be allowed to use their symbols only once for polls and barred from using them as logos. The ECI and the BJP national president have been arrayed as respondents in the PIL. Fixing January 12 as the next date of hearing, a division bench comprising chief justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal also directed the petitioner’s counsel to implead other national political parties as respondents in the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pil-against-lotus-as-bjp-symbol-hc-for-ec-reply/articleshow/79671809.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana schools to reopen for 3 hours for classes X & XII from Monday||By: Shahnawaz AlamGURUGRAM: The Haryana government has decided to reopen private and government schools for students of classes 10 and 12 from December 14, with teaching scheduled from 10am to 1pm, and for classes 9 and 11 from December 21. A formal order in this regard was issued by the Directorate of School Education Haryana on Thursday. Only those students who get a medical fitness certificate confirming they don’t have Covid-19 symptoms will be permitted to attend the classes. Consent of their parents will also be mandatory. The school management will have to ensure that all norms are enforced, including wearing of face mask, thermal screening at the entrance gate and distant seating arrangement. Students will be required to carry hand sanitisers and water bottles. All the deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure free health check-up of students at the government hospitals or primary health centres of community health centres through the chief medical officers of their respective districts. While some schools in Gurugram said they are unlikely to resume physical classes as they have already scheduled their pre-board exams online, others will take a call after seeing how parents respond. Piya Sharma, principal of Ryan International School, said, “We are going to conduct online pre-board exams next week, during which we can’t open the school. Before resuming classes, we will float a consent form on Google Docs to take feedback from parents about whether they will send their child or not. We will analyse the response before taking a decision.” A spokesperson of Manav Rachna International School said ‘virtual consent’ of guardians will be taken before physical classes resume. “After the pre-board exams, we plan to call students to prepare for their practical exams,” the spokesperson said, not wishing to be named. A senior education department official said students can return in small numbers for practical exams. “With precautions, schools can reopen in a staggered way for senior students,” the official said, requesting anonymity. He added, however, that institutions should not be overburdened all at once as it would be a challenge to ensure social distancing among students. Yashpal Yadav, state president, Haryana School Shiksha Sangathan, an association of schools associated with Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Haryana Board of School Education (HBSE), said opening schools for three hours was not a practical idea as it would affect online classes. “Instead, schools should have been allowed to run full time. The government should have arranged for Covid-19 tests on the school premises itself,” he added. The parents of many students, however, said they were not at all keen to send their wards back amidst the pandemic. “I won’t send my son to school this academic year. There was an initial hiccup, but online education is catching up. In such a situation, why should I and my family take the risk?” asked Brijesh Srivastava, a resident of Sector 52 whose son studies in Class 10 at Noble Public School. “It’s a crucial year for him, but we would prefer to opt for study-from-home. My son’s classmates, too, aren’t ready to rejoin school just yet,” he added. Gulrukh Zaheen, whose son is a Class 10 student in Lions Public School, said she will put a tick mark on ‘no’ on the consent letter if the school sends one. “So far, we don’t have a vaccine. I don’t want to take any risk with my child,” she said. (With inputs from our bureau in Chandigarh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/schools-to-reopen-next-week-for-classes-10-12/articleshow/79671325.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt sets eyes on ramping up cargo handling capacity||AMARAVATI: The state government has set its focus on increasing cargo handling capacity with construction of four ports. The upcoming ports at Ramayapatnam, Bhavanapadu, Machilipatnam and Kakinada SEZ are expected to take the total cargo handling capacity to 300 million metric tonnes from the existing 100 mmt in next four years. “The upcoming ports are going to be game-changers for the state’s economic growth as chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is determined to complete all the proposed ports within four years,” said industries and IT minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy. He said that the government was going ahead on perfect schedule to complete the big-ticket projects which could put AP next only to Gujarat in port cargo handling business. He said that Gujarat is handling nearly 399 million metric tonnes of cargo with a coastline of 1,600km while AP is handling 100 MMT with nearly 974 km long coastline which is second longest in the country. “Although, we are in the second spot in terms of volume, we found it is way below our capacity. So, we have decided to ramp up our coastal infrastructure with construction of new ports, ship recycling units and LNG terminals,” said Mekapati. He said that coastline would be utilized to its fullest potentiality to improve the revenues of the state, central government while creating several thousands of new jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-sets-eyes-on-ramping-up-cargo-handling-capacity/articleshow/79667333.cms||Samdani MN
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid tally crosses 6 lakh, but new cases at 3-month low of 1,575||NEW DELHI: In a clear sign of the ebbing of the third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi, the city recorded 1,575 new infections - the lowest in over three months - on Thursday even as the fresh cases took the capital's total caseload past the 6-lakh mark to 6,01,150. The positivity rate, which had crossed 15% in mid-November when the city was reporting more than 7,000 cases a day, fell to 2.5%. This is the eighth day running when the positivity rate has been below 5%. From December 3 to 7, it steadily dipped to 4.96%, 4.8%, 4.2%, 3.7% and 3.2%, respectively. However, on December 8, it rose to 4.2%, before dipping to 3.4% on December 9. "The constant decline in positivity rate is a very positive change. It might be because the virus is losing its virulence - ability to infect or damage the host," Dr N K Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist at ICMR and former AIIMS dean, said. Doctors urge people not to violate safety measuresHe added that this is the time when the government and people should step up measures to prevent the spread even more aggressively to be able to break the chain of transmission of the disease. “We can conquer the disease if we continue to wear masks in public places, follow social distancing and wash hands regularly,” Dr Mehra added. Delhi’s toll touched 9,974 with 61 deaths in the past 24 hours. State health minister Satyendar Jain also urged people to continue taking precautions. “The positivity rate in Delhi today is 2.46%. Since November 7, the positivity rate is gradually decreasing. In the last 14 days, active cases have reduced to half of 18,753. The third wave is finally fading, but it is not over yet. I urge you all to take all precautions and stay safe!” he tweeted. Active cases on Thursday dropped to 18,753 from 20,546 the previous day. The fall in active cases has brought much-needed relief for hospitals that were overwhelmed with patients till about a fortnight ago. According to the data shared by the state health department, 13,659 (72%) Covid-19 beds out of total 18,852 are lying vacant. This includes more than 450 ICU beds, with and without ventilator support. “The total number of admitted patients has reduced to less than 300 for the first time in several months today,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-covid-tally-crosses-6-lakh-but-new-cases-at-3-month-low-of-1575/articleshow/79671822.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||More needs to be done, says DGP on Human Rights Day||Vijayawada: On the occasion of International Human Rights Day on Thursday, Andhra Pradesh DGP D Gautam Sawang said that while a lot of ground has been covered by the police in protecting human rights, it isn’t enough and a lot more needs to be done. Speaking to cops across police units, the DGP said that the state police department has a template and a roadmap of going forward in protecting vulnerable sections of society. “Women and children are the most vulnerable sections of society considering that they form around 50% of the population. We have set up Disha police for swift justice and have Mahila Mitra volunteers at the grass-root level to bring about change,” the DGP said. Sawang further said that police have been associated with human rights — be it in its protection or in some instances violation. He pointed out that a change is being seen in the police department which is reorienting itself to be people-friendly.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/more-needs-to-be-done-says-dgp-on-human-rights-day/articleshow/79667367.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||BTP exits govt as Rajasthan Congmen back BJP in poll||UDAIPUR/JAIPUR: Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) on Thursday put the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan in a spot by severing ties with Congress after an independent for the Dungarpur zila pramukh seat backed by BTP failed to get elected with the support of its ally. Instead, the Congress councillors voted for BJP, whose nominee emerged victorious in the 27-member parishad despite winning just eight seats. BTP’s two MLAs in the 200-member Rajasthan assembly have been backing the Gehlot government and had even voted for Congress in the Rajya Sabha elections. Infuriated by Congress members ditching BTP in the zila pramukh polls, the party’s Rajasthan unit chief Vela Ram Ghogra said: “This move puts an end to the relationship between BTP and Congress. This betrayal of trust has proved that Congress can never be trusted. Now, it is clear to us that BTP will contest all polls independently.” State BJP chief Satish Poonia said this was not an “unusual” development. “In panchayat or zila parishad, a party gives freedom to the local netas to take a call in such situations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/btp-exits-govt-as-rajasthan-congmen-back-bjp-in-poll/articleshow/79671837.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three of a family killed in truck-car collision in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: Three persons belonging to the same family died on the spot while six others suffered injuries when their speeding car rammed a truck from behind, near Takkellapadu village in Krishna district in the wee hours of Thursday. The deceased were identified as M Syam (60), M Saradha (55) and M Syamala (38). Chilakallu sub-inspector V Venkateswara Rao said the family was travelling from Vemulawada village to Madhira town in Telangana after visiting Lord Raja Rajeswara Swamy temple. The car was supposedly overspeeding when it lost control and rammed into the slow-moving truck from behind. Locals rushed the injured to the local government hospital in Jaggaiahpet from where they were shifted to Khammam for further treatment. The injured include two children and a senior citizen, who are out of danger. The bodies were sent to Jaggaiahpet hospital for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-of-a-family-killed-in-truck-car-collision/articleshow/79667391.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Wintry Lammasingi sees tourists flow in from across Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Temperatures at Lammasingi in Chintapalli ghat dropped below 10°C in the last four days. The wintry spirit has taken over Visakhapatnam Agency area which is seeing tourists flock in not only from Visakhapatnam but also from other parts of Andhra Pradesh, as well as Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Pictures of a thick blanket of fog covering the Visakhapatnam Agency doing the rounds on social media are attracting youngsters from all around to Lammasingi, Araku Valley, Borra Caves, Paderu and other tourist spots in the tribal area. The Regional Agriculture Research Station (RARS) at Chintapalli registered 9°C temperature on Wednesday and 8.2°C on Tuesday, the lowest of the season till date. Mercury levels are set to dip further over the next couple of weeks. Located more than 3,600 feet above sea level, temperatures in Lammasingi remain 2–3°C lower than in Chintapalli. The temperature at Lammasingi drops to below 5°C in the months of December and January. For the last one week, commuters have had to keep the headlamps of vehicles switched on till 11 in the morning due to low visibility. Weekly markets have delayed reopening till 12 noon instead of the usual 10 am. Tiny villages of Lammasingi and Tajangi are seeing jam-packed traffic even at midnight. There is an increased demand for tents at private sites. Cold weather conditions are prevailing at Araku, Anantagiri and Paderu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/wintry-lammasingi-sees-tourists-flow-in-from-across-state/articleshow/79667406.cms||Siva G
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors revive patient 35 minutes after heart stopped beating in Nagpur||NAGPUR: A 62-year-old diabetic man with a stent in his heart survived two back-to-back heart attacks at a city hospital recently, when he was revived from cardiac arrest almost 35 minutes after his heart stopped beating. Such survivals are not rare for heart institutes but in this case the patient had many difficult conditions. Neither age nor cardiac health of the patient was in favour, plus he had severe diabetes. Moreover, Covid-19 conditions placed additional limitations on doctors. Senior cardiologist Dr Prashant Jagtap shared this case with TOI, which, he said, is an example of how team work and continuous use of CPR can save serious patients from near death situation. Doctors at Viveka Hospital monitored the health of the patient for a month after the incident. They recently revealed the details of the case as the patient is doing absolutely fine some four weeks after his near-death experience. “As per the available data, only 14 to 22% patients who suffer from cardiac arrest in hospitals can recover completely and get discharge. Our minute-to-minute record shows that the patient’s heart was not beating for almost 35 minutes. Simultaneous cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR), use of defibrillator, pacemaker and angioplasty was continued during this period, and the heart restarted at one fine moment,” said Dr Jagtap. The team of doctors involved included senior physician and intensivists Dr Ajay Sakhare, Dr Nikhil Balankhe, technicians Manoj Tiple and Umesh Alone, and nurses Kalpana Thombre and Rakhi Ravidas, working together on four different fronts at once. “A temporary pacing wire was placed, angioplasty was under way, shocks were being given after regular intervals and CPR was being given literally non-stop for these 35 minutes. Together, this not only ensured revival, but also there was no injury to his brain and patient was saved from being brain-dead,” said Dr Jagtap. Doctors have placed another stent in the patient’s heart. After almost a week in hospital, he was discharged in stable condition. A month later, the patient is doing very well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/docs-revive-patient-35-minutes-after-heart-stopped-beating/articleshow/79667414.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Feasibility study for dedicated freight corridor underway soon||Visakhapatnam: A feasibility study of the proposed 1,115km-long East Cost Dedicated Freight Corridor (ECFDC) between Vijayawada and Kharagpur in West Bengal via Visakhapatnam will begin soon. The report is expected to be completed by the end of 2021. The Rs 40,000 crore-project is estimated to be finished by 2030. The electrified corridor will be a broad gauge double line and may be laid parallel to the existing main Chennai-Howrah railway line along coastal districts. The Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL) — a PSU owned by the Union ministry of railways — will take up this project in the second phase in parallel with the first phase, which is currently underway. “The first phase of the dedicated freight corridor has almost reached the operational stage. An operational testing was also carried out on Thursday (December 10) with the running of the first freight train on a dedicated freight corridor between Kanpur-Khurja in Uttar Pradesh. We are now in the process of beginning the second phase of the dedicated freight corridor, the study reports of which have to be completed by 2021 end,” said a senior railway official. The objective of this project is to increase the average speed of freight trains to a maximum 70-80kmph from the existing 25-30kmph on the existing railway network. Since the passenger trains are prioritised on the existing railway line, the average speed of freight trains is usually below 40kmph. Moreover, the decongestion of the railway network would help the proposed introduction of private passenger trains in near future, sources said. M Yelvender Yadav, general manager of Container Corporation of India Limited (CONCOR) Visakhapatnam, said, “Dedicated freight corridors are a boon for freight handling at an affordable price. We are also major beneficiaries of dedicated freight corridors. The dedicated freight corridor between Vijayawada and Kharagpur is a major boost for Andhra Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/feasibility-study-for-dedicated-freight-corridor-underway-soon/articleshow/79667422.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Trifurcation legislations passed for greater public good, says attorney general||VIJAYAWADA: The greater public good is paramount for the state government over the interests of some individuals and keeping in view of that greater public good, the state government took the decision to trifurcate the capital, attorney general (AG) S Sriram told the high court on Thursday. Arguing on behalf of the government over a batch of petitions challenging the twin legislations for the capital trifurcation, the AG said that policymaking was the exclusive domain for elected governments and that courts should not interfere in the policy-making process. The high court bench comprising Chief Justice JK Masheswari, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy, and Justice Ninala Jayasurya has been hearing petitions challenging the trifurcation legislations on a daily basis. Continuing his arguments on Thursday, the AG said that the previous government had taken hasty decisions on the capital with political and personal interests while ignoring public interest. The AG further argued that given the present financial situation of the state, a luxurious capital was not necessary. “As developing Amaravati would come at a huge cost, the state government is going for an alternative by setting up three capitals with less expenditure. When the state finances are not in good shape, building a luxurious capital cannot be said good governance,” Sriram said. The AG told the court that as the previous government had put state finances at stake by proposing a luxurious capital, the present government reviewed those decisions by assessing the ground-level situation, state interests and came up with the three-capitals proposal. “As the twin bills have legislative backing, attributing mala fides is not correct,” he said.  “Being a responsible government, special provisions have been made to protect the rights of farmers,” Sriram said but added that the greater public good is more important than the interests of farmers who gave up their land. He said that courts cannot strike down legislations on the basis of government not keeping its promises to farmers. Arguments on capital petitions will continue on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/trifurcation-legislations-passed-for-greater-public-good-ag/articleshow/79667432.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Vaddera Corporation chair slaps toll worker||Vijayawada: Vaddera Corporation chairperson Devalla Revathi was caught on camera physically assaulting a toll booth employee at Kaza toll plaza in Guntur district on Wednesday. It came to light on Thursday. The footage of the assault went viral on social media. Revathi was seen assaulting the employee after he attempted to stop her to pay the toll tax. Moreover, the chairperson’s car had taken the lane meant for motorcycles. In the video she was seen forcibly removing the barricade on the motorcycle lane which prevents four-wheelers from accessing it. When the employee rushed to the place to stop her, a heated argument ensued between them. She suddenly grabbed him by his collar before slapping him repeatedly. Later, in a video statement Revathi said she was rushing her mother, who slipped from the stairs and fractured her leg, to hospital in Vijayawada when she was stopped by the toll employee. “I have a local registration card and the traffic was heavy in the plaza. So I took the motorcycle lane. The toll gate employee abused me and my driver. I requested him that it is an emergency. But he was keen on collecting the toll fee,” Revathi said adding that she will lodge a complaint with the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vaddera-corporation-chair-slaps-toll-worker/articleshow/79667449.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: State and district-level panels to assess quality of feed, seeds||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has issued orders to facilitate the formation of state-level committees and controlling authority for quality check on feed and seeds. The government, as per its orders issued on Thursday, will form two separate state-level committees for aquaculture. It will also be forming two separate authorities to control feed and seeds supplied by manufacturers to farmers. The two government orders (GOs) were issued as per the new Acts passed in the state assembly winter session which concluded on December 4. The two orders, issued by chief secretary to the government Poonam Malakondaiah, authorise the government to form state-level committees separately to check the quality of seeds and feed. The committees will have chairpersons and members on two-year terms as per the GOs. A government official said that the government had taken the decision to constitute the controlling bodies to maintain quality control especially in the wake of several farmers alleging the sale of spurious seeds and inferior quality feed. The government rolled out several measures to promote aquaculture which included an extension of subsidy in power tariff, a poll promise made by YSRC. The government will also form district-level committees and appoint inspectors to ensure supply of quality to farmers. It laid down conditions and norms for feed companies, hatcheries and fixed the fee for licencing and endorsement. The government has notified laboratories for quality analysis in each district. Accordingly, 36 labs were notified for testing seed quality and 14 labs were notified for testing feed quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-and-district-level-panels-to-assess-quality-of-feed-seeds/articleshow/79667466.cms||Gopi Dara
December 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fake input tax credit racket busted in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: A major fake input tax credit (ITC) racket was busted by the Visakhapatnam zone unit of director general of GST intelligence (DGGI) on Thursday. According to DGGI joint director Mayank Sharma, the ITC racket was being run by a 38-year-old based out of Proddatur. The accused is alleged to have issued fake invoices worth Rs 84 crore using three fraudulent GST registrations, without knowledge of proprietors, and in turn receiving commission from recipients of such fake invoices. Various firms were created with fictitious addresses in and around Guntur. Searches revealed that the mastermind of the fraud had passed on ineligible ITC of approximately Rs 13 crore to various business entities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Further investigation is underway. Recently, DGGI intensified its efforts at curbing fake ITC rackets which causes massive tax evasion. In the last month alone, 11 cases were booked upon detection of 56 non-existent GST registrations. The fake transactions identified were to the tune of Rs 527crore involving duty evasion of Rs 50crore. Four persons were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fake-input-tax-credit-racket-busted-in-vizag/articleshow/79667482.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||Farmers at UP Gate ram barricades with tractors to go to Delhi||GHAZIABAD: Farmers at UP Gate late on Wednesday night allegedly tried to bring down the barricades with tractors in an attempt to move towards Delhi. While they were sent back by Delhi Police, the Ghaziabad district magistrate and the SSP also arrived after two hours to monitor the law and order situation. Rakesh Tikait, leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), and others had returned to UP Gate after a mahapanchayat at Singhu border. According to the farmers present at the site, they informed the people gathered there that they had rejected the draft of the amended laws sent by the Centre. Around 9pm, the crowd climbed over the barricades and raised slogans against the government. SSP Kalanidhi Naithani said he and DM Ajay Shankar Pandey went for a regular check. “I asked the farmers to maintain calm. A heavy police force is already deployed at UP Gate,” he said. Tikait insisted on a complete repeal of the farm laws. “They will ruin the lives of the farmers and the future generations. We are very clear on our stand,” he added. “During winter and the Covid-19 situation, it is playing with the lives of farmers. Some farmers have died during the protest in the cold weather but the government is not ready to scrap the laws,” said a farmer. Rakesh Kumar, a 54-year-old farmer from Muzaffarnagar, said so far, the government had only been trying to settle things to benefit the corporate sector. “I had fixed my son’s wedding for December 12, but it will be postponed now as he is present with me at the protest,” he added. On Thursday, a team of 20 people was busy preparing food for thousands of farmers. On one side of UP Gate, farmer leaders spoke at length about the three laws on the stage and on the other side, some sat down with lunch, which was kadi chawal, with suji halwa and kheer for dessert. A group of farmers also distributed Maggi, dry fruits, tea and pakoras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/farmers-at-up-gate-ram-barricades-with-tractors-to-go-to-del/articleshow/79671362.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 11, 2020||Chennai||MSMEs, already laid low, run into price rise hurdle||It has been a case of surmounting one hurdle after another for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), the backbone of Tamil Nadu’s strong manufacturing base in engineering and automobile sectors, throughout 2020. As the year draws to a close, the segment is facing fresh trouble over surging raw material prices.If the general economic sluggishness marred the sector at the beginning of the year, the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns brought the operations to a near standstill in the March-May period along with the exodus of guest workers. "Most MSME units were in despair in March when they had to shut due to Covid lockdown. While the Centre’s financial package, which permitted a 20% increase in the existing borrowing limit of the units from banks, the money that came in was used to manage running costs of sustaining operations of the companies rather than helping to invest in new products," said M Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association (AIEMA).A sizable number of AIEMA units, which cater to the leading automobile original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) around Chennai, saw some light at the end of the tunnel as the auto industry showed signs of revival during the June to September period. The requirement of metals, especially steel sheets, suddenly shot up in tune with the increasing orders from automobile OEMs. But the phased lifting of lockdown led to problems with the supply of raw materials. Subsequently, issues related to restrictions on imports from China post pandemic, besides the Centre’s thrust on self-refliance (Atmanirbhar) meant business had run into trouble again. "As several countries looked at alternative supply sources for metals other from China, Indian metal producers saw a better margin in Europe and focused more on exports to Europe. The Indian end users and manufacturers were forced to import raw material from South Korea and Taiwan. These were again held up at ports to verify that they did not originate from China. This resulted in supply shortage leading to a 30%-40% increase in prices of raw materials such as steel, aluminium and copper," recalled Balachandran. "Raw material accounts for 60%-70% of the cost of our end components. If one adds the operational costs of labour and power among others, we were working with low margins, ranging from 5%-10%, even in normal times. The surging raw material prices have not only wiped out those margins, but is also pushing the units into the red," he said.While local raw material suppliers have been informing about price increase, from time to time, it is not easy for the MSMEs units to pass on this additional burden onto OEMs, who source components on pre-agreed prices. Given their limited financial capabilities, the MSMEs are also unable to indulge in stocking in bulk or hedging.The problem is not restricted to the MSMEs linked to the automobile industry, it is across sectors. The sharp surge in steel prices in recent months has hit the ancillary units supplying to BHEL, Trichy. Orders are availed, based on the prevailing price of steel at the time of signing the contract, by these units that are part of the fabrication and engineering hub for producing components for thermal power plants. "If proper measures are not taken immediately to contain the surging steel price, we can expect more MSMEs to turn sick and head towards permanent closure, resulting in job losses," Rajappa Rajkumar, BHEL Small Scale Industries Association said.The ripples are being felt in the industrial hub of Coimbatore too. "Price of raw materials like copper, pump stamping and metal casting has increased by 15%-25% in the past two months. This has happened at a time, when we were attempting to increase our production post Covid lockdown. Instead, the production has dropped by 45%," said K Maniraj, president, Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association (KOPMA).According to him, the units have not increased the price of the end products due to the fear of losing customers. "Instead of 10% profit on products supplied, we are now forced to shell out from our pockets. Unable to bear the losses, many have started to shut down their business. The Centre should form a price monitoring committee and investigate the reasons for the sudden spike in prices," Maniraj said.MSMEs are now knocking at the door of the state government and the Centre. They are urging the governments to intervene and steady the market forces through better imports and preferred supplies to MSMEs through SAIL among others.The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations, representing the interests of 19 small and micro industrial associations in Coimbatore, has written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The situation is bleak and distressing, as the little bit of margin allowed to the small and micro sector is wiped out and the forecasts predict further price increase. The small industries are neither financially strong nor wise enough to indulge in "hedging or futures trading" to escape from price volatility. It is the bounden duty of the government to check the price rise and ensure uniform price of basic and essential raw materials," the letter of the association read. For the present, they are clinging on to their hopes that 2021 could turn out to be better.(With inputs from Deepak Karthik, Nivedha Selvam and Padmini Sivarajah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/msmes-already-laid-low-run-into-price-rise-hurdle/articleshow/79671871.cms||D Govardan
December 11, 2020||Noida||Pics: First look at Delhi Noida international airport||NEW DELHI/GREATER NOIDA: Zurich Airport International has selected a consortium of Nordic, Grimshaw, Haptic and STUP as architects to design the passenger terminal of the new greenfield international airport that it will build in Greater Noida’s Jewar. The Delhi Noida International Airport (DNIA), NCR’s second after Delhi’s IGI, is chasing an April 2023 launch date for commercial flight operations. Zurich AG, which has been chosen as the concessionaire for the project, is expected to get the land, which has been acquired, after the resettlement of people with houses at the site. The process is likely to be completed by mid-2021, said officials of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA), which is piloting the project. The consortium was selected through a design competition held in three phases in June, July and August this year. The winning entry has taken inspiration from the designs of Hyderabad, Oslo, Istanbul and Zurich airport, officials said. They will combine “the collective experience and knowledge from the airports in Hyderabad, Oslo, Istanbul, Zurich to create a truly modern, innovative and green airport, based in a region of strong historic and cultural tradition”, DNIA said in a statement. The design previews of the terminal building at Jewar were made available on Thursday. Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Noida International Airport Limited, the government’s special purpose vehicle for the airport project, told TOI, “These are the first visuals of the terminal building design prepared by the concessionaire. We are going through the terminal design report to understand the concepts Zurich AG wants to introduce through the Jewar airport.” Because of the pandemic, the architects prepared and presented their designs remotely. Participants had a simple brief – merge Swiss efficiency and Indian hospitality. “The winning design, presented by Nordic, Grimshaw, Haptic and STUP, best fits the defined project objectives: merging Swiss efficiency and Indian hospitality, creating a modern and seamless passenger experience, setting new benchmarks in sustainability for airport terminal buildings in India, envisioning green spaces inside and around the building, offering a concept for a future airport city, and providing flexible expansion options to serve 3 crore passengers per year in the future,” the DNIA statement added. Christoph Schnellmann, the CEO of Yamuna International Airport Private Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of Zurich AG that has been incorporated as a special purpose vehicle for the project, said, “We are pleased to partner with Nordic, Grimshaw, Haptic and STUP to design this long-envisioned strategic project at Jewar. The team created the winning design with an efficient layout, convincing design language, multiple high-quality areas, spaced out with lush greenery, with a balanced concept for both energy savings and a tangible sense of sustainability... We will work closely with the team to ensure a design with everything available that a passenger expects at a world-class airport.” Speaking on behalf of the winning consortium, Gudmund Stokke, founding partner and head of design at Nordic, said: “We are very happy to have won the confidence of Zurich Airport through our competition design for the new Delhi Noida International Airport. DNIA will become a unique new gateway to the world city of Delhi and to the state of Uttar Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/photos-first-look-at-delhi-noida-international-airport/articleshow/79671359.cms||---
December 11, 2020||India||Covid cases decline, fall below 30,000-mark||NEW DELHI: Fresh daily Covid cases in India fell below the 30,000-mark on Thursday for the third time since July 13, continuing with the declining trend of pandemic that is being seen consistently since its peak on September 17. This is the first time since July 13 when daily cases have fallen below 30,000 on a day other than Monday, when the number of infections are low because of low testing during the weekend. The previous two occasions when the infections breached the 30,000-mark were Mondays — December 7 and November 16. Despite this consistent fall, India is still the world’s third largest contributor of daily Covid cases. According to the latest figures provided by European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, US tops the chart with 2.2 lakh cases and Brazil is a distant second with over 50,000 cases. Russia and Germany are world number four and five after India. With 29,497 fresh cases on Thursday, India’s Covid caseload has reached 97,97,150. While total recoveries have reached 92,89,743, actives cases went down by nearly 9,000 to 3,65,229. With 4,470 new cases, Kerala topped the list of states and was followed by Maharashtra which reported 3,824 cases. West Bengal was at the third slot with 2801 cases. Delhi, that had reported 2,463 cases on Wednesday, saw a decline of 888 cases and with 1575 new cases on Thursday, it was pushed to number six in the list of states with maximum daily cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-decline-fall-below-30000-mark/articleshow/79671874.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Mumbai||Farmer’s family got Rs 23 crore as part of India’s fastest land acquisition for Mumbai-Nagpur expressway||Dnyaneshwar Digambar Kolte of Tuljapur village in Aurangabad district, recalls the exact time — 5.58pm on March 12, 2018—he received a text message showing money deposited into his father’s bank account. It was a momentous day for the Koltes, comprising three brothers and their families. They were the recipients of the largest payout from the state government—about Rs 23.4 crore—for surrendering 9.5 acres of their 16-acre ancestral agricultural land for the upcoming Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Expressway. “Our annual income from farming was Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh a year. The family was emotionally attached to the property but when we started calculating the compensation that was being offered, we changed our minds,” said Dnyaneshwar (37), a state government employee. When the 701km road project between the two cities was initiated in 2016-17, largescale protests broke out across the 10 districts on the route. Thousands of farmers objected to the land acquisition and chased away officials in many areas, especially in Nashik and Aurangabad districts. “Samruddhi Murdabad” became a battle cry for the protesters. Samruddhi Eway: 5-times market price for land turned protest into consentHowever, when the government amended its land acquisition policy by dangling a humungous carrot —five times the market value of the land—the agitation dissipated. “We paid Rs 8,000 crore to acquire 25,000 acres from 34,000 families,” said Radheshyam Mopalwar, vice-chairman and managing director, MSRDC. “This was the fastest land acquisition in India,” said H V Argunde, deputy collector and administrator for MSRDC in Aurangabad. It was completed within a year and a half. “Any delay would have cost us an additional Rs 5,600 crore a year. Offering a huge compensation package to farmers was the best option,” he said. The project cost is currently pegged at Rs 55,335 crore. Bhausaheb, one of the three Kolte brothers, spearheaded the agitation in Aurangabad district. “From age 15, I have been staying on and living off my land,” the rugged farmer told this correspondent. “I sat under a mango tree for two hours with Bhausaheb and other villagers to convince them to accept the compensation package. They finally relented,” said Argunde. The Koltes’ land was considered a prime property as it touched the existing Aurangabad-Jalgaon highway. Bhausaheb, the only cultivator in the Kolte family, grew cotton, bajra, tur, wheat, sugarcane and various vegetables on the land. After he received his share of the hefty compensation (over Rs 7 crore), Bhausaheb did what any son-of-the-soil would do. He purchased an additional three acres of a nearby plot to continue farming. He said he is also building a large bungalow for his family. Raj, his son, is not sitting idle either. He is pursuing an MBA degree. Ravindra, Bhausaheb’s brother, said the family did not want to impede development. “There were serious differences within the family initially. But everyone relented,” he said. The compensation money has been invested mainly in fixed deposits and building new homes. “Fortunately, there is no income tax on compensation received for surrendering agriculture land for a public project,” said Ravindra Kolte. Chandrakant Pulkundwar, MSRDC’s joint MD, said the corporation hired 320 communicators to guide and counsel farmers how to reinvest their money. “We also started a skill development programme for their children to make them employable,” he said. “An entire generation of farmers suffered because of the previous land acquisition policies. Compensation was meagre and they spent decades in litigation. This had to end,” said Argunde. “The new land acquisition law in 2013 was a paradigm shift, offering farmers four times the market value of the land. However, in the case of the Samruddhi Expressway, the state government went even further and hiked it to five times in order to speed up the project,” he added. Meanwhile, the 502km stretch of the expressway between Nagpur and Shirdi is expected to be completed by mid-2021. “We want to inaugurate this stretch on May 1,’’ said Mopalwar. Last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the entire highway would be ready for traffic from Nagpur to Mumbai by next year. “Efforts are being made to complete the other road works in the state expeditiously,” said Thackeray. More than 28,000 workers are employed on site to complete the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/farmers-family-got-rs-23-crore-as-part-of-indias-fastest-land-acquisition-for-mumbai-nagpur-expressway/articleshow/79671873.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
December 11, 2020||Vadodara||Body of man who drowned fished out||Vadodara: Body of a man, who had drowned in Mohammed pond in Wadi on Wednesday, was fished out on Thursday afternoon. Firemen from Gajrawadi fire station had resumed the search for Yogesh Rathod (25) on Thursday morning after failing to find him until Wednesday evening. Around 2 pm on Thursday, rescuers found Rathod’s body. The body was then sent to SSG Hospital for post-mortem and a case of accidental death was registered at Panigate police station. Rathod had jumped in for a bath on Wednesday morning. A few minutes later, Rathod started getting pulled inside water. Hearing his shout for help, locals called the fire brigade for rescue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/body-of-man-who-drowned-fished-out/articleshow/79667075.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Of 230 million syringes’ order, firms have already produced 90 million||BENGALURU: Hindustan Syringes & Medical Devices (HMD) and Iscon Surgicals, the two firms that bagged orders for more than 230 million syringes to aid the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive, have already manufactured 90 million pieces. The entire order was to be fulfilled by March 2021. Iscon from Jhodpur and HMD based in Faridabad, are the only firms contracted by the government to supply syringes. The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) on Thursday issued dispatch instructions for 70 million syringes which will soon reach various government warehouses. “Of the 177.6 million syringes we had to deliver by March, we have already manufactured 70 million,” said Rajiv Nath, managing director, HMD. “Today, we got the nod to ship these out. It amounts to 115 truckloads of devices. We’ve also been told to prepare for additional orders, which will be issued soon.” Sandeep Bhandari, vicepresident, Iscon, which has already manufactured 20 million of the 52.2 million syringes it was contracted to produce, said the firm is yet to get dispatch orders. “Until the government lifts stock, we won’t be able to make more devices given storage constraints,” he said, adding that the firm is expecting an additional order for about 100 million syringes. Pointing out that raw material cost has gone up by around 40% in the past four months, Bhandari urged the government to dispose invoices early. “We understand the unprecedented times Covid has created, but we want to contribute to the country,” he said. Both Nath and Bhandari said they were supplying devices at less than Rs 2 per piece. “It’s around Re 1.6,” Bhandari said, which puts the total cost of 233 million syringes at roughly Rs 37.2 crore. Besides the order with the government of India, HMD, one of the world’s largest syringe suppliers, has orders for 140 million pieces from the Covax facility working for global equitable access. The firm has already shipped more than 100 million pieces of 0.5 ml auto disable (AD) syringes for intramuscular injections to Covax facility, a WHO-led initiative to ensure poor countries have access to the vaccine. “We are planning to expand capacity to 800 million per annum by the first quarter of 2021 and touch 1,000 million by end of the second quarter,” Nath said, while Bhandari said Iscon is looking to expand its capacity from 240 million per annum to about 450 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-of-230-million-syringes-order-firms-have-already-produced-90-million/articleshow/79671862.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||In South Goa dissidence hits BJP, Congress on sticky wicket||MARGAO: For the December 12 zilla panchayat polls much is at stake in the hinterland areas of South Goa for BJP. Considering the disadvantageous position it finds itself in the coastal belt of the district, the saffron party will have to post a fairly better performance in the hinterland to retain its sway over the ZP there. Though that won’t be an uphill task considering that most of the constituencies are traditional strongholds of the right-wing party, BJP has been hamstrung by either dissidence among its ranks or a tussle between multiple power centres in a couple of constituencies. The dissidence is markedly visible in Barcem ZP constituency where aspiring candidates have filed nominations against the official party candidate after their names failed to find favour with the party. While Khushali Zorgo Velip, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar’s Man Friday has been fielded by BJP, a defiant Malu Velip, former president of Quepem BJP mandal, is contesting as an independent. Significantly, Velip had won the last three ZP elections backed by Kavlekar who was then in Congress. Though it was widely believed that Khushali would be fielded by Congress, Kavlekar’s choice prevailed leaving BJP loyalists in Barcem disenchanted. Though Kavlekar has put up a brave front claiming that both the old and neo-BJP workers would work unitedly for Velip’s victory, Malu’s entry into the fray could spell trouble for the saffron party. Interestingly, brother of Sanguem independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar, Sandesh, has also filed his nomination as an independent candidate from Barcem. Barcem ZP constituency comprises Barcem, Morpirla, Fatorpa, Molcornem and Cavre Pirla panchayats, and Gaonkar enjoys considerable support in the latter two panchayats. However, as Gaonkar has recently withdrawn his support to BJP government, the voter behaviour in this part would be anybody’s guess, political observers say. Congress, on the other hand, has found itself in a pitiable position having failed to field its candidate in Barcem. In Rivona constituency, however, BJP succeeded in quelling the rebellion as Bhavesh Zambaulikar withdrew his nomination in favour of BJP candidate Suresh Kepekar. Zambaulikar, a member of the national executive body of the Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha, had resigned from the primary membership of the party as well as from the national executive body and had threatened to contest as an independent. Though there are seven candidates in the fray here, sources say, it will be a direct contest between Kepekar and Congress candidate Abhijit Dessai. In the two ZP constituencies of Canacona, if Congress turncoat BJP’s Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes faces the challenge of proving his loyalty to the party by winning the Poinguinim seat, the outcome of the polls in Cola ZP constituency will determine the extent to which Kavalekar has managed to retain his sway over his bastion, particularly after his switch over from Congress. In Poinguinim, where there will be a straight fight between BJP’s Shobhna Shabu Velip and Congress candidate Reshma Samir Velip, sources said, the fortunes of BJP will be decided by the roles played by former BJP minister Ramesh Tawadkar and former BJP MLA Vijay Pai Khot. While Shobhana is considered to have been propped up by Fernandes, if all the three factions work in unison, victory for BJP will be assured. A divided house of BJP, on the other hand, would mean advantage to Congress. Cola, however, is witnessing a seven-cornered fight with five independents in the fray. However, it’s likely to be a direct contest between Shanu Velip of BJP and Congress candidate Rajesh Velip. However, with no major issues dominating the polls here, the election is largely marked with indifference among the voters. In mining-hit Sanvordem ZP constituency, Suvarna Tendulkar of BJP, who is seeking a second term, is pitted against Shyam Bhandari of Congress in a five-cornered fight. Though Tendulkar appears to be comfortably placed, sources said, former ZP member Pradeep Dessai (MGP) is likely to pose a challenge to her prospects with Sidharth Patil (AAP) also likely to make some dent. Significantly, 38 of the 96 candidates in South Goa are independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-south-goa-dissidence-hits-bjp-cong-on-sticky-wicket/articleshow/79669384.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
December 11, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Third wave fading, deaths will come down, says Delhi health minister||NEW DELHI: With the capital recording less than 5% positivity rate continuously for more than a week, health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the third wave of Covid-19 cases in the city was now fading and the death rate would soon decline too. Jain also said that more than 2 lakh registrations were made for the priority Covid vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers. "We can say that the third wave in Delhi is fading away, however, it is not over yet. I thank all the frontline and health workers who have been rigorously active in the course of this pandemic, putting their lives at stake in order to provide service to the citizens," Jain said. "I applaud Delhi's citizens for their continued support. I request all Delhiites to continue taking all the necessary precautions in order to successfully combat the third wave," he added. The positivity rate, which was recorded at 2.4% on Thursday, has been continuously less than 5% for more than a week, which is a sign of relief as it points to the fact that the effect of the third wave in Delhi is on perpetual decline, Jain said. The minister added that compared with November 7 when the third wave recorded its peak, the positivity rate had come down by 80%, with the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests looming around 6-6.5% and overall positivity rate lower than 3% as compared to 15.2% on November 7. "Earlier, we saw a sudden increase in deaths because of the hazardous pollution levels in Delhi. Combined with the virus, a lot of people were indisposed. Still, a lot of people are admitted in the hospitals. This has a lagging effect meaning that we see changes after a gap of 2-3 weeks. Now that cases have decreased, the death rate too will eventually fall," he added. Jain said Delhi has 18,800 beds, of which over 13,000 beds are vacant."However, the situation of ICU beds is under review." Delhi has the infrastructural ability for storage as well as application of the vaccine and is just waiting for it to be made available, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-third-wave-fading-deaths-will-come-down-says-delhi-health-minister/articleshow/79671939.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||GMC: Misinformation being spread about organ donation||PANAJI: The State Organ Tissue and Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) team on Thursday appealed to people not to believe rumours in circulation that organs of the dead who are kept in the mortuary are removed illegally. Chairperson of SOTTO-Goa, Dr S M Bandekar issued a clarification at a press conference after misinformation was spread on social media about organ harvesting and transplant a day after SOTTO-Goa facilitated the state’s first organ retrieval from a deceased donor. Bandekar said that whenever there is a case of brain death, the procedure of organ donation under SOTTO is initiated, but only after the consent of the family of the deceased is obtained. “When a person becomes brain dead, his other organs remain functional, yet it is a challenging task to keep them alive for long. The allegations that organs are removed in a morgue have absolutely no meaning. The organs of the dead person kept in the morgue are of no use to anyone,” he said Five organs were harvested from the deceased donor on Monday night and transplanted to different recipients on Tuesday. Bandekar, addressing media along with Dr Preeti Varghese, vice chairperson of SOTTO, and other members of the team, said, “Our job is to allocate organs of a deceased donor as per the guidelines of the National Tissue and Transplant Organisation and Regional Organ Tissue and Transplant Organ. Allotment is as per the waitlist.”  “The removing organs of the deceased donor is not simple as has been made out by some,” he said, appealing people not to spread rumours that could affect their efforts in organ donation and transplant that is meant to give new life to people who are suffering from life threatening diseases, and their only hope is organ transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-misinformation-being-spread-about-organ-donation/articleshow/79669423.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||BJP likely to hold sway in North Goa hinterlands||PANAJI: Uncertainty over the resumption of mining ever since it was stopped in 2018, and tourism — which took a major hit due to Covid-19 — could be a major deciding factor at the zilla panchayat (ZP) elections in North Goa’s hinterland talukas. The polls will also help chief minister Pramod Sawant gauge his strength in Sakhali constituency, which he represents as legislator. Sakhali, which lies in the Bicholim taluka, comprises two ZP constituencies: Sarvan-Karapur and Pale. In fact, the three talukas of Bicholim, Pernem and Sattari hold 11 ZP constituencies. While BJP won four of these during the 2015 ZP elections, its tally rose to seven in 2017 when three ZP members chose to pledge allegiance to BJP after Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane himself switched over to the saffron party from Congress. Bicholim has four ZP constituencies (Latambarcem, Mayem, Karapur-Sarvan and Pale), Pernem too (Arambol, Morjim, Dhargal and Torxem), while Sattari has three (Honda, Keri and Nagargao). Although the Usgao-Ganje ZP constituency also lies within Sattari, it is part of the South Goa ZP. Of the seven assembly constituencies in these three talukas, BJP had managed to win only three during the 2017 assembly elections — Mayem, Bicholim and Sakhali. It secured another three after two MLAs from Congress (Vishwajit Rane and Dayanand Sopte) and one from MGP (Manohar Ajgaonkar) became its members. A political observer said BJP, which has a strong presence in Pernem and Bicholim, and has also consolidated its position in Sattari with Vishwajit joining its fold, stands a strong chance of sweeping the ZP elections in these three talukas. The only assembly constituency in the area that is controlled by Congress is Poriem, whose MLA is Vishwajit’s father Pratapsingh Rane. MGP and Congress have reportedly reached an understanding to defeat BJP in Pernem taluka. “If this experiment turns out to be successful, political parties will have to plan their strategies accordingly to win the assembly elections,” a political commentator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-likely-to-hold-sway-in-north-goa-hinterlands/articleshow/79669449.cms||Murari Shetye
December 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Less than 100 infections, zero casualties on Thursday||PANAJI: Goa’s daily tally of fresh cases fell below the 100-mark on Thursday. Active cases also dropped with 159 recoveries reported. There were no reports of Covid casualties for the day. As many as 95 people tested positive and the caseload of active cases dropped to 1,212. The positivity rate was pegged at 6% with 1,502 tests conducted during the day. Altogether, 46 patients were hospitalised and 90 chose to be in home isolation. Dr S M Bandekar, in-charge of Covid hospitals and Goa Medical College (GMC) dean, said that at present there are no patients on ventilator support at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. The GMC’s Covid wards treating critically-ill patients had 14 patients on ventilator support and ward 146 had seven patients till Thursday evening. Porvorim primary health centre saw eight new cases while the Panaji urban health centre reported four cases and their tallies rose to 82 and 64, respectively. Chimbel also witnessed a decline in new cases and its count dropped to 37 whereas that of Mapusa rose to 44 with the addition of one new case. Margao urban centre reported eight new cases whereas Ponda’s tally reduced for the second consecutive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/less-than-100-infections-zero-casualties-on-thursday/articleshow/79669466.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Goa||State machinery being used in ZP polls by BJP||Panaji: Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has been prevented from campaigning for the Zilla Panchayat polls by the BJP by making use of the state government machinery, MGP’s Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said. He said MGP candidates are set to win in 12 of the 17 constituencies from which they are contesting the ZP polls. This has rattled the BJP, said Dhavalikar. He alleged that MGP’s Jit Arolkar is being prevented from carrying out campaigning in Mandrem. “The Enforcement Directorate has called him and kept him in its office for an entire day. It has called him for three days in all and when the matter is already in court,” said Dhavalikar. He said for the first time ministers and MLAs are seen campaigning for ZP polls in Goa. “All these years, ministers, MLAs were rarely participating in Zilla Panchayat elections. But today all means are being used aggressively to defeat the opposition. The state machinery is being used in all this. What is the reason BJP had to resort to this? This is because they have not performed for the last three-and-half years,” said Dhavalikar. He said infrastructure development is taking place slow, some works have come to a standstill for want of money. Women, senior citizens and disabled are being denied benefits of the monthly dole schemes because the state government does not have the money to pay it, alleged Dhavalikar. “For three-and-a-half years the government has lied that mining will restart in the state. And even now they continue to assure that mining will restart in the next six months. Zilla Panchayat elections are the semi-finals of the assembly polls 2022 and I request voters to wake up at least now,” said Dhavalikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-machinery-being-used-in-zp-polls-by-bjp/articleshow/79669472.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Ban public at Aero India 2021, experts urge Karnataka government citing Covid||BENGALURU: The health and family welfare department is worried over possible crowding at Aero India 2021, given that the show is scheduled from February 3 to 7 — around the same time when experts believe the state could be battling a second wave of Covid-19 infections. A total 14 countries are expected to participate in the prestigious event, and in detailed meetings, experts have suggested the government ban public participation at the event — the 13the edition of the show. The event is open to the public on the last two days and earlier editions of the event drew upwards of 2.5 lakh visitors on each day. Three experts involved in the discussions told TOI they are concerned over allowing the general public into the event. Incidentally, the French government recently decided to cancel the Paris air show, scheduled for June 2021, citing Covid-19 concerns. “There are concerns over people thronging the show,” an expert said. “The matter was discussed with higher authorities. If the show absolutely must go ahead as planned, the government must take a decision on allowing the public. We believe the exhibition can go ahead for the first three days, but public entry should be restricted.” The expert revealed the Centre had taken a stand to conduct the show. “Even with health protocols in place, the event is a matter of concern,” the expert said. “Mysuru Dasara was made virtual. Why not make the air show also available to the public virtually?” another expert said. The Bengaluru air show is expected to draw 497 exhibitors, including 438 Indian exhibitors and 59 foreign exhibitors. Last year, 21 countries participated. Several safety precautions have been advised to minimise the risk of Covid-19 spreading. They include physical distancing of at least six feet as far as possible, mandatory use of masks, ban on spitting, frequent hand washing with soap for at least 40-60 seconds even when hands are not visibly dirty and use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers for at least 20 seconds wherever feasible. Participants are also expected to follow respiratory etiquette — the practice of covering one’s mouth and nose. Installation and use of Aarogya Setu app should be mandatory for all who have smartphones. The proposed SOPs also urge participants to self-monitor their health and to report any illness at the earliest to the state and district helpline. As per the Aero India 2021 website, all entrants have been instructed not to have close contact with anyone with any symptoms of infection. Venue providers must set up health and first-aid kiosks manned by optimal staff with adequate equipment like thermal guns and hand sanitisers at gates. All those who enter must mandatorily be thermal-scanned and must use hand sanitizer. Security and cleaning staff should use masks, face shields and gloves. To ensure physical distancing, organisers have capped the number of people in a 10,000 square metre hall at 3,076 at any given time; it could be 1,538 people in a 5,000 square metre hall. People above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay at home. Despite these precautions, experts believe the congregation that would turn out would be huge. They point out that the state government had reduced attendance in marriages from 200 to 100 people between December 20 and January 5 to prevent a surge in cases. When asked about the government’s plans for the event, TM Vijay Bhaskar, chief secretary, said, “We will discuss and take a decision soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ban-public-at-aero-india-2021-experts-urge-karnataka-government-citing-covid/articleshow/79671879.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Nagpur||Panel to monitor Ambazari bund repair||Nagpur: Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) has formed a 10-member committee to monitor the repair and strengthening work of Ambazari bund. It has also pulled up Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for being negligent towards the lake’s condition. Water expert Pravin Mahajan had filed a petition with the authority over failure of NMC to repair Ambazari bund. He had also pointed out apathy of the civic body towards rivers and lakes in Nagpur. During the hearing, NMC counsel Sudhir Puranik told the authority members — Vinod Tiwari, SD Kulkarni and Dr ST Sangle — that Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) has submitted a proposal for repairing Ambazari bund to the civic body costing Rs21.07 crore. He further stated that NMC’s standing committee would clear the proposal soon. The authority then directed constitution of a committee under the chairmanship of collector. Other members of the committee will be: municipal commissioner, executive director of VIDC, director of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), chairperson of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), managing director of MahaMetro, chief engineer of Dam Safety Organization, petitioner Pravin Mahajan, retired irrigation engineer Shirish Apte and hydrologist Kishor Warambhe. The municipal commissioner will be member-secretary of the panel. MWRRA secretary Ramnath Sonawane would be coordinating with the committee. The expenses of the committee would be borne by the NMC. First meeting of the committee should be held by December 20. The municipal commissioner will submit an affidavit to MWRRA regarding the first meeting, before the next hearing of the case on December 23. MWRRA members expressed displeasure over NMC’s apathy towards rivers and lakes in city. The authority’s secretary has been asked to submit a report on this issue within 10 days so that notices can be issued to concerned parties. Orders will also be issued for compliance of government resolutions (GRs) based on the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT) for protection of rivers and streams in the state. The secretary has also been asked to submit a file on condition of lakes in Nagpur — Gorewada, Sonegaon, Futala, Gandhisagar, Sakkardara, Lendi Talao, Naik Talao and Pandhrabodi — within 10 days. Orders will be issued for implementation of directives of NGT on water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-to-monitor-ambazari-bund-repair/articleshow/79668355.cms||Ashish Roy
December 11, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP bill gets nod, Bengaluru may expand by 1km||BENGALURU: Greater Bengaluru’s geographical area is set to expand by 1km radius with the Karnataka legislature clearing the BBMP restructuring bill on Thursday, reports Anil Gejji. If the move passes the government legal test, then the BBMP area will expand from 816sqkm to nearly 900sqkm after adding new local bodies on the fringes. The proposed expansion is likely to cover gram panchayats, town panchayats, town municipal councils, city municipal councils which house some major IT companies. This is expected to increase the property prices in the new zones. This would, in turn, bring in more revenue to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Inclusion of new areas will increase the number of wards from 198 to 243. BILL SEEKS SEPARATE LAW TO GOVERN BENGALURU WITH 30-MONTH MAYORAL TERM, ZONAL PANELSThe BBMP bill seeks a separate law to govern the city with a 30-month mayoral term, a chief commissioner, zonal committees. At present, BBMP is governed under the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1968. After tabling the bill in the assembly in March, the government referred it to a joint panel following objections raised by several members, including a few from the BJP. The government was planning to implement the bill’s provisions after the BBMP council’s term ended on September 10 and hold polls in the middle of 2021. However, the Karnataka high court recently ordered the State Election Commission to hold polls to the existing 198 wards and notify it in six weeks. The government is now planning to move the Supreme Court, armed with the bill and seeking more time to implement it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-bill-gets-nod-bengaluru-may-expand-by-1km/articleshow/79671868.cms||---
December 11, 2020||Mumbai||Two-wheeler registrations in Mumbai race to one lakh despite Covid||MUMBAI: Two-wheeler registrations at city RTOs crossed the 1 lakh mark in 2020 despite sales plummeting during the initial Covid lockdown from the end of March to June. Sales have picked up since, resulting in the overall April to December 10 period accounting for 65% of the year’s two-wheeler registrations till now. The registrations are still 50,000 short of the last year’s 1.5 lakh, though. Some say bike sales picked up after the initial Covid slump as motorbikes and scooters started being perceived as ideal for ensuring mobility following norms like social distancing. Currently, bike and scooter sales continue to rise at several dealer outlets ahead of Christmas. “What began as a turnaround during Dussehra continued till Diwali and is still gaining momentum,” said a dealer from Nahur. More women now buying bikes for running errandsThe density of two-wheelers in Mumbai is now 1,175 bikes per km, and their total number is close to 23.5 lakh, which is around 60% of the total number of vehicles in the city. In comparison, the number of private cars and SUVs in the city is over 11 lakh, less than half the number of two-wheelers. RTO data showed that not more than 4,000 bikes were registered between April and June, but the numbers spiralled from July 1 onwards, with a 200% rise in sales from July to December 10. The year’s maximum two-wheeler registrations were in the eastern suburbs (Wadala RTO) which had 29,986 registrations. This was followed by the island city (Tardeo RTO, 27,906 registrations) and the western suburbs (Borivli RTO with 26,712 registrations and Andheri RTO with 18,988). A big reason why people are buying two-wheelers is affordability and low EMIs. “Many prefer keeping bikes for personal use, social distancing and safe travel during Covid. I have purchased a new motorcycle for this purpose,” said Bhavin Parmar, a Mulund resident. “A lot of women have bought two-wheelers for errands ,” said a dealer from Nahur. “These give you more mileage and occupy less road space than cars.” Experts said a scooter or a motorcycle can also be a quicker and more manoeuvrable source of mobility. On the other hand, experts say they are also adding to the city’s traffic glut and adding to pedestrians’ discomfort. A V Shenoy from Mumbai Mobility Forum said, “I agree that bikes are a convenience. But many riders need to be disciplined and there should be stringent enforcement against those not wearing helmets, riding triple seat, speeding and lane cutting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-wheeler-registrations-in-mumbai-race-to-one-lakh-despite-covid/articleshow/79671959.cms||Somit Sen
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||Cops announce bounty on 12 members of PLFI||Ranchi: Police on Thursday announced bounty and released names and photographs of a dozen top CPI (Maoist) leaders and appealed citizens to provide information about them. This comes a week after the cops announced rewards on members of the outlawed outfit People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI). According to the notification, a bounty of Rs 1 crore each has been announced for Misir Besra, Prashant Bose, Anal da and Asim Mandal while Rs 25 lakh each has been declared for Chaman alias Lambu, Lalchand Hembram alias Anmol Da, Mochhu alias Mehnat and Ajay alias Ajay Mahato. Rs 15 lakh bounty each has been announced for Amit Munda alias Sukhlal Munda and Suresh Singh Munda. Rs 10 lakh each has been announced for Jivan Kandulna alias Patras Kandulna and Maharaj Pramanik. Police asked people to give any information related to these Maoist cadres to the deputy inspector generals of South Chhotanagpur and Kolhan ranges or the district police chiefs of East Singhbhum, Ranchi, Khunti, Saraikela and Chaibasa. DGP MV Rao said, “These extremists are against the development of the state. So we have decided to take help of the people to arrest and prosecute them.” In another development, Ranchi Police arrested two persons over misappropriation of funds of Rs 4.07 crore by members of SIS cash services private limited under the Sadar police station area in December 2019. The accused had fled with the money meant to be deposited in bank ATMs. SP (city) Saurav said Raju Kumar Srivastava and Prabhas Kumar were arrested and cash worth Rs 92,96,500, two mobile phones and other documents have been seized from them. Saurav said, “The cash was recovered from Jagannathpur police station area in Ranchi and Madhepura district in Bihar. The arrested persons were initially not named in the FIR.” He said further investigation is on based on the information provided by the arrested persons. Earlier, police had recovered Rs 2.57 crore and arrested four persons in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-announce-bounty-on-12-members-of-plfi/articleshow/79668248.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||7 killed, several injured in road mishaps in Ranchi, Dhanbad||Sindri/Ranchi: At least seven persons were killed and eight others injured in separate road accidents in Ranchi and Dhanbad districts on Thursday. Four persons died and five were injured when the vehicle they were travelling in rammed into a trailer from behind on Grand Trunk Road near Rajganj at around 1am. According to reports, the roof of the vehicle was blown away owing to the impact of the collision. The deceased have been identified as Salim Shaikh of Birbhum in West Bengal, Atikul Shaikh and Anjarul Sheikh of Maheshpur in Pakur district and Rahul Pandey, the driver of the vehicle who hailed from Varanasi. Navir Shaikh, Rohiya Bibi and Jabir of Birbhum, Manjarul Shaikh and Hasi Bibi of Maheshpur were among the injured and they have been admitted to SNMMCH in Dhanbad. Police said all the persons were construction workers employed in Varanasi and they were returning to their respective native places. Meanwhile, three persons were killed and two others got injured when the car they were travelling in hit a stationary truck laden with LPG cylinders in Jamchua on Ranchi-Jamshedpur National Highway on Thursday morning. Two persons — Md Afroz and Sumit Kumar — died on the spot. Police said they received information regarding the accident at around 6:05am. The injured were rushed to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences in Ranchi. DSP (headquarters) Neeraj Kumar said, “One of the injured succumbed to injuries in the hospital. The victims had come to Ranchi from Jamshedpur to drop their acquaintance and were returning to the Steel City when the incident occurred.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-killed-several-injured-in-road-mishaps-in-ranchi-dhanbad/articleshow/79668371.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Ranchi||Baby swapping charge at Giridih CHC, search on for newborn girl’s mother||Bokaro: A woman has accused the mother of a newly born girl of baby swapping at the community health centre (CHC) in Gawan block of Giridih district. While an FIR is yet to be filed in connection with the incident, Giridih civil surgeon Siddarth Sanyal on Thursday said a DNA test will be conducted to ascertain the real mother. According to officer-in-charge of Gawan police station, Dhruv Kumar, one Sangeeta Devi, who gave birth to a boy, charged another woman identified as Priyanka Devi of swapping their newborn babies. Kumar said they are trying to locate Priyanka, who delivered the baby around the same time as Sangeeta at the CHC. Civil surgeon Sanyal said, "We are looking for Priyanka and once she is traced, a DNA test of both the babies will be conducted to clear the matter.” Sources said Sangeeta, wife of Durga Yadav of Pathaldiha in Nawadih block visited the CHC on Tuesday for the delivery. After giving birth to a boy, she was allotted a bed in the ward where Priyanka, a resident of Devton area, was admitted. Priyanka had given birth to a daughter on Monday. Both the mothers and the newborns were kept under observation at the same ward. Sangeeta was discharged on Tuesday itself and returned home. She later found that the baby wrapped in a cloth is a girl and raised an alarm. Her family members rushed to the health centre and complained about the matter. Authorities of the CHC verified from the birth registration that Sangeeta had given birth to a boy. Later, Sangeeta and her family charged Priyanka with baby swapping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/baby-swapping-charge-at-giridih-chc-search-on-for-newborn-girls-mother/articleshow/79668199.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Didi hits Bhowanipore day after Nadda visit, hands over Swasthya Sathi cards||Kolkata: “Bohiragotoh goondader aatkan, Bangla ke bachaan (stop goondas from outside, save Bengal),” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday during a stopover at a ‘Duare Sarkar’ camp in Bhowanipore. “If you have the guts, conduct Bengal’s election with locals. Why will goondas from outside come here?” Banerjee said, taking on BJP’s “deteriorating law and order” claim on her turf a day after BJP national president J P Nadda visited Bhowanipore. “Nijerai nijeke thappor marche aar bolche Trinamool Congress jawab dao (They are slapping each other and demanding answers from Trinamool Congress),” she added. Without naming Nadda, Banerjee said: “A bhadralok (gentleman) has come from Delhi. I heard him say he is scared to go to a meeting. Why? With so many cars of BSF, CISF, CRPF, Army with them, what is the fear? They have no other work. Farmers are dying.” She further said: “Lies are being spread about Bengal. I ask my mothers, brothers and sisters: don’t you step out on the streets every day? They keep alleging there is no law and order in Bengal. They say there is no discipline, food or health here… there is only pandemic. They will not spend (on Bengal) but demand accounts.” “BJP,” Banerjee added, “is not a party of Bengal. They are a party in Delhi, a party in Gujarat. Let them sit there.” “We will look after the Gujaratis here. I know before every election, people from RSS visit your homes. We know whose homes they have been to. But we treat you as our own. We have never spoken — or acted — against anyone, and will never do in future,” the CM said. Alerting people to outsiders, she continued: “You all will not have a clue. Every neighbourhood guest house, hotel are full of people. Who are they? None of them is from Bengal. Why will outsiders come here before elections? We need to save Bengal from these outsiders. Keep alert about them.” “Jadu Babur Bazar,” Banerjee said, “is a cosmopolitan place. People from every region — Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat — stay here. You work here and Bengal has showered you with its love.” “Do not trust BJP,” she said, reinforcing her warning. “Didn’t you see what they did with migrants? Never paid a paisa of their train fare.” Referring to BJP’s attempt to implement NRC-CAA, she said: “As you may be aware, the voter list work is going on. We must do it seriously. BJP kokhon NPR, NRC niye chole ashbe (you never know when BJP will bring in NPR and NRC). We will not allow it in Bengal.” “Like ration card, a voter ID card is also an identity,” she added. “I would specially appeal to my younger generation — the country needs you; if you are 18 years by March and April, please enlist as a voter.” Attending the ‘Duare Sarkar’ camp, her second after Midnapore, the CM personally handed over Swasthya Sathi smart cards to three residents — Kalpana Ghosh, Laxmi Devi Razak and Sabita Mitra. “Till June, we will give food for free. We will be in the government even then. We will make food and health free,” she said. The CM told state minister Firhad Hakim that ‘Duare Sarkar’ camps should be set up in specific places so that it was easier for people to know about them. She suggested that the camps be spread across Kolkata neighbourhoods. Bhowanipore, which has elected Banerjee in the 2011 byelections and 2016, has been on the BJP radar primarily because of a sizeable 70,000-odd non-Bengali population. TMC retained the seat in 2019 Lok Sabha polls with a slender margin of over 3,000 votes but lost the ward in which Banerjee stays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-hits-bhowanipore-day-after-nadda-visit-hands-over-swasthya-sathi-cards/articleshow/79669788.cms||Saibal Sen
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata set to launch Navy’s advanced frigate on Monday||Kolkata: The year hasn’t been too kind but promises to end with a bit of cheer for the city and West Bengal when the Navy’s state-of-the-art and most potent frigate till date touches water for the first time at the Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers Ltd (GRSE) on Monday. The chief guest for launching of the stealth frigate under Project 17A will be chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat. Its construction resulted in employment to thousands of workers during difficult times and orders to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises as well as other industry in eastern sector. More jobs will be created and orders placed in the three-odd years that it will take for the frigate to be outfitted. “The order for the three stealth frigates at a cost of nearly Rs 19,289 crore is the biggest ever for GRSE. The ships are 149 metres long and have a displacement of 6,670 tonnes each. They will have the most advanced, state-of-the-art sensors and armaments on board. The ships will also have advanced stealth features. These frigates are among the best in the world and the whole country and West Bengal as well as Kolkata should be proud of this achievement. Despite having lost nearly 90-odd mandays due to the pandemic and breakages in supply chain, we will be launching the ship two months in advance. We hope to launch the second ship of this series in about 18 months from now,” GRSE CMD Rear Admiral V K Saxena (retd) told TOI in an exclusive interview on Thursday. GRSE is also fast-tracking the acquisition of new-generation sensors and weapons systems so it may be ready for delivery by the second half of 2023. As per the contract drawn up with the Navy in February 2018, the first ship is to be delivered in 6.5 years. “December is turning out to be a very busy month for us. Earlier this month, we laid the keel of the Navy’s second Survey Vessel (Large). Production for the first Anti-Submarine Warfare Shallow Water Craft (ASWSWC) will also commence in the next few days. In economic terms, we will certainly witness a recovery in Quarters 3 and 4 of 2020-21. Most importantly, we are happy to have contributed towards the generation of employment in the eastern sector during these difficult times,” the GRSE CMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-set-to-launch-navys-advanced-frigate-on-monday/articleshow/79670097.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||Tribal man killed over ‘witchcraft’||Jalpaiguri: A 60-year-old tribal man was accused of practising witchcraft and hacked to death at Bhagotpore tea estate in Jalpaiguri district on Wednesday night. Two middle-aged women were also branded witches, attacked and wounded. Seven persons have been arrested. The deceased has been identified as Mongra Oraon. The injured — Koreo Kewar and Chameli Oraon — are admitted to a Malbazar hospital. Sources said a few people took ill and died at Mainakhola village under Nagrakata thana over the past two months. Koreo and Chameli were blamed for their deaths. On Wednesday, a village mob barged into their homes and began beating them up. The women allegedly named Mongra as their mentor. Angry villagers first thrashed him with rods and sticks, and then hacked him to death with sharp weapons. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tribal-man-killed-over-witchcraft/articleshow/79669797.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Long wait ends, renovated Motera ready for action||AHMEDABAD: With so much buzz around the 1,10,000 capacity newly-built Sardar Patel Gujarat Stadium, Motera, the wait for the cricket fans here will soon be over. The day/night pink ball Test match will be held at the venue when England visit India in February-March next year. The pink ball Test, third of the series, will be played on February 24-28. Motera will also be the venue for the final Test from March 4-8. The game at Motera will be India's second pink ball Test at home, as they hosted one against Bangladesh at the Eden Gardens in 2019. BCCI secretary Jay Shah made this announcement during a Gujarat Cricket Association's function here on Thursday. "The prospect of becoming the first international side to play at the magnificent Motera in Ahmedabad adds an extra dimension to the tour and I know it will be something that is a highlight for both the players and management," said Tom Harrison, CEO, England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), in a statement. In a few months from now, ICC will announce the schedule of the T20I World Cup and chances of Motera hosting the final are said to be high. With all likelihood of Ahmedabad getting an IPL team after BCCI’s annual general meeting on December 24 to discuss the induction of two new IPL franchises, the excitement among the local fans has sky-rocketed. Just before the Covid-enforced lockdown began, disrupting all cricket activities in the country, star batsman Rohit Sharma had said that he could not wait to play at this ground in front of a huge crowd. Rohit said that he had heard so much about the stadium that he was eagerly waiting to be a part of the proceedings. The England tour will start with Chennai hosting the first (Feb 5-9) and the second Test (Feb 13-17). The England squad is reaching Chennai on January 27. Unveiling England’s tour details, the BCCI press release said Ahmedabad would host all the five T20 internationals (March 12, 14, 16, 18, 20), while Pune will be the venue for all the three ODIs (Mar 23, 26, 28).  The tour has been restricted to just three centres due to the prevailing pandemic situation in the country, said the statement. "The BCCI prioritises health and safety of both teams and will leave no stone unturned to make sure that the tour is held adhering to all safety protocols agreed to by the BCCI and ECB medical teams. Both the boards have worked closely to put together an exciting series that promises to provide high-octane action between two powerhouses of world cricket," said Shah in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/long-wait-ends-renovated-motera-ready-for-action/articleshow/79668712.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
December 11, 2020||Kolkata||After active cases dip, Bengal to release Covid beds at private hospitals||KOLKATA: The state government has decided to release Covid beds it had requisitioned in private hospitals since March, in view of the drop in the number of active cases and people seeking hospital treatment. The release will, however, be done in a phased manner. More general beds will be reduced than ICU beds, said sources. On Thursday, the government listed 13 private hospitals — among them KPC Medical College Hospital, Charnock Hospital, Narayana Hospital Old Building and ILS Hospital Howrah — from where it would start releasing Covid beds. As of now, Kolkata has about 5,800 active cases, down from about 7,000 during end-October. The number of active cases in Bengal, which had shot up to 36,886 in end-October, declined to 24,298 by end-November. The state had 25,280 active cases on Thursday. “The infection rate in the state has been declining since September and the number of people requiring hospitalisation has come down,” said state health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam. “At the same time, the government has also enhanced its own facilities. Therefore, it will only be rational to reduce the number of Covid beds we had acquired in private hospitals so that those hospitals could balance Covid and non-Covid treatments.” “In future, if the need arises, we could always re-acquire those beds,” Nigam added. The health department, in a circular, said the beds could be acquired on three days’ notice if needed. The health department has decided to start with KPC Medical College, where the government had acquired 200 beds for Covid treatment. Of these 200, there were 175 general, 13 ICU and 12 HDU beds. “We have decided to release 100 of the 175 general beds,” said a department official. Joydip Mitra, the hospital’s CEO, said: “The 200-bed Covid facility is a completely separate section. We will not be able to take in non-Covid patients immediately in the beds that have been released. But we will see how best we can utilise those.” Tapas Mukherjee, deputy managing director of Desun Hospital, said: “Covid beds in our Siliguri facility will be reduced by almost half. There is, however, no instruction yet for the Kolkata facility. At the Kolkata unit, too, we have been seeing a drastic reduction in the number of Covid patients seeking treatment. At the peak, we were treating as many as 140 patients at a time. The number has now reduced to almost half.” AMRI CEO Rupak Barua said: “We are yet to receive any intimation from the government in this regard. Even if the government withdraws the requisition now, we are going to continue with the unit. There will be no conversion of beds since it remains full.” Health department sources said its Covid management team was keeping a close watch on hospital requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-active-cases-dip-bengal-to-release-covid-beds-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79670993.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
