December 12, 2020||Chennai||Tanya Kothari was all smiles at the launch of Level Up pub at Ampa Skywalk in Chennai||If you’re looking for a new hangout in the city, here’s one for you — Level Up, which opened on Thursday at Ampa Skywalk. The launch event was attended by foodies in the city. The place offers great ambience and pulsating music. The place has ample parking space as well. The team from the restobar says, “Level Up offers a casual dining experience and serves modern American cuisine, authentic Indian dishes and European foods. Our kitchen is open for lunch through dinner. Our special range of salads, pasta, grilled meat and seafood are paired with beers, straight pours and cocktails.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tanya-kothari-was-all-smiles-at-the-launch-of-level-up-pub-at-ampa-skywalk-in-chennai/articleshow/79684637.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||The ninth edition of the London International Arts Festival is being staged online||Music lovers are in for a treat, as the ninth edition of the London International Arts Festival (LIAF) is being staged online. Curated by Bengaluru-based violinist Jyotsna Srikanth, the online musical festival features a lineup of artistes from India, UK, Sweden and Austria. About the festival, Jyotsna says, "LIAF 2020 celebrates many cultures of the global music scene, with an emphasis on South Indian music - Carnatic and allied forms around it. Over the years, we have had several renowned musicians from across the world - including India - perform. This year, because of the pandemic, the festival is online and concerts are being streamed from the artiste's respective countries. From Bengaluru, we have artistes like Vasu Dixit, Sitar Symphony, Mysore Chandan Kumar, Sampagodu Vighnaraja and Manju Drums Collective, among others, performing at the festival." She adds, "In addition to the Indian lineup of artistes, there will be Lena Jonsson trio from Sweden, who will be playing traditional Nordic music, Julia Siedl Trio from Austria who will play jazz and more." Safe to say, there's music for everyone at LIAF, which goes on till December 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/the-ninth-edition-of-the-london-international-arts-festival-is-being-staged-online/articleshow/79681852.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Gold sheets found in flyer’s suitcase||BENGALURU: Four gold sheets worth Rs 45 lakh were found concealed inside the panel of a suitcase being carried by a passenger who landed at Kempegowda International Airport from Dubai. Officials with the air intelligence unit of Bangalore customs said the 33-year-old man from Mumbai reached KIA on Wednesday via IndiGo flight 6E 096. Customs sleuths inspected his suitcase to find something amiss about the touch panels. On dismantling them, they found 4 sheets of crude gold, weighing 900gms. Koramangala RTO raided Acting on complaints that touts were fleecing people at Koramangala regional transport office, Anti Corruption Bureau sleuths raided the premises on Friday and seized unaccounted cash of Rs 5.9 lakh, driving licences and vehicle documents from six private shops. Ten shop employees were detained. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gold-sheets-found-in-flyers-suitcase/articleshow/79686174.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Ayurvedic surgeries done with allopathy doctors’ help: Experts||BENGALURU: Ayurvedic surgeries, which have raised the hackles of Indian Medical Association, aren’t new and are performed with a qualified anaesthetist as part of the team, several ayurveda practitioners said. A gazette notification issued last month by the Central Council of Indian Medicine, allowed PG ayurveda practitioners to receive formal training to perform 58 general surgeries, ENT, ophthalmology and dental procedures. The decision has caused uproar among allopathy doctors and IMA, which on Friday held nationwide protests against it. All ayurvedic surgeries are done under the supervision and with aid, if need be, of allopathy doctors, and the Ayush rule book allows this, say ayurveda doctors. Most private ayurveda medical college hospitals that conduct surgeries have a panel of allopathy doctors working with them. At JSS Ayurveda Medical College & Hospital, Mysuru, at least three major surgeries are performed every week and two minor ones daily. “For all these surgeries, we take help of anaesthetists from allopathy background. Allopathic antibiotics are used one day prior to the surgery and two days after it. A C-section delivery is done in the presence of a gynaecologist from allopathy background. This was allowed even before the notification. Why are IMA members silent about their own doctors working with us?” said Dr Sarbeswar Kar, principal & medical superintendent, JSS Ayurveda Medical College & Hospital. Dr GG Gangadharan, director, MS Ramaiah Indic Centre for Ayurveda and Integrative Medicine, says in many cases ayurvedic surgeries have brought solace to patients who didn’t find success with allopathy. He says in most allopathy hospitals, ayurveda doctors work in night shift and ICUs. “Then why is there opposition to them performing surgeries when they have been trained? An ayurveda surgeon gets eight and a half years of training before doing surgeries,” he says. With the new notification, ayurvedic surgeries need not be supervised by allopathy surgeons but can be done with anaesthetists’ help. “This has to be seen as integration of medicine...,” he says. Dr Anant Desai, project director, National Ayush Mission, Karnataka, admits ayurvedic surgeries were not happening in government-run ayurveda medical colleges due to legal issues. ‘Outcomes have to be proved’According to Dr Anant Bhan, adjunct professor and researcher in bioethics at Yenepoya (deemed to be) university, ayurvedic surgeries being done based on books written thousands of years ago need to be documented and the outcomes have to be proved based on evidence. Full report toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ayurvedic-surgeries-done-with-allopathy-docs-help-experts/articleshow/79686341.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||3 impersonated candidates for Rs 10,000 each in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Two more people — both private firm employees — have been apprehended in the case involving alleged impersonation of MBBS candidates, taking the total number of arrests to five. One of the three youths arrested earlier confessed they did it on a friend’s bidding and were promised a payment of Rs 10,000 each. The duo is Tanmay Bhattacharya, 24, from Kolkata, and Sharique Khan, 30, from Patna, both residents of Whitefield. Based on a complaint by Karnataka Examinations Authority, Malleswaram police had on December 3 arrested the three youths, including two girls, who were impersonating selected MBBS candidates during the document-verification process. They were caught red-handed on December 1 by KEA officials, who noticed differences between them and the photographs in the documents. The three candidates were allotted seats in BGS Global Institute of Medical Sciences, Bengaluru. The trio arrested on December 3 are Chaitra, 21, receptionist in a dental clinic, law student Madhu, 23, and choreographer Pooja, 24, all Whitefield residents. Chaitra’s revelations helped police nab Tanmay and Sharique.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-impersonated-candidates-for-10k-each/articleshow/79686343.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Nurse held for filming colleagues while bathing in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old staff nurse of a prestigious hospital, who allegedly filmed her colleagues when they were bathing, has been arrested. The suspect is Ashwini, a staff nurse who lives in the hospital’s women’s hostel in Whitefield. She used to send the footage to her boyfriend, said police, who have summoned him for questioning to find out what he was doing with the videos. According to police, the incident came to light on December 5 when security staff noticed a mobile phone capturing the video of a nurse in a bathroom. The hostel management approached police on Tuesday and filed a complaint against the suspect. According to the complaint filed by the hostel in-charge, Ashwini works in the hospital’s emergency wing. “Our security staff noticed a mobile phone kept on a window capturing a video of one of our colleagues while she was bathing around 6.45pm on December 5. We found the video when we checked the phone’s photo gallery. We were shocked to find several videos of many of our colleagues,” the complainant stated. The hostel authorities found the phone belonged to Ashwini as it had her sim card and contact list. She was booked under IPC section 354C (voyeurism).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nurse-held-for-filming-colleagues-while-bathing/articleshow/79686345.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Passengers stranded; auto drivers hike fare||BENGALURU: Lakhs of passengers, including senior citizens and children, were stranded across the city after BMTC employees staged a flash strike on Friday. The unexpected shutdown inconvenienced many, particularly office-goers. Several passengers waited endlessly at terminals and bus stops from as early as 6am. KS Chandrashekhar, a passenger at Byappanahalli stop, said: “I waited for a bus for more than an hour. Initially, I thought it was a traffic jam, but later learnt that employees are on strike. This is an essential service. How can they go on strike without prior notice? The state government is equally responsible for not resolving these issues.”  Many intercity passengers, who reached Bengaluru with luggage, too faced hardships because of the strike. Vayu Vajra airport services were hit. Pushpa S, who came from Hassan, with her two children at Majestic, said: “I need to go to Electronics City, but now there is no bus. I can’t afford to take an autorickshaw. So I am planning to wait here till 5pm for bus services to resume.” While some BMTC staff reported to duty on Friday, they weren’t allowed to run buses. In many places, arguments erupted between passengers and BMTC staff over suspension of services without prior notice. “I bought a ticket but now they are stopping services. They are not ready to return the money either. I can’t reach office on time because of this flash strike. It’s unfair to punish the common man, who is dependent on buses,” said K Chandru, a passenger at Majestic. Many autorickshaw drivers hiked fares by more than double. “They are demanding Rs 250 from Majestic to Shantinagar, when the normal fare is around Rs 100,” said Uma K, a passenger. However, K Manjunath, an auto driver, said: “Some auto drivers demand Rs 10-Rs 20 above meter fare because there has been no business after Covid. On Friday, many people were willing to pay because of the bus strike.” Some turned to app-based services like Ola and Uber, but there too, there were complaints of surge pricing. Many private bus operators and Tempo Travellers operated across the city to ferry passengers, particularly office-goers. Meanwhile, Metro saw a rise in ridership, thanks to the strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/passengers-stranded-auto-drivers-hike-fare/articleshow/79686387.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Union, mgmt failed to gauge resentment||BENGALURU: The strike by bus transport employees not only came as a shocker for commuters and bureaucrats, but also for labour union leaders. Reason: This was the first time state-run bus employees struck work without being led by trade unions representing them for decades. The KSRTC Staff and Workers’ Federation, which is affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and has been a familiar name when it came to issues related to transport employees, wasn’t leading this protest. In fact, HV Anantha Subbarao, federation president, is not in favour of making transport staff government employees. The federation’s stand has not gone down well with the employees. “AITUC doesn’t want us to become government employees as they fear it will reduce the strength of the union and their bargaining power with the management. But a majority of employees now want to be on the government payroll for a steady income,” said a BMTC employee. “In the government, periodic salary revisions are not possible. There is also no right to protest or fight for rights. But we have raised the issues faced by employees to the transport minister. Nearly 50 staffers died due to Covid, but the government has not provided any compensation,” said Subbarao. Thursday and Friday’s protests were mainly organised by little-known transport leaders with the help of farmers’ unions. Farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar and others extended support to the transport employees. “They motivated us to go for a strike and assured they will be with us in case of any consequences. We were overwhelmed by the response to Thursday’s rally. But we decided to go ahead with the strike when police detained our staff and the transport minister showed reluctance in meeting us,” said a union leader, who is part of the State Road Transport Employees Joint Associations Federation. “Normally, KSRTC management senses the mood and acts accordingly to resolve issues. But the current management is not proactive. In fact, the demand to make us government employees was pending before KSRTC MD for over a year,” said another employee. KSRTC managing director Shivayogi C Kalasad was unavailable for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/union-mgmt-failed-to-gauge-resentment/articleshow/79686420.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Government sensitive to workers’ demands, says CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday said his government is “sensitive and positive” towards the demands of workers from state-run road transport corporations (RTCs). Appealing to the protesters to resume work, the CM said: “You all should understand the Covid-19 situation and financial constraints and end the strike. The government will consider your demand once things improve.” To break the logjam, deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, who holds the transport portfolio, convened a meeting with leaders of the transport corporation staff unions in Bengaluru and appealed to them to stop the strike, but in vain. Savadi said a decision on their demand — to consider them as state government employees — will be taken after discussions with the CM and representatives of RTCs’ staff associations. The minister also assured that a compensation of Rs 30 lakh each to those who died while on Covid duty will be released in 15 days. “The government is sympathetic towards your demands. But we need time to discuss and decide. So, I request you to end the strike and resume work. People have already suffered a lot due to Covid-19. Making them suffer further is not good,” the minister said. In a statement later, Savadi said the union leaders should remember that the government had paid their salaries even during the lockdown when buses did not operate. “The four corporations have suffered a loss of about Rs 3,000 crore. However, arrangements were made to pay salaries of employees. In another state, there was a pay cut of up to 25 per cent, we have paid full wages...,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-sensitive-to-workers-demands-says-cm/articleshow/79686459.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid jab: Only 100 to get vaccine per day at each site||BENGALURU: The government has planned an extensive Covid-19 vaccination campaign, deploying five personnel for each inoculation site and keeping aside one room for adverse-effect observation after the shot is given. Each Covid-19 vaccination site can vaccinate around 100 people in a day. Also, the government is looking to utilise community halls and set up makeshift tents for vaccination in the later stages, given that each site will need to be larger than regular vaccination sites. These are part of the draft standard operating procedure issued by ministry of health and family welfare and shared with all states. States are gearing up to ramp up the vaccination infrastructure, identifying dedicated hospitals for adverse events following immunisation and specific vaccinations sites to meet requirements for Covid-19 inoculation. According to the SOP, each vaccination site will have five vaccination officers, including a guard, and three rooms — one each for waiting, vaccination and observation. TOI has reviewed a presentation made by the ministry at a meeting with state immunisation officers. Each person who gets the vaccine will be mandatorily kept under observation for 30 minutes to check for adverse effect and those developing severe after-effects will be shifted to a dedicated hospital identified by the state. Dr Rajani N, one of the immunisation officers who attended a two-day workshop on vaccination organised by the Centre, said: “The decision to have three rooms for vaccination is keeping in mind the need for social distancing. While the vaccination room will see only one person enter at each time, the waiting and observation room will have seating for multiple people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-jab-only-100-to-getvaccine-per-day-at-each-site/articleshow/79686499.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||On a Christmas sweets trail around Bandra||Christmas is a few weeks away but Mumbai has already got into the spirit of the season. The little markets and street-side stalls are dishing up festive fervour with decorated pine trees, shimmery buntings, twinkling snowballs and larger-then-life Santas and, of course, traditional goodies. One of the best places to enjoy the sights sounds and tastes of Yuletide is Bandra’s Hill Road. The place is all dressed up in red, white and green – whether it’s the store windows or smaller party shops and makeshift food stalls that come up especially for the season with homemade delights. Come here on an early evening to browse, shop and indulge the palate with all things pretty and festive. We indulged our foodie side here on a cool December evening… Milk cream, crunchy rose cookies and traditional cake 79683763Reach early to walk around and see what’s available and first get your bauble buying out of the way. The street looks like a beautiful wonderland with green Christmas trees, hanging candy canes, little figures for the trees, Santas that light up and smile and shiny drums as well as snowmen, to give out to friends and family. After you browse around for that, head to the stalls on the street corner for the traditional sweets! There’s a huge variety here from traditional marzipan to shankarparis, nankhatai, date rolls as well as crunchy rose cookies and kalkals, that are made at home with little oil. The milk creams in white and pink are another treat. While Surender Yadav of Le Braco bakery, says, “The dryfruit plum cake is popular here,” Cheron that is just a little ahead is planning a feast too. “We will soon be serving our assortment – cashew nut and-almond floral marzipans, walnut and coconut fudge, neories, traditional cake and coconut bolinhas, which are Goan cookies,” reveals manager Joe Cardoz. Christmas puddingMavourneen Peters of Mavs Cakes and Bakes at Waroda has finished her festive prep in advance for X’mas. She says, “People love the traditional Christmas pudding, the gingerbread cake with cinnamon, fruit mince pies as well as the mint truffles and sticky toffee pudding. We also serve a gingerbread tiramisu that makes for a nice twist to the original.” One of the must-stops is at the iconic American Express Bakery, established in 1908, where you can pick up the traditional Stollen bread made with raisins, candied fruit and marzipan. Yvan Carvalho of the bakery says, “The old favourites are here – we have the X’mas plum pudding, coconut toffees and guava cheese.” Kids are sure to love the jujubes and marshmallows. Don’t forget to try the authentic Goan baath cakes when you are here. It makes for an apt round-up to all that festive buying!||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/on-a-christmas-sweets-trail-around-bandra/articleshow/79683583.cms||Ismat Tahseen
December 12, 2020||India||Covid vaccine: Only 100 may get jab per day at each site, says govt||BENGALURU: Unlike regular immunisation drives that see hundreds of people being vaccinated in a day, the government’s plans for Covid-19 vaccination indicate that each site will be able to give anti-corona shots to only 100 per day. Community halls and makeshift tents may be utilised for vaccination at a later stage. From dedicated hospitals for ‘adverse events following immunisation’ (AEFI) to identification of specific vaccinations sites to meet requirements for Covid inoculation, states are ramping up infrastructure based on an SOP issued by the health ministry. According to the draft SOP shared with the states on Thursday, each vaccination site will have five vaccination officers, including a guard, and three rooms, one each for waiting, vaccination and observation. People to be monitored for 30 mins after inoculationEach person who gets the vaccine will be mandatorily kept under observation for 30 minutes to check for AEFI and those developing severe aftereffects will be shifted to hospital identified by state. Dr Rajani N, one of the immunisation officers who attended the two-day workshop organised by the ministry, said: “The decision to have three rooms for vaccination is keeping in mind the need for social distancing. While the vaccination room will see only one person enter at each time, the waiting and observation room will have seating for multiple people.” She said given the limitations caused by social distancing, it has been decided that only 13-14 people will be administered the vaccine every hour. “It has been decided, for now, that not more than 100 will be vaccinated per day per site given the logistical constraints,” she said. Of the five vaccine officers at each site, the guard will have the responsibility of cross-checking beneficiaries’ names on the list, and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. The other officers will check for government IDs, cross reference that with the CO-WIN app, ensure privacy of the beneficiary, ensure there is a female attendant if a male vaccinator is on duty, enable safe injection practices and help manage waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-only-100-may-get-jab-per-day-at-each-site-says-govt/articleshow/79687995.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 12, 2020||India||Leftist, Maoist elements have infiltrated farmer stir: Piyush Goyal||Food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tells TOI that the government is open to address the concerns of farmers, but adds that the amendments are meant to benefit tillers across the country. He also says the movement seems to have been infiltrated by ultra-Leftists. Excerpts from a conversation with Sidhartha, Vishwa Mohan and Akhilesh Singh:Given the stance that farmers’ unions have taken, what is the way out? If the farmers were genuinely being led by farmer leaders, there would have been a way out given that the government is willing to engage with them and is sympathetic to their concerns. Obviously, dialogue is the only way to find solutions. Sadly, despite giving an assurance, and after having addressed their concerns, there is really no issue on which they are agitating. Read AlsoPM Modi leads drive to create awareness on farm lawsNEW DELHI: In yet another attempt to allay apprehensions of the agitating farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday shared a video containing views of senior ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal on the three farm laws. Modi and other senior leaders have been maintaining that theWe have assured them that MSP will continue. We have agreed to ensure that states can levy the same tax on private markets as APMC markets. The government is willing to consider all sorts of dispute resolution. We have given our written confirmation that land can never be attached.. We have also said the law ensures that farmers will always have the upper hand in selling produce. We have agreed that all traders have to be registered, along with the agreements. The law opens up avenues without closing anything. It’s only expanding opportunities for farmers by allowing them to sell to whomsoever they like, wherever and whenever they like. It will allow entrepreneurs to set up infrastructure near their farms, while encouraging farmers to go for value-added products to increase their income. Going by the demand for release of so-called poets and intellectuals, who are facing serious charges, as well as reports in media, including your own, it is evident that Leftist and Maoist elements have infiltrated the movement. Media reports also suggest that some leaders over there have such a history. Probably, they are hell bent on disrupting this movement and creating chaos. Read AlsoFarmers protest: Govt asks unions to reconsider proposals, says its open to talksNEW DELHI: A day after farmer unions opposing the new agri laws rejected the Centre’s proposals, the government on Thursday once again asked them to consider the assurances offered and said it remained open for talks whenever the unions were ready even as they stuck to their guns and declared plansDid the move to bring up the issue of people accused under UAPA surprise you and did they bring it up earlier? I n the first meeting, there were just one or two sentences but after that, they never talked about it. It is only now that we see people holding placards at the protest site, and statements being made to this effect. Their concerns seem to be of a different nature which is a matter of concern. These laws are good for farmers across the country. You saw that the Bharat Bandh did not evoke response anywhere in the country. Trains ran normally throughout the day and we loaded 7-8% more freight that what was loaded on the same day one year ago. It clearly shows that they do not have the support of farmers, the visuals we saw on TV were of political party activists. Farmers across the country are happy. If the laws were so bad and APMC was the only option for farmers, then why did Kerala, which has either had a Left or a Congress government, not put the APMC Act into operation till date? Of the five leaders who went to see the President, two were Left leaders, who have no presence. Your opponents say there wasn’t adequate consultation on the amendments. These things have been under consultation for nearly 20 years. The day we cleared the ordinance, one of the farmer leaders said his father’s soul will rest in pe ace because this is the same law for which he had fought some 2535 years ago. These are demands made by farmers in 201819 through a document called the Kisan Manifesto, which the Bharatiya Kisan Union had tweeted on April 2019 and said this is a very comprehensive document, which details problems and solutions to agriculture crisis. In that, they had said abolishing APMC Act, Essential Commodities Act etc should be taken up and they will support, whichever party takes it up. Thereafter, they supported the Congress party. We have not abolished the two laws. We have opened up opportunities to do free trade, which was also an integral part of the agenda of the farmers. Consultations were held with all the states and, by and large, there was consensus. Sharad Pawarji had written to all chief ministers, requesting that the model law be adopted, which was on the same lines as the law we brought out. Then, there was a committee of CMs, the National Commission of Farmers, there have been reports that have focused on how it is the need of the hour to give freedom to farmers. It is unfortunate that some political parties are now trying to jump on to the bandwagon of the farmers’ protest. I do hope that the farmers will see through the design of these elements. Are the demands for repeal of the amendments and a legal framework for MSP nonnegotiable? There are a number of positive aspects of the law. Why should the farmers be deprived of the benefits of the laws? The country has to worry about the interests of 10-12 crore farmers. On the legal framework for MSP, Congress has been in power for so many years, the Communists have supported so many governments, at no point they made any effort to make it a legal right. The Modi government almost doubled procurement. It has increased MSP with a cost plus 50% formula. We are committed to ensuring that MSP will continue. How will the new farm laws increase farmers’ income as there is no guarantee private traders will pay MSP? Farmers don’t have to sell their produce to private players. The laws provide farmers with an alternative to government procurement at MSP. It does not replace it. Private players will exist alongside government procurement and will have to offer attractive prices and facilities in order to attract farmers. Farmers’ representatives are demanding withdrawal of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. How will the government address this? The government is willing to engage with them and is very sympathetic to any genuine concerns they have. Government has already said that the bill could be modified to ensure that there is no change in how farmers pay their bills. Farmers also have strong objection to the penalty provision for stubble burning in Delhi-NCR. What’s the government plan to address it? The ordinance was promulgated as part of the government’s assurance to the court to tackle air pollution in and around Delhi and NCR. The penalties are primarily targeted at menace of industrial pollution. The government has assured to address farmers’ concerns about the penal provisions. Farmers’ unions have once again threatened to go for a blockade of railway lines. How do you intend to handle the situation? I would appeal to farmers not to resort to blocking of the railway lines since it causes inconvenience to people, armed forces, students, MSMEs, farmers and consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/leftist-maoist-elements-have-infiltrated-farmer-stir-piyush-goyal/articleshow/79688107.cms||Sidhartha
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Covid, racial slurs keep Tibetans away from annual winter bazaar||Come winter and central Kolkata’s Wellington Square starts buzzing with shoppers looking to grab some of the best deals on winter wear at the numerous stalls set up by Tibetans who come down from the hills of Sikkim, north Bengal, Nepal, Tibet and other places. Popular as Bhutia market, the annual winter bazaar is a paradise for those searching for sweaters, shawls, jackets and a host of other winter clothing items. This is where even moderate bargaining skills can help you crack some great deals. But this year, despite checking all these boxes, the vibrant market is missing its soul – the Tibetans. Not just the pandemic, but the fear of racial discrimination too has kept them away from this decades-old practice. Fear of racial slurs bigger than covid Many Tibetan merchants develop friendship with the locals during their stay here. According to them, their decision to not visit Kolkata this time was taken in September itself. Rana Pratap Dey, who has been setting up a stall at the market with the Tibetans for the last 30 years, said, “When I called one of them, they said they will not be coming this time because of the pandemic”. However, the Tibetans have another reason to skip this yearly affair. Doma Bhutia, who has been participating in the bazaar for the last 20 years, said that on a number of occasions she was called ‘foreigner’ and ‘Chinese’ during her visit here. The fear of such racial slurs is all the more palpable in the wake of COVID-19 as China has been established as the birthplace of the virus. This has led to several incidents where people with Mongolian features and those from the North East faced harassment across the country. “I have always chosen to ignore such remarks. But ever since the pandemic hit us, the frequency of such incidents has gone up. People from North East India, Nepal and Bhutan are harassed and abused because some people think they are responsible for the pandemic,” said Doma. Besides, for the likes of Doma, hills are much safer than big cities where Covid cases are higher. “My family members advised us not to go to Kolkata this year. That’s why we didn’t even buy our usual stock of winter garments,” she added. We miss them, say local merchants In the absence of Tibetans, Bhutia market this year is being managed by local sellers who have put up stalls at Wellington Square. Most of their stocks are from Delhi and Ludhiana. While they have bought around 40% of their usual stock, the rest of the products are from last year. “Last year winter was short-lived, so half of our stock remained unsold. We are trying to clear it now,” said Rana Pratap, adding that sales have picked up this month. “Despite better business, things are not the same this year. This market is incomplete without our Tibetan friends. I hope they come back next year,” he added. Just two shops away from Rana’s, Selim Ali has put up a stall where he is mostly selling hoodies and jackets. He claims to be friends with almost all the Tibetan merchants who come to Kolkata to do business at the Bhutia market. “They would rent a house here for three months and leave by February end. Every year, we would spend those three months together, sharing. food and endless cups of tea. We miss them,” Selim added. Rise in demand for winter clothing brings the buzz back at city markets Not just Wellington Square, almost all the big markets in the city have noticed a jump in demand for woollens since the beginning of December. According to N Naskar, a shop owner at New Market, there was a dry spell after Durga Puja and Diwali in terms of sale. “But now things are improving at a fast pace,” he said. Shop owners at Gariahat market echoed similar sentiments. They said compared to last month, sales went up by about 20% in the first week of December and continue to increase with the temperatures falling. “We didn’t buy any new stocks this year. Most of these items are from last year. Things are looking promising for us now,” said Sourav Ghosh, proprietor of agarment shop in Gariahat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-racial-slurs-keep-tibetans-away-from-annual-winter-bazaar/articleshow/79685673.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
December 12, 2020||India||India: LAC face-off due to China’s unilateral action||NEW DELHI: In a fresh diplomatic flare-up with China, India on Friday asserted that the situation at LAC was a result of Beijing’s efforts to unilaterally change the status quo along the border in eastern Ladakh with actions that violated bilateral agreements meant to ensure peace and tranquility in border areas. India also asked China to match its words with actions when it says that it strictly follows bilateral agreements and protocols for border peace. Following external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that China had offered differing reasons for its deployment of a large number of troops at LAC, Beijing had said on Thursday that the responsibility for the 7month-old military stand-off lies squarely with India. India, however, said its position had been very clear and had been articulated on several occasions in the past. “The situation that we have seen since the last 6 months has been a result of the actions of the Chinese side which has sought to effect a unilateral change in status along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. These actions are in violation of the bilateral agreements and protocol on ensuring peace and tranquility along the LAC in the India-China border areas,’’ said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The government also described as factually incorrect China’s claim that it had to cancel the joint release of commemorative stamps to mark the 70 anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries because of a lack of feedback from India. While India had agreed to the proposal last year, no date of release had been finalised yet. “Itmay also be noted that the launch of the 70th anniversary celebrations itself has not taken place yet, and therefore, the issue of going ahead with joint activities under its ambit does not arise,’’ said the spokesperson. On the LAC, the core issues, the government reiterated, remained the need for the two countries to strictly follow the various bilateral agreements and protocols in their entirety. The two countries are currently looking to finalise dates for another round of talks between the senior commanders for LAC disengagement and de-escalation in border areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-lac-face-off-due-to-chinas-unilateral-action/articleshow/79688313.cms||Sachin Parashar
December 12, 2020||India||Centre calls top officials after Nadda attack, Bengal defiant||KOLKATA/NEW DELHI: The Union home ministry on Friday summoned the chief secretary and DGP of West Bengal for a meeting with home secretary Ajay Bhalla next Monday on law and order in the TMC-governed state against the backdrop of Thursday’s attack on BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy at three places between Kolkata and Diamond Harbour. Responding to the Centre’s “intervention”, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said his and DGP Virendra’s “presence” in Delhi could be “dispensed with” as the state government was “already addressing the issue with utmost seriousness”. The communication directing Bandyopadhyay and Virendra to meet the Union home secretary in his Delhi office on Monday followed calls from PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh to BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, who was injured in the shower of stones, bricks and glass bottles. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar sent a report on the incident to the Centre. Bandyopadhyay’s response mentioned the “elaborate security arrangements” made for Nadda. “The tagging of many vehicles with the con voy made the situation unwieldy because, typically, security authorities handle a convoy of a few vehicles only,” the chief secretary said, adding that three FIRs had been registered and seven people arrested. While two of these cases pertain to the attacks on Nadda’s convoy, the third FIR accuses BJP of trying to incite protesters along the route. Dhankhar said law and order had been “declining” in Bengal. “The CM is under constitutional obligation. She cannot depart from the path of the Constitution,” he added. TMC termed the home ministry’s directive “mala fide” and raised questions about the presence of “convicts facing multiple criminal cases” in Nadda’s convoy. TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee accused BJP’s Rakesh Singh of provoking people attending TMC gatherings on Nadda’s route. “Singh was travelling in a car in Nadda’s convoy. How could the BJP president allow a convict in his convoy? Singh has 59 criminal cases pending against him,” the TMC MP said. Watch Attack on JP Nadda convoy: West Bengal chief secretary responds to MHA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-calls-top-officials-after-nadda-attack-bengal-defiant/articleshow/79688429.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||Sonia, Manmohan to blame for 2014 poll rout: Pranab Mukherjee in memoirs||NEW DELHI: In the final part of his memoirs being published after his death, late former President and Congress leader Pranab Mukherjee may leave his party leadership squirming. In the book, he has blamed Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and UPA’s PM Manmohan Singh for the massive defeat in 2014 polls which brought Narendra Modi-led BJP to power. He also appears to hint that there was a view in Congress that he may have been a better PM than Singh. “Some members of Congress have theorised that had I become the PM in 2004, the party might have averted the 2014 Lok Sabha drubbing. Though I don’t subscribe to this view, I do believe that the party’s leadership lost political focus after my elevation as President. he writes in the book “The Presidential Years”. While Sonia Gandhi was unable to handle the affairs of the party, Dr Manmohan Singh’s prolonged absence from the House put an end to any personal contact with other MPs,” late former President and Congress leader Pranab Mukherjee writes in the book ‘The Presidential Years‘. The memoirs have also compared Manmohan Singh and his successor Narendra Modi as Prime Ministers. “I believe that the moral authority to govern vests with the PM. The overall state of the nation is reflective of the functioning of the PM and his administration. While Dr Singh was preoccupied with saving the coalition, which took a toll on governance, Modi seemed to have employed a rather autocratic style of governance during his first term, as seen by the bitter relationship among the government, the legislature and the judiciary. Only time will tell if there is a better understanding on such matters in the second term of this government,” he writes. Watch Sonia, Manmohan to blame for 2014 poll rout: Pranab Mukherjee in 'The Presidential Years'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-manmohan-to-blame-for-2014-poll-rout-pranab-mukherjee-in-memoirs/articleshow/79688489.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Vadodara||Barodians wake up to drizzles, foggy weather||Vadodara: Barodians, who were keenly awaiting winters, woke up to foggy weather and heavy drizzles on Friday morning. The unseasonal rains left some areas water-logged for some time. The civic authorities who are already busy fighting Covid-19 virus too were wary of the rains. “The winters were yet to begin despite we being in the second week of December. No one had expected it to rain and that too for so many hours. I was caught in a traffic jam briefly on the Rajmahal Road,” said Smit Pandya, a resident of Manjalpur. The Akota Dandia Bazaar Road in the city and the Sindhrot bridge on the outskirts was flooded by youngsters hanging out with their friends. District administration officials said that the city received one inch of rains on Friday. “The adjacent talukas like Padra, Dabhoi and Karjan too recorded rainfall. But no untoward incident was reported in the district,” the officials said. Farmers, though, were a worried lot due to the sudden bout of rains. “The paddy crop has suffered a lot of damage due to the rains. Also red grams and cotton crops too will suffer. I hope the government takes stock of the situation and compensates the farmers,” said Bhaskar Patel, chairman of Padra agriculture marketing produce committee (APMC). Medical professionals have also cautioned the people to take precautionary measures as such weather changes often lead to viral infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-wake-up-to-drizzles-foggy-weather/articleshow/79684216.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: 618 test positive in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar reported 618 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 2,42,152. Five deaths — three from Patna and one each from Bhojpur and Aurangabad — were also registered after which the state’s toll reached 1,312. Altogether six corona patients died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P). While 19 people were admitted to the hospital, 17 were discharged on Friday. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital where one patient was admitted on Friday did not report any death. According to the figures of the state health department, 201 people tested positive for Covid in Patna, taking the tally to 44,592. However, with 42,195 recoveries and 339 deaths, there are 2,058 active cases in the district. Corona cases were also reported from other districts like Gopalganj (59), Gaya (26), Jehanabad (25), Purnea (22), Nalanda (21), Bhagalpur (20), Nawada (20), Katihar (18) and Muzaffarpur (18). In a tweet, health minister Mangal Pandey stated that 674 people had recovered from Covid in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.3%. During the same period, 1,24,628 samples were tested. With 2,35,614 recoveries, there are 5,524 active cases in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/618-test-ve-for-covid-19-in-bihar/articleshow/79686255.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 12, 2020||Varanasi||Mother & daughter tie nuptial knot at same mass marriage event in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A 53-year-old mother and 27-year-old daughter tied the knot at the same mass wedding ceremony held under Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojna at Piprouli block in Gorakhpur on Thursday. The woman, Beli Devi, whose husband Harihar died 25 years ago, married her husband’s younger brother Jagsdish (55) at the ceremony where 63 couples, including a Muslim couple tied the knot. Her youngest daughter Indu also got married in the same ceremony. Jagdish is a farmer and was unmarried till now. “My two sons and two daughters are already married so with the marriage of my youngest daughter, I decided to marry my brother-in-law. All my children are happy,” said Beli Devi happily. Indu was married to 29-year-old Rahul. “ My mother and uncle took care of us and I am very happy that now they will look after each other,” said Indu. BDO Dr CS Kushwaha, Satyapal Singh along with other officials were present at the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mother-daughter-tie-nuptial-knot-at-same-mass-marriage-event-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/79685690.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 12, 2020||Patna||Sushil Kumar Modi opens new OPDs at IGIMS in Patna||PATNA: BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) and health minister Mangal Pandey inaugurated the outpatient clinics (OPDs) of the gynaecology and paediatrics departments at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Friday. They also opened two modular operation theatres (OTs) and a new ward of the ENT department. While SuMo promised to provide “all possible help to the IGIMS for making it a standard institution”, Pandey said the detailed project report for a 1,200-bed hospital on the premises of the IGIMS was ready. “This new hospital will be constructed in three years. Two other hospitals will also be built here,” the minister added. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal told TOI that the OPD of the gynaecology department would run in five rooms and that of the paediatrics department in three other rooms of the same building. Talking about the newly inaugurated modular OTs, ENT department head Dr Rakesh Kumar Singh said, “Now, we can perform cochlear implant at the IGIMS every day.” IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas claimed that all ENT-related facilities, including OPD, operation, emergency and ICU, could now be availed at one place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-opens-new-opds-at-igims/articleshow/79686259.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Recruitment drive expedited to improve policing in state’||PATNA: The state government is under attack from opposition parties over frequent incidents of murder, dacoity, kidnapping and other crimes in the recent past. Ramashankar talks to ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on the steps taken by the state police to improve the law and order situation in the wake of a review meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar. Excerpts: Have the police headquarters identified the crime-prone districts from where maximum incidents were reported in the past? Yes, we have identified the crime-prone areas and steps are being taken on a priority basis to improve the situation. The CID is working on it and results will be visible in the days to come. The CID is assisting the district police in investigating as well as preparing the list of active criminals /offenders.  Which districts have reported the highest numbers of criminal cases?Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Patna, Samastipur and Saran are a few districts, which have reported the maximum number of cases. The SPs of those districts have been asked to probe the reasons behind such criminal incidents. DIGs and IGs of the respective police ranges have been asked to review the cases from time to time and issue guidelines to the officers concerned. The performance of the officers will be marked in their annual performance report (ACR). Which districts have the highest number of pending cases?Around 100 police stations in the state have been identified that have the highest number of pending cases. Patna, Muzaffarpur, Gaya, Motihari (East Champaran) and some other big districts have the highest number of cases pending for investigation. The Covid19 lock-down during which the police had to play an important role, led to piling up of the investigation. But things have been put on the right track and the pendency rate will decline. What steps have been taken to improve policing in the state?Recruitment is being done at different levels to fill up the vacancies. The process for appointment of 144 DSPs, 4,533 sub-inspectors and sergeants, 20,954 constables and 1,722 drivers is underway. Instructions have been issued to expedite the recruitment process to minimize the gap between the national average of the police force and that of the state. Altogether 513 police stations have been connected with CCTNS and a database is being sent to the state as well as national data centres. The remaining police stations will be connected by March next year. To date, 49,709 FIRs have been connected with the database. Around 85,000 case records have also been digitized. What steps are being taken to contain crime in the wake of the review meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar?The CM's directives to improve certain things are being implemented on a priority basis. Night patrolling in urban areas has been intensified, two exclusive vehicles for patrolling have been allotted to each police station and senior officers are monitoring the patrolling. Of 2,573 vehicles allotted to the police stations, 2434 are fitted with GPS facilities. Patrolling by cops on foot has also been improved and accountability of the constables, as well as officers, fixed. What about the dial 100 facility?The dial 100 facility has been improved a lot. The police headquarters can receive 30 complaints simultaneously. Senior officers carry out surprise inspections as well. On an average around 2,000 complaints are received every day and forwarded to the police stations concerned. The response time of the police team is also being monitored. Has any specific task been assigned to police stations where crimes are being committed by people with no criminal background?The database of professional as well as first-time criminals at police station level is being prepared. The activities of active criminals are under surveillance. What measures are being taken to improve the quality of investigation? There is much focus on conducting a scientific investigation in the criminal cases reported to the police stations. There are plans to set up FSL centres in each police range. At present Patna, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur have FSL centres. There are plans to provide a mobile forensic lab in each district. The state FSL has a DNA test lab. The proposal to have an FSL training centre at Rajgir is also under consideration. A speedy trial will also be ensured with proper coordination between prosecution and investigating agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/recruitment-drive-expedited-to-improve-policing-in-state/articleshow/79685008.cms||Ramashankar
December 12, 2020||Business||Glass cos see rise in demand for pharma containers||Chennai: While Covid-19 has dented demand for some businesses, there are a few working overtime to meet demand and the glass industry is one such sector. Glass makers such as Schott, Piramal Glass, Borosil, and others report increased demand from pharmaceutical verticals for vials, bottles, and ampoules as hectic work is on for the development of Covid-19 vaccine. Though companies said it is still early to estimate growth rate directly related to Covid-19 vaccine, they are seeing uptick in orders from pharma companies, and ramping up capacity to serve demand. Borosilicate glass is most widely used to package vaccines. Production of vials is a two-step process- long glass tubes are manufactured first and tubes are then converted into vials, ampoules, cartridges or syringes. German glass company Schott Glass says based on the number of Covid-19 vaccine projects it is involved in, the company will supply vials for around two billion vaccine doses to pharma companies globally. The company makes both glass tubes as well as pharma containers in India. Murali Vishwanathan, MD - Sales Office, Schott Glass India, says the company is increasing its manufacturing of borosilicate glass tubing by around 25%. “In addition, Schott is ramping up container capacities by introducing new converting lines at our global production sites including in Jambusar, Gujarat,” he said. Three out of four Covid-19 vaccine projects that are currently in stage I, II or III clinical trials or in approval process or approved rely on glass vials from Schott, he added. In 2019, Schott announced an investment of $1 billion in its global pharmaceutical business, and this includes new pharma glass production tanks and packaging lines in India. Klasspack, a subsidiary of Borosil serving the pharma sector, saw rise in demand during the quarter ended September. “The company has initiated work on COVID related demand for vials… Apart from vaccine, there is also potential to supply vials for drugs such as Remdesivir, Dexamethasone and Nafamostat,” Shreevar Kheruka, MD and CEO, Borosil, said in the recent earnings call. Borosil has around 300 million vials as annual capacity and about 500 million ampoules as annual capacity, and Klasspack is operating close to 55%, 60% capacity utilization, he added. He told analysts he anticipates vials capacity to get sold out shortly, and discussions are also on for large volumes. Piramal Glass has also seen a surge in demand for pharma glass for adjunct therapies. Vijay Shah, vice chairman of Piramal Glass said the company will be able to “double its current capacity of 45 TPD (tonnes per day) to 90 TPD at a short notice of one month to meet any unforeseen demand.” Increase in pharma vials and bottles, and food segment helped bridge the gap in the first two quarters, when demand from perfumes vertical was down, he added. For the financial year ended March 2020, 21% of the company’s revenue comes from pharma vertical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/glass-cos-see-rise-in-demand-for-pharma-containers/articleshow/79686224.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 12, 2020||Business||Two-wheeler exports turn positive riding on African, Asian markets||Chennai: Indian two-wheeler exports have turned positive, benefiting from the fact that its target markets — Southeast Asia, Africa and parts of Latin America — were not as badly impacted by the Covid pandemic as markets in Europe and the US. Data from the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam) showed that this segment’s exports turned positive for the first time this fiscal in September, when it showed an increase of 9% (see graphic). October showed an increase of 25.6% and in November it was up just over 27% year-on-year. Indian companies exported 3,31,233 two wheelers in September; 3,71,013 units in October and 3,80,611 units in November 2020.The choice of developing markets is a big reason for the positive trend in exports. “Africa, Asia and South America account for around 75% of India’s two-wheeler exports (as of H1FY21) with Africa taking the lion’s share at around 40%. Exports to the US and Europe account for only about 10% of the total. Among the top 10 export destinations, only Colombia and Mexico rank among the top 15 countries most impacted by the pandemic. The other key countries — including Nigeria, Nepal, Bangladesh, Philippines, Kenya, Uganda and Congo — have comparatively lower numbers of Covid cases,” said Crisil Research director Hetal Gandhi. And while export volumes have been subdued in the first half of the fiscal, sales have increased in recent months and “Africa, Asia and South America have driven the increase in demand”, added Gandhi.Understandably, Indian two-wheeler companies are stressing geographies in a big way. Take TVS Motor, for which “markets such as Asia and Africa are doing well in terms of product acceptance as well as expansion of the network”. “We are also expanding aggressively in Asean, CIS and LatAm regions,” said a company spokesperson. Along with geography, the company is also pitching for a premium positioning. “We will look at premiumisation as one of the ways of increasing our profit margin in the international market,” the spokesperson said.As Indian two-wheeler companies scale up volumes, they are also looking to establish a global production footprint. Royal Enfield saw its international sales increase 96% in 2019-20. “We have recently established an assembly unit in Argentina, the first outside of India, and have plans to set up two more in Thailand and Brazil in 12-18 months,” said a company spokesperson. “Our goal is to generate at least 20% of our revenue from markets outside India.”The two-wheeler export turnaround comes after a dismal first five months when shipments languished. Overall, in the first half of this fiscal, two-wheeler export volumes “plunged by around 38% on-year, in value terms exports declined by 35% on-year,” said Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/two-wheeler-exports-turn-positive-riding-on-african-asian-markets/articleshow/79686170.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 12, 2020||Surat||Locals halt traffic on Ahmedabad-Mumbai highway||Surat: Villagers of Umbhel village in Kamrej taluka of Surat district on Friday halted the traffic on the busy Ahmedabad-Mumbai National Highway after a speeding bus rammed a motorcyclist of the village on the highway, which angered the villagers. Though, the motorcyclist escaped unhurt, angry villagers halted the traffic on the national highway demanding construction of flyover or underpass at the place so that accidents do not occur. The traffic was halted for an hour and villagers allowed traffic only after the assurance from the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to construct a speed breaker near the village within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/locals-halt-traffic-on-ahmedabad-mumbai-highway/articleshow/79685735.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar to chalk out tourism road map within 90 days||PATNA: The state government plans to prepare a tourism road map for Bihar within 90 days to tap into the state’s potential to draw tourists by improving infrastructure and facilities. “The state tourism department is likely to draw up the touism road map within three months, which will lay stress on the religious tourism circuit as well as promote geo-tourism,” said tourism minister Jibesh Kumar, adding, new hotels of national and international standard would be opened in various parts of the state and attractive roadside motels would also be opened. “The government is also contemplating to provide subsidy to entrepreneurs seeking to open hotels at tourist spots. More floating restaurants would be launched on the Ganga in Patna and other places for attracting tourists,” he said. Bihar’s enormous potential in geo-tourism owing to its rich natural resources is yet to find an important place on the tourist map of the country, primarily due to lack of infrastructure facilities at most of the important sites. Experts assert that many important sites can be developed to attract tourists from different parts of India and abroad. They point out that the oldest surviving rock-cut caves in India —Barabar caves, Lomas Rishi cave, Sudama cave, Karan Chaupar and Viswa Zopri caves are situated in the Bela Ganj Block of Gaya district. Carved entirely out of granite these caves have a highly polished internal surface. But there is no good hotel in the vicinity of these caves, which makes it difficult for tourists. “The Kakolat waterfall near the border of Bihar and Jharkhand is just 33 km from Nawada. It is a very popular picnic spot in Bihar owing to its beautiful natural surroundings, but its approach road has to be developed,” says N Dayal, a former director of the Geological Survey of India. “Karkat waterfall (located on Kaimur hills near wildlife sanctuary), Telhar waterfall (located on NH-2 in Kaimur District), Manjhar Kund and Dhua Kund Waterfall (located near Sasaram) are some other waterfalls in the state where geotourism can be promoted,” Dayal adds. Patna University geology department head Atul Aditya Pandey points out that Bihar is gifted with several hot springs, particularly in Rajgir and Munger areas. The temperature of water in these hot springs varies from 30 degrees to 70 degree Celsius. At the foot of Vaibhava Hill in Rajgir, there are about 22 hot springs. Sita Kund and Rishikund are hot springs emanating from Kharagpur hills near Munger town. He further points out that Rajgir Hills are known for their scenic beauty. Composed of massive quartzites the hills rise sharply from the South Bihar plains and extend northeast-southwest for some 65 km in two roughly parallel ridges that enclose a narrow ravine. There are altogether five hills named Ratnagiri, Vipalachal, Vaibhagiri, Songiri and Udaygiri. Environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh says all these spots along with several others need to be declared as potential geoparks. The state government must strive hard to ensure the proper development of these so-called geoparks, providing all modern facilities needed for the tourists and improving the link roads. “If geotourism is promoted in the right earnest, it would not only create geological and geographical awareness about these geosites but also yield huge revenue to the state exchequer,” Singh adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-chalk-out-tourism-road-map-within-90-days/articleshow/79686058.cms||B K Mishra
December 12, 2020||Patna||IB-like makeover for Bihar police intelligence wing soon||PATNA: The Bihar government is mulling over a proposal to refurbish the state police’s intelligence wing, Special Branch, on the pattern of the Intelligence Bureau (IB). As per the plan, there will be a separate cadre for the Special Branch, which will gather intelligence to help the Bihar Police maintain law and order and prevent higher incidents of crime. “There will be a separate cadre of the Special Branch. It is under evaluation whether fresh recruitment will be done or members will be drawn from the existing force and imparted proper training,” ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar told this newspaper on Friday. The decision to equip the intelligence wing of the state police was taken on the directive of chief minister Nitish Kumar during a high-level meeting to review the law and order situation on December 9. The proposal to give some special incentives to the policemen tasked to gather intelligence inputs from the field is also under consideration of the authorities concerned. Sources said if things worked on expected lines, there would be a dedicated force (plainclothes), which will exclusively work on intelligence gathering. “Since the nature/pattern of crime has changed with time, the state intelligence agency will also have to modify it accordingly,” a source said. ADGP Kumar said the proposal to revamp the special task force (STF), which deals with the Maoist activities and organised crime, is also on the anvil. “Instructions have been issued to make the STF a younger force. Commandos not above the age of 30 years will remain with the STF. Besides, transfer norms have to be regulated to make the elite force more effective,” he added. The police headquarters has also initiated steps to use modern technology and gadgets in the investigation of criminal cases and include them as evidence against the offenders during the trial in respective courts. “The police investigation has to be corroborated with scientific evidence, which will ultimately lead to the conviction of the real culprits,” Kumar, who is also the official spokesperson of the state police, told this newspaper. The ADGP said the issues related to traffic jam, visitors' gallery at all the police stations, toilets for policemen as well as visitors at the police stations and other facilities were being taken up on a priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ib-like-makeover-for-state-police-intel-wing-soon/articleshow/79685041.cms||Ramashankar
December 12, 2020||Business||Insurers may cut premium for healthy customers||MUMBAI: With the insurance regulator recently allowing life companies to incorporate wellness into their policies, life insurers are working on ways to reward healthy behaviour by policyholders on an ongoing basis. Tata AIA Life Insurance plans to bring its foreign partner’s ‘Vitality’ programme to India, while Max Life has incorporated wellness into a critical illness rider that it launched this week. The private insurer’s ‘critical illness and disability rider’ comes along with a ‘Max Fit’, a comprehensive wellness app designed to lead customers on a path of protection through holistic fitness and wellness. Under Tata AIA’s Vitality programme, the company tracks and rewards with lower premium those policyholders who undergo regular health checks, eat right and live healthy. “The idea is that the healthier you are, the more benefits you get. AIA has had tremendous success with this. In India, the regulatory framework had to allow such products, and this happened only recently,” said Tata AIA Life Insurance MD & CEO Naveen Tahilyani. Tata AIA is a joint venture between Tata Sons and AIA Life, the Asian multinational that was spun out of AIG’s life insurance business. Tata AIA has already filed the product with the regulator and is awaiting its approval. The private insurer has tied up with South African insurer Discovery, which came up with the Vitality concept. In India, it has partnered Practo and second-opinion consultant Medix. “We are working out propositions that we can take to our customers, like telemedicine and consultation,” said Tahilyani. The private insurer has increased its focus on protection and is now is the market leader in terms of new protection plans sold this year. “The protection gap in the Indian market is 90% and we are going to focus on retaining our leadership in this segment,” said Tahilyani. Besides serving as a value proposition for the customer, the Vitality programme also reduces risks for the insurance company. “It also provides us with lot of data about the customer so that over a period time we can cross-sell without any additional process,” said Tahilyani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/insurers-may-cut-premium-for-healthy-customers/articleshow/79686266.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 12, 2020||Patna||Signs of Gaya tourism revival||GAYA: The three-day International Buddhist Travel Mart (IBTM) organised by the Association For Buddhist Travel Operators (ABTO) which commenced on Friday passed an agenda for revival of the tourism business in the Buddhist circuit, particularly in Bodh Gaya. ABTO vice-president and president of Bodh Gaya Travel Association Suresh Singh said, “I presented the agenda on the opening day of the conference, which was passed by the participants.” The agenda includes installing a glow sign board reading ‘The Holy Land of Buddha’, on the Dhungeshwari Hills, around 7km east of the world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara and also to connect Dhungeshwari hills with Bodh Gaya through a ropeway. Apart from this, the agenda also proposes to connect Lumbini and other Buddhist sites with air, rail and road route under the 'Sister City' scheme, to connect other prominent cities like Bagdogra, Agartala, Bhopal, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and other with air and rail route, special assistance of central government to organise Bodh Gaya Mahotsava. There was also a proposal to open a medical college and hospital in Bodh Gaya. He added: “The agenda proposes air route connectivity of Bodh Gaya with Nepal, China, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Cambodia, Sri Lanka, Thailand and others besides beautification and renovation of the neglected Buddhist sites within the state in general and in and around Bodh Gaya in particular.” Meanwhile, on Friday, participants of IBTM arrived at the Mahabodhi Mahavihara in the morning and meditated under the sacred Bodhi tree. During the B2B business session, where Nang Nang Han from Myanmar was the moderator, at least 15 tour operators and nearly 50 other stakeholders of tourism business and the event management discussed facilities for the visitors at tourist places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/signs-of-gaya-tourism-revival/articleshow/79685208.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Business||Cloudtail profit up 130% in 2019-20||BENGALURU: Cloudtail, one of the largest sellers on Amazon India, saw its revenue grow 28% to Rs 11,413 crore in the year ended March 2020, according to registrar of companies (RoC) filings sourced from business intelligence platform Tofler. Net profit jumped 130% to Rs 68 crore. For Cloudtail, a joint venture between Amazon and Infosys co-founder Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran Ventures, this is the third year in a row for profit. Its spending went up 23% to Rs 10,511 crore in the year. Following changes ordered by the government, Amazon had to reduce its stake in Cloudtail from 49% to 24%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cloudtail-profit-up-130-in-2019-20/articleshow/79686140.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Business||Glitch at company sparks I-T department’s advisory||BENGALURU: Haryana’s excise and taxation department issued an advisory, cautioning businesses not to change premises or their principal place of business without amending the same in their GST registration. The trigger for this advisory was a recent event at Cloudtail, where the firm had moved premises, a joint venture between Amazon and Narayana Murthy’s Catamaran Ventures, and one of the largest sellers on Amazon India. The department has said it conducted a routine physical verification at Cloudtail’s business premises and found it to be non-existent. “Accordingly, a show-cause notice for cancellation of registration under Rule 22 of HGST Rules, 2017 was issued to the taxpayer (Cloudtail) on December 4. In its reply, Cloudtail on December 7, accepted they had moved their premises but were unable to amend their GST registration. The department accepted their reply and restored the registration of Cloudtail on December 8,” the advisory said. It added that should businesses choose to conduct such changes, they must amend the same within the prescribed timeline. A spokesperson of Cloudtail did not immediately respond to TOI’s emailed query. Earlier this week, Cloudtail had to temporarily hold all shipments from its Haryana fulfilment centre due to this issue. TOI has seen Cloudtail’s communication to its vendors alerting them of the same, and which said it was working with relevant authorities to fix the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/glitch-at-co-sparks-i-t-depts-advisory/articleshow/79686227.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||This story has been removed||This story has been removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/this-story-has-been-removed/articleshow/79685117.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Dead body without ID found in bus||VIJAYAWADA: The body of an unidentified, middle-aged man was found on the back seat of an RTC luxury bus while it was travelling with passengers from Vizag to Vijayawada on Friday. According to police, the super luxury bus made the journey to Vizag from Vijayawada on December 8. After reaching Vizag on December 9, the bus driver and travel staff carried out a check to confirm no passenger was left behind. Later, the same bus started its journey from Vizag to Vijayawada on Wednesday. Around 9.30 am when the bus was transiting Annavaram in East Godavari, passengers noticed a man lying unconscious on the back seat. The driver immediately pulled up and tried to revive him, only to realise he had been dead for a while. Upon information, Annavaram police reached the spot and checked his body but found no ID on him. “He had no pockets, he was just wearing a face mask, a blue lungi and a shirt with no ID on him. Going by his looks, we can say he might be around 35 years old,” a police official at Annavaram police station told TOI. Cops said they are trying to figure out how he entered the bus and the cause of death. Police also ascertained the man was not travelling on a ticket. The body was sent to a local government hospital for postmortem. A case under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) was registered at Annavaram police station. Meanwhile, RTC has launched an internal inquiry as to how staff missed a dead body in the back seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dead-body-without-id-found-in-bus/articleshow/79684695.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Patna||Left farmers’ unions plan ‘protracted struggle’||PATNA: The farmers’ organisations associated with the five-party Left combine in the state are gearing up for a protracted struggle demanding the withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws, which the protesters allege will facilitate the entry of large corporations into farming practices, purchase of produce from farmers and storage activities nationally, to the detriment of farmers. These organisations fear that the three farm laws will result in the further pauperization of the farmers, in general, as the sale of the farm produce at the MSP rates might not be available. They want the purchase of the farm produce at the MSP rates to be made mandatory. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), which has 250 organsiations of farmers from across the country affiliated with it, has already announced its protest programmes to be held on December 12 and 14. The farmers’ organisations of CPI(ML), CPI and CPM will hold their “emergency meeting” on Saturday at Kedar Bhavan on the campus of Janshakti Bhavan, where the representatives of the state units of the Forward Bloc and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) will also deliberate. The three major outfits are the state unit of the All India Kisan Mahasabha associated with the CPI(ML) as well as the Bihar State Kisan Sabha units of the CPI and CPM. “The standing committee of CPI(ML) will also hold its emergency meeting on Saturday to discuss the present and future programmes to be taken up,” CPI(ML) state secretary Kunal said. Both Kunal and CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar said the Left parties have only extended their support to the struggle being conducted by their respective farmer organisations. “The farmers’ organisations will also take up the issue of paddy procurement being conducted in the state. At the ground level, the Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS) are not procuring paddy from the farmers. The farmers are going for the distress sale of paddy in the open market at the rates between Rs 900-Rs1,100 per quintal,” CPM state secretary said. In the meantime, the students’ and youth organisations of the Left parties will decide as to what could be done with regard to the boycott of the products of the companies concerned. “In any case, it is an ongoing programme. Students and youths will decide the what and how of it,” CPI(ML) state secretary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/left-farmers-unions-plan-protracted-struggle/articleshow/79686187.cms||Abhay Singh
December 12, 2020||Surat||Textile traders set up Lok Adalat to settle disputes||Surat: Surat’s textile industry has set up an informal Lok Adalat in line with the village panchayat system for resolution of business disputes between traders in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) wholesale market.With the cases of defaults, cheating and outstanding payments rising post the coronavirus pandemic, the Surat Mercantile Association (SMA) launched an informal system to resolve their disputes faster.This Lok Adalat consists of a panel of 10 members from the trader community and legal experts known as ‘panchas’ to help the traders resolve the disputes. First such Lok Adalat was organized at Vesu where 34 cases, out of the total 87 were resolved on December 6.Industry sources said that the textile markets witness defaults and payment related issued to the tune of Rs 500 crore every year. This time around, there has been a two-fold rise in default cases with the majority of the parties in other trading centres across the country. Most of them are unable to repay the outstanding due to the losses during the pandemic.Narendra Saboo, president of SMA, who heads the informal Lok Adalat told TOI, “We have adopted the panchayat system to resolve the disputes of the traders’ community. Traders having dispute with their parties have to register their complaints with us and it will be taken up for discussion at the Lok Adalat.”Asked why the traders are not seeking legal assistance from the police or the court, Saboo said, “Majority of the traders don’t want to indulge themselves in legal matters and prefer amicable solution. They (traders) don’t want to visit the police station, fearing that they would be called frequently for questioning. At the Lok Adalat, we work with the legal expert to redress the dispute.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-traders-set-up-lok-adalat-to-settle-disputes/articleshow/79684516.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Patna||IMA strike hits health services across Bihar||PATNA: The outpatient departments (OPD) of most government healthcare facilities and several private clinics remained shut for 12 hours from 6 am to 6 pm on Friday across Bihar in response to the nationwide strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). The IMA’s strike call is against the Centre’s decision to allow Ayurveda doctors to conduct surgery. According to the Centre’s plan, Aurveda doctors would be trained to perform 58 surgical procedures. However, emergency and Covid-19 related services were not affected. OPD and elective surgeries were postponed. Several state IMA members protested at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital where patients could be seen returning. “Our motive is to make the government realize its mistake and not to create problems for people. We continued with all the emergency services on Friday,” said senior IMA member Dr Ajay Kumar. IMA state secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said the decision taken by the government to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgery was nothing less than playing with the lives of people. “Poor people will suffer from this decision. Will ministers and elected representatives go and get themselves operated by Ayurveda doctors?” asked Dr Sunil, adding, “How can an Ayurveda doctor operate without knowing pre-operative medication. Giving anaesthesia is an important part of the operation and only expert doctors do this. How will Ayurveda doctors carry out this procedure? These are the lacunae in the government’s decision and we will continue till this decision is rolled back.” Eye specialists across the state also abstained from OPD, informed their organisation’s secretary Dr Sunil Kumar, who said an allopathy doctor after years of training carries out surgeries. “We respect Ayurveda doctors and agree it is ancient to our country. But the government’s decision to allow them for surgery in a small duration of training will not be helpful,” he said. In various districts of Bihar, no OPD services were provided at many Sadar hospitals. Effect of this strike was visible at Bhagalpur where most private clinics, nursing homes, pathology centres and other medical establishments remained closed and the strike was being closely monitored by the local chapter of IMA. IMA (Bhagalpur chapter) general secretary Dr Birendra Kumar Badal called the Centre’s decision as za retrograde step. He said the majority of doctors had abstained but labour rooms, emergency surgeries, intensive care units (ICUs) and critical care units (CCUs) were exempted from the strike. Responding to the call by IMA and the Bihar health services association (BHSA), doctors did not attend patients in the OPD in the government hospitals across Gaya district. IMA Gaya district president Ramsevak Singh claimed that the strike was successful and said, “We had allowed attending only emergency and the Covid cases. We got the full support of the medical practitioners and almost all the private clinics remained closed.” BHSA regional secretary Magadh region Umesh Verma said, “IMA Gaya unit has around 350 registered medical practitioners. All doctors posted in government hospitals remained on duty. Although they did not attend patients in OPD only tackled emergency cases and provided treatment to Covid -19 patients. Since emergency services were being provided no untoward incident was reported from any part of the district.” Even in Ara, medical services were affected because of the strike on Friday. IMA (Bhojpur) secretary Dr Madhukar Prakash said, “The routine OPD services in the Ara Sadar hospital, primary health centres and at private clinics were closed. But the emergency services functioned and road accident victims, Covid-19 patients and victims of dog bites were given the treatment.” (With inputs from Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur, Alok Kumar in Gaya and Praveen in Ara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-strike-hits-health-services-across-bihar/articleshow/79686146.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 12, 2020||Patna||Fog continues to hit movement of trains in Danapur division||PATNA: Fog and poor visibility continued to impact the movement of special trains in the Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) for the second consecutive day on Friday. The entire New Delhi-Prayagraj-Patna-Howrah mainline route was the worst affected. While the New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express special (02310) reached Patna two hours behind schedule due to foggy weather, the New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti special (02394) was delayed by 90 minutes. Similarly, the New Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express special (02392), New Delhi-Bhagalpur Vikramshila Express special (02368) and New Delhi-Howrah Poorva Express special (02304) were also delayed. “The stretch from Kuchman to Buxar and the Mokama Tal area in Bihar are also prone to foggy conditions. Hence, trains are running at a speed of 60km per hour and track patrolling work is being carried out under the supervision of safety officers,” ECR’s CPRO Rajesh Kumar said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-continues-to-hit-movement-of-trains/articleshow/79685063.cms||Kumod Verma
December 12, 2020||Patna||BJP slams Tejashwi over formation of House panels||PATNA: The raging controversy over the constitution of various committees in the Bihar legislative assembly took a new turn on Friday after BJP, the biggest ally in the Nitish Kumar-led coalition government, asked the Leader of Opposition and RJD senior Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to properly study the ‘Rules of procedure and conduct of business in Bihar Vidhan Sabha’ before causing any sort of disruptions in the legislative works. “No one becomes a big leader by speaking a big lie. The Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav should properly study the rules of procedure of Bihar assembly. He should not disrupt legislative works because of his ignorance,” BJP senior leader and party’s spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said on Friday while commenting on the delay in the constitution of various committees in the assembly. Patel said Tejashwi should discard his stubborn attitude and send a panel of the RJD MLAs to the Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha so that the house committees for the 17th assembly could be constituted without any further delay. The BJP leader’s comment came a day after Tejashwi Yadav, through a letter, on Thursday urged the speaker to send him the names of the house committees in which the RJD legislators would be made chairperson before his party recommends names of its senior MLAs for the purpose. The Bihar assembly has a total of 25 committees. Three of them—the rules committee, the privilege committee and the general-purpose committee—are headed by the Speaker. The rest 22 committees are headed proportionately by senior MLAs of different political parties, based on their strength in the assembly. With 75 MLAs, the RJD is the biggest party in the 243-member Bihar assembly. The BJP has 74 MLAs. As per tradition, the speaker holds informal/ formal discussions with the legislative party leaders of different political parties and based on their feedback, nominates the chairpersons for different house committees. “During such discussions, the speaker usually conveys to the political parties the names of the house committees on which their MLAs are to be nominated as the chairperson,” some senior MLAs told TOI. “But this time, the speaker’s office is not sharing the names of the house committees on which the RJD MLAs are to be made the chairpersons, despite repeated requests from Tejashwi Yadav’s office,” the Leader of Opposition has revealed in the letter sent to the speaker on Thursday. “It has been a precedence that parties are informed about the house committees by the speaker’s office and subsequently the names of party MLAs are recommended based on their seniority, their legislative experience, their social status, the geographical location of their constituencies and some other important points, for appropriate representation in the house committees,” Tejashwi has pointed out in his letter. But as per the rules of Bihar assembly, the chairpersons of the house committees are appointed by the speaker. Commenting on the controversy, the speaker Sinha on Friday said he would form the house committees by consulting all stakeholders. “Traditions that have been followed, will be followed. The house committees will be constituted after taking the views of all. The committees will be constituted as early as possible. We all are concerned for the constitution of the house committees,” the speaker told a news channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-slams-tejashwi-over-formation-of-house-panels/articleshow/79686020.cms||Madan Kumar
December 12, 2020||Patna||Three Bhojpur villages to get liquid waste treatment ponds||PATNA: Three villages of Bhojpur district in Bihar are set to get an eco-friendly and technically suitable liquid waste management system that would also help in conservation of water. Indian Institute of Technology-Patna (IIT-P) and Unicef (Bihar), are technical partners of the project. The villages selected for the new technology are in Koilwar, Ara rural and Barahra localities, each having about 600 households. Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha said it is a pilot project. Most of the grey water coming out of the households after cooking, washing utensils and bathing go unused and this project aims for treatment and storage of such water for other common purposes. It involves filtration and purification of biological liquid wastes through plants, the DM said. “After assessing the results in three villages, the project will be extended in other villages of the district,” the DM added. An IIT team headed by Subrato Hait of civil and environmental engineering has already inspected the three sites and technical advice has been extended. UNICEF state consultant Nikhil Singh said the the concept of the project is to collect liquid waste coming from domestic drainage network. This will be connected with two major drains to be constructed on vacant government land. This major drain will open into a specially designed catchment pond of 900 square meters. He said another storage tank of 1200 square meters will be constructed at a little distance. The 150 square meter space between the two ponds will have a wetland with six species of plants scientifically recognised as microbial pollutant absorbers. “The four plant species selected for the purpose and locally available are Canna Indica ( Sarvajya), Phagmites austrialis ( Naarkul), Glyceria maxima ( Sweet grass) and Baumea articulata (Van Haldi), while two others will be brought from other places in consultation with IIT experts,” Singh said. The final meeting of the district administration with IIT and Unicef experts is scheduled on December 17 after which work on the project will begin in all the three villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-bhojpur-villages-to-get-liquid-waste-treatment-ponds/articleshow/79685135.cms||VK Tripathi
December 12, 2020||Business||Amazon Pay’s loss surges 61% in FY20||BENGALURU: Amazon India’s payments arm saw losses jump by 61% to Rs 1,868 crore in the financial year ended March 2020, from Rs 1,160 crore in the previous year, according to regulatory documents sourced from business intelligence platform Tofler. Its revenue rose 64% to Rs 1,370 crore. The increase in loss is attributed mostly to Amazon Pay offering incentives on the Amazon India platform and the expenditures towards promoting its Unified Payments Interface (UPI) instrument among new users across the e-commerce platform and third-party merchants. Consumers can pay through both the Amazon Pay e-wallet and its UPI product. Sources aware of the matter said the company has increased its focus on digital payments after the virus outbreak, which has accelerated adoption of online payments and peer-to-peer money transfers. Amazon Pay’s regulatory filing showed it spent Rs 2,212 crore for advertising and promotions last year, compared to Rs 1,423 crore in the year before — a jump of over 55%. TOI earlier this year reported Paytm had managed to cut its losses by 30% in 2019-20 to Rs 2,942 crore, while its revenue grew by just 1% to Rs 3,280 crore. Financials of PhonePe are yet to be filed, while Google Pay is operated through a Singapore unit the financials of which could not be immediately accessed. All these firms have been competing aggressively to gain market share by offering incentives and other discounts. For the financial year ended March 2019, the collective loss across Paytm, PhonePe and Amazon Pay was Rs 7,283, or over $1 billion, an increase of 167% compared to the year before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-pays-loss-surges-61-in-fy20/articleshow/79686251.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ravneet Singh Bittu on dharna at Jantar Mantar alleges harassment by cops||LUDHIANA: Member of Parliament from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu, who has been on a dharna outside Jantar Mantar in New Delhi for the past five days in support of the agitating farmers, on Friday alleged that he and other Congress leaders camping with him are being harassed by the Delhi Police. Bittu said on Thursday late night, some policemen tried to remove their tarpaulin shed close to the footpath, under which he and other leaders spend the cold winter nights. The Ludhiana MP, along with other Congress leaders from Punjab, including MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, MLAs Jasbir Singh Dimpa and Kulbir Singh Zira, are camping in the national capital to demand convening of a special session of Parliament to repeal the contentious farm laws. Speaking to TOI, Bittu said, “We are camping here to wake up the central government. It has become deaf and dumb to the farmers’ demands, and instead of repealing the three anti-farmer laws, the Union ministers are only offering lollipops to the poor farmers. To express solidarity with the farmers, who are braving all odds and sitting on dharna outside Delhi, we decided to sit outside Jantar Mantar and support our farmers until the central government repeals these black laws.” He said they have been sitting on a silent protest for five days, but PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah do not seem to like this, so now the Delhi Police has started playing tactics to demoralise and forcibly evict them from there. “Earlier, they were only trying to scare the visitors, who used to come here to express their support to us, by keeping a watch on the movement of each visitor. But, the officials crossed all limits on Thursday night, when they forcibly tried to remove the tarpaulin over our heads. They are trying to create psychological pressure, so that we end our protest, but we will keep sitting here under all circumstances.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-on-dharna-at-jantar-mantar-alleges-harassment-by-cops/articleshow/79684700.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Patna||ER: Two pairs of New Delhi-bound trains cancelled||BHAGALPUR: With visibility dropping due to dense fog, the Eastern Railway (ER) has decided to cancel two pairs of Delhi-bound trains from December 16 to February 2, 2021. The Malda-Bhagalpur-Delhi Farakka Express (03483), which runs via Faizabad, will be cancelled from December 16 to January 31, 2021 and the Delhi-Bhagalpur-Malda Farakka Express (03484) from December 18 to February 2. The Malda-Bhagalpur-Delhi Farakka Express (03413) that runs via Sultanpur will remain cancelled from December 17 to January 31 and the Delhi-Bhagalpur-Malda Farakka Express (03414) from December 19 to February 1. The cancellation of these trains is likely to affect a sizeable number of passengers in West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Bhagalpur, Banka, Naugachia, Munger and Lakhisarai. According to an ER official, the step has been taken to avoid any untoward incident due to poor visibility and ensure the safety of the passengers. “We have started informing the passengers about the status of the trains and their cancellation,” the official told this newspaper on Friday. Members of the Eastern Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries (EBCCI), however, expressed disappointment over the cancellation of trains because of the “limited options” amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Former president of EBCCI, Shailendra Kumar Saraf, said, “At a time when technology is progressing at a staggering rate, cancellation of trains exposes the poor service of the railways.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/er-two-pairs-of-new-delhi-bound-trains-cancelled/articleshow/79685112.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||Obscene posters pasted at 40-year-old widow’s house with intent to defame her; FIR lodged||PILIBHIT: Police have lodged an FIR against unidentified accused for attempting to defame a 40-year-old widow in Pilibhit. According to the victim, who is the mother to a 16-year-girl and an 18-year-old boy, the derogatory bid was aimed at defaming her in the society. The victim, a resident of Pilibhit city, said she had found the handwritten poster at her house in the morning a week ago and later removed it. But she was compelled to take up the matter with the police when the same poster with "highly obscene comments" was pasted on the front door of her house, she said. SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said an FIR was lodged against the unidentified accused under sections 509 (intent to insult the modesty of any woman) of the IPC. "The victim was advised to install a CCTV camera at her main gate so that the picture of the accused could be captured," Dwivedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/obscene-posters-pasted-at-40-year-old-widows-house-with-intent-to-defame-her-fir-lodged/articleshow/79684705.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Three held in Vijayawada for duping youths with fake job promise||VIJAYAWADA: Police at Krishna Lanka police station limits on Friday arrested three people including the managing director of a private company for allegedly cheating hundreds of students under the guise of securing them jobs. According to Krishna Lanka police, they received a mass complaint from around 50 youths claiming they had been cheated by a private company, Global Facilities, headquartered in Labbibet. Police said while the complaint filed was by around 50 people, a list submitted includes over 300 students who they claim are victims as well. The company had collected amounts ranging from Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh from each jobseeker, promising them employment on an outsourcing basis. The scam is pegged at around Rs 2 crore, but police said the amount could increase as they are yet to verify all students mentioned on the list. Police arrested Global Facilities MD Kishore Reddy, manager Ravi Verma and another employee Srinivas. Preliminary inquiry revealed Global Facilities had tied up with another company, JR Projects in Hyderabad, which police said will be investigated to ascertain their role in the alleged fraud. A cheating case was registered against Global Facilities management at Krishna Lanka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-held-for-duping-youths-with-fake-job-promise/articleshow/79684722.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP general secretary says farmers being misled||CHANDIGARH: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday described protests against the three recent farm laws as the fallout of a “misleading and deceptive narrative” which had spread misunderstanding among farmers. Urging farmers to withdraw their protest after the central government had promised to make seven amendments to the farm laws, keeping in view the objections raised by farmer leaders, Chugh said farmers should not get misled with false propaganda. He said seven undertakings given by the central government, which included that the minimum support price (MSP) and mandis would continue as they were, should dispel all doubts of farmers and they should repose faith in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chugh also said the Modi government had all along been empowering farmers sincerely, so their income was doubled and agriculture became profitable. The BJP leader said these reforms would boost investment in agriculture, through better assured prices, and contracts for farm services. In contract farming, the agreement is made between the farmer and buyer even before the crop is sown, he said. “Farmer already knows what MSP he can get for his crop. So, the farmer will negotiate a price above the MSP,” said Chugh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-gen-secy-says-farmers-being-misled/articleshow/79686646.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Rich nations refuse to waive IP rights on Covid-19 vaccines at WTO||Mumbai/New Delhi: The World Trade Organization (WTO) members failed to reach a consensus on the “landmark” proposal submitted by India and South Africa in October for a temporary waiver of intellectual property on Covid-19 drugs and vaccines. At the formal meeting of the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Council on Thursday, members agreed to keep the item on the agenda of future TRIPS Council meetings to allow for further discussions on the submission, sources close to the deliberations said. The proposal which earlier had the support of nearly 100 countries, barring multiple wealthy nations, has been sought in the wake of challenges of developing nations in accessing crucial Covid-19 medical products, including diagnostics. Thursday’s meeting was the continuation of long and comprehensive discussions initially held at the formal TRIPS Council meeting on October 15-16, and subsequently at informal meetings on November 20 and December 3. Members highlighted in those meetings the common goal of providing access to high-quality, safe, effective and affordable vaccines and medicines, exchanged views, sought clarifications and provided information on the waiver request but did not reach consensus, sources added. India emphasized that this is not a proposal only for the two countries but for the global community at large. India may have the required manufacturing capacity and national legislations to cater to its needs, but in a global pandemic, where every country is equally affected, we need a global solution, the Indian delegate said. India challenged the assertion that the system provides sufficient tools to ensure swift and equitable access to vaccines and medical products for all, questioning for example the functionality and effectiveness of TRIPS flexibilities as contemplated in Article 31 on compulsory licences, as these licences must be issued on a case by case, country by country basis, and according to national patent law procedures and practices. It is an impractical option, India said, taking into consideration the need for regional and international collaboration to scale up the supply and the need to source materials from various countries, and also the need for economies of scale to make such manufacturing viable. Further, the chair of the TRIPS Council, ambassador Xolelwa Mlumbi-Peter of South Africa, said there was emerging agreement that the TRIPS Council should provide a communication to the General Council that would be neutral and factual, and reflect the state of play of discussions and the absence of consensus on the waiver proposal in the TRIPS Council at this time. As per WTO rules, waivers concerning WTO agreements must be submitted initially to the relevant Council which has 90 days to submit a report to the Ministerial Conference or, in its absence as it is the case this year, to the General Council. Given that this proposal was initially submitted on October 2, the 90-day time-period expires on December 31, and the next meeting of the General Council will be the last opportunity for members to take a formal decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rich-nations-refuse-to-waive-ip-rights-on-covid-19-vaccines-at-wto/articleshow/79682142.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation cuts treatment rates for private beds||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has reduced the ceiling for Covid-19 treatment in private hospital by 11% to 20% across all units. However, the rates for AMC quota beds have remained unchanged. Earlier, the cost of Covid treatment varied from Rs 9,000 to 21,800 per day, but with the revised rate the cost would be Rs 8,100 to Rs 17,500. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary forest and environment, who is in-charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, said, “The issue of rate revision was under active consideration of AMC and multiple rounds of discussion were held with Ahmedabad Hospital and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) and Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA). The AMC, after the meeting held on Friday, has reduced the rates for Covid treatment in 30 hospitals where 50% of the beds are reserved for patients referred by AMC, and another 50% were reserved for private patients. In 79 hospitals there will be no AMC beds any more and the treatment will be 100% on private basis. The AMC officials said that the new rates per day do not include costs of medicine, special doctor visit fee, specialized lab test and dialysis. The rates declared by AMC included two meals, breakfast, evening tea and snacks among other charges. The AMC had on May 16 this year acquired 50% of beds in approved private hospitals and so far has designated 109 hospitals across the city for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Financial pressure eased: Dr Bharat GadhviDr Bharat Gadhvi, the president of AHNA, said that the reduction in the cost of treatment will reduce the financial burden to an extent and help more patients avail of treatment in the private set-up. “The daily hospitalization cost has been reduced up to 20%,” he said. Currently, over 100 private hospitals are treating Covid-19 patients in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-cuts-treatment-rates-for-private-beds/articleshow/79685810.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corporation cuts its quota of beds in private hospitals by 18%||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has reduced its bed quota in private hospitals from 1,745 to 1,429, a reduction of 18%. The AMC will now have its 50% bed quota only in 30 hospitals in the city.The AMC on Friday declared the list of those 30 hospitals where the AMC will admit its patients on civic body quota beds. Of these, eight hospitals (the most) are in West Zone including Navrangpura (four hospitals), Sabarmati, Vasna one each and two in Chandkheda. In the North West Zone, there are six hospitals — two in Gota, three in Bodakdev, and one in Thaltej. In the South West Zone there are two hospitals in Jodhpur, and one each in Sarkhej and Ghuma. AMC quota hospitals in others zones include three in North Zone, two each in Central and South zones and five in East Zone.The officials said that since November, the AMC has been adding beds, but all these were requisitioned in private hospitals and reserved for private patients on paid basis. The officials said that in all, the AMC has designated 5,379 beds in private hospitals of which 3,950 are private quota and only 1,450 are AMC quota beds.A senior officer said that with the number of active cases nearly 2,500 including private patients and those quarantined in home, the AMC was forced to pay the hospitals for keeping beds empty and this was putting additional financial burden on the city exchequer.The officer said this is why the civic body has removed hospitals with less than 30 beds from its list and has only kept big hospitals. A senior officer said the AMC has also put a rider that if required it can acquire all the beds in these hospitals.However, this would not be required as the city already has 1,200 Covid beds in SVP Hospital, 2,000 beds in Civil Hospitals and 100 beds in Gandhinagar civil reserved for AMC patients apart from beds in Sola Hospital.The officials said that the AMC may need to acquire more beds only if its quota of 1,450 beds gets exhausted in private hospital and even the 3,000-odd beds in government hospitals are filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corporation-cuts-its-quota-of-beds-in-private-hospitals-by-18/articleshow/79685822.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 12, 2020||Rajkot||Man arrested for firing in marriage function at Halvad||Rajkot: A man was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly firing in the air in a marriage function in Khod village of Halvad taluka in Morbi district on Wednesday. Police took action in this connection after a video of the incident went viral on WhatsApp and social media. The organizers of the marriage function were also booked for not maintaining social distancing.Police said the accused, Ramesh Mahaliya (35), fired two rounds from his 12 bore gun in the garba dance party as part of the marriage festivity on Wednesday night. “After the video of the incident went viral, we found that the firing had taken place in Khod village. Mahaliya had opened fire in the air at the garba party of the marriage of his nephew Mansukh Mahaliya,” said P A Dekivadia, inspector with Halvad Police Station. It also came to our notice that there were nearly 200 people at the function which is against the Covid-19 norm, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-arrested-for-firing-in-marriage-function-at-halvad/articleshow/79684807.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Farm laws do not reform agriculture, but cater to corporate interests’||Dr Sukhpal Singh | principal economist (agricultural marketing) and former head, economics and sociology department, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) The new agri-reforms propose a ‘two-market system’, but these might be the foundation of ‘one nation one market’. It would lead to the end of the prevailing regulated market system (APMC), which will have grave consequences for the already meagre farm income and the state revenue. The economic settings of the farmers and funding for developing marketing yards, rural link road network system and various other rural developmental activities are a few ramifications. These reforms will also distort the federal structure of the country. To counter these, many states like Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have either modified or repealed these acts. The hidden agenda is to create a surplus pool of workers to be shifted to urban areas as cheap labour, and take control of the farm sector of agriculturally developed economies. Instead of increasing the efficiency of the existing marketing system, the government acted otherwise. The objective here was not reforming agriculture, but catering to corporate interests. Thus, despite the fact that all the farmers and farmworkers have been opposing these acts, the central government is not ready to budge much. The need of the hour is to save the vulnerable peasantry, which is indebted, depeasantised and is committing suicides. In such a situation, there is a need to evolve our own indigenous model based on our resources, skill, culture and requirements for the country. Dr M S Sidhu | former professor of agri- economics at PAU Procurement of wheat and paddy under MSP had proved to be beneficial for farmers, government, consumers and the processing industry for the last more than 30 years. This should continue. It is assumed that godowns are filled with grains, but in emergency situations like droughts, all the stock will be consumed. The public procurement should continue as food security of a country is very important and cannot be given to private companies. Small and contract farmers will be the most affected and they will be ignored. Kamaldeep Sangha | principal entomologist, forestry and natural resources department, PAU The farm laws will be the death knell for the marginal and small farmers. These farmers constitute 86% of the farmers in India. They can neither take their produce to other state markets for selling nor has the ability to store his produce or hold it for selling at later date at a higher price. They cannot compete with corporate houses. The dismantling of APMC mandis is likely to reduce the income of state government as well, which is used for building infrastructure. The Essential Commodities Act will aid hoarding and give impetus to price manipulation by traders. This would also lead to higher prices for consumers. The amendments suggested by the central government are merely cosmetic and do not address the fundamental flaws in the acts. Dr Sita Saini | Professor of computer science and engineering, Gulzar Group of Institutes, Khanna Not only Punjab or India, but the whole world is supporting farmers’protest against the three farm acts passed by the government. As agriculture is the largest source of livelihood in India, as an academician I also support this protest strongly. We are in touch with a few farmers who are at Delhi for the protest. We, few teachers together, are sending them medicines and ration as per their needs. The government should consider the demand of farmers and give serious thought to these acts on highest priority. Kapil Arora, President | Council of Engineers, Punjab Those who are in favour of these agricultural reforms should first compare the financial condition of farmers in states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where mandi system has been abolished, with farmers from Punjab and Haryana. One should also compare the amount being paid to farmers for non-essential commodities vis a vis value of such produces sold to consumers. The crops that are under controlled by the central government, i.e. listed under essential commodities, the farmers as well as consumers (citizens) are satisfied. So, I strongly stand with farmers and all three agricultural reform bills should be repealed by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-laws-do-not-reform-agriculture-but-cater-to-corporate-interests/articleshow/79684740.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Trichy||6 booked for aborting pregnancy sans consent||Trichy: Trichy rural police registered a case against six people including two doctors for allegedly performing abortion on a 35-year-old unmarried woman in Trichy on Thursday. Police booked Soosai, 58, of Thoppupatti, Arockiyamary, Savarimuthu, Ponnukalai alias Manivel of the same area, a woman doctor and her doctor husband of a private hospital in Manapparai. Soosai was booked on charges of raping and impregnating the woman, while the others were booked for causing miscarriage without her consent. The woman was a housemaid at Soosai’s residence. Soosai had sexual relationship with her till four months ago, allegedly on the false promise of marrying her, resulting in her pregnancy. As she made an issue, Soosai’s family members took her to a private hospital in Manapparai to abort her pregnancy on Thursday. On coming to know of the matter, the woman’s relative informed the Vaiyampatti police about it. Acting on her complaint, the police registered a case of rape, causing miscarriage without consent under IPC and Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act. The police said on Friday that the case was booked based on her complaint but there was no clarity whether the abortion was performed. The doctors may be questioned tomorrow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-booked-for-aborting-pregnancy-sans-consent/articleshow/79687599.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Trichy||Trial run on Manachanallur bypass road||Trichy: The state highways department has allowed vehicles to utilise the Manachanallur bypass road as 90% of work on the stretch is complete. The trial run was intended to identify if any corrective measures need to be taken before opening it. Manachanallur road passing through the Manachanallur town is widely accessed by people travelling from Trichy to reach tourist destinations such as Pachamalai hills, Puliyancholai stream and Thiruvellarai temple near Thuraiyur. The 2.6km bypass road branches off from Panguni bridge and reach Poonampalayam village. The trial is expected to go on for a month, the project is expected to be put to use officially by January. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trial-run-on-manachanallur-bypass-road/articleshow/79687630.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Trichy||Gold worth Rs 4.5crore smuggled from Lanka to Rameswaram seized||Ramanathapuram: The directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) in a joint anti-smuggling operation on Friday seized 8.9kg of gold smuggled from Sri Lanka to Rameswaram.The value of the smuggled gold is estimated at Rs 4.5crore. Five men have been arrested in this connection and quizzed by intelligence agencies.According to the DRI, they got credible specific intelligence about smuggling gold from Sri Lanka to India through the Gulf of Mannar. ICG and DRI officials kept vigil on the arrival of boats near Mandapam in Rameswaram and intercepted an India-registered vessel named ‘Sailor’ in the early hours of Friday.The men on the fishing vessel tried to escape with the smuggled items when they spotted the ICG boat. After a chase, the boat was intercepted and the five men along with the boat were taken to the ICG base at Mandapam for questioning and search.On searching the boat, officials found a parcel wrapped in a brown cloth bag in which there were nearly 30 pieces of gold in different shapes and sizes. According to the ICG, the accused were to take the gold to Marakkayar Pattinam near Mandapam. They were booked under sections of the Customs Act 1962.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gold-worth-rs-4-5crore-smuggled-from-lanka-to-rameswaram-seized/articleshow/79687622.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Trichy||3 men held for forcing dalit boys to clean their faeces||Trichy: Perambalur police have arrested three men belonging to a backward class community for forcing five minor boys belonging to a scheduled caste community to remove their own faeces from a public place on Friday. The arrest was made after a pro-dalit organisation staged a protest condemning the incident and seeking swift action.Sources said that five boys aged 12 or 13 from an SC community defecated at a public place on the outskirts of Sirukudal village near Veppur in Perambalur district. As the boys were returning, a group of men intercepted them. When the boys replied that they had come for open defecation, the youths, identified as Abinesh, Selvakumar and Silambarasan belonging to udayar community, scolded them and forced them to clean the faeces. The incident came to light after the boys informed their parents. As word spread, cadres of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) staged a protest at Sirukudal. The victims’ families said that the boys had defecated at a public place outside the village where people irrespective of caste have been defecating for years. “Though the victims told the accused youths that they have been defecating there for a long time, the youths assaulted the boys and told them that such a common practice will not be allowed anymore,” C Tamil Manickam, district secretary, VCK said. The protesting outfit claimed that the boys were allowed to return home only after cleaning their faeces.As a protest broke out in Sirukudal village, Perambalur police arrested the three youths under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of atrocities) Act, 1989. “All the three involved in the crime were arrested and they will be remanded under judicial custody,” A C Karthikeyan, ADSP, Perambalur, told TOI. However, protesting VCK cadres claimed that a few more youths involved were not arrested. Pro-dalit organisations have announced a protest on Saturday to condemn the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-men-held-for-forcing-dalit-boys-to-clean-their-faeces/articleshow/79687637.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Online nod for wedding ceremonies||Gandhinagar: Even as the state government received a number of complaints of delays and harassment in getting permission from the police for organizing marriage ceremonies with limited number of attendees, the state home department on Friday launched an online service for issuing permissions for marriage ceremonies. Marriages and other functions are being allowed with limited attendees. A circular issued by the home department said that according to the existing protocol, it is mandatory to secure permission for organizing marriage ceremonies with a maximum of 100 guests being allowed. “Local authorities can verify whether Covid-19 protocols are being observed or not. Based on experience, it has been decided to minimize public interaction with government authorities. So a new online service has been launched with the help of National Informatics Limited,” the circular said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/online-nod-for-wedding-ceremonies/articleshow/79685823.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 22 lakh women set to benefit from new SHGs||HYDERABAD: To strengthen the SHG network, the Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty (SERP) has launched a maiden special drive to form special groups for women aged above 60 and with many girls entering in the 18+ age group, 11 lakh women will soon become part of this network. With this, the state will have one lakh new SHGs in addition to the existing 3.9 lakh groups. “We took this decision to ensure that no woman from the poor income group is left out. None of the deserving candidates should lose the benefits. We are providing direct market access for their products. In Palakurthy alone 5000 people would become beneficiaries when we launch this scheme on December 16,” said panchayatraj and rural development minister, Errabelli Dayakar Rao. In Telangana about 42 lakh women are part of 3.9 lakh SHGs. However, a recent analysis by SERP found that 22 lakh eligible women are still left out. “In the recent past many girls have become eligible to be part of the SHGs after they attained the age of 18. But it was found that they are not part of these groups. So it was decided to include them now,” a source said. “SERP also felt that even after attaining the age of 60, many women are healthy and can play an active role in SHGs. That's the reason why it was decided to constitute separate groups for them,” added the source. Groups are organised on the lines of SC, ST, BC, minority and OC. Within a month, bank accounts will be created for each member of the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/22-lakh-women-set-to-benefit-from-new-shgs-in-telangana/articleshow/79686667.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Builders grinding norms to dust||NEW DELHI: Flouting building and construction norms contributes significantly to the toxic air in Delhi. To plug this significant source of pollutants and to deter violators, National Green Tribunal began levying an environmental compensation charge for not adhering to the norms in 2015. However, an internal check in the municipal corporations showed that recovery of the fines was low and only a fraction of builders and violators actually paid the penal sums in many administrative zones. When a check of records between 2015 and 2018 was carried out in the building department in South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s south and central zones and north corporation’s Karol Bagh and Civil lines zones, the recovery rates of the environmental compensation charge were discovered to be as low as 13.3% and 24%, respectively. The building department in the south body had issued 857 notices to erring owners from 2015-16 to 2017-18 asking them to deposit compensation amounts of Rs 3.3 crore. Of the notified amount, only Rs 43.7 lakh was actually collected, with Rs 2.9 crore still pending. The abysmally low recovery rate of 13.25% has been red-flagged. Similarly, in the case of the north corporation’s two zones, the building department issued 462 notices for a total amount of Rs 1.5 crore, but recovered only Rs 37 lakh, with Rs 1.1 crore yet to be collected from the 346 building owners booked for violations. The Delhi municipal bodies are divided into 12 administrative zones, with four falling under SDMC, two under EDMC and six under the north body. NGT had mandated environmental compensation charges varying between Rs10,000 and Rs 5 lakh, depending on the size of construction or building plots. A plot up to 100 sq metres in size attracted a fine of Rs 10,000, while those of 101-220 sq metres were liable for a penalty of Rs 20,000. For plot sizes of 2,000 sq metres and above, the fine determined was Rs 5 lakh. An IIT-Kanpur study on Delhi’s air pollution had noted that in a metropolitan city, construction and building were frequent activities and the third biggest contributor to PM10 pollutants. More importantly, these were ever-present sources through the year. “The control measures for emission may include: wet suppression, wind speed reduction for large construction sites, proper disposal of waste, proper handling and storage of raw material and store the waste inside premises with proper cover,” the study recommended. Internal municipal reports admit that in the cases where the fines remained uncollected, neither was any action taken against the offenders nor notices issued to them to appear before NGT. The irregularity was brought to the notice of corporation officials but a reply was awaited, the report said. A civic official described this as an interim report and the matter would be clarified at an appropriate stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/builders-grinding-norms-to-dust/articleshow/79685892.cms||Paras Singh
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctor booked for admitting 13 pneumonia patients||Ahmedabad: Deputy health officer of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (North Zone) Govind Makwana lodged a complaint in Naroda police station on Thursday against doctor Nirmal Patel of Atmiya Hospital of Naroda for admitting 13 pneumonia patients based on their high resolution computed technology (HRTC) report. The civic body found the doctor was at fault as he was admitting pneumonia patients in a hospital not designated for Covid-19 patients, based solely on their HRTC report. Inspector H K Solanki said they have lodged a case under Sections 188, 269, 271 of IPC, Section 51(b) of Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of Epidemic Act against the doctor. Inspector Solanki said they have asked for the list of Covid hospitals in the city from AMC to verify whether Atmiya hospital was a non-Covid hospital. Police have also asked for the reports of the patients to verify whether they were Covid-19 patients or not, as the AMC doctor had claimed that cases of pneumonia are to be taken as Covid-19 until proved otherwise. “We will also record statements of patients who were admitted in the hospital before taking action against the doctor,” added the police inspector. The FIR states that the accused doctor, knowing fully well that his hospital was not designated for treating Covid patients, admitted pneumonia patients based solely on HRTC report, which could result in transmission of a dangerous disease putting somebody’s life in danger. While, AMC has sealed the hospital, the FIR mentions that on Wednesday, AMC’s health officer, Dr Bhavin Solanki, had put a complaint about the hospital on doctor Makwana’s WhatsApp. According to the FIR, based on that complaint assistant professor doctor Sunil Chand of LG Hospital and his team of resident doctors checked the hospital and found that 13 patients of pneumonia were admitted at Atmiya Hospital based on their HRTC report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doctor-booked-for-admitting-13-pneumonia-patients/articleshow/79685831.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Trichy||27 remaining constituent colleges converted to government colleges||Trichy: The state government on Friday converted 27 constituent arts and science colleges run by eight state universities under the directorate of collegiate education into government arts and science colleges. With this, all the 41 constituent colleges in the state have been converted into government colleges. Last year, the state government had converted 14 constituent colleges. The takeover will entail an additional Rs 143 crore a year as expenditure for the government. However, it has asked the respective universities to bear the expenses for the academic year 2020-21. The concept of constituent colleges emerged to meet the demand for arts and science colleges in the state after the government took a policy decision against starting new government arts and science colleges. But it proved to be a burden on state-run universities.To relieve the universities so that they can focus on research rather than run constituent colleges, the government decided to convert them into government arts colleges and an announcement was made by the chief minister in the state assembly under section 110 in 2018. While the 14 constituent colleges are being managed by the respective universities till now despite their conversion last year, higher education secretary S Apoorva said the state government has promised to reimburse the expenses incurred. The idea of conversion was to ease the financial burden on state-run universities managing finances of these colleges, she said.The conversion will benefit rural students, especially girl students, as the fee structure of these colleges will come down. Constituent colleges charge higher than government colleges, she said. On the delay in completing the takeover so that universities are relieved of the financial burden, she said it will happen once the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) completes direct recruitment of teachers for government arts and science colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/27-remaining-constituent-colleges-converted-to-government-colleges/articleshow/79687655.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 12, 2020||Trichy||Over 1,500 Sastra univ students get 2,300 job offers||Trichy: The 2021 batch students of Sastra University received as many as 2,300 job offers from 70 campus recruiters that virtually visited the campus and conducted recruitment in the last 2 months. The maximum salary offered was Rs 27 lakh per annum. Over1500 students received job offers and the conversion rate was as high as 65%.Leading companies like Amazon, PayPal, CISCO, Oracle, Morgan Stanley, Deloitte, IBM, TCS, Infosys, CTS, WIPRO, HP, Mindtree, CapGemini, Accenture, GE, Ford were among the recruiters. Over 500 students received multiple offers to choose from. To prepare students for the campus recruitment, a 14 -day pre-placement training was organised free of cost to the students who walked away with rewarding job offers. “Sastra’s merit seems to be the job vaccine during this Covidian campus recruitment that has provided students the much-needed immunity against unemployment” said V Badrinath, dean of corporate relations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-1500-sastra-univ-students-get-2300-job-offers/articleshow/79687654.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Civic body, PMPML spar over Swargate-Katraj BRTS route||PUNE: The civic body and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited are not on the same page over reopening the Swargate-Katraj BRTS stretch. Senior PMC officials said buses could start running on the stretch, while PMPML officials said missing automated doors and other infrastructure pose a risk to passengers and refused to start operations. Times ViewThe bus service in the Swargate-Katraj BRTS corridor should start only after all the infrastructure is in place. The passengers’ safety should not be put at stake at any cost. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s eagerness to start the bus service on the country’s oldest BRTS stretch seems like an attempt to conceal its failure to meet multiple deadlines to complete the work. PMC should instead find those responsible for the inordinate delay and act against them.“PMC had said the corridor would be ready right after Diwali. A month later, the doors have not been installed and this poses a major safety risk to passengers,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap put the blame squarely on PMC. V J Kulkarni, head of PMC’s road department, said work was progressing. “The work on the corridor is more than 90% complete. Things got delayed due to the model code of conduct that was in force for the recent MLC elections,” Kulkarni said. Kulkarni further suggested that the PMPML start bus operations, as it would the PMC-appointed contractor time to install the automated doors. “We will meet PMPML chief (Jagtap) next week,” Kulkarni said. Transport activists reacted sharply. “It is shocking that work hasn’t been completed yet (in 2020),” Sanjay Shitole of PMP Pravasi Manch said. Commuters also raised questions about work being pending for over a decade. “How can they just spend so much money every year on the same project and make empty promises?” Abhilash Gonjari, a Dhankawdi resident and frequent bus commuter, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-pmpml-spar-over-swargate-katraj-brts-route/articleshow/79686675.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 12, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC: Monetary factors alone can’t decide child’s custody||PRAYAGRAJ: Directing that custody of a child be given to his mother, the Allahabad high court has observed that “welfare of a child is not dependent on material resources alone as it requires a lot more like literal and intellectual guidance besides moral training.” The court further held that “every child has the right to be in care and company of both parents, who together are a child’s world. In cases of estranged couples fighting for custody of their child, if one parent is given custody then another parent must be given ‘visitation rights’ so that the child can meet his other parent.” Allowing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by one Meenakshi seeking custody of her four-year-old boy, who according to her was forcefully taken away by her estranged husband Ram Narayan, Justice JJ Munir held that “issues related to custody of a child can not only be decided on monetary factors. Rather, factors like intellectual guidance and moral training by parents, which are important facets of a child’s grooming, must also be considered while deciding the issue of child custody”. While directing Ram Narayan to give the custody of the child to Meenakshi, the court directed her to allow Ram Narayan to meet his son on second and fourth Sundays of every month. According to the petitioner, she and Ram Narayan had tied the knot on April 20, 2014, and on September 20, 2016, a boy was born. As her husband used to torture her for dowry, therefore, in June 2018, she returned to her mother’s home with her son. The petitioner’s contention was that on April 6, 2019, her husband forcefully took away the child from her custody. Hence, she filed the present petition, claiming that she was entitled to get custody of her son. On the other hand, the contention of the child’s father was that he is a farmer and earns around Rs 1.5 lakhs per annum but his wife had no personal source of income and is fully dependant on earnings from her ancestral agricultural land. The court after hearing the concerned parties, observed, “The mother is an educated woman and a post-graduate in education. She is far better educated than the father. The welfare of the young child is not dependent on material resources alone. It requires a lot more. Literal and then intellectual guidance, besides moral training are important facets of a child’s grooming. This court finds that all these would be better secured with the mother than the father.” The court gave this judgment on December 2 and it came to light on December 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-monetary-factors-alone-cant-decide-childs-custody/articleshow/79686564.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 12, 2020||Allahabad||Petition challenges religious conversion ordinance in HC||PRAYAGRAJ: A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed before the Allahabad high court challenging the constitutional validity of Uttar Pradesh Government’s ordinance against religious conversions in the name of ‘love jihad’. An advocate, Saurabh Kumar, has moved the court stating that the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, is both morally and constitutionally invalid. Hence, he has requested the court to declare this law as ultra vires of the Constitution. Besides, in the interim request, the petitioner has requested the court to direct the authorities not to take any coercive action in pursuance thereof. According to the petition, of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had on October 31, 2020, made a statement that his government will bring a law against ‘love jihad’, a term used to discredit marriages between Muslim men and Hindu women as describing it as part of a conspiracy to cause the conversion of Hindu women. During his public statement, the Chief Minister referred to a single bench judgment of the Allahabad high court in the case Priyanshi @ Kum. Shamreen and another v State of UP, which observed that religious conversion just for the sake of marriage was invalid. The petitioner pointed out that a few days later, a division bench of the High Court overruled the single bench verdict which had disapproved religious conversions for the sake of marriage in Salamat Ansari & Ors Vs State of UP & Ors. The division bench in this case held that right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty, The division bench had observed this while holding the single bench judgment as not good in law. In this backdrop of the situation, the petitioner has submitted that the impugned (challenged) Ordinance assumes a contrary position to the latest ruling of the High Court in Salamat Ansari case, which is in line with the expansive meaning given to ‘personal liberty’ by the Supreme Court in its decision in KS Puttaswamy vs. Union of India (right to privacy) case. It has also been submitted that these provisions give the state policing powers over a citizen’s choice of life-partner or religion and thus, militate against the fundamental rights to individual autonomy, privacy, human dignity and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution (right to life and personal liberty). The impugned Ordinance also requires every religious conversion to be scrutinized and certified by the state. Taking exception to this, the petitioner submitted that the very concept of forcing an individual to explain and justify a decision, which is closely personal to him/her, before an officer of the state, is contrary to the Constitution of India which ensures such rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/petition-challenges-religious-conversion-ordinance-in-hc/articleshow/79686598.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 12, 2020||Varanasi||Admin says no boat ride sans life jacket||VARANASI: Taking a lesson from the death of four persons when an overloaded boat capsized in the Ganga on December 6, the district administration has barred the boatmen from carrying passengers without life jackets. Overloading on boats and boarding boats without life jackets will invite trouble for both boatmen and the passengers alike as they will be booked for violating prohibitory orders. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said in view of promulgation of prohibitory orders under Section 144, strict directives were issued for boating in river Ganga by imposing complete ban on any kind of overloading of passengers for site seeing or crossing the river. Number of passengers for boats including manual and motor operated, as per their boarding capacity is fixed and its violation will make action inevitable, he added. Boatmen will carry passengers after providing life jacket, he said adding, boatmen will have to ensure compliance of this order apart from keeping other safety gear on the boat to avoid occurrence of any untoward incident. These orders are not only aimed at keeping tourists and pilgrims safe but also to avoid law and order problems, said Sharma adding, in case of overlooking of these order by any boatman his boat will also be stopped from operating in river Ganga. Sub-inspector and above rank officials of police as well as ADMs, ACMs, SDMs and tehsildars can take cognizance of the incidents of violation of these orders to initiate punitive action, he added. Sharma asked Varanasi Municipal Corporation for proper publicity of this order at all ghats while men in khaki were also directed to ensure strict compliance of these orders. To recall, four youths drowned in the Ganga near near Bhadaini-Tulsi Ghat under the limits of Bhelupur police station on December 6 evening. The NDRF and other divers had to exercise hard for almost three days to recover the bodies of drowned youths. During investigation, it came to light that the small boat took water and capsized due to overloading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-says-no-boat-ride-sans-life-jacket/articleshow/79685749.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Varanasi||Love jihad rumour: Cops detain same faith couple, help them tie the knot||GORAKHPUR: Gorakhpur: Kushinagar police detained a couple following rumours of love jihad but helped them tie the nuptial knot after finding that both of them were adult and belonged to the same faith. The coupled had eloped as the woman’s family was against their marriage plans. Police said they counselled the families via video call after which the marriage was solemnized in the presence of the parents at Kasia on Wednesday. SP, Kushinagar, Vinod Kumar Singh said, “On Tuesday evening, we got information about a couple were trying to get married quietly in Gurmia village which triggered reports of love jihad. A police team, led by the circle officer of Kasia, reached the spot and found a Muslim cleric and the couple. They were taken to the police station for interrogation. Cops found that both the woman and the man were adults and belonged to the same faith.” “The couple had eloped around 13 days ago from Azamgarh. Her parents had also lodged a missing report with the police. During the video call, the woman was identified by her family,” Singh said. He denied allegations that the couple were beaten and harrased by the police. A social worker from the area, Arman Khan, who was helping the couple in getting married, said: “I was with the couple at the police station. No one harassed them. Some right wing activists had informed the police about a case of love jihad. However, when the cops found out the truth, they helped the couple in getting married.” “The Maulvi was not ready to solemnize the marriage in the absence of any family member or an advocate. The groom has a shop in Gola Bazaar in Kasia and asked me to help him marry the woman. They had met each other on a train to Narkatiaganj in Bihar a year ago and since then they were talking over the phone. They decided to get married but the woman’s family was against the marriage,” Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/love-jihad-rumour-cops-detain-same-faith-couple-help-them-tie-the-knot/articleshow/79685718.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Baby weighing 430g at birth survives at Civil||Ahmedabad: A girl, born in the sixth month of pregnancy with a birth weight of just 430g, was saved by a team of doctors at Civil Hospital. Officials this may well be the first such instance at the hospital, surpassing the earlier record of 650g. Jitendra Anjan and his wife Renu, from Indore in MP, were worried about the fetus as Renu was diagnosed with a severe liver ailment and was deemed unfit for pregnancy due to imminent complications. She was referred to Civil Hospital. “There was no option but to give birth to the child. When the child is this small, the heart and lungs are not developed fully. The blood vessels are thinner than a line on a paper by a pen. There was certainly the fear that the baby would not survive,” said Dr Bela Shah, head of the pediatrics department. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent, said the girl has been named ‘Dakshita.’ TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/baby-weighing-430g-at-birth-survives-at-civil/articleshow/79685854.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Preventive detention issued against stalker||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat issued preventive detention orders against Mohammed Aslam, 24, for repeatedly indulging in the offence of stalking women. Aslam is an engineering course drop out. In 2020, he committed three offences at Meerpet, Uppal and Kandukur police station limits. Police arrested him on November 7 and later, he was released on bail. On Friday, detention orders were served on him and he was sent to Cherlapally prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-orders-issued-against-stalker/articleshow/79687696.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman cop, 6 others booked on abduction & extortion charges||PUNE: The Wakad police on Thursday booked a woman constable from the Pimpri Chinchwad traffic department and six others after a scrap dealer accused them of abducting him and demanding Rs10 lakh from him on December 5. The others booked include her husband, a constable attached to the Pune police; her mother; and four others. The 21-year-old scrap dealer approached the police on Thursday and lodged a complaint. The police have booked the seven suspects under IPC sections 366 and 385. “The couple told us they have been admitted to a private hospital in Indapur. We have yet to arrest them,” senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar said. Mugalikar said the woman and the victim had an illicit affair. Her husband warned the scrap dealer to end the relationship, police said. Since then, police added, the complainant insisted that the woman return all the money he spent on her. “On December 4 too, he went to her house and demanded the money back,” Mugalikar said. The following day, the woman’s husband told the complainant to come to Thergaon and collect the money. “When he reached the spot, the suspects pushed him into an SUV and drove to a forest area in Indapur,” Mugalikar said. They thrashed the complainant with wooden rods. The woman smashed his cellphone to destroy photographs and video clips. “They demanded Rs10 lakh from the complainant and let him go,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-cop-6-others-booked-on-abduction-extortion-charges/articleshow/79686677.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||24-year-old dies after bike hits grille in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old badminton player who was travelling on a bike died after he went on to hit the road-side grille at Ameerpet metro station. His head got struck in the narrow grille in the mishap on Friday. Panjagutta police said that Sai Girishgupta and his friend M Ravi Teja were travelling from Panjagutta and heading towards KPHB. They lost control over the vehicle and hit the grille atop the footpath near the metro station. Girishgupta died on the spot. After the mishap, the locals alerted Dial-100 and police rushed to the location. The grille was cut to remove the body. Teja escaped with injuries. Officials said that they suspect over-speeding could be the reason behind the mishap. “The motorists generally play at a centre in Gachibowli during the night. The victim and a few friends had a party in the night. The mishap took place while they were returning in the morning,” Panjagutta sub-inspector D Nagaraju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/24-year-old-dies-after-bike-hits-grille/articleshow/79686676.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks report on two judicial forums working in same bldg||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking cognizance of running of both the Labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal from the same house in Gorakhpur, and that too in shifts, the Allahabad high court has directed the state’s principal secretary, ministry of labour, to submit a report within one week mentioning as to what steps can be taken immediately to resolve the situation for the two judicial forums. Hearing a petition filed by one Vashisth Rai, whose case was pending in the labour court of Gorakhpur for almost 12 years, Justice JJ Munir observed, “The report reveals a very disturbing state of affairs about organization/function/infrastructure for dispensation of justice.” The court directed the principal secretary, ministry of labour, UP that the almost non-existent infrastructure has to be immediately restored and suggestions in this regard must be reported to this court. The court fixed December 17, 2020, as the next date of hearing in the case. Earlier, on December 7, the court had called for an explanation from the presiding officer, Labour Court, Gorakhpur as to why adjudication in the matter was pending for the last 12 years. In compliance with the said order, presiding officer of the Labour Court submitted his explanation/report stating that about 1,291 matters are under adjudication and that the labour court and the industrial tribunal together are functioning in a private house and they have a single courtroom and a single chamber to serve the presiding officers of both the forums. It was also submitted in the report that the Labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal sit in the same courtroom and so they cannot work simultaneously and that is why the Labour Court was working for three days a week and the Industrial Tribunal was working for two days a week. The court passed this order on December 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-report-on-two-judicial-forums-working-in-same-bldg/articleshow/79686615.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: IMA members observe bandh against ‘Mixopathy’||AHMEDABAD: A majority of the 30,000-odd state-based doctors who are members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) supported the nationwide call for bandh on Friday against ‘mixopathy.’ The members in Ahmedabad organized a protest at IMA/ Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) headquarters on Ashram Road from 11am to 2pm. IMA had given a call for the nationwide protest against the proposed amendments in the CCIM Act which would enable doctors from non-allopathic backgrounds to perform certain procedures. The protesters termed it ‘mixopathy,’ and said that they are not against any discipline of medicines, but against mixing of the methods which would also dilute the original knowledge. Dr Devendra Patel, president of IMA Gujarat chapter, said that majority of the members refrained from work between 6 am and 6 pm. “Majority of the hospitals and clinics were closed in the city and elsewhere. But we had requested the members to ensure that no emergency case or Covid-19 treatment is affected,” he said. Dr Mona Desai, immediate past president of AMA, told media that the government must not play with the health of people by allowing ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries after a three-year course. The placards held by the IMA and AMA members reiterated the demands of the members to scrap the provision and termed it as a ‘health hazard’ for the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ima-members-observe-bandh-against-mixopathy/articleshow/79685883.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kanpur||Priyam will represent UP in Mushtaq Ali T-20||KANPUR: Priyam Garg will represent UP cricket team in Syed Mushtaq Ali T -20 cricket tournament 2020-21.The dates of the tournament have not been finalized so far. According to a release from UP Cricket Association, Karan Sharma will be his deputy and he will act as vice-captain. Twenty-year-old Priyam had made his debut for UP in 2018-19 in Vijay Hazare Trophy. He made his first class debut for UP in Ranji Trophy in 2018-19 season. In December 2018 during the match against Tripura, Priyam had scored his maiden double century in first class cricket. He had also figured out in India Green squad in Duleep Trophy and India C Squad in Deodhar Trophy. Meerut born Priyam was made captain of India Under-19 squad which had participated in the Under -19 World Cup. Kalawati Devi memorial cricket: Kanpur South outplayed the Sporting Union by 22 runs and moved into the semifinal of Kalawati Devi memorial cricket tournament on Friday. Saxena memorial cricket: Civils Club drubbed KCC by a huge margin of 271 runs in KS Saxena memorial cricket tournament at Palika ground .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/priyam-will-represent-up-in-mushtaq-ali-t-20/articleshow/79686623.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kanpur||17-year-old girl found murdered in Unnao district||KANPUR: A 17-year-old girl was found murdered in her home under Fattepur Chaurasi police station in Unnao district on Friday morning. A case of murder has been registered against unidentified persons under relevant sections of the IPC at Fattepur Chaurasi police station in this regard on Friday. Police said that the girl was alone in the house at the time of incident as her father had gone to feed cattle at a nearby cattle shed on late Thursday night while her mother along with her siblings had gone to attend a marriage ceremony of one of their relatives. “When her father returned in the morning, he found his daughter lying dead in the house after which the police was informed. A police team along with a dog squad and forensic experts rushed to the spot,” said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/17-year-old-girl-found-murdered-in-unnao-district/articleshow/79686629.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Covid spread showing signs of being under control in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said the third Covid wave in Delhi had been waning and the positivity rate had declined from 15% to less than 5% in the last one month, indicating that the infection spread was finally under control. He, however, advised people to continue taking all precautions. “November 7 was the peak of the third wave in Delhi. The positivity rate was 15.26% on that day, which has been on the perpetual decline ever since. For the past 10 days, the positivity rate has been below 5%. I can say that the third wave is on the wane,” Jain said. Despite the decline in the daily count, Delhi government still conducts more than 70,000 Covid tests every day. “The situation is very much under control, but I will still request you all to wear a mask, follow social distancing. Wearing a mask will help us eradicate the virus from the city. I applaud people for their continued support and healthcare personnel who have been working tirelessly,” the minister said. Admitting that RT-PCR test reports are sometimes getting delayed, he said “it is being looked into. We followed the Centre’s orders to double testing, which resulted in delay. But now the turnaround time has improved”. November saw the highest rise in Covid cases in a month in Delhi since March. The capital witnessed up to 8,500 cases in a day during the month and also reported many deaths. Multiple interventions were planned, including a massive increase in the number of tests and extensive contact tracing. On November 11, the capital had 42,629 active Covid cases, which now stands at 18,676.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/signs-covid-19-spread-is-now-under-control-in-delhi-jain/articleshow/79686691.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kanpur||Man sent to jail for raping, blackmailing woman in Unnao||KANPUR: A man was arrested for allegedly raping a woman and blackmailing her after making video of the crime viral in Unnao district on Friday. The accused, Shivakant, a resident of Himmatpur village Maurawan, on November 26 had allegedly raped the woman under the pretext of marriage and filmed the act. He had also forcibly made a separate video, wherein the woman had sworn before him that in future she will marry him only, said CO, Purwa, Ramesh Chandra. CO added, “However, the accused recently when came to know that the woman was getting married to someone else, again started blackmailing her asking her to turn down her marriage proposal. He threatened that if she will not do so, he would send the obscene videos to her to be groom and in-laws.” “It was when the woman resisted, he sent the videos to her would be and in-laws, besides also made them viral on social media following which her to be husband refused to marry her and later announced a break-up,” said official further. Official said the woman thereafter had lodged a complaint in this regard at Purwa police station. “Subsequently, an FIR was registered against Shivkant under relevant sections of IPC including for rape and 67 A IT Act. Also, a cash reward of Rs 12,000 was announced on him,” he said. “On Friday, the accused, was arrested from Mirri crossing area and after being produced in court sent to jail,” he said further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-sent-to-jail-for-raping-blackmailing-woman-in-unnao/articleshow/79686637.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kanpur||20-year-old killed in accident hours before marriage||KANPUR: Hours before his marriage, a 20-year-old man was killed while his neighbour sustained injuries after the motorcycle they were riding on was hit by a speeding car in Kalinjar police area in Banda district on late Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Santosh Kumar while the injured has been identified as his neighbour Vinod Rajput of Majra Chunkai Purwa in Neevi village in Kalinjar police area. Santosh’s marriage was to be solemnised on Friday, said police. “His marriage was fixed with a girl of neighbouring Gokhiya village. On late Thursday night, Santosh left for nearby Barcha village with his neighbourhood friend Vinod on a motorbike. Santosh was driving the two-wheeler, while Vinod was on pillion seat. When he was returning, a speeding car hit his bike after which he fell into a roadside canal, while Vinod fell on the other side of the road. Some passers by and police rescued Santosh and his neighbour Vinod and rushed them to a nearby hospital, however, Santosh succumbed to wounds on the way to hospital. Circle Officer Naraini Siya Ram said, “It was a very unfortunate incident as Santosh was to get married on Friday. We have shifted his body to a morgue and further investigations are underway in this regard. We have launched an investigation to arrest the car driver soon.” The family members of Santosh and the bride were inconsolable, finding it hard to come to terms with the tragic news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/20-yr-old-killed-in-accident-hours-before-marriage/articleshow/79686642.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Plan to set up centre for Himalayan studies at Delhi University runs into rough weather||NEW DELHI: Delhi University plans to set up a new centre for Himalayan studies, the third of its kind, but the proposal was facing opposition even before it was cleared by the university’s Executive Council on December 8. There are many who are questioning the need for yet another study centre on geographical regions and the environment. The Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies of Mountain and Hill Environment (CISMHE) was established in 1990. Then, under the Institute of Eminence (IOE) scheme, the School on Climate Change and Stability was announced in June. DU teachers wanted to know why there was a need for a third such study centre and also how it was being set up without wider consultations, not even apparently with the university’s environment department. A teacher said on condition of anonymity, “CISMHE is recognised as a centre of excellence by government of India and has done remarkable work over two decades. It also has expertise and state of the art infrastructure in the area of remote sensing and geographic information systems. DU could have strengthened CISMHE instead of starting another centre.” M K Pandit, CISMHE director, refused to comment on the subject. The vision document for the new centre was prepared by professor Dinabandhu Sahoo of the department of botany, an expert in marine environment and biotechnology, retired professor R B Singh, a specialist in environment, remote sensing and climate change, and assistant professor Avitoli G Zhimo of the department of anthropology, whose areas of interest and specialisation include globalisation studies and ecological anthropology. Singh told TOI that this centre will focus on the Himalayan region. “It is different from CISMHE because it is not meant to be an interdisciplinary, but a transdisciplinary centre, in which even people from engineering, physical sciences and other subjects can work together,” elaborated Singh. “Mountain and hill environment studies begun for a particular kind of project are not holistic, but fragmented. We are going to set up this new centre with a holistic approach. For instance, we have professor Sahoo, who has a holistic perspective on biodiversity and a great deal of knowledge on biotechnology. The other colleague, assistant professor Zhimo, has written a book on Nagaland.” When told that the School of Climate Change was also a trans-disciplinary study centre, Singh responded, “That school’s focus is the climate of the entire country. We will focus only on the Himalayan region.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plan-to-set-up-centre-for-himalayan-studies-at-du-runs-into-rough-weather/articleshow/79685899.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 12, 2020||Pune||Experts bat for information & communication campaign||PUNE: Health experts and epidemiologists feel that the Union government should launch a massive information, education and communication campaign, giving information about vaccines and their possible side-effects to put to rest the fear among people going to take the shot. Former Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) epidemiologist Dr Lalitkant said, “To build the confidence of people in the vaccine, the IEC (information, education and communication) programme would be handy because not enough material is available on adverse events.” Scientists pointed out that while pharmaceutical companies were trying to launch the Covid-19 vaccine at the earliest, safety concerns over adverse reactions and efficacy were still prevalent. “In September-October, a few Covid-19 vaccines in the phase-3 clinical trials were put on hold for serious effects. But very little information about the nature of adverse reactions is available,” said another expert, who recently retired from a national institute. The head of National Expert Group on Covid-19 vaccination, Dr VK Paul, said they were hoping a vaccine would be finalised soon. He said any vaccines granted emergency or regular authorisation in the country would be safe and effective. He said their full data would be in public domain. “As of now, the DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) has put the applications of vaccine manufacturers on hold for more data. While it decides on them, we shall be working on preparing for the rollout,” he told TOI. Dr Lalitkant further added that in 2009-10 during the H1N1 influenza pandemic, there was again a race among vaccine manufacturing companies to produce a vaccine and countries scrambled to get vaccines. While India reported the first case of H1N1 in 2009, the government had then imported 1.5 million doses of the vaccine and also provided Rs 10 cr each to three vaccine manufacturers as advance market commitment for 6.25 lakh doses from each of the companies. He added that not only did we not use most of the doses of the imported vaccine but also failed to lift even a single vial of the vaccine worth Rs 30 cr ordered from Indian manufacturers. One of the reasons he cites was the poor acceptance of the vaccine because of the safety concerns and even after making it compulsory for health workers only a few took them, he said. With the covid-19 vaccines under development, this mistake should not be repeated. "While the covid 19 vaccines are under development, the nature and extent of vaccine hesitancy must be assessed and addressed timely. An effective communication strategy is needed now to address the fears and uncertainties, said the infectious disease epidemiologist and independent consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-bat-for-information-communication-campaign/articleshow/79686684.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 12, 2020||Pune||BJP, opposition in a tussle over leader of house post||PUNE: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition parties in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have been engaged in a tussle over selection of the new leader of the house. BJP is expected to give the position to Ganesh Bidkar, who is a co-opted corporator. However, opposition parties are claiming that the move is unconstitutional and unethical. A person, who is not an elected corporator, should not be given the post to lead the house of elected members, members in the opposition have argued. On the other hand, BJP has claimed that there are no particular legal restrictions in letting a co-opted corporator head the house. If appointed, a non- elected representative will lead the PMC as the leader of the house for the first time in its history. “Bidkar is a senior party member. He has contributed for the party’s progress in the city. He has also done a remarkable job as a corporator during his tenure. His appointment as the leader of the house is in appreciation for his work,” said Jagdish Mulik, city BJP unit chief. BJP has submitted a letter to the divisional commissioner’s office on Friday. The appointment will be confirmed following a green signal from the office. “A co-opted corporator does not have the right to vote. It will be very strange and unceremonious to have such a person at the helm of affairs in PMC’s general body (GB). The GB is the highest decision-making authority in PMC. The post of the leader of the house is a constitutional post. An elected member should be appointed,” said Aba Bagul, leader of Congress in PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-opposition-in-a-tussle-over-leader-of-house-post/articleshow/79686678.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man who set self on fire at mobile repair centre to get Rs 1 lakh, new handset||NEW DELHI: A major mobile phone manufacturer has informed the consumer affairs ministry about its decision to pay Rs 1 lakh as compensation and give a new handset to an aggrieved customer who had set himself ablaze in front of a mobile service centre in Delhi after it had refused to replace his defective handset. The Delhi-based man had received burn injuries. Taking cognisance of news reports, the consumer affairs ministry had issued a show-cause notice to the company asking why appropriate action should not be taken against it for the “alleged unfair trade practices”. The ministry had said it appeared that the after-sales service to the consumers was not satisfactory and the company didn’t take appropriate action for resolution of consumer grievances. The 40-year-old man from the national capital had bought the new handset for his niece, a Class XII student, to attend online classes. But it was defective and when he had gone to get the handset replaced, the service centre at a mall in Rohini had refused to do so. “We welcome the company’s decision to compensate the aggrieved customer. But every company or service provider must address the concerns of their customers. The ministry will take necessary action to protect the interest of consumers under the Consumer Protection Act,” said a ministry official. The ministry will soon launch a massive outreach campaign to make people aware of the new features of the Consumer Protection Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-set-self-on-fire-at-mobile-repair-centre-to-get-rs-1l-new-handset/articleshow/79685936.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||State election panel wants vaccination of poll workers||Ahmedabad: The state election commission (SEC), which is scheduled to hold local body elections by February next year, has in meetings with the state government suggested that election workers be vaccinated before the elections are held.Officials in the SEC said that during the meeting with the health department, state election commission Sanjay Prasad suggested that election workers who will be involved be considered for vaccination before elections are held in the state.Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare, said the state election commission had made the suggestion during discussions. “They are yet to send a formal request for this. Once we get the request a decision will be taken,” said Ravi. Officials in the state election commission said more than two lakh staffers will be directly involved in the elections and they will be coming in direct contact with the general public during the elections. Hence it is necessary to consider them at par with front-line workers.During the meeting, health department officials said the criteria has been fixed by the central government and they will have to write to the central government seeking special approval for this. Officials in the election commission said more than two lakh government employees will be directly involved; it will be the responsibility of the state to protect them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-election-panel-wants-vaccination-of-poll-workers/articleshow/79685894.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Two in the police net in murder case||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Friday arrested two men who were on the run after allegedly bludgeoning a 27-year-old man to death at Sangvi late on Thursday night. “Akshay Naik (23) of Sangvi and Vikram Singh (18) of Bopodi bludgeoned Shekhar Chandale of Sangvi,” a police officer said. Assistant inspector Ambarish Deshmukh said that Chandale had a quarrel with the suspects following which the duo hatched a plot to eliminate Chandale. “We traced them to Bopodi and arrested them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-in-the-police-net-in-murder-case/articleshow/79686681.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||December 3-9 registers lowest weekly Covid deaths in Pune since May||PUNE: An analysis of the Covid-19 deaths in Pune district since the beginning of the pandemic has revealed that the recent week (December 3-9) registered the lowest percentage of casualties (0.6) from among the total since May due to the infection. Since April 2 till December 9 this year, 8,537 people have died due to Covid-19 in the district, with very few deaths in April. The analysis by the district health department found that the December 3-9 week registered 53 Covid-19 casualties. This was the lowest among all previous weeks since May. A senior health department official said the death percentage plunging to the lowest in 31 weeks was a “true measure of the infection subsiding”. This is the first time after the week ending May 6 that the percentage of deaths from among total casualties has dipped this low. The week from November 26-December 2 also had a lower number of Covid deaths (66) in comparison to the previous weeks, which translated to 0.8% of the total casualties. The weekly case fatality rate (CFR) in Pune district also fell to 1.1% between December 3 and 9. This is also the lowest since mid-April. The CFR is the proportion of deaths from a disease compared to the total number of people diagnosed with it. On the low percentage of Covid deaths recently from among the total casualties reported so far, the health department official told TOI, “The data shows that Covid-19 deaths have actually reduced, which may be due to a reduction in infection spread. Despite the lockdowns in the past, the transmission as well as the number of Covid-19 deaths were high. Conversely, the infection spread and the number of deaths seem to have lessened now despite the curbs being lifted and more people interacting.” Another official said besides wearing masks and social distancing, some reasons for the drop in fatality could be Pune’s population developing protective immunity against the virus. “ But more research is needed to conclusively attribute the trend to these factors,” he said. On the falling CFR, which is basically connected to the availability of adequate medical infrastructure, timely and early treatment of those detected positive and appropriate management of critical patients, deputy director of health services (Pune district) Dr Sanjay Deshmukh told TOI, “The CFR in Pune district, which had ranged from 2.2 % to 2.9% in September and October, has now dropped to 1.1% in the last two weeks from November 26 to December 9.” He added, “Not only the fall in the number of Covid-19 cases, but also the availability of adequate medical infrastructure such as ventilators, ICUs and oxygen-supported beds has caused the CFR to drop. Patients are also coming early to seek treatment.” Deshmukh said, “There are currently around 10,500 active cases in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits and the rural areas of the district. Around 38,000 beds are currently available in Pune district. Of the total number of active cases, around 50% are in home isolation. So, the 5,000-odd patients needing hospitalization have an adequate number of beds for treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dec-3-9-registers-lowest-weekly-covid-deaths-in-pune-since-may/articleshow/79686679.cms||Neha Madaan
December 12, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant faces first big test as rural Goa goes to vote today||PANAJI/MARGAO: Unusual times have led to an unusual  scenario. As rural Goa goes to polls on Saturday to elect representatives for 48 seats of North and South Goa’s district-level panchayat bodies, the week preceding the zilla panchayat (ZP) election has been marked with an unprecedented level of indifference among voters, giving rise to concerns of low voter turnout amid the coronavirus pandemic. The ZP election is a litmus test for chief minister Pramod Sawant, as this is the first time BJP is contesting a full-fledged election under his watch after he took over the reins of the state following the demise of former CM Manohar Parrikar. The ZP election has also been marked with an unusually long pause of nearly eight months between the end of campaigning and polling day. The elections were initially scheduled for March 15, but with the threat posed by the pandemic, the state government postponed it to March 22. Following a call for a ‘janta curfew’ on March 22 by PM Narendra Modi, the polls were further postponed by two more days, to March 24. However, following Modi’s intervention, the state government indefinitely deferred the polls. The successful conduct of the Bihar polls last month inspired the state government to go ahead with the ZP polls. On December 5, the state election commission announced the fresh date. With the state election commission banning public campaigns as the model code of conduct kicked in, election fever went missing, despite this being the first time these polls are being fought on party lines. In the last ZP polls, although BJP had fielded candidates, other political parties refrained from doing so. Amid various agitations plaguing the state, including over the three Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects, besides issues of unemployment, non-resumption of mining activities, and tourism activities taking a hit due to Covid-19, it would be a testing time for the BJP government, with the crucial assembly election hardly 13 months away. Opposition parties have tried to create political capital of the protests and will try to keep the issues burning till the 2022 elections. Nearly 8 lakh voters are eligible to exercise their franchise for the two ZP bodies on Saturday, even as altogether 200 candidates are in the fray, 78 of whom are independents. Elections will be held in only 23 of the constituencies of South Goa zilla panchayat—while the election for Navelim constituency has been countermanded following the death of a candidate, in Sancoale constituency, BJP has won the seat unopposed. The elections will be held across 1,187 polling stations across both districts. 9,500 polling staff, including police personnel, have been deployed for the purpose. The polling will be held from 8am to 5pm using ballot papers. Covid positive patients will also be allowed to vote during the last one hour from 4pm to 5pm. PPE kits would be provided for Covid patients at polling booths across the state. The general precaution of masks, hand hygiene and social distancing shall be maintained throughout the election process. BJP has fielded candidates in all constituencies in North Goa, which is said to be its stronghold, but have restricted themselves to only 16 constituencies in South Goa. Despite having MLAs representing the party in Salcete after 10 Congress MLAs joined the saffron party in 2019, BJP has fielded candidates only in Guirdolim and Davorlim constituencies, while supporting independent candidates in the rest. Congress has fielded 37 candidates, of which 21 are in North Goa and 16 in South Goa. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which has one MLA in the assembly, has fielded six candidates—three in each district. Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has fielded 17 candidates—seven in North Goa and 10 in South Goa. Aam Aadmi Party, which has no representation in the assembly, has fielded 20 candidates—seven in North Goa and 13 in South Goa. In North Goa, MGP and Congress have extended support to each other’s candidates to directly challenge BJP. In some constituencies, independent candidates too are challenging candidates of both the national parties. Both Congress and BJP have exuded confidence of winning the ZP elections. Counting of ballot papers will be held on December 14 across 15 counting centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-faces-first-big-test-as-rural-goa-goes-to-vote-today/articleshow/79686682.cms||Murari Shetye
December 12, 2020||India||Covid: Local mRNA vaccine gets nod for human trials||NEW DELHI: The drug regulator has allowed human trials of the first local mRNA Covid vaccine candidate and the preliminary results are likely by March. It assumes significance as Covid-19 vaccines based on this platform, such as those by Pfizer-BioNtech and Moderna, are expected to have better efficacy but currently appear out of bounds for India. The Subject Expert Committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) that met on Wednesday recommended grant of conditional approval for phases 1/2 human clinical trial of the vaccine candidate. The recommendations of the panel were later approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Pune-based Gennova Biophar maceuticals has developed the vaccine candidate in collaboration with Seattle-based HDT Biotech Corporation. “After detailed deliberations, the committee recommended for grant of permission to conduct phase 1 and 2 clinical trials subject to the condition that the interim results of phase 1 study shall be submitted before proceeding to the next phase,” the SEC said. The mRNA vaccines do not use the conventional model to produce immune response. Instead, mRNA vaccine carries the molecular instructions to make the protein in the body through a synthetic RNA of the virus. The host body uses this to produce the viral protein that is recognized and thereby making the body mount an immune response against the disease. Experts said such vaccines can also be manufactured faster in an inexpensive manner and can, therefore, help to ensure availability for mass vaccination on a sustainable basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-local-mrna-vaccine-gets-nod-for-human-trials/articleshow/79688492.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 12, 2020||Pune||Hike in rates of fancy vehicle numbers likely||PUNE: People hoping to get special registration numbers for their vehicles may have to shell out more, with the state transport department mulling up to 100% hike for their issuance. “For choice registration numbers for two-wheelers, minimum amount was Rs3,000 and maximum Rs50,000. It will now be increased to Rs5,000 and Rs1 lakh, respectively. For four-wheelers, minimum amount of Rs5,000 will be increased to Rs10,000 and maximum amount of Rs4 lakh will increase to Rs5 lakh,” a Pune RTO official said. An order in this regard has been issued by the state transport commissioner. The date of implementing the revised rates will be announced after studying objections and suggestions. The Pune RTO office had added Rs7.24 crore to its coffers between April and October last year by selling special registration numbers for vehicles. The amount collected in the same period this year stands at Rs5.7 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hike-in-rates-of-fancy-vehicle-numbers-likely/articleshow/79686688.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Masks, spitting fines cross Rs 100 crore||Ahmedabad: Those who do not wear masks while venturing out and spit in public in Gujarat have set a dubious record: they have paid more than Rs 100 crore in fines. The state has collected Rs 100.08 crore from more than 22 lakh people from June to December 10 for these two offences. According to police officials, action against 62,855 people has been taken across Gujarat for breaching quarantine norms since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic. Top police officials said that over 3.5 lakh people have been arrested across the state in 2.5 lakh cases related to the violation of Covid guidelines. “Since March, approximately 5 lakh vehicles have been impounded around Gujarat, for offences that include flouting the curfew,” a top police official said. “Fines of more than Rs 56 crore have been collected from the owners or the drivers of the vehicles.” Ahmedabad Police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava said that dealing strictly with people who did not wear masks is one of the factors that has brought down the number of Covid cases in recent days. “I urge people to wear masks when venturing out till the Covid vaccine is available,” Srivastava said. “People should not spit in public places. These measures are implemented to ensure people’s safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/masks-spitting-fines-cross-rs-100-crore/articleshow/79685897.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Leopard chases man, son on bike||PUNE: Two shepherds were injured after a leopard chased their motorcycle for about 10 minutes at Chandoli Budruk village of Ambegaon tehsil on Thursday. This was the third incident of its kind over the past few weeks. A forest official said the earlier incidents had occurred in areas bordering Ambegaon and Junnar talukas in the district. Range forest officer Ajay Shinde of Manchar forest range told TOI, “Baban Sool (65) and his son, Beera, were going to a farm on a motorcycle on Thursday evening. After they had passed the Mahatma Gandhi school area, the leopard suddenly leapt out from a sugar cane farm and caught the pillion rider, Baban, by his leg. Beera somehow managed to balance the bike and sped away. But the animal chased them for around 10 minutes.” The injured persons were taken to the Ghodegaon rural hospital. “Preliminary investigation revealed that one leopard could be involved in all the cases, considering the nature of the attack. In all three cases, the animal had chased bikes for a few minutes. All the three attacks occurred within a 2km-radius,” Shinde said. The forest department has appealed to the villagers not to step out from their houses in the evening. They have also put up caution boards in the villages to create awareness about the animal. “The villagers want the forest department to install a cage in the area to catch the animal. We will take a decision on this soon,” Shinde added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leopard-chases-man-son-on-bike/articleshow/79686696.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: IGR seeks more time for RERA report||PUNE: State Inspector General of Stamps and Registration (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said the department has sought more time from the government to check for violations in property registration documents filed in the city. A four-member squad was recently appointed to check for violations in the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) Act and the Maharashtra Fragmentation Act in documents registered at the 27 sub-registrar offices in Pune city. Deshmukh said the squad has submitted preliminary findings and sought more time for a comprehensive report. “This is just a preliminary report aimed at seeking more time and nothing can must be read into this till the full inquiry is completed,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/igr-seeks-more-time-for-rera-report/articleshow/79686704.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra has capacity to store 3 crore Covid vaccine doses||PUNE: Maharashtra has the capacity to store three crore vaccine doses in cold storage, the state government has informed the Centre. The Union government had directed all states to prepare the cold chain supply and vaccine transportation plans. “The Maharashtra government has provided the Centre with a detailed status report about the cold chain supply and storage facilities. The state currently has the capacity to store three crore vaccine doses. We have our vaccine stores at the state, regional, district and local levels. We are also set to get six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. This will help us further increase the storage capacity,” National Health Mission commissioner N Ramaswamy told TOI. He said the Covid vaccination drive would not affect the routine immunization programmes in the state. “It will all depend on which vaccine is approved to counter Covid-19 and the temperature it has to be stored. The existing facilities can store routine immunization vaccines in 2ºC-8ºC. The two new walk-in coolers can store vaccines in the range of -15ºC to -25ºC temperatures,” Ramaswamy said. State nodal officer for immunization D N Patil said in terms of the assessment of cold chain facilities by the centre, Maharashtra was a leader in terms of facilities. “It is better than states such as Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra is also looking forward to having more refrigerator and insulator vans to transport vaccines,” he said. Till Friday, the state has uploaded data of nearly 1.91 lakh healthcare workers on the government app, Cowin, for priority vaccination. Mumbai’s 1.25 lakh healthcare workers will get Covid vaccine at eight centres in a span of 15-20 days, the BMC said after the first meeting of the accine task force on Friday. As per the centre’s plan, the healthcare workers will be the first to get vaccinated followed by frontline workers such as conservancy staff, fire brigade personnel, police, transport personnel, among others. (With inputs from Sumitra DebRoy in Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-has-capacity-to-store-3-crore-covid-vaccine-doses/articleshow/79686694.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 12, 2020||Pune||5,000 allopaths stay off work, corona care unaffected||PUNE: As many as 5,000 allopaths withdrew their clinical work for 12 hours and another 250 private hospitals temporarily suspended their out-patient departments (OPDs) to support the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) nationwide strike in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday. Although OPD services were temporarily shut, none of the doctors stopped treating Covid suspected/positive patients and those needing emergency medical care. “The aim of the strike was to make people aware of the recent unjust notification. It was not directed at causing any inconvenience to anybody,” Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India, said. Allopathy doctors’ organizations, including the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Indian Dental Association (IMA) and others, started protesting ever since the Centre Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) under the Ayush ministry allowed postgraduate (PG) students of ayurveda to perform 58 surgeries/procedures through a gazette notification on November 20. “We also reached out to people through various social media platforms and educated them about their health rights and how the notification is going to violate those rights and mislead them,” Patil said. The PG ayurveda doctors in Maharashtra reiterated that they had been receiving hands-on training to perform the surgeries during the three-year-long PG curriculum (including a year-long internship) for the last four decades. Surgeons of modern medicine, however, underline that performing surgery is not just a technician's job. “To diagnose the condition is not enough. Anticipating problems and possible complications is equally important," said senior orthopaedic surgeon Nitin Bhagali. Currently, more than 300 dental colleges are there producing 30,000 dentists in India per year. About 1 to 1.5 lakh dentists are unemployed. “Allowing ayurveda postgraduates to do some dentistry work will be disastrous cocktail which will be harmful to patients too,” said Manisha Garud, national secretary, Indian Dental Association (IDA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5k-allopaths-stay-off-work-corona-care-unaffected/articleshow/79686702.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 12, 2020||Pune||Fog engulfs parts of Maharashtra, hint of light showers today||PUNE: Dense fog engulfed parts of the state on Friday morning reducing the visibility to as low as 200 metres in Matheran, while the Met department hinted at thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at isolated places in Madhya Maharashtra till Sunday and very light rain in Pune on Saturday and Monday. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday said there could be instances of hail with thunder and lightning in isolated parts of north Madhya Maharashtra on Saturday under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over the region and likely wind confluence over the central parts of the country in the lower tropospheric levels. There was abrupt change in weather in Madhya Maharashtra recently from chilly to cloudy conditions and foggy mornings. An IMD official said, “As per our daily weather report, dense fog at isolated places was reported from parts of Madhya Maharashtra from 5.30pm on Thursday till 8.30am on Friday, though Matheran was the only station mentioned in report to have recorded fog in the state.” On the likelihood of fog development in the city on Saturday, the official said, “There has been significant moisture incursion into Pune and other parts of the state. Relative humidity was 65% in Shivajinagar, as high as 71% in Pashan and 56% in Lohegaon on Friday evening, indicating a good volume of moisture. If the night temperature dips significantly, then there may be some fog development. If it does not, there would no fog development. That said, we have significant clouding over Pune. It may hamper decline in night temperature, reducing the chances of fog formation.” He said looking at the cloud development over Pune, the city might witness light rain on Saturday, eliminating the chances of fog formation. The minimum temperature in Shivajinagar climbed up to 18.2°C on Friday because of moisture incursion and increase in night clouding. It was 19.5°C in Lohegaon and 18.1°C in Pashan on Friday. Clouding during a good part of the day on Friday brought down the maximum temperature to 28.8°C in Shivajinagar and 29.1°C in Lohegaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fog-engulfs-parts-of-maha-hint-of-light-showers-today/articleshow/79686728.cms||Neha Madaan
December 12, 2020||Pune||Recoveries drop but still exceed new cases in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) dropped to 819 on Friday, but still managed to stay above the new infections (607). For the last two consecutive days, the region had recorded more than 1,000 recoveries. The discharge count has stayed above new cases in PMR for the last four days. On Friday, the rural and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas reported more recoveries than new cases. In case of the Pune municipal limits, fewer patients were discharged against new positives in the last 24 hours. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that region’s total recoveries jumped above 3.32 lakh on Friday, while its total caseload stayed above 3.50 lakh. The region recorded 17 deaths on Friday due to Covid-19 complications. These included eight deaths reported in the PMC limits, five in the PCMC areas and four in the rural areas. With this, the total deaths in the region have increased to 8,602. Of these, more than 54% deaths have been recorded in the PMC limits, 20% in the PCMC limits and 26% from the rural and cantonment areas. The sample testing in the region increased above 17.27 lakh on Friday, with 8,672 tests being conducted in the last 24 hours. These included 3,794 tests being conducted in the PMC limits, followed by the PCMC areas (2,733) and the rural areas (2,145). Meanwhile, the active cases in the region dropped to 9,410 on Friday evening, which included 3,152 patients admitted in various hospitals in PMR and 6,258 patients in home isolation. A report released by the PMC’s health department stated that as many as 1019 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits on Friday. A total of 382 patients were at critical stage, of whom 220 were on ventilator support and 162 were admitted in the ICU at various hospitals. Civic health officials said though the daily cases were way less than the September peak, there was no space for laxity. “The virus is still very much amidst us. Therefore, people need to be extra cautious to prevent escalation in its spread. Face covers and social distance guidelines should be followed religiously to minimise the Covid-19 spread,” a health official said. Experts have said even after vaccine comes into the market, people would be required to wear masks and abide by social distancing norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-drop-but-still-exceed-new-cases-in-pmr/articleshow/79686710.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court denies bail to ‘Pakistani’ woman||AHMEDABAD: A sessions court at Mirzapur has refused bail to Carol Sujith Punnilethu, who was detained on charges of being a Pakistani citizen and having entered India and staying here illegally. Additional sessions judge H A Shah on Thursday denied bail to the woman saying that if granted bail there are chances that she may flee to Pakistan and may not be available for the trial in future. Punnilethu (36) was arrested last month after a complaint was filed in Sabarmati police station against her. The FIR was filed by the maternal relatives of her stepdaughter, for whose custody Punnilethu had entered into litigation in the Gujarat high court. Her trouble began after her husband Sujith Methew died of Covid-19. Sujith’s 13-year-old daughter from his first marriage was living with this woman, and the child’s maternal uncle wanted her custody. The child preferred the custody of her stepmother and this led the relatives to approach the police complaining about Punnilethu’s alleged Pakistani citizenship. Punnilethu was booked under the Foreigners Act and for forging Indian citizenship proofs like various identity cards and certificates. In her bail plea, she argued that the documents were prepared by her late husband and she had no idea about them. She also told the court that because of her incarceration, her stepdaughter and two other daughters from her first marriage are on their own at present. Moreover, she also told the court that she is into the fifth month of pregnancy and granting her bail would be in the best interest of her children as well as for her health. The government opposed her bail plea submitting that the charges are grave and expressed apprehension that once released on bail, the woman may escape to Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-denies-bail-to-pak-woman/articleshow/79685913.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||MSRTC to ply special tourist buses to rake in additional revenue||PUNE: The Pune division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will soon start plying three special buses to tourist spots like Raigad fort in a bid to earn more revenue. “From December 13, a bus from the Swargate depot will be available at 7am for a trip to different spots in Mahabaleshwar. The fare is Rs480. From January 2 next year, a bus will be available for a one-day Ashtavinayak darshan at the Wakdewadi depot at 7am. The bus will cover all eight temples at Rs840,” an MSRTC official said. Bus service to Raigad fort may also start from December 20, pending a few formalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-to-ply-special-tourist-buses-to-rake-in-additional-revenue/articleshow/79686736.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Cops recover 390 liquor cartons stolen from excise dept’s truck||Dehradun: Almora police and special operations group (SOG) on Friday arrested eight persons and recovered 390 cartons of missing liquor, almost a week after the excise department's truck loaded with 450 cartons of liquor had gone missing and was later found abandoned at Dwarahat in Almora district. Cops recovered 390 liquor cartons worth almost Rs 20 lakh following multiple raids carried out in Gairsain and several other locations in Chamoli district. The arrested men have been identified as Rajendra Singh, Hayat Singh, Jaiveer Singh, Balwant Singh, Govind Singh, Harish Singh, Kamal Singh and Anil Pawar — all residents of Chamoli district. However, another culprit Vijay Joshi, who is the truck's driver and believed to be the main missing link in the matter, is still at large, according to police officials. Efforts are on to nab him, they added. Incidentally, the loaded truck, which had left the bottling plant in Tehri on December 1, had gone missing while on its way to Haldwani. On December 5, the truck was found near the gate of an engineering college in Dwarahat. After receiving the complaint, director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar ordered Almora SSP to form a team to work out the case and even directed him to suspend the Dwarahat station in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-recover-390-liquor-cartons-stolen-from-excise-depts-truck/articleshow/79684874.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Minor who killed two found dead||Nagpur: A day after shocking double murder of 60-year-old Laxmi Dhurve and her grandson Yash, aged 10 years, there is a mystery shrouding the death of the alleged minor assailant who, cops say, had thrown himself before the Delhi-bound Kerala Express at Gayatri Nagar near Mankapur railway crossing. As per police version, the minor committed suicide few hours after he stabbed Dhurves to death. The minor was left miffed by their objection over his meeting with his 20-year-old girlfriend, who was grand-daughter of Laxmi and elder sister of Yash. The girl had snapped ties with the minor following objection of her family. The boy is likely to have taken the drastic step over the family’s interference leading to his break-up.According to a senior official, the loco-pilot of the Kerala Express had spotted the minor near the track shortly before he moved himself on the track in front of an oncoming train. He was struck on the head. The loco-driver had alerted the Godhni railway master who had informed the Railway Protection Force.The Gittikhadan cops, who had registered a case of accidental death, were far from relieved now as they are not being able to come up with any concrete conclusion as to how the minor had come to the girl’s place from his residence at Hansapuri and how he later reached the railway track at Mankapur. The minor’s bike was parked at his residence. The cops are now trying to locate some CCTV footage which might suggest how the minor may have reached the place of crime and the railway track. The minor had called up a friend stating that he was ending life but his mobile phone wasn’t found at the spot. In addition, the cops are also clueless regarding the weapon used by the minor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-who-killed-two-found-dead/articleshow/79684889.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||8 companies in legal soup||Gandhinagar: The state labour and employment department has initiated legal proceedings against eight establishments in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Valsad for non-payment of gratuity dues to their employees. Complaints were received by the department from employees and unions about firms not clearing dues like gratuity under the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Show-cause notices were issued to eight establishments, after checks conducted by the officers of labour department confirmed that they had delayed the payment of gratuity or were not paying gratuity at all. Among the eight establishments, four are from Ahmedabad and include Pace Centers Business Solution Pvt Ltd, Nimbs Foods Industries Pvt Ltd, Rozbel Bioscience Ltd and Perfect Boring Pvt Ltd. Show-cause notices have also been issued to firms of various districts - Teamlease- L&T, Rajkot, D G Nakrani GMERS hospital, Vadodara, Ekta Prints Pvt Ltd., Surat and Creative Tex Mills Pvt Ltd, Valsad. Earlier, in October, the labour department had initiated legal action against nine firms in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar & Surat for non-payment of gratuity. “We initiated legal action under Payment of Gratuity Act against erring firms,” ACS Vipul Mittra said. Under sections 9 and 11 of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, an employer who contravenes, or makes default in complying with, any of the provisions of the act, will be punishable with imprisonment for a term which can extend up to a year and fine which can extend up to Rs 20,000, or both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-companies-in-legal-soup/articleshow/79685937.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan visits Warangal, flays govt on projects||Warangal: Union Minister of State (Home) G Kishan Reddy reviewed development work in Warangal during a visit on Friday. Stating that the Union government was keen on the progress of the city, he said the Centre had released Rs 196 crore for various works here. In a meeting with the district administration, Reddy was apprised of works taking place under the Smart City programme. He said that the Union government had sanctioned funds for drinking water to every household in Warangal city, and other projects including the renovation of the Bhadrakali and Thousand Pillar Temple, sewage treatment unit and for libraries. Reddy blamed the government for delays in several of the projects. “The Centre hopes to start Wagon Overhaul Factory in Kazipet junction soon at a cost of Rs 385 crore. However, the state government had promised 160 acre, which has not yet been handed to railway authorities,” alleged the Union minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-visits-warangal-flays-govt-on-projects/articleshow/79686754.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||After 61 years, revised police manual to be published soon: Deshmukh||Nagpur: The state police manual is set to be revised after 61 years. Compiled as a guide for the functioning of the police department in 1888, the manual was last published in 1959, when Gujarat was still part of the state. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will publish the revised and updated police and prison manual in combined format for the first time.“One of the first tasks MVA government started after coming to power was to initiate revision and updation of the police and prison manual in view of the changing scenario,” said Deshmukh. “The combined manual is now ready for printing and publishing. It incorporates modern concepts and changed provisions of the police department,” said Deshmukh, NCP MLA from Katol constituency.The police department had formed a committee under senior officers to revise and update the police manuals earlier this year. It submitted the draft for approval from the home department. The committee had to additionally work on queries and issues raised by the home department.The earlier manual had become redundant as it was prepared when the head of the state police force was an officer of inspector general rank with an assistant inspector general of police as his second-in-command. The updated manual begins with the director general of police as the head of the force in the state.The latest version would also have modifications in procedures of arrest, as such action for offences with punishments under seven years has been restricted by a Supreme Court verdict. There are also added guidelines to deal with offences like cyber crimes, which did not exist six decades ago. Additional thrust has been laid in the guidelines to probe crimes related to women. Later on Friday, Deshmukh inaugurated two pre-recruitment training centres for aspiring police personnel at Katol and Kondhali. Three more such camps for police department examinations were also opened at Narkhed, Bharsinghi and Thadipauni. Deshmukh, who was with wife Arti, motivated the aspirants, saying that 5,298 posts for police constables would be filled up in the first phase of the total recruitment plan of 12,500 police personnel. Deshmukh also urged the young girls to take advantage of the 30% reservation for them in recruitment.The state home minister also aims to set up infrastructure for recruiting and raising an all-women battalion of State Reserve police Force (SRPF) at Katol on a recently acquired 100 acre plot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-61-years-revised-police-manual-to-be-published-soon-deshmukh/articleshow/79684904.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||CM launches IVRS trials for Covid patients in Haridwar||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday launched the trial run of Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) for Covid-19 patients who were under self-isolation in Haridwar. The technology would act as a direct link between patients and paramedical staff to provide the required medical care. On the basis of the details given by patients, their information would be fed into the system. Speaking at the event at secretariat, CM Rawat said that nodal officers would be appointed for IVRS and they would immediately inform their seniors about the required medical treatment and assistance for any patients. He also directed officials to ensure that the patients were contacted at “a suitable time so that there is no disruption in their schedule”. In the meeting, the CM also said that flowers in large quantities are usually offered to deities in Haridwar district, which are often left wasted. So, he directed the Haridwar authorities to come up with a mechanism under which these flowers could be used for making incense sticks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-launches-ivrs-trials-for-covid-patients-in-haridwar/articleshow/79684897.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||SIC asks PDPU how it’s immune to RTI||Ahmedabad: The state information commission has sought details from Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU) about its affairs after it refused information to an applicant on the grounds that it is a private university and does not fall under the purview of the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Advocate Sandip Munjyasara last year sought details from PDPU under RTI laws, which were refused in December 2019. The university’s refusal to part with the information was on the grounds that it is a private university. The issue reached the state information commission, where Mujyasara raised the question of how RTI provisions are not applicable to university. This led the commission to pose certain questions to the university. The commission has ordered PDPU to supply details on the board of governors of the university; the board of management; whether it receives any grants from the state or central government; from which funds was the university campus developed and how the land was obtained for it; who audits the university; and to show how it is not a public instrumentality. The commission sought the details from PDPU by December 31, and posted further proceedings on January 21. Similarly, the information commission also sought certain details from another private university – Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information & Communication Technology (DAIICT) after it refused information under RTI to Munjyasara. The institute made it clear that it does not receive any public funds. The commission has posted the next hearing for January 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sic-asks-pdpu-how-its-immune-to-rti/articleshow/79685947.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyber crime training for cops in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police organised a training programme to improve investigation skills in cyber crime for 90 police personnel on Friday. In a press note, the Cyberabad police said that the personnel underwent training in deep cyber security forensic and data breach investigations and advanced hacking simulations. “The training was given by Cyber Hats Solution and in the coming days more police personnel from Cyberabad will undergo the same training,” Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said. During the training, issues faced by the investigators while dealing with cases regarding social media, e-mail threats, cyber threats & digital forensics were discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-crime-training-for-cops/articleshow/79686741.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Plea contests Rs 800 cap on RT-PCR tests||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday sought the AAP government’s response on a plea challenging its decision to cap the price of RT-PCR tests for detecting Covid-19 infection at Rs 800 in the capital. Justice Navin Chawla issued notice to Delhi government and sought its stand on the plea by an association of practising pathologists contending that the price fixed would not cover the cost of consumables to be used in the test. The association has argued that the price cap cannot be made applicable to TrueNat and CBNAAT tests, which are also to detect Covid-19 infection, as they use cartridges which are very expensive. It said that sensitivity of TrueNat and CBNAAT was 98% and 100%, respectively, which were much higher than that of RT-PCR open-ended system test, which stood at 67-70%. The plea submits that the approximate costs incurred by the labs on TrueNat and CBNAAT tests were Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,500, respectively and were higher than the amount of Rs 1,200 for RT-PCR. Delhi government, represented by standing counsel Ramesh Singh, clarified to the court that the price cap was not applicable to CBNAAT and TrueNAT tests as these are different from RT-PCR. Singh told the court that the association ought to have first moved a representation to Delhi government regarding their concerns before rushing to the court and had they done so, they would have found out that the price cap was not applicable to TrueNat and CBNAAT tests. The government said the association’s concern over the price cap of Rs 800 could have been considered had they moved a representation. The court then pointed out that the three tests are not common and hence a common price cannot be fixed for them. While listing the matter for hearing on February 25, 2021, the court declined to go into issue of alleged delay in clearance of bills of the private labs by Delhi government, which outsources tests to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-contests-rs-800-cap-on-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/79686794.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tax defaulters may lose property||PUNE: Property tax defaulters, who refuse to clear arrears, may stand to lose their properties as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is contemplating on auctioning them. The civic administration has completed the process of issuing notices and sealed the properties, yet the tax arrears have not been cleared. “We have given enough time to property tax defaulters to pay the arrears. All due measures have been taken for recovery. The option of auction is being explored as a last resort,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner of PMC. Khemnar said that details of properties to be auctioned will be finalized over the next week. A majority of the properties already have PMC’s name on the property card. The properties will be auctioned in order of when they were sealed. The revenue collected from the auction process will be added to the civic coffers. PMC records show that around 10.6 lakh properties are in the property tax net. The number of taxable properties increased in 2017 after the merger of 11 villages in municipal limits. Around 2 lakh properties have been added to the tax ambit since the merger. As per PMC officials, the administration has given defaulters a number of opportunities to clear their dues. The amnesty scheme, offering waiver on the penalty amount, was introduced a few times. PMC offered 80% discount in the property tax penalty amount to those willing to clear the dues. However, only around 30,000 property owners took benefit of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tax-defaulters-may-lose-property/articleshow/79686744.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
December 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Multiplex owners banking on new releases for blockbuster comeback||PUNE: City multiplexes have recorded a disappointing turnout despite low ticket prices since their reopening after a gap of about eight months on November 15. Though their hopes were pinned on the Diwali rush, there was low footfall. Most of them are now banking on the Christmas and New Year releases to draw in a crowd. The government has allowed multiplexes to operate with 50% capacity. A source from the Multiplex Association of India said, “The industry has incurred massive losses this year, but the worst is behind us and we are thankful to be able to open for business.” Arvind Chaphalkar, partner, City Pride multiplexes, said, “The response has been very low since we reopened, but we have to keep the business up and running to build confidence in our patrons. We are screening Tenet now, but with Wonder Woman 1984 releasing during Christmas, and good news about vaccines coming in, we hope the numbers will rise.” Due to such low footfall, a few multiplexes in the city, such as ESquare, which were set to open post-Diwali, have not been able to restart operations. With no new blockbuster Bollywood releases, which are the real crowd-pullers, the management is looking at other ways to keep the audience engaged. Saurabh Varma, chief marketing officer, Inox Leisure Ltd, said, “We are screening alternative content like BTS Burn The Stage concert for youngsters who are big fans of K-Pop, Nat Geo edutainment, classic Disney etc and we have also partnered with content producers who are providing old films such as Daag, Silsila etc. We are offering private screenings for birthdays, anniversaries, and other get-togethers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/multiplex-owners-banking-on-new-releases-for-blockbuster-comeback/articleshow/79686762.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Nod to train travel with unreserved tickets likely soon||PUNE: Those with unreserved tickets might soon be able to travel on special trains, currently operational across divisions of the Central Railway. The ministry of railways, in a letter to all zonal railways, has given approval for sale of unreserved tickets for special trains. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway, told TOI that the zonal railways would decide when they want to start sale of unreserved tickets. A source in the Central Railway, having five divisions, including Pune, said talks were on in this connection. “The final decision would be taken by the ministry,” the official said. The ministry, in a letter on December 8, said unreserved ticket sale through various mediums might be allowed in all zonal railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nod-to-train-travel-with-unreserved-tickets-likely-soon/articleshow/79686742.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 12, 2020||Meerut||Girl, 17, gang-raped in a moving car; six booked||BIJNOR: An Amroha-based 17-year-old girl’s love story turned into a horror saga when she was allegedly raped and blackmailed by the youth who promised marriage to her. Then, his friends took turns to rape her in a moving car. So far , six people have been booked for rape, blackmail and abduction of the survivor. “A probe is on. The accused are at large. They will be apprehended soon,” said Ajay Kumar Singh, Didaoli station house officer. In the complaint with police, the survivor said during her school days in Delhi, she met a neighbourhood youth, Mujeeb Ahmed, and fell in love with him. He allegedly raped on the pretext of marriage. When she insisted on marriage, he filmed her in a compromising position. Thereafter, he raped her repeatedly by threatening to upload it on social media. On October 21, Ahmed allegedly called the rape survivor at Amroha’s Joya bus stand by promising to delete the video. When girl reached there, he and a friend arrived by a car and abducted her. They raped her in a moving car and filmed the act. They again made a video of the act. Later, they handed her over to their friends. They also gang-raped her in another moving car on way to Ghaziabad. Then, they threw her out on the road, threatening her with dire consequences if she told anyone what happened. An autorickshaw driver helped her to return home. On November 28, she finally narrated her ordeal to her parents. They took her to the police station. Based on the complaint, an FIR under relevant sections was registered at Didauli police station against Mujeeb Ahmed and his friends, Zaki Pasha from Turq colony of Amroha, Waseem of Tikiya colony, Anas Pasha of Sinora, Jamshed of Jiwai and Haseeb from Joya. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl-17-gang-raped-in-a-moving-car-six-booked/articleshow/79684912.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||CM authorizes Kaushik to answer in assembly on his behalf||Dehradun: For the upcoming assembly session, Uttarakhand chief minister (CM) Trivendra Singh Rawat has authorized urban development minister Madan Kaushik to answer questions related to the departments under the CM. Kaushik also holds the charge of parliamentary affairs minister. The three-day assembly session is scheduled to start from December 21. Each day of the week is reserved for a minister to answer the questions posed by other lawmakers. Monday is reserved for the CM to answer the queries. Opposition Congress has been targeting the CM for a long time for avoiding questions on Mondays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-authorizes-kaushik-to-answer-in-assembly-on-his-behalf/articleshow/79684917.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Strawberry growers fear losses after untimely rain||PUNE: Strawberry growers in Mahabaleshwar are fearing losses on account of the unseasonal light rain with overcast conditions on Friday morning. This would be the third consecutive year in which the production would be affected. Balasaheb Bhilare, president of the Strawberry Growers Association of India, said, “A light drizzle and two consecutive days of overcast conditions in Mahabaleshwar, Panchgani and Wai would have an adverse impact on strawberries, particularly those in the last phase of harvesting. Under this condition, the fruit breaks and could become blackish near its stem. It also impacts flowering too. It means, growers would get less production than expected this year.” Bhilare claimed the berries become vulnerable to various diseases like blight and fungus due to increased moisture. “The growers are currently worried. They are spraying pesticides on the plantations,” Bhilare added. Grower Ranjit Shinde from Aakhade village said, “Traders and agents take advantage of this situation as they purchase strawberry at a low price citing poor quality. In these circumstances, growers face financial losses. Already, many of them are now spending on pesticides to save their crop and harvest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strawberry-growers-fear-losses-after-untimely-rain/articleshow/79686770.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Four arrested on charge of robbing elderly couple||PUNE: Four men, including a domestic help service provider and a former caretaker of an elderly couple, were arrested on Friday on the charge of robbing the senior citizens’ ornaments and cash, collectively valued at Rs20 lakh, after breaking into their bungalow at Gujarat Colony, off Paud Road, in the wee hours of the day. The robbed cash and valuables were recovered from the four arrested persons. Police said the couple’s former caretaker, Sandip Hande (25), also admitted to stealing their Tata Tigor car, worth Rs6.5 lakh, from the same bungalow on January 15, a few days after he left the job there. The couple had then registered a car theft case and the four-wheeler was found abandoned at Supa in Ahmednagar district after an accident. The Kothrud police identified Chhagan Jadhav (48), the domestic help service provider from Chinchwad, as the mastermind behind the crime. The police said his employee, Hande, was from Walhekarwadi. The duo’s aides, Akash Kamble (22) and Deepak Sugave (21), were from Nigdi and Chinchwad, respectively, the police said. The four men would be produced before a local court on Saturday for securing their custodial remand. The bungalow owner (74) — a retired CEO of a private manufacturing firm in Pimpri Chinchwad — stated in his FIR three masked men entered his bungalow from the rear staircase after cutting a window grille, walked into his bedroom and placed sharp weapons on his and his wife’s (68) necks. The intruders gagged and assaulted them and threatened his wife into giving the keys of their bedroom cupboard. The trio collected 380g of gold ornaments, Rs80,000 and US$3,000 — totally worth Rs20 lakh — from a safe in the cupboard after forcing the owner to reveal the PIN of the safe, the FIR stated, adding that the elderly man’s wife suffered injuries to hands and neck. The police said the elderly couple’s son stayed in the US and their daughter, a doctor, stayed in Bavdhan. Senior inspector Sunil Tambe of Kothrud police said, “The bungalow owner suspected Hande’s involvement in the robbery as one of the trio deleted his former caretaker’s contact number from his smartphone before leaving. He also identified Hande from the images captured by a CCTV camera. Though the trio had masks on their face, he identified Hande from a tattoo on his right hand. Jadhav posted Hande at the couple’s bungalow in November 2019 and the latter worked there for over a month.” Tambe said, “A local resident told investigators that he had seen a man three days ago moving suspiciously around the bungalow. We secured CCTV footage of three days back and the resident identified the man, not wearing mask then. Further investigation enabled us establish the man’s identity as Kamble, and we picked him from his residence in Nigdi on Friday morning.” The officer said, “Kamble’s questioning and cellphone data record led us to the arrest of Sugave and Hande. During questioning, trio told us that they executed the crime at the behest of Jadhav, later arrested from his house in Chinchwad. We recovered valuables robbed from the bungalow and two motorcycles used in the crime.” Tambe said, “On Jadhav’s instruction, Kamble and Sugave had helped Hande in conducting a recce of the bungalow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-arrested-on-charge-of-robbing-elderly-couple/articleshow/79686765.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Pawar respected across party lines, will be ideal UPA chief: Deshmukh||Nagpur: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said his party NCP’s national president Sharad Pawar would undoubtedly perform a stellar role if he succeeds Sonia Gandhi as chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). Deshmukh was in the city to organize Pawar’s 80th birthday on a virtual platform where NCP leaders would join from across the state on Saturday and also a blood donation camp at Deshpande hall.He said the NCP supremo gets respect across the party lines and was well aware of the national scenario at present. “We are all privy to the rumours regarding his (Pawar) being appointed as UPA chairperson but it solely depends on the collective decision of parties who are part of the platform. If it happens, we will all welcome the decision,” said Deshmukh.“Much depends upon the opinions of the major parties in the alliance but it is a fact that leaders across the country know Pawar and vice-versa,” he said.Though the party and Pawar himself have dismissed any speculation regarding him replacing Gandhi, the issue repeatedly resurfaces in the media with the Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also openly supporting the idea. The speculation was bolstered after Pawar had led a national delegation of the farmers on the farm laws issue. The BJP performance in Bihar and Greater Hyderabad civic polls have weakened the UPA’s role as opposition. In addition, the failure of the opposition to take on the BJP-led NDA on the petrol price, farmer issues and overall slump in the economic graph have underlined the need for someone like Pawar to lift UPA’s performance and steady its keel. Pawar’s role in forming the government in Maharashtra having Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, once thought almost impossible, had once again proved his deal-making skills. Deshmukh also said that there could not be any ambiguity that NCP chief will pull off the role with aplomb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pawar-respected-across-party-lines-will-be-ideal-upa-chief-deshmukh/articleshow/79684915.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Western disturbance brings rain to Ahmedabad, state||AHMEDABAD: Citizens woke up to foggy weather with strong cold winds on Friday as several areas recorded light to moderate showers early in the morning. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) website, the city received an average 2mm rainfall. The maximum temperature of the city took a sharp dip of 9.8 degrees celsius as it recorded 23.5 degrees compared to 33.3 degrees on Thursday. According to the website, it was 6.9 degrees lower than the normal. On the other hand, the minimum temperature recorded rise of 7.3 degrees celsius at 21 degrees, virtually recording similar temperatures during the day and night hours. IMD officials said that the phenomenon was caused by the western disturbance induced cyclonic circulation over southwest Rajasthan and neighbouring areas. The IMD has given a forecast for light to moderate rainfall in Surendranagar, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Junagadh, Amreli, Bhavnagar, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Gir Somnath, Botad and Kutch on Saturday. On Sunday, light showers could be experienced in Surat, Valsad, Navsari and Dangs along with adjoining Union Territories. From December 13, the dry weather could be expected, said experts. State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) data indicated that Umargam in Valsad district recorded the highest rainfall at 35 mm, followed by Jafrabad in Amreli (30 mm), Vapi in Valsad (29 mm), Chhota Udepur, and Pardi in Valsad (25 mm each). A total of 136 talukas of the state recorded 1 mm or more rainfall on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/western-disturbance-brings-rain-to-city-state/articleshow/79685961.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||Missing for 11 days, man, 22, found dead in a drain||PILIBHIT: A 22-year-old man was on Friday morning found dead in a drain, 11 days after he went missing from his home in Pilibhit’s Neuria area. Soon after he had gone missing, the family members of Chandra Prakash had expressed apprehension that might be killed. Prakash was missing from his home since November 30. Station house officer (SHO) of Neuria, Jagat Singh, said, “The body did not bear any injury mark. We are waiting for the post mortem examination report to arrive at any conclusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-for-11-days-man-22-found-dead-in-a-drain/articleshow/79684916.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Meerut||Jeweller’s murder: Spent cartridge help cops nail 3 accused||MEERUT: A tiny cartridge, ejected from a 9mm pistol used to kill a prominent Bulandshahr jeweller inside his showroom last month, helped police crack the case and arrest three accused. Rohtash Verma was shot dead on November 22. Since then, local police were trying to find and arrest the three accused who carried out the murder, but with no success. But an unusual recovery of a country-made pistol of 9mm bore from a dreaded criminal in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur earlier this week made police officers, sitting 170km away in UP’s Bulandshahr, jump on their seats. The 9mm pistol is hardly used by any criminal or civilian as it is only issued to security personnel. Its recovery from the criminal raised suspicion and a UP Police team rushed to Bharatpur. During investigation, the criminal, Sandeep Chauhan, “revealed everything”. Two other accused were later arrested from UP on his tip-off. Chauhan alias Nikki was wanted in both UP and in Rajasthan with over 12 cases of murder, extortion and loot registered against him. He got bail and was released from Bharatpur’s Sewar jail last year after serving seven years of jail term in a bank robbery case. Following a tip-off, Bharatpur police arrested him from Udyognagar area in the district in an extortion case on December 6. They recovered the 9mm pistol and 9 cartridges of the prohibited bore from him. “As soon as we learnt about the arrest, we sent a team to Bharatpur. During interrogation he confessed to carrying out the robbery in Bulandshahr. Out of the four more suspects involved in the robbery, we have arrested two locals, Akash Sharma and Vishal Kumar,” Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police said. Efforts are also being made to trace the source of 9mm cartridges. According to sources in the department, Chauhan claimed to have procured 13 such cartridges from an illicit arms dealer in Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/jewellers-murder-spent-cartridge-help-cops-nail-3-accused/articleshow/79684914.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Car owner fined Rs 4,700 for letting kids drive dangerously||NAGPUR: Probably for the first time, the Nagpur traffic police have twice fined a vehicle driver for an offence of dangerous driving. To teach a lesson to a group of youngsters driving atop a luxury car, Sonegaon traffic police on Friday imposed an additional fine of Rs 3,500 on them. After TOI tweeted a photo of youngsters driving dangerously near VNIT gate, Bajaj Nagar, the Nagpur city traffic police issued an e-challan of two offences under Section 179 (1) of Motor Vehicles Act for not wearing mask and Section 184 MVA for dangerous driving. The cumulative fine for both the sections is Rs 1,200 (including Rs 1,000 for dangerous driving). Appreciating the photo posted by TOI, citizens expressed anguish over paltry fine and pointed out the traffic police should be tougher on such practices. On Friday, the Sonegaon traffic zone led by senior PI Sandeep Bhosale called the owner of the vehicle and warned him of stern action like detention of the car if it is caught violating any further rules. Later, following directives from DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad, Bhosale again summoned the owner and slapped an additional fine of Rs3,500. This time, the police found the car didn’t have valid insurance. It also had tinted glass and even the tail lamp of the vehicle was non-functional. The owner of the vehicle paid both the challans and promised to follow traffic rules henceforth. Awad clarified no traffic violations will be tolerated in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/car-owner-fined-rs4700-for-letting-kids-drive-dangerously/articleshow/79684929.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Goa||BJP lied about Rs 35,000cr mining scam to malign us: Congress||Panaji: BJP destroyed Goa’s mining industry and maligned Congress by claiming that the state government lost revenue to the tune of Rs 35,000 crore due to irregularities. Releasing a letter from the directorate of mines and geology, Congress said that the government has admitted that the claims made by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar were false. Congress said that BJP should apologise for misleading Goans with lies. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said chief minister Pramod Sawant and state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade should make public the report of the public accounts committee (PAC), which was used by BJP to attack former chief minister Digambar Kamat and Congress. “More than three lakh mining dependants have suffered since the last nine years after then chief minister Manohar Parrikar took steps for closure of mining activities,” Chodankar said at a press conference at the party headquarters on Thursday. Congress released correspondence between the Prime Minister’s Office and the state government’s public grievances cell where the government clearly states that illegal mining was not to the tune of Rs 35,0000 as claimed by Parrikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-lied-about-rs-35000cr-mining-scam-to-malign-us-congress/articleshow/79686796.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||New Covid-19 cases surpassing recoveries in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The novel coronavirus case tally in Uttarakhand reached 81,211 on Friday as 725 fresh infections were reported from the state on the day. Also, nine more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 1,341 in the state. It is worth mentioning that the number of fresh cases is surpassing that of recoveries for the last 10 days in the state. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that infection rate in the state was reported at 5.29%. “New Covid-19 infections are crossing the number of recoveries for the last 10 days. The infection rate — 35% — was the highest in Dehradun on Friday. Pithoragarh recorded 55 positive cases from 560 tests, reporting an infection rate of 9.82%. Similarly, Pauri noted 79 cases from 1,059 tests, the infection rate being 7.46%,” added Nautiyal. According to the health department, the maximum of 256 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 115 in Nainital, 79 in Pauri and 57 in Chamoli, 55 in Pithoragarh, 30 in Udham Singh Nagar, 21 in Uttarkashi, 20 in Almora, 18 each in Bageshwar and Rudraprayag, and 13 in Tehri. “Among the nine coronavirus-related deaths, seven patients died in Dehradun, followed by one each in Haldwani and Gopeshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Apart from fresh cases and deaths, 508 patients recovered from Covid-19 infection on Friday, taking the recovery tally to 72,987. The state currently has 5,934 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-covid-19-cases-surpassing-recoveries-in-ukhand/articleshow/79684937.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||AAP will fight 2022 state polls in U’khand, says Sisodia in Kumaon||Nainital: Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia declared on Friday that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest the 2022 assembly elections in Uttarakhand, with the development model of Delhi as its poll plank. “People of Uttarakhand have been waiting to fulfill the dream with which the state was made. Our party, our politics and Arvind Kejriwal’s politics will be to fight to fulfill those dreams,” Sisodia said in Kashipur on the first day of his visit to Kumaon. He however did not clarify if his party will contest all 70 seats or just the ones it has a strong presence in. During his visit, Sisodia will meet volunteers in Haldwani and Bhimtal as well. He will then travel to Nainital’s famous Kainchi Dham and interact with the party’s leaders on Saturday there as well. AAP has been trying to find a foothold in the hill state’s politics and extend its presence beyond Delhi. Party leaders have claimed that they now have a strong presence on almost all the state’s booths and Sisodia’s visit is crucial to take stock of the political situation in the hill state and chalk out the strategy for 2022 elections. “AAP has reached over 9,000 booths in the state. This was achieved in the lockdown period at that. We are confident that our message is reaching the people of Uttarakhand,” said a senior party leader, who chose to remain anonymous. AAP has already roped in several leaders from across the state into their fold and Sisodia’s visit is likely to boost the party’s appeal further. Earlier, former state election commissioner Subardhan and IPS officer Anant Ram Chauhan had joined the party in Delhi. Apart from them, Major General (retd) Chandra Kishore Jakhmola has been made the state vice president, while the former president of Uttarakhand Bar Association, Razia Beg, has also joined the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-will-fight-2022-state-polls-in-ukhand-says-sisodia-in-kumaon/articleshow/79684938.cms||Prashant Jha
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Cong ex-ZP chief raises pollution issue in Khaparkheda area||Nagpur: Sunita Gher, Congress leader and former zilla parishad (ZP) chief of Chicholi (near Khaparkheda), has written to the chief engineer of the Khaparkheda power plant, charging him with doing nothing to reduce pollution in the area. Meanwhile, activist Anil Wadpalliwar has obtained data under the right to information (RTI) Act which shows high incidence of respiratory diseases in Khaparkheda area.Gher’s letter stated that she had written several times to Mahagenco regarding its failure to curb poisonous emissions from the Khaparkheda plant. “Oral complaints, too, were lodged but the authorities do not seem to be serious about the problem,” she added.“People by the thousands live in Chicholi ZP circle. Their health has been adversely affected by poisonous emissions from the Khaparkheda plant. It’s the need of the hour to take steps to reduce emissions. Kindly inform me about what you propose to do in this regard,” said Gher.“The Khaparkheda plant functions under the Factories Act. It has to follow norms of the Maharashtra pollution control board (MPCB). However, the plant does not seem to be doing so,” stated the letter.“When the Khaparkheda plant was being set up, villagers had given some suggestions regarding pollution control to the then officers of the Maharashtra state electricity board (MSEB). The officers had agreed to implement the suggestions but this has not happened,” says the letter.Apart from citizens’ health, farmers are suffering crop damage due to the emissions. The condition of farmers is like those in drought-affected areas.Gher warned the CE that if he did not take immediate steps to reduce pollution, she would file a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court against him and Mahagenco. Affected residents would also stage demonstrations against the company.According to the data given to Wadpalliwar by the officials of the Chicholi public health centre (PHC), between January and October 2020, 639 people were afflicted by influenza-like illnesses, 2,956 suffered from common cold and cough, two got pneumonia and two were struck from bronchitis.Wadpalliwar claimed that compared to the other areas, respiratory illnesses were far higher in Khaparkheda area due to emissions from the plant.“Mahagenco uses high ash content coal in all its power plants, including Khaparkheda and Koradi. It is not bothered about the health of citizens living in the area. Even unborn babies are hit by so much pollution and they may be born with congenital diseases. Mahagenco should immediately stop using high ash coal otherwise I will have to move the courts,” said Wadpalliwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-ex-zp-chief-raises-pollution-issue-in-khaparkheda-area/articleshow/79684936.cms||Ashish Roy
December 12, 2020||Goa||JICA-funded water pipeline to bring relief to Mormugao||Vasco: Mormugao taluka and surrounding areas will receive restricted drinking water supply on December 15 as work will be carried out on a reservoir as part of the JICA-funded (Japan International Cooperation Agency) project for a water pipeline. Areas that will be affected include Mormugao, Vasco, Dabolim and Cortalim along with Loutolim and Nagoa (Verna), among others. The trial phase of the new JICA-funded pipeline is likely to begin within a month but the date for the official inauguration will be decided only once authorities are satisfied with its operation during the test phase. This new pipeline, once operational, is expected to bring much-needed relief to Mormugao taluka. “The work of installation of butterfly valve on 900mm pipeline at the master balancing reservoir at Verna will be undertaken. It is a major work and will take about 10-12 hours to complete. During the last shut down few days ago some related work to the same pipeline was carried out,” a PWD official said. “The old pipeline was laid at least 30 years ago. It had developed leakages and needed repairs work to be done many times. There was a need of a new pipeline and so this JICA-funded pipeline is for improving and replacing the old one. The old pipeline will be slowly put into disuse,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/jica-funded-water-pipeline-to-bring-relief-to-mormugao/articleshow/79686822.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||State to file contempt petition against former PCCF Agrawal||Nagpur: In a major move, the state government has decided to file contempt petition against former principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force) UK Agrawal for violating Supreme Court orders while granting additional horizontal band saw (AHBS) licences to 50 sawmills as chairman of the state-level committee (SLC).On December 8, 2020, the state government has directed PCCF (head of forest force) N Rambabu to send a draft of contempt petition to be filed against Agrawal. The state has also directed the PCCF to cancel such licences issued before and initiate similar action against those officials too.Experts and a section of retired forest officials have termed the government order as eyewash as the belated order has been issued 42 days after the ministry of environment, forest and climate change passed orders against the SLC and Agrawal. Of the 50 licences, 34 were issued in Kolhapur circle, 10 in Nashik, five in Chandrapur, and one in Dhule.PCCF office confirmed to TOI that certain directions have been issued and the decision will be taken in the 18th SLC meeting slated for December 17. The government has also asked to follow the MoEFCC order of October 30, 2020, and submit a report in 15 days.This is for the first time that a former PCCF rank IFS officer will be taken up for defying apex court and state orders. In a similar case, then forest minister Swarup Singh Naik and additional chief secretary (ACS) Ashok Khot were sentenced to one-month simple imprisonment by the apex court in 2006 for clandestinely giving licences to six wood-based industries in 2004, despite a ban.Deciding an appeal filed by environmental lawyer Manish Jeswani, the MoEFCC deputy director-general of forests (central), regional office, VN Ambade, on October 30, 2020, stated, “Neither the state government nor the forest officers have learnt any lessons from the apex court order in TN Godavarman case (WP 202/1995), wherein then forest minister and the secretary were sentenced. There has been a blatant disregard for the authority of law by the SLC.”The SLC, especially its chairman Agrawal, was found to be having no regard for the rule of law and abused the discretionary powers vested in him and he has never been fair in the instant case. The order said, “When discretionary power is conferred on administrative authority, it is required to be exercised according to law, which has been abused by Agrawal by exceeding his jurisdiction. It also criticized the state for simply giving directions to Agrawal without initiating any action, due to which ex-PCCF habitually violated the rule of law.”However, the December 8, 2020 direction from the state is silent against initiating an independent inquiry against Agrawal, which should culminate in two months from the issuance of this order and start contempt proceedings before the competent authority.The MoEFCC has said the SLC should have satisfied that timber is legally available in the entire state by way of undertaking an appropriate study before granting fresh licences for AHBS. The order said guidelines are crystal clear that whenever SLC wishes to enhance existing licence capacity, it should have a timber availability report, which was not done by Agrawal.Despite apex court violations, 24 sawmill owners have challenged the MoEFCC order in the Nagpur Bench of Bombay high court. The forest department is yet to file a reply in the case. STATE SILENT ON THESE ISSUESInitiate revision of working plans which are about to expire in 2-3 years and get it approved by GoI as felling cannot start without its approvalIdentify lands for compensatory afforestation on war-footing as Maharashtra has many upcoming projects for which forest land has been proposed for diversion under FCAProvide division-wise report giving details of compensatory afforestation carried out since 1980 in lieu of forest land under FCA vis-à-vis quantity of wood that is available for wood-based industriesReconstitute SLC with PCCF (production & management) as its chairman. HoFF should be kept independent so that he can provide technical guidance, suggestions to SLC as and when neededIssue necessary direction to stakeholders of wood-based industries for plantation of at least 10 trees per cubic meter wood consumed per year in order to enhance forest cover in MaharashtraGet timber availability report from Institute of Wood Science and Technology, Bengaluru, and get it examined by internal forest department committee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-to-file-contempt-petition-against-former-pccf-agrawal/articleshow/79684944.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Internships for BA, BSc pupils too||PUNE: After the University Grants Commission advocated it for non-technical branches, Savitribai Phule Pune University has planned to extend the compulsory internship to BA and BSc students. N S Umarani, pro vice-chancellor at SPPU, said, “Last year, we had decided to introduce internships for students pursuing Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Business Administration from the colleges affiliated to the university. Accordingly, the curriculum was designed and introduced in 2019-20 in which it was decided that the internships would be taken up by students for two credits, when they move into their third year.” He added that while the university plans to introduce internships in BA, BSc programmes in phases, looking at all the parameters, and the success of the 2-credit internship system, they would implement the UGC’s suggestion of converting an entire semester into internships in the future. “Currently the internship can be done in any organisation, under the guidance of the subject teacher. Students gaining some work experience is our objective. Now that the UGC has come up with this notification, we will make changes to our degree programmes so that one-semester internships can be made a part of their course in the near future,” Umarani added. The UGC letter released this week said the call for embedding internships in general degree courses is in line with the Budget 2020 announcement which talked about making students from the general degree streams employment-ready with knowledge, competencies and attitude. Bhushan Patwardhan, vice chairman of the University Grants Commission said, “Embedded internship programme in general degree courses will be implemented stepwise. Availability of internships in the local area will be checked by the universities or respective colleges before they make it compulsory. Rural students need not worry. It is not necessary that the internships be only in industries or in a city. Internships can also be in milk federations, or agricultural markets or cooperative societies in the village. It is a means to learn new things, to learn how to work in the real world. Our education today is a bit disconnected from what is happening and this is a step to bridge the gap,” Patwardhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/internships-for-ba-bsc-pupils-too/articleshow/79685975.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 12, 2020||Pune||Varsity makes Constitution an add-on subject in second year||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to introduce the Constitution as an add-on subject for all its second-year students in BA, BCom and BSc degree courses. It will carry two credits and will be taught in both online and offline modes. Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “A basic understanding of the Constitution is essential for all the students. Moreover, they need to know its history, the thought process of the people who framed it, why it was necessary, what it means to be a republic. Some excellent speeches and debates will also be there.” Karmalkar said students will be assessed on this subject, and this subject will be introduced in engineering and postgraduate courses. Vijay Khare, head of the department of defence and strategic studies at SPPU, said it will dispel myths about the Constitution. “Many don’t even know the fundamental rights and duties. Hence, proper care has been taken to introduce topics in the syllabus as the Constitution in its entirety cannot be taught in such a short time. While most of the course will be online, there would also be offline classes where resource persons will go to a college and teach the students for a week or two,” Khare added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/varsity-makes-constitution-an-add-on-subject-in-second-year/articleshow/79685983.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Introduce ‘Covid-19 insurance policy’ to attract foreign tourists: Maharaj||Dehradun: With an aim to boost tourism, Uttarakhand tourism and culture minister Satpal Maharaj on Friday wrote a letter to Union tourism minister Prahlad Patel requesting him to introduce special life insurance policies for foreign tourists so that they can travel to India without fearing treatment expenses. In his letter to the Union minister, Satpal Maharaj said that as many as 10.9 billion foreign tourists visited India in 2019 but the tourism activities in the country have been greatly affected due to the pandemic. Therefore, it is currently becoming necessary to implement a “Covid-19 Insurance Policy” to bring tourism back on track in the country. “The tourism influx, both domestic and foreign, has witnessed a major setback due to Covid-19 outbreak. There is an atmosphere of fear among domestic tourists and among those coming from abroad as well. In such a situation, it would be great if the government can provide protection to tourists in the form of life insurance policies. This will attract both domestic and foreign tourists,” said Maharaj. In the letter, Maharaj added that the Kumbh Mela, scheduled in Uttarakhand in 2021, also attracts hundreds of foreign devotees. “Therefore, it is very important to get Covid-19 life insurance for the protection of the pilgrims who come here. This is not something far-fetched as countries like Singapore and others are already offering such insurance policies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/introduce-covid-19-insurance-policy-to-attract-foreign-tourists-maharaj/articleshow/79684967.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 12, 2020||Goa||Store clerk suspended at Sanjivani for stealing sugar||Ponda: A store clerk employed at Sanjivani Cooperative Sugar Factory at Dharbandora was suspended on Friday, for allegedly stealing 1.5kg of waste sugar. Sources said the clerk, a resident of Usgao, was found taking the sugar out of the factory in his tiffin box. The theft was discovered during a security check on Thursday evening, when the accused was leaving the factory after work. According to a source, the sugar was waste and lying unused and has no market value. Around three bags of sugar from 2017-18 season has been left after the good produce was auctioned. It is not clear why the clerk stole the waste sugar, the source said. The store clerk has been charged for stealing and has been suspended as per the rules of conduct for the employees of the enterprise, the source said. Factory administrator Sanjiv Gadkar was not accessible for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/store-clerk-suspended-at-sanjivani-for-stealing-sugar/articleshow/79686827.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crops damaged in fields, market yards||Ahmedabad/Rajkot: Unseasonal rain on Thursday night caused significant damage to standing crops of wheat, cumin seeds, grams, onions, garlics and pulses in Saurashtra and parts of North Gujarat. Also harvested crops lying in open in the market yards and fields suffered extensive damage. Officials in the agriculture department said that sowing was already completed in 34.34 lakh hectare area against the 10-year average sowing of 34.38 lakh hectares. The officials said the unseasonal rain will affect onion, grams, coriander, and cumin crops where the farmers had gone in for early sowing. With the availability of water, many farmers had gone for early sowing but are now staring at losses. The seven districts of Saurashtra including Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Morbi, Botad and Jamnagar had received good rain along with Rapar taluka of Kutch district. The sowing in Saurashtra had been completed in 14.78 lakh hectares of which grams, cumin and coriander accounted for 8.5 lakh hectares. Officials said that once the government receives reports from the field staff it will order a survey in the rain-affected areas. This year onion farmers had gone in for early sowing to get higher prices, and sowing was already completed in 42,800 hectares as against 21,500 hectares last year. This crop will suffer damage and it could lead to an increase in onion prices which was checked after ban on exports. The officials said the groundnut and cotton stored in the yards at Gondal, Jetpur and Rajkot were all drenched and destroyed. If the cotton bales were left to dry in the open the cotton will lose it colour and will not fetch adequate prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crops-damaged-in-fields-market-yards/articleshow/79685972.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Rural biz cell comes up at St Mira’s||Pune: The St Mira’s College for Girls, Pune, and the Centre for Women Entrepreneurship have set up a rural entrepreneurship development cell in the college. The cell has been set up in a bid to allow the students to develop an understanding of entrepreneurship in a rural context, explore and identify rural potential for a business idea, promote rural entrepreneurship culture and build a strong rural entrepreneurial ecosystem, an official release from the college stated. The rural entrepreneurship development cell is an initiative of Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education — and arm of the Department of Higher Education, the release stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-biz-cell-comes-up-at-st-miras/articleshow/79685992.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: CS exam to be held in June for Covid-19 candidates||PUNE: Candidates who had opted for the December session of the company secretary (CS) exam will now get a chance to opt out and appear in June, 2021, provided that they or their kin tested positive for Covid between November 20 and December 31, a statement issued by ICSI said. The students who have registered for the December session but want to give the exam in June can select the opt-out option in their application. A statement issued by the The Institute of Company Secretaries in India (ICSI) said, there are many students who were unable to prepare for the exam due to many reasons so we have decided to give them another chance to prepare and they can appear for the exam in June 2021. The ICSI is conducting various exams for the company secretary foundation programme, executive programme and professional programme between December 21 and 30. The students who opt out from the December session can fill up the form till January 15, 2021. The students will have to provide their Covid positive test result to the ICSI at the time of making the change in application form for consideration by the ICSI, added the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cs-exam-to-be-held-in-june-for-covid-19-candidates/articleshow/79685986.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Railway colony near Civil Lines in for revamp||NEW DELHI: Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has invited bids for the redevelopment of a 2.18-hectare area of Boulevard Road Railway Colony, which will see posh bungalows and three-storey buildings be built along Lala Hardev Sahai Marg near Civil Lines. The developer, once chosen, will be receiving 21,800 sqm of areas with a reserve price of Rs 393 crore for 99 years, officials said. RLDA said it was a prime location due to its proximity to the Ring Road with the site also well connected to the peripheral developments in Gurgaon and Noida. The immediate influence zone of the site would extend to approximately five to seven km radius, encompassing parts of Central and North Delhi. The site stands 2.5 km away from the Old Delhi Railway Station and 7 km from the New Delhi Railway Station, with ISBT Kashmere Gate and Tis Hazari Metro Station also in proximity. “The land parcel at Boulevard Road has immense potential for premium segment residential development. The site is strategically located with accessibility to prominent landmarks, such as the railway station, Tis Hazari Metro Station, ISBT Kashmere Gate, among others. The development will enhance its prospects and offer a good return on investment to developers,” said Ved Parkash Dudeja, vice-chairman, RLDA. Officials said the site would be redeveloped in accordance with Delhi Master Plan-2021 (MPD-2021) and being in the upscale bungalow zone of New Delhi, the prescribed Floor Space Index for the buildings would be 0.75 as per Delhi Master Plan-2021. The last date of submission of the bid is January 27, 2021. The online pre-bid meeting is slated to take place on December 17, 2020. RLDA is a statutory body under the ministry of railways for the development of railway land. It has four key mandates as a part of its development plan, namely leasing of commercial sites/residential sites, colony redevelopment, station redevelopment and multi-functional complexes. RLDA is currently handling 84 railway colony redevelopment projects across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rly-colony-near-civil-lines-in-for-revamp/articleshow/79686825.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||IMA strike total, but services remain largely unaffected||NAGPUR: The nationwide closure of non-essential medical services called by Indian Medical Association (IMA) was near total in city as most private hospitals, clinics and nursing homes kept their OPDs closed on Friday. Doctors protested against the gazette notification issued by Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) allowing ayurveda PG doctors to perform 58 types of surgeries. Resident doctors and junior medical students in both the Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) in city also joined the protests, but they did not participate in the strike. So, services in the city GMCs largely remained unaffected. By and large, the hospital closure was peaceful in Nagpur. As far as Vidarbha is concerned, private practitioners of modern medicine joined the IMA and observed a day’s strike. Resident doctors in medical colleges at Akola, Yavatmal, Chandrapur and Gondia protested, but it did not hamper the day-to-day work there. More than 4,000 doctors attached to IMA remained off duty for 12 hours on Friday and non-emergency services in 450-odd hospitals in city remained closed for the day. About 200 clinics remained closed. More than 2,000 students and residents doctors in both medical colleges of city protested, but continued with their duties. “The strike by IMA was 100% successful in Nagpur, though all emergency services were carried out smoothly. Our doctors did not take out any protest morcha or public demonstrations today,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA. Resident doctors at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) stood out of the main gate and held placards against the ‘mixopathy’. The doctors also wore black bands as a mark of protest. “We are against this ill-thought-out, anti-poor, autocratic decision of government of India. We demand increasing seats of modern medicine branches and providing infrastructure in rural and remote areas if the government is genuinely concerned,” said Dr Ganesh Perwe, Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) president, IGGMCH. Dr Arpit Dhakate, MARD president at GMCH, told TOI that the residents have all solidarity with the doctors practising modern medicines and they oppose ‘mixopathy’. “But, we cannot hamper services in the present pandemic situation as GMCs are treating Covid patients largely. Even IMA had made it clear that Covid services will continue. So, central MARD had decided not to stop work,” he added. On Friday afternoon, a team of IMA Nagpur led by its honorary secretary Dr Rajesh Sawarbandhe called on the resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanji and submitted a memorandum. Dr Dinesh Agrawal, Dr Milind Bhrushundi, Dr Prashant Nikhade, Dr Sanjay Deshpande and Dr YS Deshpande were part of the delegation. IMA Maharashtra state president Dr Avinash Bhondve claimed 1,15,000 doctors of modern medicine — allopathy — kept their non-emergency work closed on Friday. “Nearly 25,000 medical students from 36 government and private colleges and 10,000 postgraduate students also joined us,” he added. Pink ribbon counter-protest by NIMA Doctors attached to National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA), wearing pink badges, worked full day on Friday to welcome the CCIM notification. “IMA is trying to create confusion about the notification. There is nothing new in it. Surgery is an integral part of some PG courses in ayurveda and our practitioners have been performing surgeries since years,” said Dr Ravindra Bothra Patron of NIMA Nagpur. NIMA team also submitted a memorandum welcoming the notification to district collector. Residents of ayurvedic colleges and their teachers worked full day wearing pink badges. Doctors trained in ayurveda practising in city kept their clinics and nursing homes open and worked throughout the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-strike-total-but-services-remain-largely-unaffected/articleshow/79684975.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Allopathic docs shut OPDs in protest, ayurvedic ones work with placards in hands||Dehradun: To protest against the Centre’s decision allowing post graduate ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries, private allopathic doctors in Uttarakhand observed a day-long strike on Friday by keeping their OPDs shut. The protest led to an extra influx of patients in government hospitals. Dr DD Choudhury, state secretary of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that around 2,000 private doctors across the state kept their OPDs shut from 6 am to 6 pm on Friday. A few private hospitals were open but doctors worked with black bands on their arms. “The decision to allow ayurveda doctors to conduct surgeries can prove detrimental for patients. Why can’t the government let us do our job and let other sections of medicine do their jobs properly,” added Dr Choudhury. Meanwhile, ayurvedic doctors and AYUSH students worked with placards — that had slogans supporting the Centre’s decision — in their OPDs on Friday. AYUSH students and staffers also worked with pink bands on their arms and welcomed the Centre’s decision of allowing AYUSH doctors to perform surgeries. “Shushrut, ancient Indian physician, is hailed as the father of surgical operations and he was an ayurvedic doctor. We study all about surgeries in ayurveda, so, why can’t we perform surgeries? I welcome the decision of the Centre,” said Lalit Tiwari from National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA). To recall, the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), last month, notified 58 surgical procedures, including general surgery, ENT operations, ophthalmology, urology, surgical gastroenterology, and dental medicine can be performed by ayurveda doctors who have completed their post graduation. Meanwhile, the state government has invoked Uttar Pradesh Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) of 1966 to prohibit doctors in Uttarakhand from going on strike till March, 2021. According to the order issued by health secretary Amit Singh Negi, “Services of doctors and PG students studying in various colleges of the state have been declared as essential under the ESMA and hence, activities like strikes will be prohibited with immediate effect till March 31, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/allopathic-docs-shut-opds-in-protest-ayurvedic-ones-work-with-placards-in-hands/articleshow/79684971.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 12, 2020||Vadodara||71-yr-old held for molesting minor girl||Vadodara: The Chhani police have filed two complaints of sexual harassment against two different persons including a 70-year-old man in last 48 hours. The cops have already arrested Dayanand Tribhuvan, a septuagenarian, for molesting a 15-year-old girl. According to the police, Tribhuvan, a resident of Chhani area, had allegedly molested the girl when she was playing near his house. “The accused called the girl under the pretext of giving her ‘prasad’. He suddenly molested her following which left the spot. The girl informed her parents about the incident who then approached the police on Thursday,” a police official said. Tribhuvan, who lives with his wife, son and daughter-in-law, was arrested on Friday. Another complaint of sexual harassment was lodged against a 27-year-old man on Friday for molesting a minor girl. The accused Dalbir Chauhan had been staying at the girl’s home since the last seven years. “The girl’s parents had allowed Chauhan to stay with them to support him. The girl often used Chauhan’s mobile phone to chat with her friends. Chauhan once saw her chats and threatened that he would inform her mother,” the police said. When the 16-year-old girl pleaded Chauhan to not reveal about the chats to her mother, he demanded sexual favours from her. On Thursday, Chauhan, who works in a private company, molested the girl following which she informed her parents. “We have sent Chauhan for Covid tests. If tested negative, he will be arrested immediately,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/71-yr-old-held-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/79684253.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Informing cops of tenants now a must||Ahmedabad: City police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava issued a notification on Friday that no one can rent out his or her property including houses, industrial units, offices, shops, warehouses and cold storages to anyone without informing the police about it. The notification mentions that intelligence agencies have raised a possibility that terrorists or criminal elements can take shelter in the city and disturb peace in the city or could cause harm to human lives or property. The notification will come into effect from December 12 and be in force till February 9, 2021. According to the notification, after giving any property on rent, all information including the name of the persons who rented the property, area in which the property is located, from where the tenant is coming, information regarding the person who has brought the person, and the information about passport, driving licence and Pan card should be given to the police station of the area in which the property is located. It is mentioned in the notification that failing to do this action is punishable under Section 188 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/informing-cops-of-tenants-now-a-must/articleshow/79685984.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||DU’s School Of Open Learning to get new multi-storey address in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi University is planning to build a new multi-storeyed building for School of Open Learning (SOL) and it will also shift one centre of Faculty of Law to the new campus in east Delhi’s Surajmal Vihar. DU acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi told TOI that in a meeting of a high-powered committee, it was decided to build a new academic block and a residential complex within the new campus. Joshi had visited the site on December 5 and called the meeting on Thursday to discuss plans for the six-hectare land. “We will build an institutional complex. Even GGSIP University is building a complex there. The location is good and with Karkardooma court in the vicinity, it will be an ideal space. The campus was long overdue,” said Joshi. Currently, DU has two major campuses — North and South — with several affiliated colleges across the city. Joshi said DU didn’t have many entities in east Delhi. It was this idea that drove the administration’s meeting on Thursday. “The plan is to shift one of the two law centres there. Since Karkardooma court is nearby, it will be an ideal place as we will look at linking the law centre with the court. This will help students gain practical knowledge and in their academics,” he added. SOL would be shifted from its main centre in North Campus to east Delhi once the infrastructure is ready. “We will build a multi-storeyed building for SOL and also make an academic block to start new courses,” said Joshi. The academic block would not have traditional departments, but new ones with a push towards liberal arts courses, including a school of design and other state-of-the-art departments. “These courses will give DU a new direction,” Joshi said. It has also been decided to build an office and a residential complex. These would include hostels and houses not only for teachers and non-teaching staff, but also for people from outside the university. The new campus would be well-connected with Delhi Metro and easily accessible. “We will invite an architect to design state-of-the-art and energy-efficient spaces. We will also have a provision for treating wastewater. This is a part of our efforts to create a sustainable campus,” said the acting VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dus-school-of-open-learning-to-get-new-multi-storey-address-in-east-delhi/articleshow/79686839.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's New Town to get its own FM channel||KOLKATA: New Town is set to get its own community radio channel. A state-of-the-art studio has been set up at New Town’s Nazrul Tirtha for audio and video recording of different programmes while the first lot of programmes are going to be uploaded on the ‘Radio New Town’ Facebook page. The authorities are planning to air the channel in next few years. “We are starting it as an internet radio through the Facebook page, where awareness will be spread among people on different issues related to New Town like the present biomass burning, Covid, dengue and so on. Cultural performances and events organised by residents and different cultural groups are also being recorded and uploaded,” said Hidco chairman, Debashis Sen. Sen added that an app will also be launched soon. “We have started with a Facebook page while an app is being developed. In next few years, we expect the channel to be aired on FM radio,” he said. The authorities are working to have radio frequency for the channel. The studio set up on the fourth floor of Nazrul Tirtha is equipped with latest facilities for audio and video recording, editing and streaming. Officials said the app will be available for download and people can use it to see programmes on the Facebook page, Radio New Town. A few musical and dance performance that have been recorded by residents are being uploaded on the Facebook Page. Officials said that once broadcasting through the app starts, the Facebook page will be used to publicize the shows and events. Earlier this year during the Covid-induced lockdown, Hidco had organised online cultural events from Nazrul Tirtha and Rabindra Tirtha for occasions like ‘Baishe Srabon’, ‘Pnachishe Baisakh’ and Kavi Nazrul’s death anniversary that were broadcast through social media and other online platforms. It was from these initiatives that the Hidco authorities got the idea to develop a radio channel and set up its studio at Nazrul Tirtha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-get-its-own-fm-channel/articleshow/79685998.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 12, 2020||Pune||Youths in need enter top colleges with some help||PUNE: Prajakta Jagtap, daughter of a fabricator in Hadapsar, has come a long way. Her determination to study and look forward to a better life has taken her far. After her junior college, she was supported by the iTeach schools network that counselled her for higher education and she secured admission to a bachelor in science at a university in Chennai. Like Jagtap, iTeach has been helping students whose family income is less than 1.5 lakh per annum get admissions for higher education. About 20 students got full scholarships to top universities like Ashoka University, Azim Premji University, KREA University, Shiv Nadar University, FLAME University and Indian School of Design and Innovation. Rutik Chavan is another beneficiary of the iTeach programme. He is pursuing a bachelor in commerce at Ness Wadia College of Commerce and said he wanted to build a career in human resources in the education sector. “Every day, I have four lectures from 8am to 12.30pm where lectures, orals, other activities are being conducted on Google Meet. Assignments and projects are interesting. Currently, I am working on a presentation on Russian writer Anton Chekhov. Students and educators are partners as teachers ask them questions to improve their planning. I am gearing up for internal exams this week and helping my peers in the preparation,” Chavan said. iTeach Schools is a non-profit organisation that operates a network of transformational schools to empower the poorest children. The organisation was established in 2015, and since then has expanded to nine schools in Pune and Delhi. Tanvi Metre, manager of its college to career programme, said,“iTeach school alumni have created history in the communities they come from. More than 90% from the latest batch have taken admission to degree colleges. The pandemic restricted movement, flow of information and access to iTeach’s support. Several parents were unable to afford college fees as they lost their jobs during the lockdown.” Since 2015, they have empowered the most under resourced youths. “Nationally, only 26% students join higher education institutes.We work with our students to make sure they finish college, are employment ready and get placed in sustainable jobs,” Metre said. The students after completing junior college receive counselling for the various courses available, college options and what careers could be planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youths-in-need-enter-top-colleges-with-some-help/articleshow/79685996.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Ninth edition of Sustainable Mountain Development Summit begins||Mussoorie: The ninth edition of Sustainable Mountain Development Summit commenced in virtual mode on the occasion of International Mountain Day on Friday. Organised by Indian Mountain Initiative (IMI), the four-day-long summit seeks to deliberate on issues such as migration, water security, climate resilience and innovative solutions for the farm sector, and disaster risk reduction in the Indian Himalayas. Speaking at the summit, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma raised concerns on the effects of Covid-19 on the people and the economy of the Himalayas. He also said that a majority of the Himalayan region was covered with forests and that the governments and communities must work towards conserving the rich natural resources of the region. In his address, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat emphasised upon the need for such summits and the importance of bringing together all stakeholders of the mountain community to push forward the mountain agenda in the bigger national and international forums. “There is a need for a ‘Himalayan Vision’ to integrate policies, places, products and personalities in making a road map for the sustainable development of the Indian Himalayan region,” Rawat said. He also urged people from the Himalayan region to become drivers of economic activities and to create spaces for Himalayan brands and products in the international markets. PD Rai, former Member of Parliament and chairman of IMI, delivered the inaugural address. It must be mentioned that the theme for this year’s summit is — Emerging Pathways for Building a Resilient Post-Covid19 Mountain Economy: Adaptation, Innovation and Acceleration. Legislators, bureaucrats, academicians, and members of the civil society from various parts of the country and abroad will participate in the summit this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ninth-edition-of-sustainable-mountain-development-summit-begins/articleshow/79684980.cms||Anmol Jain
December 12, 2020||Surat||Women accused of hypnotizing, denied bail||Surat: Two women convicts in Lajpore jail accused of hypnotizing women to rob cash, jewellery and valuables were denied bail on Thursday. While rejecting the two separate regular bail applications of accused Najma Ansari and Gohu Ansari, the district and sessions court observed that they committed the offence by exploiting the victims’ religious faith and fear of doctrines. Additional public prosecutor DV Dave strongly opposed the plea and said that there are chances that they would repeat the same crime after release on bail. The accused initially demanded Rs 21 from the wife of the complainant on the name of performing a puja for Shitla Mata. Any ordinary religious woman would be ready to give that amount for welfare of her family, the court stated. “Religious faith itself creates a sense of hypnotism to a great extent, and can be made to transfer even valuable properties as was done by the accused in this case. As is evident from the present complaint, any prediction of doom or threat of death of a family member is bound to create deep impact on the minds of everybody. Even well qualified and mature people sometimes come under influence in the name of religious faith,” the court noted. The case was filed by Rajmani Rao, 33, a resident of Mansi Residency in Dindoli of Surat with Dindoli Police station on December, 20, 2017. The complainant stated that the duo reached in front of Rajmani Rao’s house where his wife was standing on December 12, 2017. At that time, Rao was out on duty. These women asked his wife for Rs21 donation in order to perform Shitla Mata puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/women-accused-of-hypnotizing-denied-bail/articleshow/79684558.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Drive to clean Taragarh begins||Ajmer Municipal Corporation took up a cleanliness drive in Taragarh, the highest peak of Aravallis in Ajmer, on Friday on the occasion of International Mountain Day. A special team reached Taragarh with trucks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drive-to-clean-taragarh-begins/articleshow/79686000.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pirana blast: Owners of unit, premises denied bail||AHMEDABAD: A city sessions court refused bail to Hetal Sutaria, the owner of a chemical unit on Piplaj-Pirana road where an explosion occurred last month, killing 12 people and injuring 10 others. The court also denied bail to the owner of the premises, Pradeep Bharwad. In denying bail to Sutaria, additional sessions judge P T Ram observed that Sutaria had hired a man named Mustufa Saiyed at his chemical unit, Sahil Enterprise. Saiyed had no knowledge of the subject and yet was employed to make chemicals. The court accepted public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt’s submission that Sutaria is liable for the alleged incident. In this case, a huge blast took place on November 4 at Revakaka Godown on Piplaj-Pirana road. The incident led to the arrest of Sutaria, the owner of the premises Pradeep Bharwad and the owner of the nearby premises, Nanubhai Bharwad. Nanubhai was booked and arrested because the people killed were working on his premises. For bail, Sutaria’s advocate contended that the incident was unfortunate and the chemicals kept on the premises were not dangerous as they were kept and used within threshold quantities. The quantity was 1,631kg and was too low to attract the laws and rules as prescribed under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989. This quantity could not have caused a fire and blast. The court also denied bail to the owner of the premises by refusing him the benefit of parity with Nanubhai, who was released on bail last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pirana-blast-owners-of-unit-premises-denied-bail/articleshow/79685988.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||1 in 4 IIM-A PGP students picks consulting firms||Ahmedabad: Of the 388 students in the flagship PGP programme at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), 104 or 26.8% chose consulting profiles in their summer placements. Consumer goods and services (21.4%) and technology and internet (19.8%) were the second and third most popular choices. The placements process took place fully online for the first time with 131 firms participating and 166 different roles offered in 20 cohorts. Prof Amit Karna, chairperson of placements, said given the economic scenario, they are very pleased with the completion of process in virtual mode within the planned time period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1-in-4-iim-a-pgp-students-picks-consulting-firms/articleshow/79685994.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Pune||Duo snatch 2 gold chains in Pune's Pashan||PUNE: Two motorcycle-borne men snatched gold chains worth Rs2.7 lakh from two women at Vighnaharta Chowk and Sus Road in Pashan on Wednesday and Thursday night, respectively. Deputy commissioner of police (zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “Analysis of CCTV cameras installed at the incident spots revealed that the suspects involved in both the snatching cases are the same. Our probe is on.” In the Vighnahartha Chowk incident, the duo snatched the gold chain worth Rs1.8 lakh of a 47-year-old woman along the Pandhavnagar road in Pashan on Wednesday night, police said. In the second incident, the bike-borne duo snatched the chain worth Rs90,000 of a 67-year-old woman while she was on her way home on Thursday night. Meanwhile, three motorcycle-borne men intercepted a car and robbed a 17-year-old girl of her smart phone and a gold chain, collectively worth Rs2.7 lakh, in Aundh on Thursday night. All three robbery cases have been registered with the Chatushrungi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-snatch-2-gold-chains-in-pashan/articleshow/79686001.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Medical panel asks 8 hospitals to offer discounts to patients||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Friday asked eight private hospitals to offer discounts to patients whose bills were found to be inflated. While a few cases were related to the treatment of Covid patients, the rest pertained to non-Covid cases. R Fleming Hospital was asked to refund Rs 3 lakh to a Covid patient from Midnapore, who was charged Rs 5.4 lakh for 11 days, including two days in ICU. “The patient also complained that he was not discharged even after he had recovered following three-four days of treatment. We have cautioned the hospital not to do anything like this in future,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee. Horizon Lifeline Hospital has been directed to offer a discount of Rs 2 lakh to a Covid patient who was overbilled. The commission also found the hospital guilty of violating PPE charges and doctor fees fixed by the government. Desun Hospital has been asked to refund Rs 27,000 and Rs 1 lakh respectively to two patients who had undergone Covid treatment while Charnock Hospital has been asked to refund Rs 5,100 to a patient. The commission also told Apollo to offer a discount of Rs 30,000 to a patient who had undergone a surgery. All Asia Medical Institute was asked to offer a discount of Rs 60,000 to a patient whose family complained that the patient had developed severe bed sore during the treatment in the hospital. Medion diagnostic Howrah was asked to pay a compensation of Rs 10,00 to a patient who was handed a wrong report of D-dimer test of a patient, for which a repeat test had to be conducted. The lab said they did not have the facility and got the test outsourced, where typographical error occurred in the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-panel-asks-8-hosps-to-offer-discounts-to-patients/articleshow/79686006.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||3 bodies found in separate cases in Rajasthan, police suspect murder||ALWAR/JAIPUR: In separate incidents, three bodies were found in Alwar on Friday. According to preliminary investigation, the deceased appear to be victims of murder. While a head constable’s body was found on the side of the road, a man’s body was found whose head had been severed. One body was found in a well and the victim’s family has registered a murder case against known accused. On Friday morning, some of the locals spotted 51-year-old head constable Raj Pal’s body and the informed the local police following which senior officials as well as a dog squad and FSL team also reached the site where the body was in Alwar’s Vaishali Nagar. Alwar SP Tejaswani Gautam said, “Initial probe suggests that the constable was strangled as there are marks on his throat. As such we have not come to know of any enmity between him and someone else.” The constable was posted in Laxmangarh police station and was on leave till December 9 though he had not reported back for duty. In the second case, Firoz Khan (39) was found brutally killed with his head severed off in NEB police station area. The man had been missing for a week and a missing person report was also registered. The deceased’s body was quite decomposed and officials claimed that it appears that he was killed the same day as he went missing. In another case, 28-year-old Mahesh Yadav’s body was found in a well in Alwar. He had come to attend a wedding when he went missing. His family claimed that he was murdered due to property dispute and have named one accused in the FIR .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-bodies-found-in-separate-cases-police-suspect-murder/articleshow/79686005.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand’s 1st e-bus launched in Doon, 30 more to roll out soon||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday flagged off the city's first electric bus from his official residence. It will run on fixed routes in Dehradun. Once the trial run is over, 30 more such buses will reach the city. Officials said that the e-buses will offer an environment-friendly, affordable and comfortable ride for those in the state capital. The first proto type of the e-bus was operated from CM’s residence till Rajpur Road via MDDA Park. The bus has a seating capacity of 25 passengers with a hydraulic ramp to lift a disabled passenger on a wheelchair. The buses will also be air-conditioned and equipped with a GPS system which can be monitored from the integrated control command centre. In the first phase of the project, 11 buses will be made operational. The buses - which also have anti-lock braking systems for passengers' safety - will ply between 150 to 180 km in a single charge. A facility for charging these buses will be in place at UTC depot in Transport Nagar. Keeping in mind the safety of the passengers, especially women, panic buttons have been installed near every seat which will send an alert directly to the control centre. The other features include CCTV cameras, dedicated USB port for every seat and announcements during travel in English, Hindi and Garhwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhands-1st-e-bus-launched-in-doon-30-more-to-roll-out-soon/articleshow/79684987.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Goa||Mining case hearing in SC likely on Monday||Panaji: The crucial mining case, which will decide on the industry’s resumption in the state has been listed for hearing in the Supreme Court on Monday, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. The Supreme Court had tagged Goa government’s review petition with the special leave petition (SLP) filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. State’s 26 village panchayats have approached the apex court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the Supreme Court had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire industry to a halt in the state. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed an SLP in the apex court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants (mining companies) were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the SC that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, (MMDR Act), they’re entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order. The state had said that the mining concessions were converted into mining leases under the MMDR Act from 1987, and consequently the 50 mining leases would be extended to 2037. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that the state government will restart mining activities in state within six months. He had also said that the state government would try to find a solution to the mining imbroglio either through the auctioning of leases or formation of a mining corporation, among other options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-case-hearing-in-sc-likely-on-monday/articleshow/79686843.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Union minister rallies cadre for GWMC polls||WARANGAL: Union home minister for state G Kishan Reddy called upon the cadre prepare for Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) elections, reports Shiva Kumar Pinna. Speaking at party workers meeting, Kishan Reddy said that cadre should rally booth-level cadre. People are giving the BJP a chance for good governance. This was proven first at Dubbak, and then in Hyderabad. In Warangal too, people will choose the BJP, he said. The MoS also called upon the cadre to fight against TRS in the state in the same way BJP is fighting Mamata in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/union-minister-rallies-cadre-for-gwmc-polls/articleshow/79686840.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Health dept starts ‘vaccine training’||Kolkata: The health department has started an extensive “train-the-trainers” programme aimed at facilitating a possible vaccine roll-out across the state. The programme that began on Thursday will continue till the end of December. Healthcare workers (HCWs), including doctors, nurses, ASHA workers and cold chain maintenance staffers will be trained. The training is being conducted in all districts by senior public health specialists and vaccine specialists. Those who are undergoing the training now will have to train other workers at block levels, who will ensure the last mile of the vaccine roll-out. The Bengal government on Wednesday formed block task forces (BTF) for this purpose. The BTFs will be the third leg of an administrative chain to handle the logistics for vaccine roll-out after the state and district task forces. The overall vaccine roll-out will be supervised by a state steering committee. The move came after the state started preparing a database of all healthcare workers — both in government and private – and augmenting storage in cold chain points across Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-dept-starts-vaccine-training/articleshow/79686016.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Work on 79-km Yavatmal-Digras railway line to start soon||Yavatmal: Work on the much-awaited 79-km Yavatmal-Digras railway line, part of the long pending Wardha-Yavatmal-Nanded railway line project, will begin soon with two tenders being approved for an estimated cost of Rs.934 crore. While the contract for earthwork of 32km, costing Rs486 crore, has been granted to one Patel Engineering, the remaining length of 47km, estimated to cost Rs448 crore, has been allotted to one Shree Raj Rajeshwar Construction Company. Both the works would start simultaneously. The earthwork of the new railway track between Wardha and Yavatmal is almost complete, with small bridges already being built and construction of a major bridge over Shirpur river is underway. Work on the railway line beyond Digras will also been taken up within four months, informed Lok Sabha member from Washim-Yavatmal constituency Bhavana Gawali. There are a few tunnels, the longest being 2.5km-long on the stretch, which are yet to be completed, said Gawali. Also, the railway line will pass through some forested areas and efforts are afoot to get green signal from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change. “The main hurdle is, however, shortage of staff, for which I have urged railway minister and Railway Recruitment Board to fill up the vacancies so that the project can be expedited,” said Gawali. Construction of stations on the railway line will start soon and bhoomi puja of the proposed railway station at Yavatmal has already been performed, said the MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-on-79-km-yavatmal-digras-railway-line-to-start-soon/articleshow/79684222.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||One more held for fake billing||Ahmedabad: The state goods and services tax (SGST) department on Friday arrested Hirenkumar Patel, for his involvement in the recently unearthed fake billing scam at Unjha. According to SGST officials, Patel was involved in illicitly claiming input tax credit and evading taxes to the tune of Rs 6.31 crore. SGST officials said that Patel was involved in illicitly obtaining GST registrations in the name of daily wagers by paying them lump-sum amounts and obtaining their documents for address and identity-proof and putting them to illegal use. These registrations were used to generate fake bills for GST. Searches conducted by the SGST department recovered a number of incriminating documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-more-held-for-fake-billing/articleshow/79686004.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Exposure tours for Telangana farmers on oil palm cultivation||HYDERABAD: Farmers from various districts in the state will be taken on an exposure tour to oil palm plantations in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has given clearance to Rs 4,800 crore project as part of which oil palm cultivation will be taken up in eight lakh acres spread in 25 districts of Telangana. About 25 buses from each of the 25 districts will be arranged to take farmers on exposure trips and show them how beneficial is oil palm cultivation. Oil palm plantations spread over 50,000 acres in Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam and Nalgonda districts and the income being derived from it by the farmers would be shown to the farmers during tours. They would also be taken to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research established Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research (IIOPR) in West Godavari district of AP. Presently paddy, cotton and other crops are being cultivated in these eight lakh acres. Oil palm cultivation is aimed at not only raising the edible oil production in the state but also to check the excess cultivation of paddy. The per capita consumption of edible oil in India is 16 kg. The consumption of all kinds of edible oils in Telangana is 5.4 lakh metric tonnes per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exposure-tours-for-farmers-on-oil-palm-cultivation/articleshow/79686846.cms||Roushan Ali
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple ends life after kin say no to marriage||HYDERABAD: Upset over their families’ refusal for their marriage, a 21-year-old youngster and his minor girlfriend allegedly died by suicide by hanging themselves to a tree in Suryapet district on Thursday night. Naveen of Chandupatla village in Chivvemla mandal of Suryapet district and 15-year-old class X student from the same village resorted to the extreme step on the outskirts of Moddulacheruvu village in Munagala mandal. “Naveen’s bike was found parked next to the tree. There was no suicide note,” Munagala SI Satyanarayana Goud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-ends-life-after-kin-say-no-to-marriage/articleshow/79686842.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar: Two supply phones to jail inmates, held||ALWAR: Bharatpur police arrested two persons, a lawyer and his woman friend, for supplying mobile phones to inmates lodged inside Sewar jail. The arrested are Vinay Jatav, 35, and Shalini Sharma, 32, who would hide the phones in other products which they sent to the prisoners. “A prisoner Ashish Sharma was in touch with the duo who would send him contrabands which he would then sell to the others inmates in the jail. We found multiple mobiles and sim cards on him. We also found mobile phones which were hidden in the sole of shoes of one of the prisoners,” said an official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-supply-phones-to-jail-inmates-held/articleshow/79686014.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drunk 75-year-old hits 7 with his car||Ahmedabad: A 75-year-old advocate, who has an office in Navrangpura, drove his car into five vehicles — three two-wheelers, an autorickshaw and a car — leaving seven persons injured, allegedly while drunk, in front of Gujarat Vidyapith on Ashram Road on Friday. The accused, Harish Mehta, an advocate registered with the Income Tax Bar Association, first hit a scooter, then a car, an autorickshaw and then two scooters. Ultimately, he drove on to the footpath and managed to stop the car. A policeman said Mehta was thrashed by members of the public who later called the cops and handed him over. People rushed to the spot and tended to the injured. On being caught, Mehta first said he was an income tax officer but when he was questioned further, said he was a tax advocate. A team of B Division traffic police said Mehta was booked for causing hurt and driving drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drunk-75-year-old-hits-7-with-his-car/articleshow/79685999.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Finally, PJP party workers call off stir||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: For one-and-a-half days, over a dozen workers of the Praja Janshakti Party remained atop an overhead water tank in Aurangabad district, refusing to come down till Union minister Raosahab Danve apologised for his remarks regarding the farmers' agitation outside Delhi. After much discussion and convincing, the workers finally climbed down on Friday evening after the mediation of industries minister Subhash Desai. The workers belong to the party of Maharashtra minister of state for women and child development Bacchu Kadu, who himself rode a two-wheeler to Delhi border to support the farmers staging the agitation over new farm laws. “The administration has sought eight days’ time for addressing our demand. If the union minister fails to apologise, we will relaunch our agitation and it will be more severe,” party’s district president Sudhakar Shinde, who started the agitation on Thursday, told TOI. Earlier in the day, much like actor Dharmendra in the film Sholay, the workers threatened to jump if any policeman tried to climb the steps of the 70-ft high water tank in Shivajinagar area or bring them food. Only after their fellow party workers brought food for them, the workers had their meal. Jawaharnagar police inspector Santosh Patil said, “We were worried about the agitators’ lives, as they were threatening to jump, if any policemen tried to climb the stairs.” What added to the administration’s worries was the interaction of former MLA and Danve’s estranged son-in-law Harshvardhan Jadhav with the agitators. The efforts of the policemen deployed on duty since Thursday and those of senior police officers to convince the workers to withdraw their agitation failed to yield results. Later, tehsildar Datta Bharaskar, on behalf of district collector Sunil Chavan was sent to convince the workers to withdraw their agitation. But they refused to talk to them. Late in the evening, four-five of the workers came down to hold talks with Desai through video conferencing. The meeting was fruitful as all the workers soon climbed down. Police and the administration heaved a sigh of relief as chief minister Uddhav Thackarey is going to visit Aurangabad on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/finally-pjp-party-workers-call-off-stir/articleshow/79686851.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Bodies of couple found in tank||JAIPUR: Bodies of a 17-year-old girl and 25-year-old married man were found floating in a water tank in Sheo police station area of Barmer on Friday. Sheo SHO reached the spot with his force and took out the bodies in the presence of their kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bodies-of-couple-found-in-tank/articleshow/79686018.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer: Five Pak-Hindus get citizenship||JAIPUR: Five Pak Hindus were given Indian citizenship certificates by Barmer collector Vishram Meena on Friday. Four men and a girl have got the citizenship certificate including Panton Bai, Hadmat Singh, Prithiraj Singh, Munwar Singh and Narendra Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-pak-hindus-get-citizenship/articleshow/79686024.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||No NY revelry in public, 50% guests in hotels: Minister R Ashoka||BENGALURU: In the wake of concerns over a second Covid wave in Karnataka, Covid task force member and revenue minister R Ashoka on Friday ruled out public celebration of New Year and said hotels, bars, restaurants and pubs can host events with 50% of their capacity. “Passes will be issued to customers, and police will check them at the entrance,” he said, adding parties, if any, must be restricted to houses. “From December 20 to January 2, we have banned celebration of New Year in public places, including MG and Brigade Road. The proposal has been sent to the CM for approval. One round of meeting has been held with the CM, who will announce rules and regulations in this regard,” Ashoka told reporters after a Covid task force meeting. Officials from the disaster management authority, BBMP and police department also attended the meeting. We urge public to confine NY celebrations to home: Minith the fear of a second Wwave, the minister said the government requests the public to confine celebrations to home. “Until now, the city’s clubs used to have close to 2,000 revellers. It cannot be allowed this year,” he said, adding the BBMP has issued guidelines on the same. Strict measures will be put in place to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour, he added. Ashoka and health minister K Sudhakar said given the Covid fatalities, bereaved families and friends should think of doing away with the celebrations. “Our New Year is Ugadi, and not January 1. With the year turning out to be tragic due to the pandemic, we should mourn – not celebrate -- the coming year,” Sudhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-ny-revelry-in-public-50-guests-in-hotels-min/articleshow/79688628.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Public travel hit as KSRTC & BMTC staff go on flash strike||BENGALURU: A day after transport employees staged a massive protest in the city demanding that they be put on government payroll, a flash strike on Friday affected state-run bus services across Karnataka. KSRTC operated 1,393 of 5,500 buses till 3pm. KSRTC officials said 32 buses were damaged across the state due to stone pelting. “We have to wait and watch the situation. The strike appears to be an instant reaction,” said a KSRTC official. In Bengaluru, BMTC operated only 108 of its 4,932 buses. Protesting employees under the banner of State Road Transport Employees Joint Associations Federation have decided to go on with their indefinite strike until their demands are met. BMTC officials said 12 buses were damaged on Friday due to stone pelting. Transport minister Laxman Savadi requested the employees to end the strike. Sources said the government may invoke Essential Services Maintenance Act if the strike is not called off. BMTC has called the strike illegal. The major demands of the protesters are that they be brought under the government’s payroll and be provided the same privileges and incentives as government employees. They have also sought compensation of Rs 30 lakh to transport workers who died on Covid duty. Many passengers in the city, who were unaware of the strike, were stranded at major bus terminals, including Majestic, Shantinagar, Shivajinagar, KR Market, Yeshwantpur, Peenya, Kengeri and Banashankari on Friday. The busiest bus stations, including Majestic, were deserted. TRANSPORT STRIKEProtesters stop services, ask travellers to disembarkSources said services of all bus corporations were affected as majority of transport employees, including drivers and conductors, refused to report for duty. While a few services operated early morning, protesting workers stopped those services at several places and asked passengers to disembark. Though state-run bus corporations on Thursday had assured that transport services won’t be affected because of the strike, many employees staged protests at their respective depots and bus stations on Friday. Many passengers in the city relied on autorickshaws, cabs and private buses due to the strike. Intra-state and interstate KSRTC operations were also affected and several passengers were stranded at bus stations. Ryots extend supportFarmers protesting the new farm laws extended support to the transport staff. Over 1.2 lakh workers are employed with KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/protesters-stop-services-ask-travellers-to-disembark/articleshow/79688645.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman cop attempts suicide||Aurangabad: The Sillod rural police arrested a Class IV employee of Panchayat Samiti on Thursday night after a 34-year-old woman police patil attempted suicide and accused the suspect and his mother of harassing her. The suspect has been identified as Ramdas Wagh. Police said that initially the victim — Nirmala Ivare — was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday, but after her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to Aurangabad for further treatment on Friday. Police said that on Thursday night an offence of outraging modesty of woman was registered against the suspect and he was immediately arrested. Police are probing role of the suspect’s family members in the alleged harassment. Inspector Rajendra Bodke said that woman police patil of Kelgaon recorded a video blaming a man and her mother for allegedly harassing her mentally and physically. The officer, citing preliminary probe in to the matter, said that about three years back, the suspect’s father, who was also a class-IV employee of Panchayat Samiti, died of heart attack. Later, the suspect was recruited for the same post on compassionate ground. Since that man’s death, his son and wife kept blaming the woman police patil for his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-cop-attempts-suicide/articleshow/79686853.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani SP suspends 4 policemen||Aurangabad: Parbhani superintendent of police Jayant Meena has suspended four policemen for offences such including negligence of duty and demanding bribe. Those suspended have been identified as Pralhad Bokare of Chudava police station, Suresh Bharti of Pathri police station and Santosh Abuj and Ankush Jadhav of Manvat police station. Bokare was suspended for using official vehicle for not only his personal use but also that of his relatives. Bharti was suspended for alleged remaining absent on duty and at the same time remaining in touch with those involved in illegal selling gutka. While Abuj faced charges of remaining absent from his duty point and forcefully collecting money from heavy vehicles plying on highways, Jadhav is accused of demanding Rs 5,000 from a man whose 22-year-old son had gone suspiciously missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-sp-suspends-4-policemen/articleshow/79686852.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Medical seats for deceased Covid warriors’ wards||KOLKATA: The state government has sought applications for a central scheme, in which the children of deceased Covid warriors — who have qualified for NEET (UG) examinations in September 2020 — can apply for five MBBS seats in five medical colleges across the country. The state notification says the applications must be sent to the Bengal government by December 17. The Centre had on December 5 said that the children of frontline workers, who had died while battling with Covid, will be eligible for the scheme. The five medical colleges, where one MBBS seat has been set aside for these candidates, are Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi, MGMS, Wardha, NSCB Medical College, Jabalpur, JLN Medical College, Ajmer and Government Medical College, Haldwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-seats-for-deceased-cov-warriors-wards/articleshow/79686033.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal liquor-making unit busted in Kaladera, 1 held||JAIPUR: The crime branch team raided a liquor factory in Kaladera which was manufacturing alcohol illegally and selling it as foreign liquor. Cops have arrested one person and recovered many bottles full of illegal liquor as well as thousands of corks of foreign alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-liquor-making-unit-busted-1-held/articleshow/79686032.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Renovation of George Everest House is ‘destroying its essence’, protest Mussoorie & Dehradun residents||Mussoorie: Several residents of Mussoorie and Dehradun, in the past few months, have taken to social media to protest the way Sir George Everest’s erstwhile Park Estate is being renovated. Locals say that the nearly two-centuries-old building, where Everest stayed in the middle of the 19th century, is not being conserved like a heritage building and its renovation is also not being done aesthetically. Speaking to TOI, Reenu Paul, an environmental activist from Dehradun, said, “I am not satisfied with the manner in which the restoration work of this heritage building is being carried out. The fundamental principles of retrofitting are being ignored which is destroying the essence of the place.” Another local Raghav Bijalwan said, “Restoration should not be carried out at the cost of originality.” Notably, the renovation is being carried out by the tourism department through the support of Asian Development Bank (ADB). The project has an outlay of Rs 23.71 crore. Mauli Mishra, a conservation architect from Dehradun who recently visited the site, alleged that she was denied entry to the construction site by the officials. “While restoring a heritage site, it is imperative that the nature and the extent of the restoration work should be shared with the public but I found that no plans for renovation were displayed near the site,” Mauli told TOI. She added that the construction work of new walls – perhaps to replace the old broken down walls – was being done using cement instead of using traditional methods at the iconic Everest House. “Traditionally a paste of lime, jaggery, and several other ingredients is used but I found that the walls were being made by cement and the lime paste was just being applied over the cement to give the walls a heritage look,”said Mauli. Last year, local historian Gopal Bhardwaj had also raised similar objections regarding the restoration work. He had pointed out several deviations from the old design. When asked about the concerns of people regarding the renovation work, Satpal Maharaj, tourism minister of Uttarakhand, told TOI, “We have consulted original maps of the building and the restoration work is being done according to those plans. Materials like limestone are being used extensively as were used in the old building,” Maharaj assured. It is worth mentioning that the George Everest House was amongst the earliest houses to be erected in Mussoorie almost 200 years ago. Everest — who served as the Surveyor General of India and after whom the world’s highest peak is named — lived in the house from 1832 to 1843.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/renovation-of-george-everest-house-is-destroying-its-essence-protest-mussoorie-dehradun-residents/articleshow/79685073.cms||Anmol Jain
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||57-year old RSI held for demanding bribe in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday registered a case against a 57-year-old police sub-inspector posted with the reserve force of Aurangabad city police commissionorate and arrested him on the charges of demanding bribe for allotting them requested shifts. As per complaint lodged by two constables, the RSI, along with his subordinate, were allegedly demanding Rs 3000 per month from each of them for not giving them night duty. The suspect has been identified as Rajkumar Chandane of police headquarters situated in CP office premises. After being produced before a special ACB court in Aurangabad, the suspect has been remanded to judicial custody. PSI Chandane was just months away from superannuation. A few months back, Chandne took charge as the reserved PSI. ACB authorities said that the two complainants are police constables serving with Aurangabad city police and are currently posted with the reserve police force while the suspect (Chandane) is posted as a reserved PSI. The complainants said that they were seeking night duty, but were instead given day shifts. They requested Chandane to give them night shift, but he demanded Rs 3,000 per month from both of them. Unwilling to pay bribe, they lodged a complaint with the ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/57-year-old-rsi-held-for-demanding-bribe/articleshow/79686856.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: BJP forms panel, to visit hospital||JAIPUR: The BJP has formed a four-member committee to inquire about the deaths of infants in JK Lon Hospital in Kota on Friday. The members include—Rajendra Singh Rathore (deputy leader of opposition), Madan Dilawar (Ramganj Mandi MLA), Jaskaur Meena (Dausa MP) and Sandeep Sharma (Kota South MLA). The committee will visit the hospital State BJP president Satish Poonia said deaths of infants in a hospital which recorded same incidents last year shows that nothing has changed in the state. “Our party leaders have donated generously last year to the hospital to upgrade its facilities and to purchase medical equipment, but nothing has changed in is a clear example of misgovernance,” said Poonia. Rathore, who tweeted a video, said the government is trying to cover up the matter. “The health minister should review his department and take corrective measures to ensure that such negligence should not be repeated,” said Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-forms-panel-to-visit-hospital/articleshow/79686041.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Agra||UP: Groom runs away from wedding, later ties the knot at police station||AGRA: A police station in Uttar Pradesh's Firozabad was converted into a marriage registration office, though momentarily, on Friday, after a runaway groom was reunited with his bride. Here, the cops were the guests and station house officer (SHO), the 'matchmaker'. The young couple - Babloo and Poonam - exchanged garlands after the groom apologised for running away from his wedding. He blamed a dispute between their two families for his disappearing act and assured the cops and the girl's parents that he would take care of her. "I fled from my wedding venue in anger," Babloo said. "Police and elders made me realise my mistake." Poonam hailed the cops, and SHO Anoop Kumar Bharti in particular, for bringing them together and helping the two families resolve their differences. Earlier, the girl's father had filed a complaint at Firozabad North police station in "confusion". He even levelled dowry charges against the groom and his family. An FIR was then registered and a groom-hunt was initiated. On Thursday, the SHO called upon the two families to sort out their issues. “I had filed a dowry complaint in confusion after the groom suddenly disappeared on Tuesday. I have no complaints with Babloo and his family now," bride’s father Ram Avtar said. Avtar has requested the SHO to cancel the FIR. “The groom has apologised for his disappearing act. The couple tied the knot at the police station following a written agreement," the SHO said. "Now, I look forward to living happily with my husband, Babloo," Poonam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/groom-runs-away-from-wedding-later-ties-the-knot-at-police-station/articleshow/79684243.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||SSB deploys dog squads to check illegal movements at Indo-Nepal border||Pithoragarh: As the decreased water level of river Kali makes it easier to cross the water body and enter the Indian territory illegally in winters, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has pressed dog squads to thwart such attempts at the Indo-Nepal border. According to Krishananand Nagarkoti, an SSB official, two dog squads — one for tracking movements and other for sniffing any narcotic substance — have been deployed in Jhulaghat and another canine unit — for tracking movement of arms — has been pressed in Jauljibi. “In winters, the water level at the Kali goes down and hence, some miscreants use tubes to cross the river and enter India illegally. Therefore, we have intensified patrolling in the area. Combing operations are being conducted from Jhulaghat to Amtari, a 10-kilometre-long track that covers border villages like Ghatikara, Simpami, Taleswar, and Kharktari,” said Krishananand Nagarkoti, an SSB official. He added that the locals of border villages have also been asked to remain vigilant and alert the force in case they come to know about someone from Nepal entering India illegally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ssb-deploys-dog-squads-to-check-illegal-movements-at-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/79685053.cms||Prem Punetha
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan ZP poll fiasco: End of the road for Congress-BTP alliance||JAIPUR: Seems like the alliance between Congress and Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) couldn’t even survive the honeymoon period. Following the Congress party’s support to its arch rival BJP to form board at Dungarpur zila parishad, the BTP’s national president tweeted ‘Rajasthan Sarkar se @BTP_India apna samarthan wapas legi’ (BTP will withdraw its support from the Rajasthan government). It has put an end to the speculations over the fate of alliance of the regional party with two MLAs, with the ruling coalition. Congress has 105 MLAs in a house of 200 seats and enjoys the support of 13 independents, ensuring a comfortable majority in the house. The break-up of BTP will not pose any danger to the government but can create problems while contesting Rajya Sabha polls on four seats in 2022 and in bypolls in Sahara (Bhilwara) and Rajsamand assembly segments, which has a significant tribal population. In a series of tweets, Vasawada said, “#BJP and Congress are one. They enter into an alliance with the regional parties only to finish them.” Since the beginning, the BTP is seen as a natural ally of Congress for always taking a line with them. The relationship between the two allies reached its peak during the Rajya Sabha polls held for three seats in June 2020. BTP looking for a push at the state level happily agreed to support the ruling party. Congress had the numbers but reached out to BTP to ensure its victory in two out of three RS seats. Barely after a month, the ruling party faced the rebellion by then deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who along with 19 MLAs in July put the government in danger. Here, when every seat mattered, the BTP extended its support to the Gehlot faction with a promise of timely fulfilling its 19 demands related to the tribal areas. For the next two months, the tribal leaders kept following up with concerned departments and ministers for their demands but nothing happened on the ground. The violent incident at Kakri Doongri on September 25 led the alliance to a situation beyond recovery. The youths protested for 19 days atop a hill demanding a share in the teacher’s recruitment which the BTP said was promised by the Congress in lieu of the support during RS polls and the crisis. The violence lasted for three days in some areas of Dungarpur and Udaipur, leaving two dead. During polls, Congress leader Mahendrajeet Singh Malaviya courted controversy and said that BTP MLAs were paid Rs 5 crore for extending support, which has further strained the relationship between the two, which was hanging by a thin thread. The election results proved disastrous for the Congress which won just 6 seats out of 27. “We were expecting Congress to reciprocate by supporting our candidate but they made a turn by supporting BJP. It has made us feel like a fool for helping them and then to have received a stab in return.” Sources said Dungarpur MLA Dinesh Ghogra was instrumental in forging the alliance with the BJP. The decision was taken after consultation with the Udaipur division leaders who later convinced the PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra. “BTP holding the sway of the municipal council which governs all gram panchayats, would be more dangerous than them ousted with the help of BJP. The regional party would have become more powerful and will be in a position to dent us more in the assembly and parliamentary polls,” said a source. The Congress leaders have time and again confessed that BTP has eaten into their vote bank and poses a bigger threat than the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/end-of-the-road-for-congress-btp-alliance/articleshow/79686045.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||64-year-old biker falls to death from flyover in Kolkata||By: Mayukh Sengupta KOLKATA: A 64-year-old biker riding the Keshtopur-Baguiati flyover on VIP Road was killed after he lost control of his motorbike, rammed into a guard wall and fell 35 feet below on VIP Road after being flung off his two wheeler on Friday. The accident happened around 1.35pm when Safiar Rahaman Mallick was riding down the Airport-bound flank of the four-lane flyover when he rammed into the 2.5-feet-high sidewall. “It seems that the man had either lost control of the bike or might have been scared when a vehicle had passed by him at a high speed, leading him to lose balance for a while. But there are no drag marks or brake marks on the road, which suggests that he hadn’t used the brake and had rammed into the sidewall, leading to his fall.  There are no signs of any other vehicle hitting the bike from behind either,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. The officer added that the bike remained on the flyover while Mallick fell down on the road below. He was taken to the nearest nursing home as he suffered severe bleeding injuries on his head, neck, shoulder, face and multiple fractures on his body. “His condition was very critical. He was under treatment for around four hours before he succumbed to his injuries,” said a nursing home official. Police said Mallick was a resident of Naptibagan in Kaikhali and was an electrician by profession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/64-yr-old-biker-falls-to-death-from-flyover/articleshow/79686044.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||PM Modi leads drive to create awareness on farm laws||NEW DELHI: In yet another attempt to allay apprehensions of the agitating farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday shared a video containing views of senior ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal on the three farm laws. Modi and other senior leaders have been maintaining that the farm laws are in the interest of farmers and the MSP regime will continue. “My two cabinet colleagues, Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal, have discussed in detail about the new farm laws and the demands of the farmers. Must listen to this,” Modi tweeted. मंत्रिमंडल के मेरे दो सहयोगी नरेंद्र सिंह तोमर जी और पीयूष गोयल जी ने नए कृषि कानूनों और किसानों की मांगों को लेकर… https://t.co/D1tgzmRt7P— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1607653630000Addressing reporters along with Goyal, Tomar had said on Thursday that he was still hopeful of a resolution. Sharing several steps taken to create awareness about the changes in the agri laws, sources said the perception that the government has not done extensive outreach and consultations with farmers and their representatives was contrary to facts. A senior official said Modi had spearheaded the task of creating awareness, followed by Tomar and officials who met and interacted with multiple groups of farmers and stakeholders. “Thousands of small gatherings took place at the village level to inform farmers about the bills,” an official said. BJP sources said since the reforms were announced, the PM had spoken about them more than 25 times. They said Modi had spoken about these to a wide range of audiences too, starting with multiple addresses to farmers in rural areas to global investors and ‘Mann Ki Baat’. “In the run-up to announcing the reforms, the ministry was consulting with various experts and former officials. It was also in touch with agriculture departments of various states during the entire formulation process. There were multiple meetings with FPOs through video conferences,” a senior leader said. He said the government also reached out to farmers at the grassroots and conducted webinars and training sessions apart from making farmers aware about the reforms though text messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-leads-drive-to-create-awareness-on-farm-laws/articleshow/79688592.cms||Akhilesh Singh
December 12, 2020||Udaipur||Congress, BJP work together to elect Dungarpur up-pramukh||UDAIPUR: The political drama for power continued on the second day in Dungarpur as the BJP and the Congress stood together in electing the up-pramukh for the zila parishad. The Congress supported Surta Parmar who defeated BTP candidate Mohammad Salim by a single vote and was declared elected as the up-pramukh. Surta got eight BJP votes and six Congress votes, while the BTP candidate got 13 votes. A day ago, the Congress had agreed to vote for BJP's Surya Ahari and elected her as the zila pramukh. The alliance, which is first in the state between the two national parties. Arch rivals had come as a big surprise for the leaders, while it has shocked the BTP lobby. The alliance worked for up-pradhan too in all the panchayat samitis where BJP candidates were elected pradhans, a day ago. With the BJP support, the Congress candidates were sworn in as up-pradhans in Sagwara, Galiyakot, Aaspur and Simalwada. “It was a well-planned strategy by the local BJP and the Congress leaders who were intimidated by the growing popularity of the BTP and they do not want the new found party to get hold of the prominent political positions in the administration,” a youth activist from the tribal community said. Local leaders Dinesh Khodania, legislator Ganesh Ghogra, Tarachand Bagora etc are said to be the mastermind behind devising the strategy to frame alliance with the BJP to keep BTP at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cong-bjp-work-together-to-elect-dungarpur-up-pramukh/articleshow/79686050.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Agra||Health services hit in west UP as private doctors protest ‘mixopathy’||AGRA: Healthcare services were hit across western Uttar Pradesh on Friday as private hospitals operated with skeleton staff which took care of emergency cases only. The out-patient department (OPD) was shut in most private hospitals as doctors held protests against a recent Central Council Of Indian Medicine (CCIM) notification allowing Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. The protest under the banner of Indian Medical Association (IMA) was held across the country. Majority of private clinics were also closed. A group of doctors in Agra staged a protest at the DM office and handed over a memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. IMA’s Agra president Dr RM Pachori said, “The government must not play with the health of people by allowing Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries. Principles of Ayurveda and modern medicines are different. It is a retrograde step. The integration of all systems of medicine will only lead to ‘mixopathy’.” Similarly, private medical practitioners shirked work in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and Shamli. In Meerut, all the clinics were shut and non-essential services at hospitals remained suspended. Doctors in Muzaffarnagar also suspended their OPD on Friday for 12 hours from 6am to 6pm and protested against the government move. “The protest was meant to create awareness among the common public. We are not against Ayurveda, but there should be no mixing or ‘crosspathy’ between Ayurveda and Allopathy,” Manisha Tyagi, secretary of Meerut's IMA unit said. “There are 58 surgeries which Allopatheic surgeons do after over 10 years of study and training. Our Ayurveda counterparts will be able to do that just after two years of training as per the new notification. This is not a good move and should be reconsidered or amended,” she said. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/health-services-hit-in-west-up-as-private-doctors-protest-mixopathy/articleshow/79684248.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM cites poll data, says Congress fares better that BJP||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot alleged that zila parishad, panchayat samiti election results in Rajasthan have been projected as a big win for the BJP to divert the attention from the farmers’ agitation. He said Union ministers have spread lies by holding press conference to fade the farmers’ movement on the orders of the BJP high command. He said the BJP’s claim has been proved wrong in the analysis of data. Chief minister in a statement said the Congress has got more votes than the BJP in the elections held in 222 panchayat samitis in 21 districts. The Congress got 40.87% votes, while BJP polling percentage is 40.58% votes. Congress got 0.29% more votes than the BJP, he said. Gehlot said, Congress and BJP are at par with 98 pradhans each, while 26 had gone to other parties in the election for 222 panchayat samitis. In 2015, the BJP had won in 112 panchayat samitis, while Congress only 67. The number of Congress chiefs has already gone up by 31, while the number of BJP number has been decreased by 14 in the current election, said the chief minister. He said compared to voting percentage of BJP in the Lok Sabha elections, the vote percentage of the saffron party has fallen by about 18% in 18 months. The BJP in the last zila parishad election had won in 14 with more wards than this time, he said. BJP president Satish Poonia reacting to the claim of Gehlot said the statistics is used in such way to turn defeat into victory. He said Government has lost the mandate, now keep clarifying. Gehlot pointed out that national president of BJP J P Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of many states went to campaign to Hyderabad municipal election and violated the corona protocol which shows their thinking. This shows that the BJP can compromise the life of the common man to win the election, alleged the chief minister. During the corona, the entire focus of the Rajasthan government was on epidemic prevention. Therefore, the Congress did not send state-central level leaders to campaign in these elections so that the crowd does not gather, to stop the spread of the epidemic. At the same time, even the Union minister of BJP got down to campaign in these elections. When our whole focus was on saving lives and livelihood, then politics was necessary for BJP leaders. He said Union ministers and party leaders campaigned in violation of corona protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-cites-poll-data-says-cong-fares-better-that-bjp/articleshow/79686052.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ajmer||Independent becomes deputy jila pramukh in Ajmer||Ajmer: In the election to the deputy jila pramukh’s post on Friday, BJP dissident and independent candidate Hangamilal won the seat by five votes.Congress candidate Panchi Devi got two votes and another independent Shrilal got eight votes, while nine members of the BJP did not turn up. Hangamilal got 13 votes.In the recently held elections to 32 seats of Ajmer Jila Parishad, BJP won 21 seats and Congress 11, but on Thursday BJP dissident and independent Sushil Kanwar won the election of jila pramukh with the help of congress.On Friday, BJP did not field any candidate and Hangamilal filed as independent whereas Congress gave its symbol to Panchi Devi and Shrilal stood as independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/independent-becomes-deputy-jila-pramukh-in-ajmer/articleshow/79686047.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Agra||80-year-old Covid positive patient dies in Agra||AGRA: An 80-year-old man who was being treated for Covid-19 died at the SN Medical College [SNMC] in Agra district on Friday. The resident of Indrapuri locality was suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis, pleural effusion, pneumonia and other health conditions. According to the health department, the Covid patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 169 Covid deaths have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in the district is 2.5% and the fatality rate is 1.7%. Also, 44 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Friday evening, taking the district tally to 9,795. The patients included three staffers of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University. Moreover, 64 Covid patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 9,795 cases, 9,228 [94.2%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district decreased from 432 on Thursday, to 397 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/80-yr-old-covid-ve-patient-dies-in-agra/articleshow/79684260.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand releases SOP to reopen colleges & universities||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand higher education department on Friday released the Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of colleges and universities in the state. Earlier on Wednesday, the state cabinet had announced that colleges and universities can start classes in offline mode from December 15 onwards. The SOP, released on Friday, states that only the students pursuing courses that have practical subjects can be called for classes in the first phase. The order maintains that classes can only be held for the students in either the first or the last semester. The college managements are also mandated to take written consent of the parents before allowing students in their premises. In order to control the number of students in the campus, colleges have been asked to choose among three options — to increase the number of sections, conduct offline classes on alternate days, and conduct classes in multiple shifts. The SOP further stresses on the use of virtual labs in order to conduct classes for some of the practical subjects. Also, Covid-19 test has been made mandatory for students coming from other states, day scholars, and hostellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-releases-sop-to-reopen-colleges-universities/articleshow/79685075.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||15-member band allowed in Rajasthan weddings||JAIPUR: In view of Covid situation in the state, the home department on Friday issued an order allowing band members of 10-15 persons during marriage processions (baarat) on main roads - up to 50 metres from the starting point. It also stated that, under no circumstances, the number of people accompanying the “baraat” (accompanying the baraat) should not be more than 25 people. However, they will not be allowed to perform on main roads from 5 pm to 8 pm. During that time, they will be allowed to perform only within the boundaries of the marriage garden or the venue. No DJs will be allowed. The order, issued by home secretary N L Meena, also stated that bands will be allowed to perform only at the time of “Nikasi and toran” of the baarat (marriage procession) and the distance between the two must not be more than 50 metre. Earlier, there were restrictions on organising marriage processions on main roads. The order issued also stated that band members are required to maintain social distance while performing. It also stated that, except those who are playing flutes and trumpets, others are required to wear masks. However, before starting and after finishing their performance, they must sanitise their instruments and wear a mask. The band members should also carry a sanitiser with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-member-band-allowed-in-weddingsbox/digest/articleshow/79686055.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Down to Earth? Houses built on forest land may soon be razed in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Buildings and residential complexes illegally constructed on forest land in areas like Neb Sarai, Saidulajaib and Pul Pehladpur and urban villages that make up a portion of the Southern Ridge may soon face demolition. Delhi government’s forest and wildlife department will hold a meeting next week with the district magistrate of South district and seek deployment of the district task force, along with Delhi Police, to help clear such larger encroachments. Forest officials said the demarcation of the 6,200-hectare South Ridge has been completed, as directed by the National Green Tribunal and only the encroachments are yet to be fully removed. Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forest (south), said the forest and revenue departments had jointly prepared maps for the Southern Ridge and the villages within it. However, the geo-coordinates on the ground were still marked. “The maps are available with Geospatial Delhi Limited, though the manual tagging of the exact boundaries on the ground and fencing is still being carried out,” said Anand. “We have also been able to clear smaller encroachments in areas where no police assistance was required.” The forest department said the demolition of illegal buildings with three or four floors or a residential complex requires assistance along with police protection. “So far, we have avoided areas where a large number of people could surround our team or make the encroachment clearance process difficult,” said a forest official. “In the meeting next week, we plan to discuss weekly encroachment removal drives and the manpower required for each area concerned.” Among such problematic areas identified are Saidulajaib, Pul Pehladpur, Neb Sarai, Prem Nagar, Lal Kuan and some parts of Aya Nagar. A joint status report submitted by the forest department to NGT recently in compliance with its order, stated that survey maps had been prepared for 19 villages — Asola, Bhatti, Chhatarpur, Aya Nagar, Maidangarhi, Satbari, Sahoorpur, Saidulajaib, Neb Sarai, Jaunapur, Dera Mandi, Devli, Rajpur Khurd, Tughlaqabad, Pul Pehladpur, Rajokri, Rangpuri, Ghitorni, Mahipalpur. These will help depict the exact status of the land, including green areas, encroachment-free land and land falling under Delhi government. The report added, “The complete list of allotments has been prepared with details of the khasra numbers, area, date of allotment and the department/agency to which the allotments were made.” A forest official said the locations and villages where most ecological damage had occurred were also identified, and planting of jamun, Arjun, neem, amaltas, khair, desi babool, ronjh and dhau have been undertaken. However, large portions of the Ridge are yet to have the encroachment removed. “The locations that have seen a lot of development will be the challenging areas to clear of encroachments. An action plan for that has to be formulated,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/down-to-earth-houses-built-on-forest-land-may-soon-be-razed/articleshow/79686084.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR’s trip is to trick people: Bandi||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said that chief minister KCR’s trip to New Delhi is only to trick people. Addressing a press conference he said chief minister is spitting venom on centre and meeting the leaders. He alleged that TRS is having double standards in case of the farm laws. “The chief minister here asked the farmers to grown fine variety of paddy but he is not paying Rs 2,500 as MSP per quintal,” he said. Maize farmers are also under the stress but state government is not doing anything, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcrs-trip-is-to-trick-people-bandi/articleshow/79686857.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||3 more infants die in Kota’s JK Lon Hospital, toll now 12||KOTA: Three more infants died in Kota’s J K Lon hospital on Friday taking the death toll to 12 in two days. They include two infants under one month and one over a month old. As many as nine infants between 1-4 days-old had died in the hospital on Thursday. Besides, a considerable number of equipment and apparatus were found to be defunct in the hospital which the authorities termed as ‘beyond economic repair’ since 2018. Kota-Bundi M P and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also called a meeting of district and medical officials at his camp office in Kota on Friday and apprised the reasons of deaths while directing the authorities to improve the condition so that no infant dies due to lack of facilities and timely medical treatment. Expressing grief over the deaths of infants, Birla stressed on proper monitoring in the hospital and assured to augment infrastructure to save every child in the hospital. "I have spoken to the hospital management and got report on the matter and whatever facts come out, we would discuss them with the state government to (further improve the situation)," Birla said while speaking to media. Confirming the death of three infants on Friday, J K Lon superintendent Dr Suresh Chand Dulara said that "three more infants, two under one month and one over a month old died on Friday in the hospital. It is a natural course of death. A new 12-bedded NICU level-3, which was ready to be functional, was also kicked off on Friday with 10 nursing staff and efforts are underway to add more facilities and medical staff," he added. . Denying that considerable number of equipment and apparatus in the hospital were in defunctional status, Dulara said that they were‘beyond economic repair’ since 2018, however, theyjust include 28 nebulizer, which is not a big item and costs merely Rs 2,000-3,000. "Actually, it pertains to the accounts section of the hospital and no specific staff has been deputed for accounts which is the reason behind the long delay," Dr Dulara said. Official procedures cannot go on without finance from accounts, he added. "Some equipment was certainly reported to be out of work status but their number is not considerable and they would soon be replaced as there is no lack of budget," said Kota collector Ujjawal Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-more-infants-die-in-kotas-jk-lon-hosp-toll-now-12/articleshow/79686059.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 79% turnout in municipal polls across 12 districts||JAIPUR: Despite Covid situation and several restrictions in the state, 79.90% voters exercised their franchise as the polls to elect 1,775 ward members in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts was held on Friday. Highest polling was recorded at Bharatpur’s Nagar municipal body at, 90.32% and the lowest was recorded at Sawai Madhopur Nagar Parishad, at 64.39 . Meanwhile, 84.67% polling was recorded at 10 municipal bodies in Jaipur district. The highest was recorded in Chaksu municipal area, at 88.07% and lowest was recorded in Sambhar, at 70.01% . State election commissioner P S Mehra informed that out of 14.35 lakh voters, 11.46 lakh voted on Friday. However, only 71.57% voters had cast their votes during municipal body elections in November 2019, which was before the Covid outbreak in the state. Meanwhile, in Karauli district’s Hindaun City, seven tender votes were cast at two polling booths in Agrasen College. “After we received complaints, we went to spot and spoke with the polling agents. Later, 2-3 people were identified who were involved in false voting and impersonation. Cases have been registered by police against these three. After investigation, action will be taken against other culprits,” said Karauli district collector Siddharth Sihag. However, re-polling has not been announced anywhere in the state. In many polling stations, brides and grooms were also seen casting their votes before the marriage ceremony. The commissioner informed that till 10am, 21.88% polling was done. At 1pm, the polling percentage reached 54%. By 3pm, the polling was 69.69% and at 5pm, it was 79.57%. The elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20 and to the posts of deputy chairpersons will be held on December 1. A special camp will be held on December 12 for specially-abled persons to register their names to the voters’ list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-79-turnout-in-municipal-polls-across-12-districts/articleshow/79686061.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Banned medicines worth Rs 1 crore seized||JAIPUR: Teams of drug controllers of medical and health department on Friday raided wholesalers of medicines in various districts, including Jaipur, Dausa, Chittorgarh and Ajmer, and seized medicines worth Rs 1 crore which were banned since 2018. Teams were already into searches at Jaipur, Dausa, Chittorgarh and Ajmer since Thursday. On the conclusion of raids, Rajaram Sharma, drug controller, told TOI, “A tablet named ‘SOMEE Cold’ is a combination of cetirizine, paracetamol, phensedyl, nimesulide and caffeine. The Government of India through a gazette notification had banned this drug on September 7, 2018. However, we were getting regular complaints of sale of this drug in various districts of the state.” On Friday, a team of drug control officers raided Malhotra Nagar, VKI, and seized about 13.59 lakh tablets of SOMEE cold tablet. “The market price of these is around Rs 76.10 lakh. Similarly, samples of two drugs were raided at M/s Suresh Medicose located at Film Colony in Jaipur from where 3.23 lakh tablets were seized. Their price is around Rs 18.12 lakh,” he added. Raids and seizures were also made from Dausa, Kishangarh in Ajmer and from Chittorgarh from various stockists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/banned-medicines-worth-rs-1-crore-seized/articleshow/79689801.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Banned medicines worth Rs 1 crore seized||JAIPUR: Teams of drug controllers of medical and health department on Friday raided wholesalers of medicines in various districts, including Jaipur, Dausa, Chittorgarh and Ajmer, and seized medicines worth Rs 1 crore which were banned since 2018. Teams were already into searches at Jaipur, Dausa, Chittorgarh and Ajmer since Thursday. On the conclusion of raids, Rajaram Sharma, drug controller, told TOI, “A tablet named ‘SOMEE Cold’ is a combination of cetirizine, paracetamol, phensedyl, nimesulide and caffeine. The Government of India through a gazette notification had banned this drug on September 7, 2018. However, we were getting regular complaints of sale of this drug in various districts of the state.” On Friday, a team of drug control officers raided Malhotra Nagar, VKI, and seized about 13.59 lakh tablets of SOMEE cold tablet. “The market price of these is around Rs 76.10 lakh. Similarly, samples of two drugs were raided at M/s Suresh Medicose located at Film Colony in Jaipur from where 3.23 lakh tablets were seized. Their price is around Rs 18.12 lakh,” he added. Raids and seizures were also made from Dausa, Kishangarh in Ajmer and from Chittorgarh from various stockists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/banned-medicines-worth-rs-1-crore-seized/articleshow/79686074.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||BJP to move Rajasthan HC over Laxmangarh pradhan’s election||JAIPUR: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to move the High Court to challenge pradhan’s election in Sikar’s Laxmangar panchayat samiti, where Congress party’s candidate Madan Lal defeated BJP’s Bhagirath Mal Godara through lottery. With this win, the Congress party has secured 98 pradhan posts in 21 districts equaling BJP’s number (98). In a night-long political drama, the lottery to elect the pradhan was conducted at Laxmangar panchayat samiti, which is also PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasara’s constituency, after 12:30 am on Friday. In the same panchayat samiti, BJP had 13 members, Congress had 12 members and there was one independent member. Congress party had objected to voting by a woman voter, who had given birth to the third child a few of days ago, according to sources. “She (voter) was not allowed to vote and later she approached the local (lower) court. When the court allowed her to cast her vote, she went voted. Later, the local SDM refused to count her vote on Congress party’s direction. Hence, it was a tie (12-12). The SDM, refusing to accept the order of the local court, said directions has to come from the High Court.” “When we protested, the collector said the counting will be stayed till December 23 and asked us to approach the High court. However, late in the night (around 1 pm), the lottery was conducted and the Congress candidate was declared the winner. We will approach High Court to challenge the election of pradhan,” alleged Sarwan Singh Bagri, Pradesh Mantri, BJP. The one independent candidate had voted in favour of Congress party. “When the court had allowed her (voter) to vote, they can’t reject her vote,” he added. Meanwhile, on Friday, no Up-Zila Pramukh was elected in Tonk as no nominations were received from both the parties. A decision on conducting election in future will be decided by the state election commission. Box Jaipur: The BJP on Friday won Jhalawar Zila Pramukh’s post taking their overall tally to 13. BJP’s Prem Bai defeated Congress party’s Anu Yadav. Congress had won five and independents had bagged three posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-move-hc-over-laxmangarh-pradhans-election/articleshow/79686062.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Agra||Brothers call sister home from Delhi to UP, shoot her dead for marrying dalit man||AGRA: A 23-year-old woman, who had eloped and married a dalit man against the wishes of her family, was called home from Delhi, where she was living, by her three brothers and shot dead in her native UP village.  They then buried the body in their agricultural field after "taking consent" from their father. Her husband had last talked to her over phone on November 20, and since then there was no news of her.  The woman's body was exhumed in Mainpuri on Friday after 10 hours of search operation by the local police. Chandni Kashyap had married Arjun Kumar, 25, in UP’s Pratapgarh on June 12 after eight years of relationship, and the couple was living together in Delhi’s Trilokpuri. Talking to TOI on Friday, Arjun said, “We got married in a temple in my grandfather’s village, Tondarpur in Pratapgarh, and returned to Delhi after two months of our marriage.” Soon, Chandni’s brothers started talking to her on phone and convinced her to visit her hometown in Mainpuri’s Kishni area. “She was taken away by her brothers on November 17. On November 20, as she was set to return to Delhi, she told me on phone that she was assaulted by her brothers and that they didn’t want her to come back to me. Her phone got disconnected immediately and remained switched off since then,” said Arjun, adding that several efforts to trace her failed. Before coming to Chandni’s hometown to inquire about her, Arjun filed a police complaint at Delhi's Mayur Vihar police station on November 22. “Two days after registering the FIR, I reached Mainpuri with my mother and uncle to enquire about her. I was told that she was not there and had gone to Delhi alone,” said Arjun. Delhi Police sub-inspector (SI) Manoj Kumar Tomar, who was in Mainpuri on Friday to exhume the body, told TOI that an FIR was registered based on a complaint filed by Arjun. Tomar said section 302 (murder) of the IPC was added in the FIR after the woman’s brother, Sunil Kashyap, confessed to the crime. While Sunil has been arrested, the other two -- Sudhir and Susheel -- are on the run. During interrogation, Sunil told police that he brought his only sister to Mainpuri’s Kashyap Nagar, and he, along with his brothers, tried to persuade her to leave her “lower caste” husband. He said that for two days they tried to convince her not to return to Arjun. And, when she insisted on going back, there was a heated argument following which they shot her in the chest. The brothers then buried the body "with the approval of their father". Mainpuri superintendent of police (SP) Avinash Pandey told TOI that the woman's body was recovered just 600m from their house. “To avoid the body from getting dismembered, we had to take all precautions while exhuming it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/brothers-call-sister-home-from-delhi-to-up-shoot-her-dead-for-marrying-dalit-man/articleshow/79684276.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Health minister forms panel to probe infant deaths in Kota hospital||JAIPUR: State health minister Raghu Sharma on Friday constituted a four-member committee to investigate the deaths of infants at the J K Lon Hospital in Kota. The committee will not only investigate the deaths of the infants but will also look into the overall arrangements at the hospital and will submit its reports in three days. Also, a two-member team from State Human Rights Commission will visit Kota and meet various officers to know the finer details to find the cause of deaths of the infants. Secretary, medical education, Vaibhav Galariya, also issued an order in this regard on Friday. “I had sought a report from the superintendent of the hospital in which it was found that three infants were brought dead while three others had deformities by birth while three others died due to COT. However, we have constituted a four-member team including Shivangi Swarnkar, commissioner, medical education, Dr Lakshman Singh Ola of reproductive child health, Dr Amarjeet Mehta, additional principal and senior professor, paediatrics department and Dr Rambabu Sharma, senior professor, paediatrics (medicine), SMS Medical College,” Sharma said in his official statement issued on Friday. He added that the team will immediately rush to Kota to investigate the infant deaths in J K Lon Hospital. “The committee along with this will also look into overall arrangements at J K Lon Hospital such as requirement and availability of medical staff, availability of medical equipment and checking whether they are functional, availability of medicines. It will submit its report to the state government in three working days,” he added. The health minister has also directed all medical college principals of the state to take special care towards the treatment of newborn children. “Action would be taken against any kind of negligence in the treatment of infants,” he added. Meanwhile, ,taking cognizance of the incident, chairman of Rajasthan State Human Rights Commission (RSHRC) Justice Mahesh Chandra Sharma has directed B L Meena, secretary of the commission, and Omi Purohit, registrar of the commission, to visit Kota. They will hold meetings with divisional commissioner, Kota, district collector, SP and superintendent of J K Lon Mother and Child Hospital. “They will make visit the hospital on Monday and hold meetings and inspection,” an order from the commission said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-minister-forms-panel-to-probe-infant-deaths-in-kota-hosp/articleshow/79686081.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 2,385 new Covid cases, positivity rate now at 3.3%||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 2,385 new Covid-19 cases on Friday with over 71,000 tests being conducted, even as the positivity rate stood at 3.3%. The positivity rate dipped to 4.9%, 4.7%, 4.2%, 3.6% and 3.1%, respectively from December 3 to 7. However, on December 8, it had risen again to 4.2%, falling again to 3.4% on December 9 and 2.4% on December 10. These new cases came out of 71,679 tests conducted the previous day, including 31,724 RT-PCR tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by Delhi’s health department. Sixty fatalities were recorded, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 9,934, the bulletin said. The tally of active cases on Friday dropped to 18,676 from 18,753 the previous day. The state health department said the total number of cases has climbed to 6,03,535. Decline in active cases has brought much needed relief for hospitals that were overwhelmed with patients till about a fortnight ago. According to the latest data shared by the state health department, 13,899 (74%) Covid-19 beds out of total 18,853 are lying vacant. This includes more than 2,700 ICU beds, with and without ventilator support. “The total number of admitted patients has reduced to less than 300 for the first time in several months today,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital — Delhi’s largest hospital designated for Covid-19 patients, said on Thursday. The hospital has successfully treated more than 10,000 Covid-19 patients over the last 10 months. This includes 388 (4%) children and 8,014 (79%) patients with co-morbidities such as hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and kidney diseases among others. Hospital’s medical director said they also conducted successful deliveries in 524 Covid-19 positive mothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2385-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-now-at-3-3/articleshow/79686136.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Mayors’ protest: BJP urges LG to direct Delhi govt to clear corporation’s dues||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and leader of opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Friday called upon lieutenant governor Anil Baijal amid the ongoing protest by mayors outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence and sought his intervention. The row is deepening with the protest entering the fifth day and the mayors appearing prepared for a long haul. Handing over a memorandum, the BJP functionaries asked the LG to direct the Kejriwal government to immediately release Rs 13,000 crore that, they claim, was due to the city’s three municipal corporations from Delhi government. “The protesting mayors and councillors are seeking funds because without funds, the corporations are unable to pay salaries to nearly 2 lakh employees, including doctors and paramedical staff who are working on the Covid frontline and 50,000 pensioners. But the CM does not have time to meet the protesting mayors,” Gupta said adding that the LG had written three letters to the Kejriwal government over release of funds to the corporations. “No state government in the past has ever deprived the corporations of funds like the AAP government has done. CM’s approach to the protesting mayors is totally undemocratic and insensitive. Two lady councillors have got sick due to cold, but the CM has not yet met them,” said Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. Asked when the mayors would end their ongoing protest, Gupta said the protest would continue till Delhi government does not release all the outstanding dues to the corporations. In reaction, AAP said even the mayors knew that their protest was only an excuse by their high-command to harass Kejriwal and divert attention from the issue of farmers’ protests. “The mayors are well aware that Delhi government has given all the funds due and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the corporations are facing financial ruin. Since they have decided to only protest rather than govern, it is best that they resign and let AAP run the corporations,” said AAP in a statement, adding that it would run the corporations efficiently within the same budget. Delhi BJP workers will demonstrate in 62 assembly constituencies represented by AAP MLAs over the issue of “pending funds” on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayors-protest-bjp-urges-lg-to-direct-delhi-govt-to-clear-corporations-dues/articleshow/79686131.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘We will run offices from protest site’||NEW DELHI: Continuing their dharna outside the chief minister’s residence for the fifth consecutive day, the three mayors and senior civic functionaries on Friday announced that they won’t budge unless the Arvind Kejriwal-led government agrees to release Rs 13,000 crore pending dues to the municipal corporations. The mayors said they would start running their offices from the dharna site from Monday. Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said the CM had made no effort to meet them. “We have decided to operate the mayoral offices from here from Monday. All officials will come here with files that need to be cleared. More than 20 employees’ unions have sent letters of support to us for protesting on their behalf. They have also expressed their intent to join us for this rightful cause,” added Prakash. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain alleged that Delhi government wants to create a state of anarchy by not giving the outstanding funds. “Due to non-release of funds, all development works have stopped. The corporations are facing problems even in timely release of salaries to their employees who are working day and night during this pandemic. The government is playing politics keeping in mind the upcoming municipal elections,” he added. Anamika, mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “Twenty women councillors have been sitting in front of the CM’s house for the past five days. However, he has refused to meet us without caring about us spending the night under the open sky in this cold. His apathy has now become public. We have no personal demands from the CM. Our fight is for the people of Delhi.” BJP spokesperson Virender Babbar said the number of unions supporting the dharna was increasing daily, but the CM was still not willing to meet the mayors. “BJP workers will carry out protests in front of the houses and offices of all AAP MLAs on Saturday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/we-will-run-offices-from-protest-site/articleshow/79686139.cms||Paras Singh
December 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Varsities not tied to AICTE, can branch’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a landmark judgment, the Supreme Court ruled that AICTE cannot restrict universities and state governments from adopting higher norms for quality assurance in the technical education sector. Hearing a petition filed by Thiruvananthapuram-based A P J Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) challenging a Kerala high court order, a three-member SC bench led by Chief Justice S A Bobde said affiliated universities and state governments concerned can lay down additional norms, other than what AICTE prescribe, to improve the quality of education in engineering sector. The apex court struck down the high court order that had asked the technological university to grant permission for new courses to certain self-financing engineering colleges since they had already obtained AICTE’s approval to start new courses. It had initially stayed the HC order in October. Delving into the crux of the matter at hand, the SC bench said that AICTE can only insist that universities and state government refrain from further diluting its norms. It cannot claim higher norms set by them as null and void, it said. The top court observed that AICTE was giving permission to colleges for starting new courses solely on the basis of a self-declaration submitted by colleges online. However, on many occasions claims made in declarations have been found to be dubious, thereby affecting the quality of education offered. “Though AICTE has reserved to itself the power to conduct inspections and take penal action against colleges for false declarations, such penal action does not mean anything and does not serve any purpose for the students who get admitted to colleges which have necessary infrastructure only on paper and not on site. The regulations of AICTE are silent as to how the students will get compensated…It is the universities which are obliged to issue degrees and whose reputation is inextricably intertwined with the fate and performance of students, that may have to face the music and hence their role cannot be belittled,” the bench said. “No state run university can afford to have a laidback attitude today, when their own performance is being measured by international standards. Therefore, the power of the universities to prescribe enhanced norms and standards cannot be doubted,” it added. SC also turned down Kerala HC’s observation that a university syndicate cannot lay down new norms for granting permission to affiliated colleges for starting new courses only because the university statute was not in force when the syndicate took such a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/varsities-not-tied-to-aicte-can-branch/articleshow/79685199.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corporations headless for two weeks, claims AAP MLA Atishi||NEW DELHI: AAP MLA Atishi on Friday raised questions over the working pattern of city’s municipal corporations and said for the past 15 days, commissioners of all the three BJP-led corporations were on leave. “BJP has left the municipal corporations at the mercy of the gods. That is why all the three commissioners are on leave from the last 15 days. All three corporations are working without their chiefs for the last two weeks. In any case, there are only two commissioners right now. One commissioner looks after the east corporation and the other after both north and south corporations,” Atishi said in a press conference. “On the one hand, the mayors are sitting outside the residence of the chief minister and on the other, the commissioners are on leave. So, who is running the BJP-led corporations? AAP wants to know who is responsible right now for the fact that the corporations are completely headless,” Atishi asked wondering who was preparing the budget of these corporations and imposing series of new taxes on the citizens. “BJP has no empathy for the citizens of Delhi and that is why they have kept the corporations in such a poor condition,” said Atishi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corporations-headless-for-two-weeks-claims-atishi/articleshow/79686141.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Jaipur||Tantrik in Barmer kidnaps 10-year-old girl, sets her & self on fire; both die||JAISALMER: In a shocking incident, a tantrik kidnapped a 10-year-old girl, forced her to sit on a pyre, set the child and himself on fire, burning both to death on Friday evening. The criminal act, committed in a field at Sujo Ka Niwan in Barmer district, was apparently done by the culprit, Kistoor Ram Bheel, for supernatural power. Police reached the spot and found the burnt bodies at the spot. Two bottles of kerosene were also recovered. According to Barmer SP Anand Sharma, two girls, daughters of Ramchandra & Moola Ram, were returning home after buying buttermilk when they were waylaid by tantrik Kistoor Ram. While the culprit fled with Ramchandra's child, the other girl, Moola Ram's daughter, informed the villagers about the incident. The SP said the pyre was made on the field, covered with wood and grass and sprinkled with kerosene. Before the villagers could reach the spot, the tantrik had set both of them on fire. Jaisalmer: Bakhasar SHO Neemb Singh and Chauhatan circle officer were the first to reach the spot and found the two burnt bodies on the pyre. In his written report, Ramchandra said that he had met Kistoor Ram two years ago and had known him since then. A case has been lodged under Section 302 and is being investigated. The post-mortems were conducted by the medical board and bodies handed over to families. The house of the culprit was searched and items used for tantric rituals were found by the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tantrik-kidnaps-10-year-old-girl-sets-her-self-on-fire-both-die/articleshow/79686871.cms||Vimal Bhatia
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Woman loses gold chain worth Rs 1.3L||Nashik: Two bike-borne suspects on Friday snatched a gold chain worth Rs 1.3 lakh from a 50-year-old woman in Indiranagar area of the city. According to police, the woman had gone to attend a wedding at a marriage hall on Wadala Pathardi Road. “The woman was standing with her grandson on the road after the wedding ceremony. This is when the suspects targeted her,” a police officer said. “The woman tried to stop the suspects and also cried for help, but by the time anyone could assist her, the suspects had fled. The woman then registered a complaint with us. We are checking the footage of the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras and will soon nab the suspects,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-loses-gold-chain-worth-rs-1-3l/articleshow/79684440.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Agra||BJP workers allege assault by civic body team during anti-encroachment drive in Aligarh||AGRA: A group of BJP workers, who were "pelting stones" at a team of Municipal Corporation during an anti-encroachment drive in Aligarh, were allegedly assaulted by them on Friday. BJP MLA Sanjeev Raja said that a police complaint will be filed against the civic body workers who had “beaten up the BJP men”. Those attacked included party’s ‘yuva morcha’ vice president Karan Varshney and Gandhi Nagar mandal president Mukesh Madan Varshney, he claimed. The MLA also said that the civic body will “not be allowed to undertake any anti-encroachment drive” in the city. Superintendent of police (city) K S Gunawat said that some BJP workers have given a complaint in this regard. “An FIR will be registered and legal action will be taken after inquiring into the matter,” he said. BJP leader Varshney told the media, “Local residents were opposing the anti-encroachment drive when I was passing through the area. A team of civic body members grabbed and assaulted me.” No FIR was registered till the filing of the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-workers-allege-assault-by-civic-body-team-during-anti-encroachment-drive-in-aligarh/articleshow/79684313.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Delhi||Govt failed to keep word on giving sanitary napkins to out-of-school girls: Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pradesh Mahila Congress president Amrrita Dhawan on Friday claimed that the AAP government had failed to fulfil its promise of distributing sanitary napkins to adolescents and out-of-school girls from poor families for free or at concessional rates to help them maintain hygiene. Dhawan also alleged that the AAP government had scrapped many of the schemes initiated by the previous Congress government for the welfare of girls and women. The Sheila Dikshit government had decided to provide a pack of sanitary napkins every month to each girl from classes VI to XII in government and aided schools, Dhawan said. But the AAP government, she added, launched the Udaan scheme in April 2019 by scrapping Kishori Shakti Yojna that was started by the previous Congress government to provide sanitary napkins to 50,000 adolescent, out-of-school girls and 6,000 ASHA (anganwadi) workers of government schools. She alleged that during 2019-20, only 30,000 girls were provided napkins for Re 1 per sanitary napkins in a pack of six. Delhi government has claimed, on affidavit, in Delhi High Court that it was providing sanitary napkins free of cost in a pack of 10 to out-of-school girls under Udaan scheme but 10 napkins were never distributed, Dhawan claimed. She further alleged that in the financial year 2020-21, Delhi government has not floated tenders for sanitary napkins. Dhawan claimed that data from the Delhi health department showed that over 52% adolescent girls in the 15-19 age group were anaemic and 32.2% girls in the 10-19 age group underweight. But the AAP government has not launched any scheme to address these problems, she alleged. The government has also not been maintaining Kishori Health Cards for adolescent girls in anganwadi centres to record these information, she claimed. Delhi government didn’t respond to queries despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-failed-to-keep-word-on-giving-sanitary-napkins-to-out-of-school-girls-cong/articleshow/79686147.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Dist admin to help resolve school fee issues, says Bhujbal||Nashik: Guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has said the district administration would intervene to resolve all school fee-related issues in the Nashik district.Speaking to reporters on Friday, Bhujbal said, “The district collector and the education officers will sit with the parents and school to find an amicable solution to the issue.”Private English-medium schools in Nashik, which are the members of the Association of Nashik Schools (ANS), have decided to bar students from attending the online classes from January 2021 if their fees are not cleared before the Christmas vacation.An ANS delegation met Nashik region education deputy director Nitin Upasani and presented a memorandum to him saying that the education organisations were finding it difficult to manage the expenses of the schools, including teacher salaries. The schools also claimed that they had given discounts to the students ranging between 10 and 50% depending on the financial health of the organisations. However, almost 70% of the students still had not cleared their dues.Meanwhile, parents’ organisations have decided to take to the streets if such a drastic step was taken by the schools. They said the parents have already paid a part of the fees and had spent considerable amount on ensuring the availability of Android mobiles, laptops, computers and data plans for online education - the cost of which is not being considered by the schools this year.Bhujbal said: “As of now, I have not received any representation from the parents or the teachers. If there are any issues and if parents have some grievances, they can share them with me or with the district administration. We will take up the issues with the respective school authorities and find a solution.”Bhujbal pointed out that the pandemic had created problems for everyone in the country. “No single constituent can be blamed for the current situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-admin-to-help-resolve-school-fee-issues-says-bhujbal/articleshow/79684442.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Long queues in hospitals as doctors boycott OP duties||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The functioning of hospitals in both government and private sector was totally paralysed on Friday as doctors boycotted their OP duties. The doctors were on strike as part of a national agitation called by Indian Medical Association (IMA) against central government’s decision to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform general surgeries. There were long queues in medical college hospitals and in the hospitals under the health service as many of the people were unaware of the strike. Some people had an agonizing wait at hospitals for long hours and had to return without getting medical attention. However, the casualty wings of hospitals functioned normally and due to that, the emergency cases were attended. Most of the emergency wings were operated with skeletal staff and also with the support of medical students. In the morning, the doctors staged a dharna before the Raj Bhavan. IMA state president Dr P T Zacharias, who inaugurated the dharna, sought immediate withdrawal of the notification by Central Council of Indian Medicine to allow the legal practice of surgeries by Ayurveda practitioners and the formation of four committees by Niti Aayog for integrating all systems of medicines. Apart from the IMA, the representatives of Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA), Kerala Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA), Kerala Private Hospitals Association, Indian Dental Association, Catholic Health Association of India, Kerala Government Specialist Doctors Association and Kerala Post Graduate Medical Teachers Association also took part in the dharna organized before the Raj Bhavan. The doctors carried out similar protests in all the districts after boycotting the OP duties. Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) central executive committee member Dr P S Shajahan said, “It is a token strike and all the doctors in the country joined hands together for the success of the strike. We will continue our agitation till our demands are met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/long-queues-in-govt-hosp-as-docs-boycott-op-duties/articleshow/79685240.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Business||Sebi bans person from mkt for insider trading in Divi’s||Hyderabad: Markets regulator Sebi has imposed a one-year ban from the securities market and slapped Rs 11 lakh fine on an individual for engaging in insider trading in the shares of Divi's Laboratories during July 7-10, 2017. Srinivas Maddineni, who was assistant general manager in the environment, health and safety department of Divi’s during the UPSI (unpublished price sensitive information) period, has also been ordered to not deal in the shares of the company for two years. The Sebi order issued on Friday has also directed Maddineni to disgorge wrongful gains of Rs 1.83 lakh along with 12% interest per annum from July 10, 2017, till the date of actual payment of the disgorgement amount. Maddineni had bought 4,000 shares of Divi's Laboratories on July 10, 2017, just two and a half hours before the company announced during market hours that the US Food and Drug Administration would be lifting an import alert on one of the company's units in Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-bans-person-from-mkt-for-insider-trading-in-divis/articleshow/79686148.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||With weather clear, Isro to launch last satellite of 2020 on December 17||NEW DELHI: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) will launch its last satellite of this year next Thursday (December 17). The satellite, codenamed CMS-01, will be launched from the second launchpad of the Sriharikota launch centre (SHAR) at 3.41pm. As reported by TOI, Isro had been waiting for weather to get clear at the launch centre as a few cyclones in the last fortnight had stalled the last launch of 2020. South India, including the Sriharikota island, had been receiving heavy rainfall in the last few weeks owing to cyclones. In fact, the CMS-01 launch, which will be lifted off by PSLV-C50, can be deferred if the weather turned adverse in the coming days. CMS-01 is a communication satellite and is meant to provide services in the extended-C band of the frequency spectrum. The extended-C band coverage will include Indian mainland, Andaman-Nicobar & Lakshadweep Islands, an Isro statement said. The CMS-01, which will have a lifespan of seven years, will be a replacement for Gsat-12 that was launched on July 11, 2011. The upcoming launch will be the second launch of this year after the successful liftoff of EOS-01 (remote sensing satellite) on November 7. This will be the 52nd mission of PSLV, 22nd flight of PSLV in 'XL' configuration and 77th launch vehicle mission from Sriharikota. The other satellites that are ready for launch are Gisat-1 and Microsat-2A. They are likely to be launched next year with different code names. Gisat-1 satellite, which was slated for March 5 this year, was earlier postponed due to technical reasons a day before the launch. On mission launches next year, Isro chairman K Sivan earlier told TOI that “the pandemic-triggered Budget restrictions have affected Isro’s launch operations and that missions next year will be launched only on priority basis”. He said the first test-launch of Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) or mini-PSLV and a technology demonstrator test of the reusable launch vehicle (RLV) will also happen next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-weather-clear-isro-to-launch-last-satellite-of-2020-on-dec-17/articleshow/79688771.cms||Surendra Singh
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Ayurvedic surgeries done under allopathy docs’ supervision: Experts||Bengaluru: Ayurvedic surgeries, which have raised the hackles of Indian Medical Association, aren’t new and are performed with a qualified anaesthetist as part of the team, several ayurveda practitioners said. A gazette notification issued last month by the Central Council of Indian Medicine, a statutory body set up under the Ayush ministry, allowed postgraduate ayurveda practitioners to receive formal training to perform 58 general surgeries, ENT, ophthalmology and dental procedures. The decision has caused uproar among allopathy doctors and their representative body, IMA, which on Friday held nationwide protests against the move. All ayurvedic surgeries are conducted under the supervision and with assistance, if need be, of allopathy doctors, and it’s allowed by the Ayush rule book, say ayurveda doctors. Most private ayurveda medical college hospitals that conduct surgeries have a panel of allopathy doctors working with them, largely to oversee the procedures. At JSS Ayurveda Medical College & Hospital, Mysuru, a minimum of three major surgeries are performed every week and two minor ones daily. “For all these surgeries, we take the help of anaesthetists from allopathy background. Allopathic antibiotics are used one day prior to the surgery and two days after it. A C-section delivery is conducted in the presence of a gynaecologist from allopathy background. This was allowed even before the gazette notification came. Why are IMA members silent about their own doctors working with us in surgeries?” said Dr Sarbeswar Kar, principal, medical superintendent, JSS Ayurveda Medical College & Hospital. Dr GG Gangadharan, director of MS Ramaiah Indic Centre for Ayurveda and Integrative Medicine, says multiple cases have been documented where ayurvedic surgeries have brought solace to several patients who didn’t find success with allopathy. According to Dr Gangadharan, in most allopathy hospitals, it’s ayurveda doctors who work in night shift and in ICUs. “But why is there opposition to ayurveda doctors performing surgeries when they have been trained for the same? An ayurveda surgeon gets eight and a half years of training before conducting surgeries,” he says. He adds that with the new notification, ayurvedic surgeries need not be supervised by allopathy surgeons but can be done with anaesthetists’ help. “This has to be seen as integration of medicine. From 1971, when Indian Medicine Central Council Act came into force, the BAMS syllabus has been on par with modern medical science,” says Dr Gangadharan, adding surgeries by ayurveda specialists make healthcare affordable. Dr Anant Desai, project director, National Ayush Mission, Karnataka, admits ayurvedic surgeries were not happening in government-run ayurveda medical colleges because of the legal issues involved. “Even earlier, Ayush department rules allowed such surgeries to happen with help of anaesthetists. The notification has brought more clarity,” says Dr Desai. Outcomes have to be proved: Prof According to Dr Anant Bhan, adjunct professor and researcher in bioethics at Yenepoya (deemed to be) university, Mangaluru, ayurvedic surgeries that are being done based on books written thousands of years ago need to be systematically documented and the outcomes have to be proved based on evidence. “If there is an element of doubt in any of the areas, it’s better not to move ahead till sufficient data is available. Why are allopathy hospitals hiring ayurveda doctors? This mixopathy needs clarification,” he says. Dr Bhan says the patient must be given detailed understanding of the procedure. ‘Why do they use antibiotics they don’t believe in?’ They (ayurveda doctors) should not use allopathic drugs or take the help of allopathy doctors as the basic principles of the two disciplines are different. We have always opposed anaesthetists working on ayurveda surgeries. Why do ayurveda doctors use antibiotics which they do not believe in? In allopathy, we have organ-based specialisation, whereas an ayurveda doctor performs all kinds of surgeries. How can a doctor operate on the abdomen, ear, nose and eyes? The worst affected will be the patient Dr Madhusudhan Kariganur, immediate past president, IMA-Karnataka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ayurvedic-surgeries-done-under-allopathy-docs-supervision-experts/articleshow/79685282.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Holistic progress card for CBSE students from 2022-23: Secy||Bengaluru: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will launch a holistic progress card for all its students from academic year 2022-23, said Anita Karwal, secretary, department of school education and literacy, ministry of education. Karwal was speaking at the inaugural session of the 26th Sahodaya national conference hosted by Bangalore Sahodaya in association with CBSE on Friday. The changes are happening in the backdrop of implementation of the New Education Policy. “Pilots will be held in the next six months. The finalised HPC, which will be online, will be linked to the digi-locker of every child. This is something we need to plan for and train teachers in to actually report progress in a holistic manner for the child,” she said, adding: “All students —from pre-KG to class 12 — will be given access to digi-locker. They have to be registered through their Aadhaar numbers.” Karwal asked schools to gear up for major changes planned in assessment. “The first will be visible from this year in class 12 where 10% of questions will be competence-based, something that these children have never faced before. They need to be included in lesson plans and classrooms,” she added. “Also, there are census exams to be held in classes 3, 5 and 8. These are school-based assessments but will come with guidelines. Aggregated anonymised data based on these exams will come to us and we will know what is happening in the school, block, district etc,” she said, adding they are interested in knowing if the school has imbibed the requirements of NEP and is able to deliver it in classroom transactions rather than knowing how an individual child is faring. The secretary also asked schools to be inclusive. Teachers will have to undergo mandated online training. Twinning programmes are being planned for public and private schools to handhold each other. Educationists will be appointed to mentor schools. Students have to be tracked to ensure they do not drop out, especially those admitted under the RTE quota. Bold, innovative It’s easy to become an IAS officer, but becoming a teacher is difficult. Chanakya is what we desire in today’s teachers — Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Union minister of education The pandemic has made us resilient, agile and adaptable. The education sector has shown us how bold and innovative it is in making sure lessons are not stopped — Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairperson, Biocon Ltd Technology won’t replace teachers. But teachers who use technology will probably replace teachers who don’t — Anita Karwal, secretary, dept of school education and literacy, ministry of education You’ll have to unlearn a lot of things to effectively implement NEP...Encourage curiosity of the child instead of stifling it through silos, structured classes and pedagogies — Manoj Ahuja, chairman, CBSE The ongoing online class system must not hamper the child’s intellectual ability...The government has to address many socio-economic and cultural challenges that have risen because of the pandemic. Teachers, parents and schools, all are equally important to us — S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary and secondary education||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/holistic-progress-card-for-cbse-students-from-2022-23-secy/articleshow/79685708.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Trio impersonated MBBS candidates for Rs 10k each||Bengaluru: Two more people — both private firm employees — have been apprehended in the case involving impersonation of MBBS candidates, taking the total number of arrests to five. One of the three youths arrested earlier confessed they did it on a friend’s bidding and were promised a payment of Rs 10,000 each. The duo is Tanmay Bhattacharya, 24, from Kolkata, and Sharique Khan, 30, from Patna, both residents of Whitefield. Based on a complaint by Karnataka Examinations Authority, Malleswaram police had on December 3 arrested three city youths, including two girls, who were impersonating selected MBBS candidates during the document-verification process.They were caught red-handed on December 1 by KEA officials, who noticed differences between them and the photographs in the documents. The three candidates were allotted seats in BGS Global Institute of Medical Sciences, Bengaluru. The arrested were Chaitra, 21, receptionist in a dental clinic, law student Madhu, 23, and choreographer Pooja, 24, all Whitefield residents. Chaitra’s revelations led police to nab two Whitefield residents, Tanmay Bhattacharya, 24, from Kolkata, and Sharique Khan, 30, from Patna. Both work with private firms in the city. Efforts on to trace UP man “Chaitra is a close friend of Bhattacharya, who approached her seeking help for impersonation. According to her, he promised to pay the impersonators Rs 10,000 each. Bhattacharya told her the original candidates were unable to make it due to Covid-19,” an investigating officer said. “Based on Chaitra’s statements, we arrested Bhattacharya. He has told us a person from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh approached him, asking him to arrange for three impersonators. We are trying to track him,” the officer added. Seat-blocking attempt? Police feel the UP man’s arrest will reveal the real motive behind the crime. “Why did the real candidates, identified as Abhay Gautam, Paragi and Maheen Nawaz, all from Delhi, not turn up? Are they part of a criminal conspiracy? Was this an attempt to block seats? All these questions will be answered with the UP man’s arrest,” said an officer. “We are also investigating if the three youths arrested first were part of a conspiracy to deny MBBS seats to deserving candidates,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trio-impersonated-mbbs-candidates-for-rs-10k-each/articleshow/79685732.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
December 12, 2020||Vadodara||Alumni launch MSU Vision 2020||Vadodara: Eminent alumni of M S University, most of them belonging to the 1980 batch of Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE), on Friday launched MSU Vision 2020 project. The project, launched virtually by the alumni, a majority of whom are working at the Silicon Valley, aims to give back to their alma mater by encouraging, grooming and mentoring the current students of the university. The launch programme witnessed presence of the likes of Ajay Bhatt, co-inventor of USB, Haresh Kumbhani, Rajesh Mathrani, Raj Joshi from Silicon Valley, Sunil Mehta from Washington DC – to name a few. MSU Vision 2020 has three aspects – merit awards, student mentoring programme and the flagship programme of tech incubator. In almost all universities, meritorious students are recognised when they complete final year of their graduation or post-graduation. But MSU Vision 2020 merit awards programme will cover students of all year of all departments — right from their first year of college. The cumulative marks of two semesters will determine the awardee in each department and each year. The merit award will consist of Rs 10,000, a merit certificate and a place on the MSU Vision 2020 honour roll of scholars. “Similarly, through the mentoring programme, each alumni of the network will continuously mentor three to five students providing them one-to-one guidance for their professional development,” said Dr Sanskriti Mujumdar, director of office of Alumni Affairs and Donors Relations which has coordinated all the efforts. The incubator programme will fund five top teams and is modelled to foster “startup” culture. Each of the selected five teams will get a seed funding of Rs 50,000. The programme encourages multi-disciplinary teams of two to five students. Vision 2020 alumni will conduct a series of webinars while each team will also be assigned alumni and faculty mentors as guides. At the end, a grand prize of Rs 1 lakh will be awarded to the best among the five teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/alumni-launch-msu-vision-2020/articleshow/79684269.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Surat||GJEPC: MSMEs to get easy loans from pvt bank||Surat: At a time when the micro, small and medium scale diamond and jewellery units are hit by severe liquidity crisis, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has collaborate with a private bank for providing the units with financial assistance. The GJEPC on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the YES bank for providing tailor-made products for the MSMEs in the gems and jewellery sector. GJEPC office-bearers said that the bank will offer loan products including ones under government scheme, interest subvention scheme, Credit Guarantee Fund Trust Scheme, Export-Import specific trade accounts to the GJEPC members on basis on their eligibility. Vice-chairman of GJEPC, Vipul Shah told TOI, “This is a benchmark initiative of GJEPC to collaborate with a bank for the MSMEs. Only members of the GJEPC are eligible for all the benefits. This new arrangement will pave way for the fresh infusion of capital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gjepc-msmes-to-get-easy-loans-from-pvt-bank/articleshow/79684598.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt gives special sops to Samsung for 2nd Noida unit||LUCKNOW/NOIDA: The UP government has given special incentives to South Korean electronic giant Samsung to start production at its Rs 4,825 crore phone display manufacturing unit in Noida. The UP cabinet cleared a proposal to this effect under the UP Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2017. Samsung Display Noida Private Limited, which is a few months away from starting production in its phone display manufacturing unit in Noida, is the first in India and only the third in world which had OLED assembly facilities. This is also the first major project which moved out of China to India during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Initially, the company was investing just Rs 1,500 crore in the unit. Its construction started towards the end of 2019. However, around March, the company scaled up its investment to Rs 4,825 crore. The basic manufacturing of OLED screens used for mobiles is done in Korea but the assembly is done in China and Vietnam. Samsung has shifted its machinery from China to India and is slated to start production by April 2021,” said Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary (IT and Electronics). In 2018, Samsung set up the world’s largest mobile phone manufacturing unit in Noida’s sector 81. Under the recently launched Powering Digital India campaign, Samsung wanted to initiate new manufacturing facilities in the country. Having set up the world’s largest mobile factory in sector 81 of Noida, the company was looking to expand operations within the 35-acre facility. The company is planning to dedicate a large portion of the entire facility for producing mobile screens. Officials of the South Korean company during their discussions with senior officials of the UP government revealed that the display production plant in Noida will gradually be scaled up to meet the global demands for mobile screens and the entire facility is poised to shape up as the global manufacturing hub for the company. A government spokesperson said that during the previous financial year, Samsung, with US $ 2.7 billion export, was the largest exporter of Uttar Pradesh. “It has set an export target of US $ 50 billion over the next five years. Under the UP Electronics Manufacturing Policy 2017, Samsung will get exemption on stamp duty in land transfer. The state government will be making a financial provision of Rs 250 crore for this project during the next five years,” he said. The official added that the company will also receive financial incentives of Rs 460 crore under the Centre’s ‘Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing Electronic Components and Semiconductors’. More than 70% of the total display products used in TVs, mobile phones, tablets, watches etc across the world, the official added, are manufactured by Samsung in South Korea, Vietnam and China. “The project will provide UP with a global identity as an export hub and will help the state in getting more foreign direct investment. Samsung’s unit is likely to generate direct employment of 510 persons and will give indirect employment to hundreds more,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/for-rs-4-8k-cr-up-unit-samsung-gets-spl-sop/articleshow/79686870.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik & Kolhapur admins prepare to provide vaccine||NASHIK / KOLHAPUR: As the vaccination for Covid-19 is expected next years, Nashik and Kolhapur administrations are gearing up to administer the vaccine in different ways. Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare said the administration has identified places where the vaccines will be administered. The administration has carried out the registration for those who will be vaccinating people so all the necessary training is done and protection gears are ready before the process starts. The numbers of vaccinators, who will administer the vaccines, has crossed 1,300 for the entire district. There are 1,293 private establishments and 153 government establishments in the district which will be utilized for the vaccination programme. The authorities said currently, only the health workers are being registered with the authorities concerned as they will get the jabs first. The registrations of the police personnel and other staff, who come n contact with the public daily, will also be registered. The registration is being done with Aadhaar number and following which a QR code is generated. The next priority will be given to people above the age of 50 years and the ones with comorbidities. Their registration program is yet to begin for them. The system is not very different than the one followed for Pulse Polio, the officer said. Meanwhile, Over 5.57 lakh people from Kolhapur district will receive the vaccine to prevent Covid in the first stage of the vaccination drive expected to start from mid-January. Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai on Thursday announced the vaccination strategy for the district. The state government is going to procure and supply the vaccines to the district health administration, which has identified a chain of 122 cold storages in the district to store the vaccine vials. Desai said, in the first stage, all health workers like doctors and nurses will be vaccinated. The registration of such health workers has been completed. In the second round, police, disaster management staff and all government and semi-government officials will get the vaccine. In the third round, only those above the age of 50 years and have co-morbidity will receive the doses free of cost. The state government is yet to unroll the plan of the vaccination for the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-kolhapur-admins-prepare-to-provide-vaccine/articleshow/79684446.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Araku train to resume but sans vistadome car||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Railways on Friday announced that they would resume the train service from Visakhapatnam to Araku from December 18. The service had been halted since March 22 due to the pandemic. The decision to resume services was taken keeping in view needs of locals , tourists and patients from the area. Speaking to TOI, APTDC Visakhapatnam divisional manager TG Prasad Reddy said, “It is a welcome decision. Several tourists want to travel on the train to Araku with many cancelling their trip to Visakhapatnam if they cannot get a reservation.” However, railway officials also said that the glass-domed vistadome coach will not be in operation. Officials will take a decision on the special coach service after studying the operational and maintenance aspects. The Araku train will be operated as special train 08514-Visakhapatnam-Araku-Kirandul, which will depart Visakhapatnam every day at 06.45 am, reach Kirandul at 08.45 pm and Araku at 10 am. In return direction, the train will operate as 08513-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam Express, will leave Kirandul daily at 6 am and reach Visakhapatnam at the same day at 08.20 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/araku-train-to-resume-but-sans-vistadome-car/articleshow/79685465.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 12, 2020||Surat||Body of girl found two days after she drowned in Tapi river||Surat: The city police on Friday recovered decomposed body of a seven-year-old girl from the Tapi river embankment, who was among the three children who had drowned near Umara on Wednesday. Three children had drown after they fell into the Tapi river while playing near Umara village on Wednesday. While the bodies of two children Sunita Thapa (10) and eight-year-old Pradip Thapa—residents of City Gram society in Parle Point—were recovered on the same day, body seven-year-old Niru Vishwakarma was found on Friday.The body was sent to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) for postmortem, said police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/body-of-girl-found-two-days-after-she-drowned-in-tapi-river/articleshow/79686331.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Union water minister to inspect progress of Polavaram: Yadav||AMARAVATI: Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav on Friday said that the Centre has responded positively to grant the revised cost estimate for the Polavaram project. Yadav , along with state finance minister Buggana Rajendranath, met with Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on Friday. Addressing the media, Yadav said the Union minister will be visiting the Polavaram project to inspect the work. He said that Shekhawat had assured to take up the issue of granting final clearance to revised estimates to the notice of the Union finance minister to get the approval. “We have been struggling to undo the mistakes committed by the previous government in the guise of special package. Chandrababu Naidu’s consent to complete the project at 2013-14 rates has put the state in trouble,” Yadav said. He added that they had handed over a letter from chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Union minister and explained to him the urgent need to revise the project cost. Yadav said the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) had recently made a resolution seeking approval of the revised cost estimate to the tune of Rs 47,000 crore to complete the project. He said that Shekhawat has directed the Central Water Commission to study the PPA resolution after which the issue would go to the finance ministry. The irrigation minister added that they have been meeting senior officials of the Union finance and water ministries to get clearance for the revised estimates as early as possible. ““Shekhawat responded positively to include the drinking water component in the project cost as per Clause 14 of the Act. Earlier, Naidu had also agreed to complete the project without taking the water component support from Centre,” Yadav said. He said they have assured the Union minister that the project will be completed on schedule. Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath said that they were clearing the hurdles created by the TDP government in the name of special package. He said that Naidu’s decision to forgo several facilities originally promised by Centre in return of the special package had worked against the state’s interests. “We don’t know as to why and how such a senior leader had put the interests of the state at stake by giving a written assurance to lose several benefits just for the sake of publicity,” Buggana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/union-water-minister-to-inspect-progress-of-polavaram-yadav/articleshow/79685418.cms||Samdani MN
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Is it not an emergency if govt is selling properties to run, asks HC||VIJAYAWADA: Hearing a batch petitions challenging the auction of government properties as part of the Build AP scheme on Friday, a high court bench observed that the situation has reached a point where immovable assets are being sold to run the government. “Is it not considered a financial emergency if the state government is selling off immovable properties to pool funds?” the bench, comprising comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice D Ramesh, asked. The HC had earlier passed an interim directing the government to proceed with the bidding process but not to issue any proceedings alienating the lands pending disposal of petitions. The petitioners argued that though the government has not finalised proceedings pertaining to properties challenged in court, a fresh list of properties has been prepared and notified for auction.  They said some properties are at prime locations and had huge market value but were being auctioned off at throwaway prices. “The lands of Guntur market yard, Guntur sub-jail and some properties notified in Visakhapatnam are so valuable and they cannot be sold for implementation of welfare schemes,” the petitioners said. One of the petitioner’s counsels mentioned that while on one hand, the government was allowing liquor sales in the middle of the pandemic, on the other, it was selling properties on the pretext of implementing complete liquor prohibition. To this, the bench quipped that everyone should thank tipplers for purchasing liquor at high prices even during the pandemic. Meanwhile, the counsel representing the fishermen community told the court that one of the properties up for auction was a cyclone shelter. He said the community in cyclone-prone areas are dependent on this shelter and that the government cannot sell it for funds. The government pleader intervened and told the bench that AP was not the only state implementing welfare schemes. As counter affidavits filed by government in some petitions, the high court directed the supply of copies of counter affidavits to all petitioners and posted the matter for further hearing on December 17. The bench further said the petitions will be taken up for final hearing based on the arguments of the petitioners if the counter affidavits by government are not served before the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/is-it-not-an-emergency-if-govt-is-selling-properties-to-run-asks-hc/articleshow/79685442.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Two NMC-run Covid hospitals face Remdesivir shortage||NASHIK: Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospitals, which are both managed by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), ran out of Remdesivir stocks two days ago and have not received fresh supplies from the Nashik civil hospital yet. The civic officials have now got in touch with the Thane civil hospital and are bringing in a fresh consignment from there. The matter was raised during the standing committee meeting by corporator Rahul Dive on Friday. He said an NMC corporator undergoing treatment at the Bytco hospital could not be administered Remdesivir as there was no stock available. According to the NMC officials, the Nashik district civil hospital supplies them with the life-saving injection required in Covid-19 treatment. “We need around 80-100 Remdesivir injections per day on average for patients in Bytco and Zakir Hussain Covid hospitals. We have had no stock of Remdesivir for the past two days as we did not receive fresh supplies from the Nashik civil hospital,” said B Nagargoje, the medical superintending officer of the NMC. “We have sent a special vehicle to the Thane civil hospital to bring the injections. We may get around 1,000 injections from there,” added Nagargoje. When contacted, district civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said they get Remdesivir from the state. “We have to make a demand in advance. Recently, we were told to get the injections from the government hospitals in nearby districts. Accordingly, we have been getting Remdesiver from nearby districts over the past two-three weeks and managing supplies in all the centres in the district. We make the supplies as per availability,” she said. “The number of patients at the NMC covid hospitals is more. Sometimes it is difficult to provide the stock to NMC as we also have to manage Remdesivir supply to other hospitals in rural areas. We had told NMC to get Remdesiver from Thane and other civil hospitals,” said Raokhande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-nmc-run-covid-hospitals-face-remdesivir-shortage/articleshow/79684448.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Ram temple model to adorn R-day tableau||LUCKNOW: Ayodhya’s cultural heritage would be the theme of this year’s Uttar Pradesh’s tableau at the Republic Day parade in New Delhi. Highly placed sources told TOI that a model of the proposed Ram Temple would also be part of the tableau. Sources said that the Centre has called a meeting of officials from 20 states to finalise the model of tableau on December 16. UP is scheduled to be represented by information director Shishir. “UP had achieved second rank last year which has further boosted the morale of the state government. We were looking for a topic which had a mass appeal,” a senior government official told TOI. There has been a renewed focus on developing Ayodhya as a major destination of religious tourism ever since Yogi Adityanath took over as the chief minister in 2017. The state government has been organising Deepostav on a grand scale on the occasion of Diwali.This year, 6.06 lakh diays were lit on the banks of the Saryu in the holy town to set a new Guinness record. According to a draft proposal of the government, the tableau will not only showcase the proposed Ram Temple and the grand Deepotsava but also depict a series of themes associated with Ramayana. One of the key themes which the state government plans to showcase include ‘social harmony’. Under this, the tableau will depict Ram embracing Nishad Raj and eating `ber’ (Jujube) offered by Shabri. “The two incidents show how Lord Ram stood for a casteless society,” the proposal said. The tableau will also project the Ram Lila which is continuously organised in Ayodhya and gives employment to as many as 600 people. “This year, it was shown virtually during the pandemic,” an official said. The UP government also plans to give a message through its tableau that Ayodhya is not only associated with Sanatan Parampara but other religions including Jainism and Buddhism. “It is also said that nine gurus of Sikh, including Guru Nanak, visited Ayodhya,” the official said. The state government essentially plans the tableau to be themed around Valmiki Ramayan which depicts the character of Ram. “This ‘mahakavya’ is a reflection of Indian culture and tradition,” the proposal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-model-to-adorn-r-day-tableau/articleshow/79686894.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New strain of malaria reported in Kannur||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The health department has issued a caution against a new type of malaria Plasmodium Ovale. Health minister K K Shailaja said the new type of malaria, which is commonly found in western Africa, has been detected in a patient who was admitted to the Kannur district hospital. The patient was admitted with the symptoms of malaria and later on expert diagnosis it was found to be a new genus, which has not been reported earlier in the state. This person had come to the state from Sudan recently. Plasmodium ovale, a new genus of malaria, has been detected in the State. It was found in a soldier who was being t… https://t.co/9XmlNqqNkG— Shailaja Teacher (@shailajateacher) 1607618878000However, the minister said there is no need for any concern as the patient has been treated and there is no threat of spread. But the minister said that there needs to be an alert against this type of disease and hence has requested all the district medical officers to report all the malaria cases being reported in their regions. The most common types of malaria reported in the state are Vivax malaria and Falciparum malaria. Falciparum, Malariae, Vivax, Ovale and Knowlesi are the five types of malaria. Plasmodium ovale is a species of parasitic protozoa that causes tertian malaria in humans. The initial symptoms for the disease are headache, joint pain, loss of appetite and throat pain. In the second stage there will be high fever and shivering. The lungs are the most affected organ in severe malaria. Since there is no vaccine available for the disease, prevention is the best option. All the drinking water sources should be kept in the most hygienic conditions and water should be kept in closed containers. Mosquitoes should not be allowed to lay eggs in the water bodies adjacent to the households. Also, people should avoid sleeping in open areas. The health department has urged all the DMOs to strengthen the awareness campaigns against malaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-strain-of-malaria-reported-in-kannur/articleshow/79685290.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Forest minister lays foundation stone of Pakhro tiger safari which will ensure ‘100% big cat sightings’||Dehradun: State forest minister Harak Singh Rawat on Friday laid the foundation stone of the Pakhro tiger safari, which will be operated in the Pakhro zone of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) in Lansdowne area of Pauri. Spread over an area of 106 hectares, it will be Uttarakhand’s first tiger safari that will have tigers in enclosures, to ensure “100% sighting”. Notably, during his visit to Corbett last year while shooting for the TV programme ‘Man vs Wild’, PM Modi had spoken about developing a safari in the area to enable people to have confirmed tiger sightings. The forest minister said the Pakhro safari is set to be one of the longest tiger safaris in the world, when completed. “Not only will it (the safari) provide employment to thousands but also create a distinct identity for Kotdwar and Lansdowne. The central government has provided adequate support for the safari, it being the pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is no shortage of funds. All necessary permissions for the safari are in place,” Rawat said. Pakhro is planned as the seventh entry gate to CTR, which, as of now, has six - Bijrani, Jhirna, Dhela, Durga Devi, Sultan and Dhikala. Director of CTR Rahul (who uses only his first name) said that an animal rescue centre will also be built in the zone. “The project will cost around Rs 26 crore. It will be done in multiple phases and is being funded by the central government’s “Project Tiger”, Tiger Foundation and the state government. The initial phase is expected to be complete in six months.” Sprawling over 500 square kilometres, CTR is home to 230 tigers and has the world’s highest tiger density – at 14 tigers per hundred square kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-pakhro-tiger-safari-which-will-ensure-100-big-cat-sightings/articleshow/79683718.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt employees to be panch witnesses||Ahmedabad: The state home department has approved the proposal of CID crime to use only government employees as panch witnesses in cases related to the rape of minors. A letter was written in this regard to the agency by the home department on Thursday. According to top police sources, the letter says the move will ensure that witnesses don’t turn hostile during judicial proceedings and the cases can be made watertight against the accused. The letter also mentions that judicial proceeding in such cases should be completed in six months. The letter has laid down certain conditions for the selection of panch witnesses. According to police sources, no employee of the police department can be selected in such cases. Also, when government employees are engaged as panch witnesses, their time on the cases should be considered as part of their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-employees-to-be-panch-witnesses/articleshow/79686234.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Over 5,000 grocery retailers in Nashik city on strike today||NASHIK: Over 5,000 grocery retailers across Nashik city will go on strike on Saturday in support of foodgrain wholesalers, who are on an indefinite strike to protest against Nashik Agricultural Produce Market Committee’s (APMC) levy of 1% cess. The wholesalers have been on strike since Wednesday. All the grocery retailers’ associations in the city have extended their support to the grain wholesalers. Currently, wholesalers are paying service charge of Rs 30,000 annually to the Nashik APMC. Now, Nashik APMC has started recovering 1% cess from the wholesalers, December 1 onwards. “We are not against paying the cess, but it should be as per the practice in other APMCs in the state where the nominal annual service charge is recovered. Nashik APMC management suddenly started levy of 1% cess without taking us into confidence,” said Prafulla Sancheti, the president of Nashik Dhannya Kirana Ghauk Vyapari Sanghatna (the wholesalers’ association). “They started stopping vehicles of wholesalers at the entrance gate of the APMC to recover 1% cess from December 1, which irked the wholesalers,” said Sancheti. , “We will continue our indefinite strike until Nashik APMC withdraws the cess,” added Sancheti. Meanwhile, a meeting between traders’ representatives and Nashik APMC was held on Friday noon, but could not reach an understanding. Rahul Daga, an office bearer of grocery retailers and wholesalers’ association, said they also extended their support to the grain wholesalers. According to APMC officials, some traders had earlier complained to the Maharashtra agriculture marketing board about the 1% cess, but the board had given the decision in favour of the Nashik APMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-5000-grocery-retailers-in-nashik-city-on-strike-today/articleshow/79684451.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 12, 2020||Bhopal||Rejig on cards? Jyotiraditya Scindia visits CM House again||BHOPAL: Even as the BJP leaders in Madhya Pradesh have not confirmed a reorganisation in the state cabinet and appointments in boards and corporations in the near future, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia’s third visit to the chief minister's house in a month on Friday has clearly hinted that the crucial talks for the political appointments in the state has reached its final round. Scindia reached CM House in a motorcade of 40 vehicles along with a flurry of his loyalists, including some ministers. He held a closed-door meeting with CM Chouhan for almost four hours to let his supporters find suitable positions in the BJP and the state government bodies. The two leaders were soon joined by BJP state chief VD Sharma and joint general secretary, Hitanand Sharma, where, sources said, names of the probables were finalised for the political appointments. “This is a normal visit. We have issues related to developments to discuss. The matter of cabinet expansion and appointments in boards and corporations is the chief minister’s prerogative and he will take a decision as per his convenience. Preparations for civic polls are also underway,” Scindia told reporters. The Rajya Sabha member was accompanied by former ministers Tulsiram Silawat, Govind Singh Rajput, Imarti Devi, Aidal Singh Kansana, Giriraj Dandotiya and cabinet ministers Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Pradyuman Singh Tomar, OPS Bhadoria, Hardeep Singh Dang and other leaders. However, they were not part of the meeting with CM Chouhan. Sources said that Scindia camp is keen to have three posts in the state working committee and posts equivalent to a cabinet minister status for his loyalists, Imarti Devi, Giriraj Dandotia and some others. The leaders are learnt to have decided to reinduct former ministers Silawat and Rajput in the state cabinet very soon. Kansana’s name was being added to the list of political appointments. Earlier, Scindia had arrived last fortnight to discuss the appointments with the chief minister. After his visit, CM and state president Sharma had also discussions with the national leaders in New Delhi to get approval on some names. It was learnt that the BJP has put forth the demand by party's old guards to assign them a respectable position as they were denied party tickets against Scindia loyalists in the recently concluded bypolls. After the meeting, Scindia and Chouhan left for Indore to attend a private function while BJP leaders held a crucial meeting in the party's state head office to finalise names for the state working committee. The meeting was attended by all the five general secretaries and organising general secretary, Suhas Bhagat. Sources disclosed that the party will soon finalise the state working committee and names for the civic elections. The leaders have also decided to continue appointments in divisions. The party is planning to field several senior leaders into the upcoming civic polls for the post of mayors and head of municipal bodies, sources added. Sources said that Scindia, who had joined BJP with pomp and show with the 22 Congress MLAS in March this year and won 19 seats out of 28 to prove his sway in Gwalior-Chambal region against the Congress, is finding it has to let his loyalists get key posts in the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rejig-on-cards-scindias-visit-to-cm-sparks-rumours/articleshow/79685312.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No one threatened Swapna in jail, says probe by DIG||Thiruvananthapuram: Swapna Suresh was not threatened at Attakulangara women’s prison, a DIG (prisons) investigation has concluded, as the key accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case claimed before court. It is reliably learnt that the report of Ajaykumar, DIG of prisons - south zone, found that no one had threatened Swapna in prison as was stated in her petition seeking increased security. The officer is understood to have quizzed Swapna on the matter, during which she claimed she did not say that someone threatened her inside prison and that she had only signed a statement drafted by her advocate. Ajaykumar also examined video footage to find out if anyone had visited Swapna by overlooking jail procedures. When news of the plea emerged on Tuesday, DGP (prisons & correctional services) Rishiraj Singh had ordered a probe to find out who had visited her in prison. The examination did not reveal anything suspicious, it is learnt. The prisons department had increased Swapna’s security two weeks ago. While the prison is guarded by armed police, the cell housing Swapna has round-the-clock CCTV coverage. There is even a woman guard outside her cell. In her plea before court, Swapna said that some persons, she would be able to identify, claiming to be prisons and police officials had visited her and warned her against disclosure of names of persons in high authority suspected to be involved in alleged criminal activities. She claimed that they had asked her not to cooperate with the investigation. Swapna said that she was threatened for several days prior to November 25 and now that her revelations before the judicial magistrate have come out in the open she is facing a threat to her life. Singh told reporters on Friday that the investigation was limited to Attakulangara women’s prison alone and a similar exercise has been ordered in other prisons, including Ernakulam district prison and Viyyur central prison, where Swapna was housed earlier. A comprehensive report will be submitted to the government on the basis of this probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-one-threatened-swapna-in-jail-says-probe-by-dig/articleshow/79685315.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||On POP eve, sound and light show held at IMA||Dehradun: On the eve of Passing Out Parade (POP), a “Son-et-Lumiere” (sound and light show) show, based on the theme — “Indian Military Academy Through the Ages” — was held at the academy on Friday. The show took the audience on a nostalgic journey of the academy from its inception in 1932 to the present date. The show — a fusion of action, lasers, light, shadows, fireworks — was attended by Lieutenant General SK Saini, vice-chief of the Army staff who is also the reviewing officer of the POP. The parents of the cadets, who will graduate, also attended the show, held at the sprawling Drill Square. “The sound and light show conducted at the IMA is one-of-its-kind in the armed forces in India. It is conducted in front of the famous Chetwode Building, covering a stage of more than 400 feet, and depicts the history of almost nine decades of Indian Military Academy. People witness and experience the saga of unparalleled discipline, bravado, camaraderie, and valour of the heroes trained and honed into military leaders at this prestigious institution. It reflects the academy’s rich heritage and its iconic legacy,” said Lt Col Himani Pant, public relations officer at IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/on-pop-eve-sound-and-light-show-held-at-ima/articleshow/79683729.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP cabinet nod to 14 medical colleges||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet on Friday approved the proposal for setting up of 14 new medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh. “Having 60 medical colleges in the state is a major achievement. It would strengthen medical education and provide manpower to hospitals, medical research institutes and other centres,” state medical education minister Suresh Khanna told TOI. Once functional, at least 45 districts in the state will have a government medical college. For the remaining, the state government is working out a public-private partnership model. “Under the Yogi Adityanath government, seven medical colleges have been completed while construction for eight others is on. The cabinet approved 14 new medical colleges today. Besides, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University has also been set up which would start giving affiliations to medical colleges soon,” he said. Khanna said every divisional headquarters would have a medical college soon and the government was planning to have one college in every district. “In the last four years, medical education has made huge strides with establishment of new laboraties and medical colleges,” he said. “There was a time when students used to go to South Indian states and pay huge donations for medical education but the trend has reversed. The brain drain and flight of capital has stopped. With robust medical education, research and analysis infrastructure, the state excelled in checking coronavirus pandemic,” he said. Officials said the colleges would be attached with existing district/referral hospitals (phase-3). As many as 28 colleges are proposed under the scheme of which 14 were approved in the first and second phases. The only proposal left for approval relates to Amethi. An official spokesperson said the state cabinet approved project cost and other requirements for establishment of the medical colleges. Details of the cost were worked out by the state public works department officials who reportedly made presentations during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cabinet-nod-to-14-medical-colleges/articleshow/79686949.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bhopal||Eye on Bengal, BJP reaches out to Bengalis in MP||Bhopal: Ahead of assembly elections in West Bengal, the BJP has kicked off a national campaign from Madhya Pradesh to reach out to Bengali families residing in the state to garner support under its ‘nationalism’ drive. As part of the campaign, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra called on Indira Bhaduri, mother of actor-politician Jaya Bachchan, and invited her to attend a convention of Bengali families in the state capital against the alleged ‘misrule’ of Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal. “BJP leader Tapan Bhowmik has convened a meeting of people from Bengal here. I met Indira Bhaduri and requested her to attend the programme if her health permits. There are 2.5 lakh Bengalis living in Madhya Pradesh, and about 35,000 in Bhopal. We will appeal to the people to associate with Modiji on the issue of nationalism and join the mainstream,” Mishra told TOI after the meeting. Bhaduri, 90, wife of well known writer-journalist Tarun Bhaduri, has been living in Bhopal for several decades. She shared a good rapport among Bengali families across the state and even in West Bengal. Her daughter Jaya, son-in-law Amitabh Bachchan and the rest of the family often visit her place once a year. Mishra said that Bhaduri keeps a good connection with the Bengali families in West Bengal too. Similar drives will be launched in all states, sources said. “Bengalis have a significant presence in many parts of MP. There are 37 Bengali villages near Betul. During the refugee crisis in the recent past, a large number of Bengalis were accommodated in MP. Even during the Covid-19 lockdown, a large number of migrant workers from Bengal, who were working in MP, were sent to their home state through special transport arrangements,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eye-on-bengal-bjp-reaches-out-to-bengalis-in-mp/articleshow/79685348.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Mixopathy’: Hyderabad doctors strike work||HYDERABAD: Doctors in government and private hospitals across the city boycotted duties on Friday in protest against the Centre’s move to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries in modern medicine. The protesting doctors termed the government’s move of merging Ayurveda with modern medicine as “mixopathy.” They also displayed posters reading ‘Roll Back AYUSH Bill on Mixopathy’ and ‘Say No To Mixopathy’. The junior doctors at Gandhi Hospital carried out a rally within the campus while PG students from the Osmania Medical College took out a rally till Jambagh. Protests were also held in the MNJ Cancer Hospital, Yashoda Hospital, Basavatarakam Cancer Hospital, Niloufer Hospital, Indian Medical Association office and a few private hospitals. The call for these protests, which were held across the country, was given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) against the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) notification allowing PG Ayurveda students to undergo training for 58 surgical procedures in general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology and dentistry. Though the decision was to shut down all out-patient services from 6 am to 6 pm, several hospitals resumed services after 3 pm. Yet, many patients were hit by the boycott. Rubina Begum (62), who was waiting outside Niloufer hospital said, “We came here from Warangal to get treatment for arthritis. I also brought my granddaughter, who is suffering from severe flu. We have a bus to catch in the evening and we will be in trouble if it takes too long here.” Similarly, another patient P Anjamma (54), who was waiting outside the outpatient ward of Gandhi Hospital in Secunderabad said, “My daughter is pregnant, and she has been feeling very weak. I hope it doesn’t take too long to see the doctor.” The emergency services, ICU, labour room and COVID-19 care services functioned as usual. Speaking to TOI, Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, the Telangana secretary of the IMA said, “Nearly 80 percent of all the hospitals in the city took part in the nationwide protest. Centre’s decision will endanger the health of the public as it assumes that short-term training will enable Ayurveda doctors to perform the surgeries, that modern medicine doctors perform after several years of intense practice and study.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mixopathy-city-docs-strike-work/articleshow/79686240.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: All Vidarbha districts except Nagpur see less than 100 cases||NAGPUR: The Covid curve of new cases is moving towards a sharp decline in Vidarbha. On Friday, ten districts barring Nagpur reported less than 100 new cases with 7 of them reporting less than 50 new cases. In all, 815 cases were reported from across the region. Nagpur alone accounted for 398 while all the other districts together reported 417. Remarkably, the number of Covid-19 tests remains almost equal to the post-Diwali number in every district. Decline in the number of new cases is a good sign. However, Covid deaths remain a cause for concern. After reporting less than 20 deaths in the last 2 days, Vidarbha once again reported 23 deaths on Friday. These include 11 from Nagpur. Out of these, four are from Nagpur city, three from rural and four are patients who came from outstation/states in critical condition and died the same day on Friday. Wardha, Gondia, Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Amravati reported two deaths each, while Gadchiroli and Buldhana recorded one death each on Friday. The death toll is now 6,270. The case fatality rate of Vidarbha is 2.64%, higher than the state and national average. Recoveries were higher than new cases on Friday. The difference, however, was marginal (13). In all, 828 patients recovered against 815 new cases. The region now has 2,20,338 recovered out of the 2,37,195 total cases. Recovery rate is slowly showing improvement and moving towards the 93% mark. But, it’s less than the state and national average. Akola: The district received 1,546 reports of tests out of which 1,463 were of RT-PCR. Collectively, 54 tested positive in the last 24 hours. Nine patients recovered and got discharged. No death was reported. The district now has 9,824 cases, 8798 recoveries, 301 deaths and 725 patients under treatment. The number of patients under treatment surpassed the 700 mark after almost two weeks. Gondia: The district reported 39 cases while 58 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. Two infected patients, aged 32 and 82, breathed their last in Gondia. It is noteworthy that out of the 39 new cases, 28 are from Gondia tehsil alone. The district now has 12,994 cases, 12,438 recoveries and 170 deaths. Total 386 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The number of under-treatment patients again surpassed 600 as more cases are being reported than recoveries since the past two days. On Friday, 65 new cases were reported while 52 recovered. This took the total number of cases to 11,435 while recoveries touched 10,558. Recovery rate is still 92.33%. Now, Bhandara has 607 patients under treatment. The death toll remained unchanged at 270. Buldhana: Death of a 72-year-old man from Buldhana city took the district toll to 142 on Friday. Buldhana reported 17 new cases. The district also saw 33 patients recovering. Now, the district has 11,735 cases, 11,305 recoveries and 288 patients under treatment. Washim: The district reported 28 new cases on Friday, the highest for Washim in the last 7 days. On the other hand, 14 patients recovered which took Washim’s recovery count above 6,000. The district now has 6,346 cases, 6,013 recoveries, 148 deaths and 185 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: An 85-year-old man from Sironcha died on Friday taking the district’s toll to 91. Total 50 new patients were detected while 42 recovered. The district now has 8,470 total cases and 7,958 of them have been recovered already. The recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 94%. Total 425 patients are under treatment. Wardha: Two men, (73 and 58) from the city died due to Covid-19 during treatment on Friday, taking the district’s toll to 261. The caseload reached 8,329 after detection of 36 new cases while 61 were discharged, taking the recoveries to 7,767. Of the 782 test reports received on Friday, 21 men and 15 women tested positive. New cases were reported from Wardha (27), Deoli (5), Hinganghat (2), Karanja and Samudrapur (one each). Active positive patients in the district are 301. Amravati: For the second successive day, the district reported two deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 389. An 85-year-old man from Narhari Nagar and a 54-year-old person from Rajur Colony lost their battle to the virus. The day also saw 45 new cases that took the caseload to 18,467. From 101 on Thursday, the recoveries plummeted to 30 on Friday, taking the total to 17,623, for recovery rate of 95.43%. Now, there are 455 active cases in the district. Meanwhile, collector Shailesh Naval on Friday constituted a district-level task force for the proposed Covid vaccination programme. Yavatmal: The district reported two deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 382. Both the deceased, a 52-year-old man and a 68-year-old woman, were from the city. Of the 390 test reports received on Friday, 32 came positive. The district caseload is 11,880 while recoveries reached 11,221 after discharge to 43 patients on Friday, leaving 280 under treatment. Chandrapur: With detection of 51 cases, the Covid count of district reached 21,180 on Friday. The day also saw 162 patients getting discharge, taking recoveries to 19,843. Now, 1,005 patients are under treatment. Two deaths on Friday took the toll to 332.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-vidarbha-districts-except-nagpur-see-less-than-100-cases/articleshow/79686230.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘SIR to be country’s best industrial city’||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani e-dedicated the newly constructed administrative complex of Mandal-Becharaji Special Investment Region (SIR) on Friday and said that the SIR will be developed as the country’s premier industrial city. The new administrative complex of the SIR has been constructed at Hansalpur at a cost of Rs 5.44 crore. Speaking at the occasion, the CM said that state-of-the-art facilities are being created at the SIR, which will be ideal for companies which are looking to relocate their operations from China and other places to India. He added that the automobile hub is also playing a big role in the `One District, One Product’ programme of the government. The SIR covers eight villages of Ahmedabad district and one village of Mehsana district. Rupani said that all infrastructural facilities at the SIR will be made available at a cost of Rs 200 crore. He added that PM Modi envisaged and set up the SIR in 2012, which has now developed into an automobile hub, where multinational companies have set up operations. The CM said that Gujarat has garnered 52% of all the FDI inflow in the city, and the state government is working towards developing the ‘one district, one product’ model through the GIDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sir-to-be-countrys-best-industrial-city/articleshow/79686247.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian-American with roots in Telangana in Nasa moon mission team||HYDERABAD: Four years from now, an Indian-American with family roots in Telangana’s Mahbubnagar district may well be walking on the moon. The United States’ National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) has announced Raja Jon Vurputoor Chari’s name in the 18-member ‘Artemis’ team selected for the ambitious lunar exploration programme. Chari would be the third Indian-American in space after Kalpana Chawla in 1997 and Sunita Williams in 2006. He was among those chosen from 18,000 applicants in 2017 when the NASA announced the Artemis programme. “Meet Raja Chari, an initial member of the Nasa’s Artemis team who will help pave the way for the next human missions on and around the moon,” Nasa Aeronautics said in an announcement about Raja Chari on Twitter. Chari’s father Srinivas Chari, who hails from Mahbubnagar, migrated to the US after completing his education in Osmania University in Hyderabad. While pursuing higher studies in the US in the 1950s, he got married to Peggy Egbert. The fact that Srinivas Chari realised his own dreams of pursuing higher studies in the US and worked in a job he liked for 32 years seemed to have influenced Raja Chari to dream big. Srinivas passed away in 2010. “There was focus throughout my childhood on education. That you really needed to do well to succeed,” Chari, who was born in 1977 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, told a news agency. Chari and his wife Holly have three children. Chari, who has 2,000 hours of flight time with the US Air Force, is excited about having been selected to be part of the mission. “Proud to be a small part of the big team working to get humans to the moon to stay,” the 43-year-old astronaut tweeted. Under the Artemis programme, NASA will land the first woman and next man on the moon by 2024. Speaking about his life and journey to becoming an astronaut, Chari said: “This is actually not a dream. This is actually happening. If I ask my mom, she definitely has memories of me as a child talking about being an astronaut. I always knew I wanted to do something related to aviation. I have been blessed to have the support of my family.” In a video shared by Nasa Aeronautics, he said: “But at the same time, I think I also started to tell myself it wasn’t really possible because it was just something they’ll get let down from.” A colonel in the US Air Force, joined the astronaut corps in 2017. He received a bachelor’s degree in astronautical engineering and a master’s degree in aeronautics and astronautics. A graduate of the US Naval Test Pilot School, he worked on F-15E upgrades and then the F-35 development programme before joining the NASA programme. He was among 11 new Nasa graduates who successfully completed their over two years basic astronaut training in January 2020. Chari was awarded the Defence Meritorious Service Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal, the Aerial Achievement Medal, the Air Force Commendation Medal, the Air Force Achievement Medal, an Iraq Campaign Medal, a Korean Defence Service Medal and the Nuclear Deterrence Operations Service Medal, among others. US Vice-President Mike Pence announced the names of the 18 members selected for the Artemis programme at NASA’s Kennedy Space Centre in Florida on Wednesday. “I give you the heroes who will carry us to the moon and beyond – the Artemis Generation,” Pence said, while announcing the names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-american-with-roots-in-t-in-nasa-moon-mission-team/articleshow/79688055.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Miscreants damage corporator’s vehicle||HYDERABAD: Miscreants damaged the windshield of BN Reddy Nagar corporator M Lachi Reddy’s car on Thursday night.  The incident happened at around 9.30 pm at Reddy’s house located on road number 4 of Harihara Puram Colony. The corporator’s Fortuner was parked on the lane in front of his house. Unknown people hurled bricks on the rear windshield, Vanasthalipuram SI K Venkat Reddy said.  As the offense was non-cognizable, police sought permission from the court and registered a case under section 427 (mischief and there by causing damage to property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on Friday. Police are yet to identify the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/miscreants-damage-corporators-vehicle/articleshow/79686245.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Man-eater continues to elude traps, drones||KOLHAPUR: There is no Jim Corbett chasing the man-eater of Rudraprayag, but many foresters skilled in transquilising wild animals have been looking for an elusive leopard that has evoked terror in four districts of Maharashtra over the past three weeks. The leopard has already killed nine people and injured five others. In the latest case, the leopard had tried to attack a woman in Sangvi village of Karmala in Solapur district on Thursday. Forest officials have already set up camera traps and are using drones to try and spot the leopard, but it has managed to elude them. Recently, the wildlife department allowed the foresters to shoot and kill the leopard if efforts to catch it alive fail. Now it is ready to even hire helicopters to track the animal. On Friday morning, Solapur district guardian minister Datta Bharne met villagers of Anjangaon, where a woman had died in a leopard attack last week. “The government would use a helicopter to track the man-eater if the existing methods and equipment fail,” Bharne assured the villagers. The forest department has launched a massive operation. Teams of foresters are tracing the leopard’s paw prints to track its movement. They are also using drones to try and spot the leopard that can easily hide in the thick sugar cane and jowar fields. Even sniffer dogs were sent on its scent-trail to identify the possible routes being used by the leopard. After establishing that the leopard is indeed a man-eater, the office of the principal chief conservator of forest has granted permission to kill the animal if all efforts to catch it failed. Late in the evening on Thursday, the leopard attacked a 30-year-old woman Manisha Mohan Patil in Sangvi village of Karmala tehsil while she was working in the field with her husband and father-in-law. Forest officials said that the leopard suddenly came out of the cane field and pounced at her. The woman shouted for help and her husband, who was a few feet away, threw stones at the animal. The animal tried to attack the woman twice, but her husband continued to throw stones at it, forcing the leopard to withdraw. The woman was unhurt in the attack. The forest officials confirmed it was the same leopard, that was involved in earlier attacks. Forest officials had earlier thought that the leopard had moved out of Karmala tehsil, but the latest attack shows that it is still in the same region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-eater-continues-to-elude-traps-drones/articleshow/79684344.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||New directorate for religious sites tourism in UP soon||LUCKNOW: The cabinet on Friday approved of a proposal to set up a directorate under the religious affairs department. The decision was taken, said minister for religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari, since the government has taken up the work of maintaining and promoting religious sites, and linking them with tourism, in a big way and was facing administrative challenges in implementing these programmes. The headquarters of the new directorate will be located in Varanasi under the Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Council while the sub-office will be set up in the Kailash Mansarovar office building in Ghaziabad. A government spokesperson said that in the past three and a half years, the government had worked towards giving a distinct recognition to religious places and provide conveniences to devotees. Facilities for devotees are being improved in Varanasi, Ayodhya, Mathura-Vrindavan, Vindhyavasini Dham and other pilgrimage sites, he said, adding that the pace of work had picked up under the current government. The Religious Affairs Department was set up in 1985. “Since there was no directorate, the government was facing administrative problems in implementing schemes and programmes. The department is responsible for implementing various schemes pertaining to maintenance of the state’s cultural, historical and architectural important buildings, and infrastructure development in and around such sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-directorate-for-religious-sites-tourism-in-up-soon/articleshow/79686966.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||ACB seizes Rs 10 lakh unaccounted cash from HMDA official||HYDERABAD: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths conducted surprise checks at the office of a deputy conservator of forests, Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) in Nanakramguda and seized Rs 10.5 lakh unaccounted cash and Rs 19,800 found in his car. Another team, which searched his flat in Dulapally found Rs 5.1 lakh cash and documents of two properties located in the city and Khammam. The value of the flat in Dulapally is Rs 38 lakh while the building in Khammam is estimated to be around Rs 1.1 crore. The Anti Corruption Bureau conducted raid after it received information about corrupt practices of deputy conservator I Prakash.  “Prakash supervises the green space improvement work which involves monitoring the plantation of trees and their maintenance. These works are assigned to private contractors. We received information that Prakash demands money from the contractors to clear their bills,” an Anti Corruption Bureau official said. The Anti Corruption Bureau conducted raid after it received information about corrupt practices of deputy conservator I Prakash||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-seizes-rs-10l-unaccounted-cash-from-hmda-official/articleshow/79686254.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Steroids racket busted, two held in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Habeeb Nagar police along with Task Force team and Drug Control Authority staff busted a racket of illegal sale of anabolic steroids. The sleuths raided a store in Vijaynagar Colony and a house at Afzal Sagar in Habeeb Nagar and arrested Mohammed Zubair (32), a fitness trainer, and his brother, Mohammed Mustafa (21), an employee in A1 Supplements Store. Police seized Rs 14 lakh worth steroids and Rs 3,500 cash from their possession. “Zubair who participated in Mr India, Mr World and other championships confessed that he gained enough knowledge about diet supplements and steroids and decided to sell anabolic steroids in Hyderabad for profit. Steroids cause damage to kidneys, liver and heart,” Task force DCP P Radhakishan Rao said. Zubair and Mustafa have been procuring steroids from Rahul of Punjab and Vijay of Delhi. The accused have been handed over to drug inspector, Mehdipatnam circle, for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/steroids-racket-busted-two-held/articleshow/79686249.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore loses its ‘gear man’||Coimbatore: Founder of Shanthi Gears and the company’s philanthropic wing Shanthi Social Service P Subramaniam died in the early hours of Friday in a city hospital.Subramaniam, 79, was undergoing treatment for throat cancer and was hospitalised for the past few days. He is survived by three daughters.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said he was saddened by the loss of a person who committed himself to serving the society till the end, while leader of the opposition MK Stalin in a Facebook post praised Subramaniam’s philanthropic work.Subramaniam also known as `Gear Man of Coimbatore`, founded Shanti Gears in 1972, prior to which he made small gear assemblies for textile machinery and dabbled in teaching too. The company was sold to Tube Investments, part of the Murugappa Group that took over the company in 2012. Post that, he was active in social work under Shanthi Social Service (SSS). The unit provided medical consultations at Rs 30 at SSS’s medical centre and food items for Rs 5.The Trust runs a canteen, petrol bunk, crematorium, ambulance and a full-fledged pharmacy selling branded medicines at subsidized rates. Despite his illustrious work in industry and philanthropy, Subramanian maintained a low profile.“He would come wearing the uniform, but he had rules that no employee should wish him when he visits or stop working to greet him. He always insisted that he got his picture only twice—for his driving license and then on his wedding day,” recalled Dr R Ramasamy, a laparoscopic surgeon who worked with Subramanyam for nearly a decade. He never wanted SSS to be associated with his face or name and till today the website does not have his name or picture.SSS was clear that it “does not solicit, request or accept any donation”. “He is a role model,” said Kovai Kulangal Pathukappu Amaippu founder R Manikandan. ``Recently I underwent a medical scan which cost Rs 3,000, half of what is charged elsewhere,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coimbatore-loses-its-gear-man/articleshow/79687040.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Tehsildars get power of assistant collector||LUCKNOW: To allow the government to take swift action against encroached gram sabha land, the cabinet on Friday gave tehsildars and tehsildars (judicial) the power of the assistant collector. The decision will help in resolving matters of illegal occupation of land under gram sabhas, said a government spokesperson, adding that after freeing land from illegal occupation, it can be put to public use. The cabinet cleared a proposal to expand the area of the Ayodhya Development Area. It will now include nagar nigam Ayodhya, nagar panchayat Bhadarsa, nagar palika parishad Nawabganj from district Gonda, and 154 revenue villages from district Ayodhya, 63 from Gonda district and 126 from Basti district.  CM Yogi Adityanath had announced the construction of a road from Haridwar to Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tehsildars-get-power-of-asst-collector/articleshow/79687011.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bhavnagar techie held by ED in Chinese betting apps case||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested a cryptocurrency operator in the Chinese betting apps case for transferring money abroad from Chinese companies in the form of USDT (Tether), a blockchain-based cryptocurrency. Accused Naisar Kothari is a 26-year-old techie from Bhavnagar who carried out Rs 14 crore transactions. He was booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). ED PMLA court in Hyderabad granted custody of the accused to the ED for questioning from December 13 to 22. The ED said the online betting scam and hawala transactions involved Rs 1,100 crore transactions. ED said in a note: “Login credentials and dongles for HSBC Bank accounts and payment aggregators such as Paytm, Cashfree and Razorpay were shipped to China and operated from there.” “The money trail has revealed that a large amount of money was being transferred to cryptocurrency traders based in Bhavnagar, Gujarat,” ED said. Kothari ransferred them to unknown wallets on foreign exchanges. Investigation revealed that Kothari began transactions from 2016 and was involved in cryptocurrency trading since then. Sources in the ED said that the destination of transferred cryptocurrency would be Hong Kong or China. The ED began a probe under PMLA against two Chinese companies — Linkyun Technology Private Limited and Dokypay Pvt Ltd — based on an FIR lodged by Hyderabad central crime station (CCS) sleuths. A victim, who had lost money by investing in a betting app, filed a complaint with CCS. The ED investigation had revealed that apart from providing payment aggregator re-seller services to banned apps in India, the Chinese-owned companies were indulging in international hawala and illegal activities. Three persons, including a Chinese national, were arrested earlier in this case and a chargesheet has been filed against them in the PMLA court. The ED issued summons to Binance, a cryptocurrency exchange that provides a platform for trading various cryptocurrencies, in the case. The ED had arrested Chinese national identified as Yan Hao and two accused — Dhiraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor — on September 15 in connection with the money laundering case. ED had earlier frozen Rs 47 crore held in four accounts in HSBC Bank. It identified 94 websites and apps of Chinese links resorting to online betting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhavnagar-techie-held-by-ed-in-chinese-betting-apps-case/articleshow/79688075.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 12, 2020||Bhopal||‘Oil wells’ recovered from MP's Chhatarpur factories||BHOPAL: While it might be tough to find natural sources of oil in Madhya Pradesh, a probe into factories in Chhatarpur has unearthed “oil wells” on factory premises. The discovery was the result of a three-day investigation by a joint team of police and district administration on two building premises in Chhatarpur where edible oil factories were being run “anonymously”. Outside the buildings, there was no sign board or display of the company’s name. But inside the buildings, there was huge quantities of edible oil stored in wells. Packaging machines, labels of different companies, packaging material and empty bottles and canisters were also recovered. The oil was stored in about 30-foot-deep wells dug inside the building. They were almost 12 feet wide. The oil was being pumped to a machine which was packaging it in packets and bottles. Sanjay Sharma, the tehsildar who had led the raid, said, “The whole business was being done in a suspicious manner. Company’s name was not displayed, there was no license or registration number displayed outside.” He added, “The source of oil purchase or supply is unknown. This is a case of forgery also as the oil was being packaged with different brand names. We are also working on checking the purity of the oil.” The tehsildar said 15,000 litres of oil was recovered from the two premises in the busy Kotwali area of Chhatarpur where the business activities were being run by Ram Kumar Agrawal and Ramesh Agrawal. He said Ramkumar Agrawal was present at his factory and told officials that the oil was being purchased from factories and then packed in Chhatarpur. But Ramesh Agrawal never appeared despite repeated phone calls. “His factory was also found locked when we reached the spot and there was no worker, guard or any other staff member present on the spot,” Sharma said. He added, “We suspect an illegal trade of adulterated oil. The purity of the oil is yet to be confirmed and we have sent the samples for purity tests.” Sharma also said that a case of forgery was also being registered as the traders were not able to explain the reasons behind the multi-brand packaging of the same oil. Later on Friday, Ramesh Agrawal told local reporters, “I have all the legal documents of my company. The oil wells were made for storage of the commodity.” He said there was nothing wrong in the business. Agrawal said that he was busy looking after her mother who has undergone a kidney operation. “The administration should have taken this action in my presence,” he said. However, he did not disclose his location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/oil-wells-recovered-from-chhatarpur-factories/articleshow/79685403.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP to purchase solar power from farmers||LUCKNOW: The state government would set up four sub-stations which would purchase solar power produced by farmers on their barren land. This was announced by state energy minister Shrikant Sharma while addressing a seminar on development of east UP, organised by DDU Gorakhpur University on Friday. Sharma said farmers would be able to sell power to Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited after using a part of it to meet their requirements under the PM Kisan Urja Suraksha Evem Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM-KUSUM) scheme. The minister said that of the 8,000 solar powered irrigation pumps, 2,882 have been allocated to east UP. The minister said that UP cannot progress without the development of east UP and for this availability of adequate power plays a key role. He said the state government is working towards increasing non-conventional energy from the existing 6% to 20% of the total energy availability by 2021. Sharma said that providing uninterrupted power supply is the key goal of the state government. He said the department was able to meet the power requirement even during the pandemic. In a veiled attack on the opposition, Sharma said earlier villagers had to collect funds through contribution for getting a dysfunctional transformer repaired, but that is no longer the case. “Now, power department teams get active immediately on receiving information of a power outage,” he claimed, while maintaining that performance of power department played an important role in UP getting second rank in the ease of doing business survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-purchase-solar-power-from-farmers/articleshow/79687038.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kochi||Kim Ki-duk achieved a cult status in Kerala||Kochi: To understand how deeply the film buffs in the state loved South Korean filmmaker Kim Ki-duk, known for his unsettling art-house movies with graphically violent and deeply sexualized imageries, one needs to log on to YouTube and watch a 30-minute short directed by a bunch of youngsters from the interiors of Idukki. The film titled ‘Dear Kim Ki-duk’, directed by Binukumar, shows three youngsters of Nedunkandam, who dream about procuring his films and making their own, even as they shovel away cow dung from a ditch. In the end, the trio seeks the help of a net cafe owner to send an email to duk, paying Rs 60, in the hope that the filmmaker would send them his films, but gets duped in the process. Kim Ki-duk, who died of Covid-19 related complications in Latvia, may have never watched the film but he did send out a missive to flood-hit Kerala in September 2018, expressing his solidarity and appealing against the move to cancel the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK). The hand-scribbled note in Korean was posted on the Facebook by filmmaker Bijukumar Damodaran, who had met him at Almaty film festival in Khazhakstan. The filmmaker, who had a cult following in Kerala till allegations of sexual abuse took away the sheen in 2017, arrived as a chief guest for the IFFK in 2013 and was taken aback by the mobbing fans. “His films had a straight narrative. There was no intellectual pretense but the visual imagery was strong,” said Dr Biju. Many in the state who were hooked by his 2003 film ‘Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter... and Spring’ found later films too morbid. “I watched the film Human, Space, Time and Human along with him at a film festival and did not like it,” added Dr Biju. Critic C S Venkiteswaran said there is total moral darkness in his works. “The film Bad Guy is unbelievably dark. There is no redemption at all. There is an obsession with morbid violence, which makes them unwatchable,” said Venkiteswaran, who never understood why Kerala film goers raved for him. “It’s quite amusing. Maybe it was because the films portrayed explicit violence and sexuality in a way that could never be portrayed in films here, something a lot of people have fascination for,” said Venkiteswaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kim-ki-duk-achieved-a-cult-status-in-kerala/articleshow/79685402.cms||Binu Karunakaran
December 12, 2020||Pune||Rupee bank depositors move HC, seek money back||Pune: A group of Rupee Cooperative Bank depositors have filed a civil writ petition with the Bombay high court, seeking release of their deposits and action action against the current administrators of the bank. The petitioners said they had filed the suit on behalf of over 6 lakh depositors of the bank who are facing hardships due to the withdrawal restrictions imposed on Rupee bank by the RBI. “Our troubles have been going on since 2013, and many of the depositors are not being able to access their savings even to buy daily essentials. Our inconveniences have gone up due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Therefore, we have asked the court to at least provide us 90% of the amount with 7% interest since 2013,” said Dhananjay Khanzode, one of the depositors filing the suit. He also raised questions over the board of administrator’ intention behind the proposed merger with the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank (MSCB), which is pending approval. The administrator of the bank, Sudhir Pandit, rejected the allegations and said: “We judge all proposals fairly and in a manner which benefits the interests of the depositors. The RBI is the final authority in deciding the merger, and we await the decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rupee-bank-depositors-move-hc-seek-money-back/articleshow/79669357.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Osman Nagar to be drained in week: Officials||HYDERABAD: Two day after residents of Osman Nagar complained against authorities for not doing enough to clear flood waters from their colony, officials said work was in full swing to remove the accumulated water. “Incessant rains from October 13 to October 22 resulted in the Burhan Khan cheruvu reaching full tank level and submerging downstream areas,’’ said Jalpally municipality commissioner G Praveen Kumar. The executive engineer of irrigation department had visited the flooded area and suggested the opening of a sluice. However, officials said if the sluice was opened, downstream areas including Venkatapur, Royal Colony, Nabil Colony, Green city and Dream city would be affected. “Only way to remove water is with pressure pumps,’’ said Kumar. Abdullah Bin Ahmed Saadi, chairman Jalpally municipality, said 70 per cent work had been done and 156 houses would benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/osman-nagar-to-be-drained-in-week-officials/articleshow/79686256.cms||Omar bin Taher
December 12, 2020||Bhopal||Ahead of civic polls in Madhya Pradesh, two Congress ex-MLAs join BJP||BHOPAL: Ahead of civic polls in Madhya Pradesh, Congress suffered a major setback after former MLAs Pratap Singh Mandloi from Rajgarh (Biaora) and Ajay Chaure from Sausar in Chhindwara district joined the BJP in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday. Mandloi was considered as a staunch loyalist of former chief minister Digvijaya Singh while Choure was close to former chief minister Kamal Nath. Chaure's father Revanath Chaure was also a minister in the erstwhile Congress government led by the-then chief minister Arjun Singh. BJP state president VD Sharma and joint general secretary Hitanand were also present during the occasion. “Ajay Chaure, former MLA of Saunsar assembly in Chhindwara has taken membership. Chaure decided to be a part of BJP for the development and progress of the state and against the anti-people policies of the Congress. I also welcome Pratap Mandloi to the BJP family. Together, we will work for the progress, growth and welfare of Madhya Pradesh and realise the dream of atmanirbhar MP,” tweeted Chouhan on Friday. Sources disclosed that Chaure family had a major sway in Saunsar assembly of Chhindwara district, the stronghold of former chief minister Kamal Nath, who was expected to reach Chhindwara on Saturday. They were considered close to Kamal Nath. Chaure was elected from the constituency as Congress MLA in 1998. The Congress also suffered a major jolt in Rajgarh district when Pratap Singh Mandloi, an MLA from Rajgarh in 1998, quit the old party to join BJP. Mandloi was Digvijaya Singh loyalists and was known for his clout among the Saundhia community, who hold major sway in the state politics. In 1993, when Congress had denied ticket to Mandloi, he contested the assembly election as an Independent candidate which resulted into the defeat of Congress candidate and Scindia supporter Kusumkant Mittal. Later, Digvijaya Singh offered him the party ticket in 1998. “I have joined the BJP for the development of my area. I will work with dedication whatever responsibility the party assigns to me,” said Mandloi. Congress alleged that BJP is luring their leaders ahead of civic elections in the state. “BJP is still luring Congress leaders on the basis of big post and position ahead of civic elections. But, more surprising is Chaure joining the BJP because Congress has given everything to Chaure family in Chhindwara which cannot be returned,” said Congress state spokesperson, K K Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ahead-of-civic-polls-two-cong-ex-mlas-join-bjp/articleshow/79685428.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth slit own throat in Maharashtra's Paithan temple: Police||AURANGABAD: A 25-year-old man was found dead with his throat slit open at the Mahadev temple in Paithan town, about 60 km from here, on Thursday. The police on Friday said the youth’s fatal injuries were self-inflicted, possibly as part of Aghori practices. A case of accidental death has been registered with the Paithan police of Aurangabad rural. The deceased has been identified as Nandu Ghungase, a fisherman from the Kaharwad village. Assistant superintendent of police Gorakh Bhamre told TOI: “We have four eyewitnesses unanimously stating that they had seen the youth slitting his own throat and pouring blood on the shivaling in the temple.” Citing the findings of the preliminary probe, Bhamre said the youth used to sit in the temple every day for hours and was involved in Aghori practices. “One of the eyewitnesses said that before they could even react, the youth had slit his throat and had started pouring blood on the shivaling. However, fearing that they might be questioned by the police or even blamed for the youth’s deaths, the eyewitnesses did not report the incident,” said a policeman who was amongst the first to reach the spot. Though the eyewitnesses were initially reluctant to come forwards, later, one of them revealed the details. His claims were cross-checked with the others and were found to be true. The eyewitnesses’ claims also supported the description of the cutter used by Ghungase and the hand he used to slit his own throat. The incident took place at a temple near the Siddhi Ali dargah at Gagabhatt Chowk in Paithan town. One Bihari Pardeshi, who had gone to the temple to offer prayers, had found the body on Thursday and had raised an alarm, attracting the attention of passersby. The police were soon informed and the youth’s body was taken to a hospital, where he was formally declared “brought dead”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-slit-own-throat-in-paithan-temple-police/articleshow/79684377.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||No clarity over pre-boards; schools decide to go their own way||HYDERABAD: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) might have decided to conduct all board exams offline this academic year, but there still appears to be no clarity over the fate of pre-boards in city schools. Result: Every school has decided to go their own way. While some have taken the virtual route, others are contemplating a pen and paper test at school — in the third week of December — but only if the state government gives a go-ahead. “We virtually conducted the first pre-board last month but realised it is very difficult to gauge a student's level of preparation through this system,” said Minu Salooja, principal of Glendale Academy that’s now planning to take the test offline. “If the government permits, we will have in-person pre-boards this month. If it doesn’t, we will concentrate on revisions. Virtual examinations don’t serve the purpose,” she said. Usually, most schools conduct two pre-boards before class 10 and 12 board exams. Despite challenges, some have decided to stick to online tests and even designed indigenous platforms to make them fair. Chirec International School, for instance, have asked students to use two devices – a laptop in front to read the question paper and a mobile phone camera behind for the invigilator to keep a watch on the sitting area. Additionally, parents have been asked to stand guard. “The laptop will be kept at a two-arm distance so that the camera captures the table on which the student is writing. We will run the answer sheets through Turnitin to check for plagiarism and unethical practices,” said Iffat Ibrahim, the principal. Going online are pre-boards at Oakridge International School, Gachibowli, that’ll be conducted through their own home-learning platform. “Students can download the question paper using a code at a specific time. Once they are done, the paper can be uploaded on the platform for correction. Teachers can download the scanned papers and assess them,” said Hema Chennupaty, the principal. Unsure of the virtual route, majority schools in town, however, are looking to the government for clarity. Though they are mulling various options — including arranging the exams in small batches — the plans will be firmed up only post clearance from authorities. “Currently, we are calling students in batches of 50 for practicals. Since CBSE has clarified that the board exams will be held offline, we are awaiting Telangana government’s nod to call students back to school and conduct in-person exams,” said Narasimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur. At P Obul Reddy Public School too, principal Lata Shankar said the plan is to hold exams in school, albeit with only 10 to 15 students at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-clarity-over-pre-boards-schools-decide-to-go-their-own-way/articleshow/79687074.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Mother smashed son’s head, burnt him with ghee & spices: West Bengal cops||KOLKATA: Geeta Mahensaria, in a tantrik ritual, allegedly smashed the head of her eldest son, Arjun (25), with a grindstone and then roasted his body with spices and camphor in a big kadai before dumping the skeleton on the terrace of their Salt Lake home. These are the grizzly details that stumbled out as cops launched an investigation into the missing person’s diary that businessman Anil Mahensaria—Geeta’s estranged husband—lodged when he could not contact Arjun for a while. Cops from the Bidhannagar East police station on Thursday evening discovered the semi-charred skeletal remains of an adult male at the Mahensarias’ two-storey house at AJ Block. Sleuths probing the case suspected the skeleton to be that of Arjun. Geeta, and her younger son, Vidur (22), were arrested late on Thursday and produced in a Salt Lake court on Friday. While submitting a prayer for the mother and son’s police custody, state counsel Sabir Ali said police found a big kadai at AJ 226 and burn marks on the first-floor prayer room, where they suspected the victim was set on fire, before his skeletons were wrapped in a towel and dragged up to the terrace. An officer added they found a blood-stained grindstone, which they suspected was used to kill the victim after which he was roasted in the kadai. “Geeta confessed that Arjun’s body was put in the kadai. Ghee, camphor and spices were added to camouflage the smell of burnt flesh,” said an officer. She, however, reportedly refuted she had a hand in the death and refused to divulge the motive behind the murder. A case has been registered under sections IPC 302 (murder), 364 (kidnapping), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention). “We have asked the daughter, Vaidehi, to appear before us. We have to question her,” he said. Anil told TOI when he could not contact Arjun, he suspected he had died in a tantric sacrifice by Geeta. “She had started practising tantra, which soured our relationship. I left the house in 2019. My elder son suffered from multiple ailments related to heart, food pipe and neurological disorder. I suspect she must have practised some tantra and sacrificed him,” Anil said. Arjun, he added, used to look after their business and attended their Wood Street office two to three times a week before lockdown. But of late, he hadn’t been to the office, a peon told TOI. About any financial motive that could have led to the killing, Anil said, “Ours is a well-to-do family. There are two cars, a big house and loads of jewellery. My younger son studied in Ooty. My daughter has been getting the best of education. I don’t think there was any financial stress.” The counsel appearing for the mother-son duo didn’t seek their bail but instead, sought a mental health check-up while in police custody. “Whatever submission the cops have made, it seems like the woman and the son are not in the right frame of mind, having killed someone and then fry him at home. They should undergo a medical check-up,” said lawyer Zakir Hussain. He added police should probe how Arjun died, whether the skeleton was indeed his and the legal battle between Anil and Geeta. “Geeta was allegedly pushed to attempt suicide in 2005,” he claimed. Cops said they were sending skeleton samples for DNA test to confirm the identity. “We are also awaiting a forensic report for the age of the skeleton and how the person died,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mom-smashed-salt-lake-youths-head-burnt-him-with-ghee-spices-cops/articleshow/79686279.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 12, 2020||Pune||Goel Ganga reports Rs 200 crore sales in Q3||PUNE: City-based developer Goel Ganga reported sales to the tunes of Rs 200 crore — as well as 200 bookings — from its luxury apartment projects in Kharadi in the third quarter of the 2020-21 financial year. In a statement, the developer said this was a sign of the real estate sector shrugging off the adverse effects of the pandemic. The developer further said various stimulus packages, both by the Centre and the state government, helped push up sales in the sector. Goel Ganga currently has 12 ongoing projects across Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/goel-ganga-reports-rs-200cr-sales-in-q3/articleshow/79686260.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris to tread organic path||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya launched an indigenous tree planting drive at the botanical garden in Ooty on Friday to mark the International Mountain Day. Agada Foundation will sponsor 3,000 tree saplings for the drive and they will be planted in villages across the district. “It is to create awareness among the villagers about the indigenous trees,” said Divya, who also unveiled the mobile app ‘Organic Nilgiris on the day. She said they were determined to make the Nilgiris a total organic district. “The app will support the farmers who are already into organic farming and the ones interested in the same with the information on supply of seeds and organic fertilizers, among others. They can also get their doubts clarified by experts, besides accessing YouTube videos on organic farming.” Pointing out that they were targeting farmers cultivating tea, vegetables and spices, Divya said the district would go total organic in another two years. Four farmers were awarded a cash prize of Rs 10 000 each and certificates on the occasion for the best organic farming practises. A farmer producers’ group was awarded Rs 20, 000. More than 4,800 farmers are practising organic farming in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-to-tread-organic-path/articleshow/79686262.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||5th booster dose: UP to give free vegetable seeds to farmers||LUCKNOW: After harnessing PM Kisan scheme for 2.16crore farmers, announcing direct purchase of 1.5 times more crop, slashing mandi tax and sending a stinker to mandis to pay farmers within 72 hours, the UP government has now decided to provide vegetable seeds for free to double farmers’ income. The fresh announcement was made in Gorakhpur by state agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi at a workshop on development of Purvanchal on Friday. The fifth tranche of farm welfare measures within weeks comes amidst a raging standoff between the Centre and the farmer unions over new farm laws. In fact, Shahi maintained farm produce organisations (FPOs) and new farm laws were in the interest of farmers. Shahi said, gardening and vegetable farming can help farmers double their farm income. “While food grain crop takes six month, the vegetable crop is ready in two to three months,” he said, stressing on technique to help farmers earn more. The minister said, farmers are lagging in absence of technology use and information dissemination. “Differential and multi-cropping is the demand of time and gardening can play a key role,” he said. The state agriculture minister said, the state government was working on developing the farm sector. He said, the state government was working to establish a potato research institute modelled around the rice research centre in Philippines. The minister cited government’s step to open Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) in every district of the state and allocated Rs 300 crore for KVKs and other agricultural institutes. Shahi said, the state government was also providing adequate insurance cover for crops at a mere 5% premium. Also, the mandi tax has been reduced from two to one per cent, he said. Citing rebates in agricultural activity, Shahi said, the state government was providing a grant up to 90% for setting up sprinklers under the ‘per-drop more-crop’ scheme. “This would not only save water, but also help in raising agricultural productivity,” he said, exhorting scientists to come forward in raising seed quality. Shahi said, the state aspires to better the quality of Dussheri mango for raising exports. “The state government has already constructed mango pack house for Rs 9.5 crore each in Varanasi and Amroha. In fact, 2,000 quintal mangoes were exported during the pandemic. Additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi said, agriculture was the only operating sector when the Corona-triggered lock down was imposed. Migrants, who returned to east UP, were engaged in agricultural activity. Adequate man power, water availability and better road connectivity are the growth pivots of east UP region. Chaturvedi said, agricultural policies can be formalised using SWOT analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5th-booster-dose-up-to-give-free-vegetable-seeds-to-farmers/articleshow/79687067.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||19 test +ve, 17 get discharged in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 19 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, even as 17 patients were discharged from treatment centres. Of the 7647 cases that the district has recorded so far, 7,409 have been recovered. The number of active cases now stands at 196. While Gudalur block reported four new cases, the remaining were spread across Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri blocks. All the new cases were primary and secondary contacts of the earlier positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/19-test-ve-17-get-discharged-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79686272.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Raze walls built in Aravalis: Greens to Municipal Corporation of Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Several environmentalists on Friday wrote to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner seeking demolition of the walls being constructed in the Aravali hills of Raisina village in Ansals Aravali Retreat, which is in violation of the Aravali Notification Act, 1992. The move comes after TOI on Thursday reported that construction activities are still going on in the protected area despite several notices. The area in question is gair mumkin pahar in the Aravali range and is notified under general section 4 of the Punjab Land Preservation (Haryana Amendment) Act (PLPA), which prohibits tree felling. It is also notified under the Aravali Notification Act, which prohibits all construction activities. These constructions have started even though show cause notices were issued in June to hundreds of farmhouses in the Raisina hills, giving a three-day time period to respond, but no action has been taken on the ground. “As you may be aware, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in its order dated October 23, 2018, in OA 3 of 2013 directed for removal of construction and restoration of forests in Gurgaon and Faridabad districts of Haryana. The order stated that any construction raised on the forest area or the area otherwise covered by notification dated 07.05.1992 without permission of the competent authority (after the date of the said notification) has to be treated as illegal and such forest land has to be restored,” said SS Oberoi, an environmentalist. He added, “I understand that the Sohna Municipal Council has issued demolition notices and then show cause notices to all constructions in violation of the Aravali Notification in May and June 2020. However, no demolitions have taken place in the past six months in the Raisina hills and this clearly emboldened new construction, which violates: the Aravali Notification Act, Natural Conservation Zone of the Regional Plan 2021, Deemed forest jurisprudence of the Supreme Court under Godavarman judgment of 12.12.1996, and MC Mehta Aravali judgements.” Another activist, Vivek Kamboj, said, “The state government has repeatedly failed to take action agai-nst illegal construction in the Aravalis.” Meanwhile, officials of the Sohna Municipal Council said that they are taking action against illegal construction in the area. “Our teams are conducting a survey in the area to ensure that no illegal construction takes place. We had stopped constructions in the area,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/raze-walls-built-in-aravalis-greens-to-mcg/articleshow/79688076.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Autonomous tag for DY Patil college||Kolhapur: DY Patil College of Engineering and Technology (DYPET) has received autonomous status from the University Grants Commission (UGC) for a period of 10 years. The architecture programme of the college too has received the autonomous tag from the commission — the first architecture program by any college in the state to get this coveted title. The DYPET has become third technical institute in the district to get autonomous status. The tag means that the college can develop its own syllabus and own method of evaluation. Ruturaj Patil, Congress MLA and trustee of institute, said, “The UGC team had paid visit in October last week. After thorough assessment of the college infrastructure, performance so far, the UGC decided to grant the institute the autonomous tag. For the first time in the state, our architecture course too has been granted autonomous tag. We can have an independent curriculum for our degree courses now and we will ensure the curricula matches current industry need.” He added, “The admissions will be carried through Centralised Admission Process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/autonomous-tag-for-dy-patil-college/articleshow/79684436.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chennai||103kg gold kept in CBI custody goes ‘missing’ in Chennai||CHENNAI: More than 103kg gold worth at least Rs 45 crore seized in a raid by the CBI and kept in its ‘safe custody’ has gone missing. This came to public knowledge on Friday when the Madras high court ordered a probe by Tamil Nadu’s CB-CID. The missing gold is part of 400.5kg in bullion and ornaments seized by the CBI in 2012 when it raided the office of Surana Corporation Ltd in Chennai. The gold was kept in the safes and vaults of Surana under the CBI’s lock and seal. The central agency said it had handed over the 72 keys of the safes and vaults to the Chennai principal special court for CBI cases. The CBI claimed that during the seizure the gold bars were weighed all-together but while handing over to the liquidator, appointed for a settlement of debts between Surana and SBI, it was weighed individually and that was the reason for the discrepancy. Refusing to accept the submission, Justice Prakash directed a CB-CID probe by an officer in the rank of superintendent of police to be completed in six months. The CBI told Justice Prakash that its prestige would “go down” if the investigation is done by local police. To which Justice Prakash said: “…law does not sanction such an inference. All policemen must be trusted, and it does not lie in the mouth of one to say that CBI have special horns, whereas, local police have only a tail.” While prosecuting the case, the CBI accused officials of Minerals & Metals Trading Corporation of India (MMTC) of showing undue favour to Surana in importing gold and silver. Subsequently, the CBI came to the conclusion that the gold did not have a bearing on a corruption case, and that it had, however, been imported in violation of the Foreign Trade Policy (FTP). Therefore, a separate case was registered in 2013, and the seized gold was transferred to the file of the new case. Later, the CBI concluded the probe and filed a closure report, holding that the accused had not committed any offence, but, by issuing the nominated agency certificate to Surana, had violated certain circulars, for which departmental action was recommended against some officials. The agency also requested the special court to transfer the gold to the office of the director-general of foreign trade (DGFT) as the ownership of the gold is subject to the outcome of the departmental inquiry. Aggrieved, Surana challenged the transfer of gold to DGFT. Meanwhile, insolvency proceedings were initiated by SBI against Surana for pending dues of Rs 1,160 crore. SBI moved the court asking for the gold. On December 12, 2017, SBI and Surana filed a compromise memo in court and sought a direction to handover the gold to SBI, which was opposed by the CBI. On July 16, 2019, the court directed the parties to approach the NCLT before which the insolvency proceedings are pending to decide ownership of the gold. However, CBI was directed to hand over the possession of the gold to SBI. On December 27, 2019, the NCLT ordered handing over of the gold to the official liquidator in the presence of SBI. To the shock and surprise of all, the total gold that was found weighed only 296.606kg. There was a shortage of 103.864kg, which the CBI was not able to properly account for. The liquidator then moved the high court, which passed the order on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/103kg-gold-kept-in-cbi-custody-goes-missing-in-city/articleshow/79686290.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Recovery of human skeleton at Salt Lake home: ‘They held a lot of yajnas, pujas,’ say neighbours||KOLKATA: Neighbours at Salt Lake’s AJ Block could not believe their ears when they heard about the discovery of a partially burnt skeleton at AJ 226 and that the police suspected it was the mother who had killed her own son, burnt his remains and left the skeleton on the terrace. “I still can’t believe we have been neighbours for years. They seemed a bit different as they used to organize a lot of yajnas and pujas at home several times a month. But I can’t fathom how a mother could kill her son and then fry him in a kadai. It feels eerie to even come out on the balcony now,” said a woman living in the house opposite to that of Mahensarias. She spoke to TOI from her first-floor window. Another nextdoor neighbour said she remembered Geeta Mahensaria and her two younger children as soft spoken and amicable. “The woman had started a home-delivery food business during lockdown. The two younger children, who had been living with her for the past two years or so, are soft spoken. The elder son seemed unwell and a bit moody. He always seemed to be jittery,” she said. Another local resident, Santanu Sarkar, visited AJ 226 to check it out in person after he read about the incident in the morning newspaper. “I knew the family well. The woman and the children seemed timid. The elder son was very ill. I wonder if the boy had met with an accidental death and the mother and other children had done something foolish, like burning his body at home, out of fear. The cops should find the truth,” said Sarkar, a businessman. Locals said the family moved into the house in 2006 as tenants and later, possibly came to some longterm agreement with the original owner. Among the last few people to have spoken to the family was milkman Nikhil Roy. “When the family left the house in October, they owed me over Rs 800. The younger son had promised to come back in November and pay me, but he never did,” said Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/they-held-a-lot-of-yajnas-pujas/articleshow/79686295.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Have an idea to boost city governance? Post it here||GURUGRAM: From now on, your discussions in RWA meetings on ways to improve the city’s governance, traffic management, waste management and other services can reach the decision-makers via online. In an attempt to make the governance citizen-centric, deputy commissioner Amit Khatri on Friday launched the Soch Gurugram portal. The portal is a platform for the residents where they can contribute ideas to make the city better, and for the district administration to crowdsource ideas from residents and implement them. The broader categories for which residents can send their suggestions include environment, policing, education, technology, sports, health, traffic management, employment generation and management of waste and water. Once you submit your ideas, the Soch Gurugram teams will shortlist them based on impacts and feasibility. The handpicked ideas will be submitted to the district administration and evaluated by a team of experts. As an idea gets selected, the team will reach out to the residents for their implementation. “Gurgaon is a Millennium City and there are many multinational companies operating here. Corporate offices of most Fortune-500 companies have been set up here. Rich intellectual capital is available in Gurgaon. Many professionals also live and work here. We need to leverage this potential for the benefit of the city. I hope this initiative will help leverage the power of ideas of people,” said Khatri. Khatri also said there are residents who have expertise in various fields. The purpose of this portal is to get the benefit of expertise of such people. However, it was clarified that no person should raise any complaints, post demands or highlight problems on this portal as other platforms are already available for those. In case a resident uploads a complaint or a demand, it will be rejected, he added. The ideas received on the portal will be studied and scrutinised by different teams of experts. An official said there are seven to eight experts working in different companies, who have been included in these teams and their number can be increased based on the requirement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/have-an-idea-to-boost-city-governance-post-it-here/articleshow/79688085.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Conducting pre-boards will be tough’||HYDERABAD: With pre-boards fast approaching, experts air the many challenges lying ahead for students. While some fear that online tests might put children out of touch with the conventional form of writing exams — as will be the case with the final boards — others say that taking the test wearing safety gear might not be easy. “There is a fear that students may go out of practice of writing a three-hour long exam if they are conducted online,” said Bhavana Mathews, a teacher at a private school in Secunderabad while adding many parents want their children to write exams wearing gloves and masks if they at held at school. Many raised concerns over fairness during online assessments. Schools are adapting different methods — like counselling parents or making students and parents sign agreements to ensure they are aware of the consequences of academic dishonesty, which experts say might not be foolproof. “Conducting examinations online will not help in gauging learning outcomes of students. Practice of writing exams physically cannot be replaced by online exams,” said Govinda Rajuli,convenor of All India Save Education Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/conducting-pre-boards-will-be-tough/articleshow/79687095.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Government to project Purvanchal as foreign investment destination: ACS (MSME)||LUCKNOW: The coronavirus pandemic can turn out to be a huge opportunity for the development of Purvanchal as many foreign companies are shifting operations out of China and UP is pitching itself as a viable investment destination, additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said. Speaking at a technical session during the ongoing seminar on development of Purvanchal, which is being jointly organised by the planning department and DDU University, Gorakhpur, Sehgal said that the world’s attitude towards China has changed due to the pandemic. “The situation has presented UP with a great opportunity to attract this shifting investment. The government is planning to project Purvanchal region as an investment destination to foreign companies which are planning to shift their base from China,” Sehgal said. “Purvanchal is known for cheap labour. If we concentrate on skill development of this labour force then instead of choosing Vietnam and Thailand, foreign companies will choose Purvanchal as investment destination,” he added. “There are immense possibilities in the field of farming, service sector and One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme. We need to upgrade technology to increase capacity and quality of products. We should provide financial facilities to entrepreneurs and make markets available to them, especially on e-commerce platforms,” he added. Sehgal said Purvanchal was once considered one of the richest regions of the country but due to lack of technological advancements, products manufactured there could not become competitive. “This led cottage industry clusters to die out and migration out of the regions became a permanent feature,” Sehgal said, holding previous governments responsible for the situation. MSME minister Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh said Purvanchal used to be known for its history, natural wealth and great people. “There is a very rich tradition of cottage industry and handicraft throughout the region and we are working towards reviving it through ODOP scheme,” he said. Officials said Purvanchal had the densest population in the world, therefore, it is also the largest market. This is a special attraction for FMCG companies, they said. Sehgal said cluster development was the best system for MSMEs as it provided both jobs and manufacturing volumes. “The government is setting up seven common facility centres in Purvanchal. They touched 38% in export in last three years because of product improvement,” he said. Sehgal added that to improve production and quality of Kala Namak rice in Siddhartnagar, the government had entered into an agreement with the International Rice Institute for opening a centre in Siddharthnagar. Economist Dr Umesh Singh also focussed on the area’s suitability for food processing. Gallant Ispat CMD Chandra Prakash Agarwal suggested that the government should consider developing an economy model on straw and waste management. “This can be used to generate both energy and compost,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-project-purvanchal-as-foreign-investment-destination-acs-msme/articleshow/79687080.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED seeks to quiz Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS again||KOCHI: Enforcement directorate (ED) probing the money laundering aspect in the gold smuggling case on Friday moved the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering cases seeking permission to question Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS for three days in prison after they made fresh revelations before cu  Enforcement stoms regarding involvement of influential persons.  Sources said ED will decide on when to interrogate CM’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran once it gets a report from the medical board which is monitoring his health. Swapna and Sarith are in preventive detention under Cofeposa invoked by customs. The involvement of Sivasankar and other high-profile persons in gold smuggling and foreign currency cases came to light due to the latest revelations during custodial interrogation of Sivasankar, Sarith and Swapna by customs officers. It has become necessary to question Sarith and Swapna to collect vital info, ED said in its petition. The agency has sought permission to let the investigation officer and assistant investigation officer to quiz them in jail. The court will consider the petition on Monday. In Raveendran’s case, sources said ED is likely to take into account the two-week rest suggested for him, before issuing another notice for questioning. ED officials added that this can be ascertained only after receiving the report of the medical board. Till date, Raveendran has skipped interrogation thrice citing Covid-19 and other health issues. His hospitalisation for the third time had kicked up a storm in state with the opposition terming it an attempt to hide from the probe agencies even as Left leaders offered him support. The prime accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh had given a statement to the agency that Raveendran used to contact her occasionally for matters like visa stamping and certificate attestation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-seeks-to-quiz-swapna-sarith-again/articleshow/79685477.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nashik||More focus on patients above the age of 61 years||Nashik: Nashik civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande has instructed the health staff of the covid hospital and dedicated covid health centres (DCHCs) across the district to ensure extra attention is given to Covid patients who are above the 61 years.Raokhand said, since the outbreak of Covid, 14,133 people above the age of 61 years tested positive and of them, 999 have died. So, the mortality rate is higher among the age group above 61 years compared to others. While the 7% of all the Covid patients above 61 years have succumbed to the infection, 689 patients of the 34,541 have died in the age group of 41 years to 60 years, which is 1.99%.Similarly, 132 patients of the 34,589 have succumbed to Covid in the age group of 26-40 years, which is .38%.Keeping a constant tab on the health of patients above the age of 61 years, diagnose the patients and provide treatment at the earliest, are the measures that have been planned, said Raokhande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/more-focus-on-patients-above-the-age-of-61-years/articleshow/79684438.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 12, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 50% Covid-19 patients in home isolation||BHOPAL: More than 1,500 or around 50% of the total active Covid-19 patients have been kept in home isolation in the city. Overall, there are around 3,100 active patients in the city. This is a dynamic figure and keeps on changing on a day-to-day basis, said a health official. Earlier, the state government had set up control and command centres in every district to monitor the situation of the home isolation cases on a daily basis. As per the norms, a patient who is in home isolation, will receive calls daily from these control centres. A dedicated number — 1075 — is also provided so that in case of any need, patients can call at this number. Besides, those who are in home isolation have to provide details such as their temperature and oxygen status by using equipment like thermometer and oximeter which they are expected to own. Every day, this data from the app will also be updated on the Sarthak portal, which is monitored. If the staff at command and control centre find that the condition of any patient is worsening, he/she will be shifted to hospital, immediately. When TOI contacted a patient in home isolation, he confirmed that he has been receiving calls daily. However, but no such data regarding temperature etc is being asked, he added. “I was tested positive in a rapid test and was asked to remain in home isolation around five days ago. The same day I got myself tested through RT-PCR test and it showed me negative, but still I was advised to remain in home isolation. I receive calls twice daily and doctors ask me about my status. I am having no symptoms, however temperature etc is not asked probably because I had already tested negative,” said the 39-year-old professional. Another patient, who is 52-year-old, said, “My wife was having fever, so I took my entire family for tests as a precaution. Only I tested positive, though I was not having any symptoms. I get calls daily and people ask me how I am feeling right now, as I am feeling well, I reply the same. But no one has asked about temperature or any other such data from me till now. It’s been six days now. Since, I do not have any problems, I do not bother much.” When contacted, chief medical and health officer, Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, said, “Around 1,500 patients are in home isolation approximately. The figure changes everyday, but we can say that around 50% of the patients are kept in home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/50-covid-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/79685474.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad ranked first for humanities education in India||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been recognised as the top institute in humanities in India and 276th globally in the Round University Ranking (RUR) 2020, released on Friday. The ranking is dedicated to highlight the performance of more than 800 world’s leading higher education institutions using 20 indicators such as teaching, research, international diversity and financial sustainability. According to a press release issued by the UoH, it is at the 53rd position in the global teaching ranking in humanities. “I am happy to note that our university humanities group is no. 1 in the country and recognised among the top 276 institutions of the world,” said Prof Appa Rao Podile, vice-chancellor of the university. All data for RUR is provided annually by Clarivate Analytics through its Global Institutional Profiles Project (GIPP). “It’s even more gratifying to see the university among the top 53 institutions in terms of its teaching. Our School of Humanities faculty have been producing excellent research,” added Podile This is an annual data collection survey that unifies three different data sources — statistical data submitted by universities, bibliometric data, and academic reputation data. The survey’s raw data is available through InCites service by Clarivate Analytics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-ranked-first-for-humanities-edu-in-india/articleshow/79687086.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly woman’s parents 'give in', file complaint against Muslim man she eloped with||Meerut/Bareilly: Three days after a Muslim man living with a Hindu woman in Meerut was “held for questioning” without an FIR, a right-wing group “convinced” the woman’s family in Bareilly to lodge a police complaint. The man, 27, has now been booked for kidnapping. The 24-year-old woman from Bareilly had eloped with him to Meerut four months ago. Their landlord reported the couple to a local right-wing outfit, which then demanded police action. The man was held on Tuesday. There was no FIR and since the saffron group had no locus standi to file a complaint, it sent its activists to Bareilly on Wednesday to talk the woman’s parents into filing one, TOI had reported. By Thursday night, they appeared to have convinced the parents. “An FIR has to be filed now because her parents have registered a complaint. The woman’s statement will also be recorded,” Bareilly DIG Rajesh Pandey said. The woman, a postgraduate, had earlier said that her partner had not concealed his religious identity, didn’t ask her to convert and was, on the contrary, willing to convert to Hinduism himself. Her parents, when contacted by police at Kankerkheda in Meerut, had said they had disowned their daughter and didn’t press charges against the man. But in Bareilly, on Friday, the woman’s family had a different narrative to share. “My daughter left home in September with Rs 5,000 in cash and some jewellery. I did not know she was living with a Muslim man in Meerut,” her father told TOI. “I came to know when a Bajrang Dal member called me up. I felt the ground sink beneath my feet. No one pressured me. I filed the complaint on my own. But I don’t know if my daughter was forced to convert, so I didn’t mention that.” The Muslim man, a resident of Aonla in Bareilly, was booked under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of the IPC at Baradari police station in Bareilly late on Thursday night. “We will bring the woman from Meerut and take her to court. Her statement under Section 164 CrPC will make it clear if she was abducted or if she left home of her own accord,” Baradari station house officer Sheetanshu Singh said. Kankerkheda station house officer in Meerut Tapeshwar Sagar said proceedings for the couple’s transfer to Bareilly in police custody will now be initiated. A vindicated Balraj Dungar, the right-wing activist from Meerut who had mounted pressure for police action against the interfaith couple, said, “We are satisfied with police action. It’s up to the woman to say what happened. What charges are framed against the man is immaterial. A message must go out to those who indulge in love jihad.” The woman has been in a government shelter for three days now and the man remains in house detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-womans-parents-give-in-file-complaint-against-muslim-man-she-eloped-with/articleshow/79684450.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Vice-President to visit city||Coimbatore: Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu would be visiting the city on December 17 to participate in Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s 41{+s}{+t} annual convocation. A statement from TNAU said, “Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu has consented to be the chief guest while governor of Tamil Nadu and the chancellor of TNAU Banwarilal Purohit will preside over the Convocation,’’ the statement said. Minister for higher education and agriculture and TNAU pro-chancellor KP Anbalagan will also participate. A total number of 1,385 candidates will be awarded degrees in person and 57 candidates will be awarded with medals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vice-president-to-visit-city/articleshow/79686293.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao meets Amit Shah, urges him to release Rs 5,000 crore flood aid||HYDERABAD: Reiterating his demand, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday urged the Centre to release Rs 5,000 crore towards relief and rehabilitation of flood-affected families in Hyderabad and farmers whose crops were damaged in continuous rains and floods in Telangana. The CM met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and made the request. The CM told Shah that the state had already spent Rs 700 crore to provide relief to the flood-hit families in Greater Hyderabad, sources said. KCR also recalled having written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 15 seeking Rs 5,000 crore with an immediate relief of Rs 1,350 crore during his meeting with Shah. Stressing that not a single paisa had been released by the Centre so far, KCR urged the home minister to ensure release of financial assistance at the earliest. KCR also brought to the notice of Shah that the Presidential Order needs to be amended to include new districts under the zonal system. This is the first visit of KCR to Delhi in nearly a year as he had not gone to Delhi ever since the pandemic broke out in the country. The CM is expected to meet Modi during his three-day stay. The CMO has reportedly sought an appointment with the PM and is waiting for a confirmation. The CM is expected to return to Hyderabad on Sunday. Earlier, he went in a special aircraft from Begumpet airport. The CM’s visit to Delhi assumes significance as he had openly supported the Bharat Bandh of farmers on December 8 demanding repeal of the three farm laws. Though party sources said KCR would be interacting with farmers’ unions protesting against the farm laws, he did not meet them on Friday. KCR met jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and is expected to meet other Union ministers and raise various issues, especially the pending disbursement of funds due to Telangana, and also visit the site allotted by the Centre for construction of TRS party office. Visit in backdrop of BJP’s rise in TelanganaKCR’s visit comes in the backdrop of rise of BJP in Greater Hyderabad which has 24 assembly constituencies and five Lok Sabha seats and his direct appeal to the voters to ‘save Hyderabad’ from divisive forces though he did not name any party. KCR’s Delhi tour has also turned into a major point of discussion in political circles after his hard-hitting remarks against the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre during the recent GHMC elections and his announcement of forming a federal front as an alternative to BJP at the Centre. KCR has also been critical about the Centre being partial in terms of disbursement of funds to BJP-ruled states while neglecting Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-meets-shah-urges-him-to-release-rs-5k-crore-flood-aid/articleshow/79688096.cms||Roushan Ali
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Faculty demand mandatory biometric attendance at JNTUH||HYDERABAD: With many faculty losing jobs during the pandemic, teaching and non-teaching staff working at technical colleges in the state demanded that the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) make facial recognition or retina-based attendance mandatory to mark attendance at its affiliated colleges. They said that in the absence of the biometric attendance system (BAS), an alternate method should be implemented to monitor the attendance of faculty and non-teaching staff. “If the government feels that using biometric will increase the number of Covid-19 cases, they should think of implementing facial recognition or any other alternative. In the current academic year, about 70%-80% of faculty lost their jobs as submitting biometric attendance is not mandatory this year. There is a need to have a monitoring system in place to provide job security to teaching and non-teaching staff,” said A Santosh Kumar, president, Telangana Schools Technical Colleges Employees Association (TSTCEA). Faculty alleged that colleges are using biometrics for internal monitoring, but is not using the device, which is used for recording and sending data to the JNTUH. They said that the varsity should immediately reactivate BAS and added it is the only way for faculty to survive. “A majority of faculty have either lost jobs or forced to follow no work, no pay. Unless the varsity brings in a mechanism to monitor attendance, the faculty will be at a loss. If the varsity feels that bringing in a new monitoring system such as retina-based attendance will take time, we are ready to give our biometric in the meantime following all Covid-19 protocols,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA). Speaking to TOI, M Manzoor Hussain, registrar, JNTUH, said that they are exploring other mechanisms for the attendance system. “We never thought colleges will exploit the deactivation of BAS and will fire faculty or not pay them. The varsity is looking at other options including facial recognition for attendance and will implement a system soon.” Hussain said that unless the government gives its nod, they cannot ask colleges to reactivate BAS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/faculty-demand-mandatory-biometric-attendance-at-jntuh/articleshow/79687114.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 12, 2020||Kolhapur||‘Future polls will be fought together’||Kolhapur: Leaders from Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), during a programme organised to felicitate the newly-elected member of the legislative council on Friday, said they will continue their alliance for the upcoming elections to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) out of power. Congress leader and Kolhapur guardian minister Satej Patil said, “Workers from all three parties — Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena — worked hard to make the win possible. We felt the need to fight these elections on party symbols to ensure the voters disgruntled by the poor performance of the BJP in both constituencies rally behind us. We will ensure that all three parties contest forthcoming elections together as well.” NCP leader and minister Hasan Mushrif slammed BJP state president Chandrakant Patil stating that after loosing power in Maharashtra, the leaders of BJP are realising that their growth in the region was artificial. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Mandlik said, “The results have showed confidence among the educated people in our government led by CM Uddhav Thackeray. This election has laid the foundation for future elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/future-polls-will-be-fought-together/articleshow/79684455.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Mandatory to have CCTVs at gyms, record in & out time of visitors||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad police’s special branch has issued a communication to all gym operators in the city asking them to mandatorily record the in and out time of each visitor, install CCTV cameras inside the gym and ensure that all the required permissions from different departments are obtained. Police authorities have expressed concerns about the ever-growing number of gyms that are cropping in the outskirts of the city recently. The decision to streamline things at the gyms has been taken by city police chief Nikhil Gupta after complaints of group clashes, passing of lewd comments against women visitors, brawls and playing of loud music caught his attention. Assistant commissioner of police (SB) Ashok Bankar said, “Offences will be registered against those found violating the directives issued under section 149 of the CrPC.” Bankar also said that it has been made mandatory for the gyms to collect identity proofs of people enrolling with the gym, obtain fire NOC and other relevant clearances from different departments. Moreover, managements of gyms have been asked to ensure that police verification of all staffers as well as trainers is being carried out. The list of mandatory clearances also include obtaining one from Food and Drug Administration for selling or trading protein packs, supplements, products claiming to stimulate weight gain or weight loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mandatory-to-have-cctvs-at-gyms-record-in-out-time-of-visitors/articleshow/79684467.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||2 dead, 8 hurt after van collides with truck due to dense fog in UP||BAREILLY: Two persons were killed and eight others left injured after a van collided with a truck in UP's Moradabad-Budaun highway on Thursday night. There was dense fog and the visibility was low. All the victims were residents of Singthara village in Wazirganj and were returning home after attending a wedding ceremony. The condition of six survivors is critical and they were referred to a higher health facility. Emergency medical officer Dr Piyush Mohan Agarwal said, "Ten people were brought to the hospital after the accident. Two of them were already dead. Six of them were critical. We have provided them necessary treatment." The deceased were identified as driver Jitendra Kumar and Kamesh Kumar while the survivors were identified as Raju, Nemsingh, Dharmendra, Prempal, Chandru, Indrapal and Amarpal. "We were returning home. There was dense fog. So, we were driving slowly. But, all of a sudden a truck came from the opposite direction and collided with our vehicle. I fell unconscious. It was entirely the truck driver's fault," Amarpal, one of the survivors, said. Civil Lines SHO Sudhakar Pandey said, "We have registered an FIR against the truck driver. The truck has been seized."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-dead-8-hurt-after-van-collides-with-truck-due-to-dense-fog-in-up/articleshow/79684460.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||‘Ajni project will fell many more trees than projected’||NAGPUR: The actual number of trees that will be felled for the inter-modal station coming up at Ajni might be three-to-four times the figures presented by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). As being reported by TOI, thousands of age-old trees are facing the axe for construction of the station and other commercial structures at Ajni. The Rs 1,288.81 crore project is coming up on Central Railway land which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species. In a proposal submitted to the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), NHAI in its two applications has sought permission to cut 1,940 trees over the 44.6 acres land acquired for the first phase. Following demand from activists, a joint survey of officials from NHAI and NMC’s garden department started two days ago. According to civic body officials, the real number of trees that needs to be felled will be significantly more. “Prima facie observations suggest the number might be anywhere between 5,000 to 10,000. NHAI has only counted big trees whereas we are taking into consideration small and medium-sized trees too. Ideally, a tree whose girth is more than 10 centimeters should be counted,” officials said. They added that the lush green area had trees of varied species. “The survey will take almost a month as the area is quite dense. After that, we will submit our findings and the tree count to NHAI. We will also publish a public notice following which citizens can file their objections,” they said. This is just for Phase I. Activists fear about large-scale felling that will be done for remaining phases. “Minimum 4,000 trees will go just for the Phase I. The figure should also include trees to be cut for building residential towers and office,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil. NGO members recently carried out a site inspection with NHAI officials. “Assessing the environmental viability of the project is needed and for that. The first step is to count the exact number of trees to be felled and identifying their species. NHAI’s figures seem unrealistic,” said Chatterjee. He added that after identifying the species, oxygen transfer and carbon sequestration of the trees should be calculated. “These calculations should be made public so that there is transparency,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ajni-project-will-fell-many-more-trees-than-projected/articleshow/79686326.cms||Manka Behl
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||MSME department gets award of excellence||LUCKNOW: The state’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) department is all set to receive an award for excellence in digital governance and services by Elets, which has chosen UP for six awards in different categories, out of which two have gone to smart cities. In a citation letter, Elets, which is celebrating its 10th year of giving awards for good governance and innovative ideas, has greeted additional chief secretary Navneet Sehgal for MSME UP e-service portal under the category of digital governance. Elets chief executive officer Ravi Gupta appreciates that the portal not only facilitated small and micro manufacturers and businessmen in getting their issues resolved in no time, but also saved lots of time and energy. The CEO said his organisation had received 150 categories from across the country, out of which 28 nominations were selected for ‘Elets Awards of Digital Excellence’.In a press release, Elets says other awards include Lucknow Municipal Corporation bonds under the category of ‘Leadership in governance’, Jansunwai Samadhan under the category of ‘Digital governance’, Sewamitra module of integrated Sewayojan portal for ‘Digital governance’, Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation Integrated Command and Control Centre for smart cities and Agra Smart Cities Ltd, Agra Lockdown Monitoring App under the category of innovations in smart cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/msme-dept-gets-award-of-excellence/articleshow/79687091.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||3 youths booked for stalking, sending obscene messages to Class X students||PILIBHIT: Three youths were booked for allegedly stalking two sisters, studying in Class X, and passing objectionable remarks at them when they were on their way to coaching classes. The incident took place at a Pilibhit village under Barkhera police station on Thursday. The three accused have also been booked for sending obscene mobile messages and photographs to the girls. A written complaint was filed by the girls’ father. The complainant said, “My two daughters daily travel by bicycle to attend their coaching classes. The accused, who were identified as Pawan, Manoj and Bhadra Sen, tried to coerce the coaching provider to expel my daughters saying they were 'morally corrupt'." They even threatened to kidnap and physically harm the girls, he said. The three accused - all aged between 20 and 22 - have been booked under IPC sections 354-D [stalking a woman], 294 [doing any obscene act in any public place] and 506 [criminal intimidation], SHO Kamal Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-youths-booked-for-stalking-sending-obscene-messages-to-class-x-students/articleshow/79684470.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Purvanchal, Vindhya put on road to development||LUCKNOW: The state government has decided to fast-track road construction projects in east UP and Vindhyachal districts under the second phase of Accelerated Economic Development Scheme (AEDS). The move comes close on heels of the state government’s strategy to expedite development in the socio-economically poor region. The planning department proposed implementation of the scheme in seven east districts, including Gorakhpur — home turf of CM Yogi Adityanath. The other districts where the scheme will be rolled out include Chandauli, parliamentary seat of Union minister and former UP BJP chief Mahendra Nath Pandey, Maharajganj, Shravasti, Kushinagar, besides Sonbhadra and Lalitpur in Vindhyachal. To begin with, Gorakhpur is set to receive a fresh tranche of Rs 97 lakh for road construction. In the first phase implemented in 2019, the district got Rs 2.43 crore of the Rs 4.86 crore bonanza under the scheme. Likewise, in case of Chandauli, planning department has proposed to pump in over Rs 16.50 crore for construction of roads in 11 places. In the first phase, the state government released Rs 3.31 crores under AEDS. Similar is the case with Sonbhadra, where development works are proposed to be initiated in Ghorawal and Duddhi at an estimated cost of Rs 1.16 crore. In Lalitpur, the government proposed construction of an ITI at a cost of over Rs 12 crore. Also, the government would pool in Rs 6.5 crore and Rs 88 lakh for construction of roads in Shravasti and Maharajganj. So is the case with Kushinagar, where road connectivity is set to be given a boost at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore. In a series of communiques to district magistrates on December 7 and December 8, the planning department said, the money may be withdrawn from the state exchequer and given to construction agencies within a span a week. The department also said, the amount would not be withdrawn for keeping in bank/post office to avail interest. The sanctioned amount would be withdrawn from the treasury as per need and given to the project implementing agency. Construction would be carried out as per norms and there should be no cost escalation. The remaining amount will have to be returned to the coffers before March 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/purvanchal-vindhya-put-on-road-to-devpt/articleshow/79687101.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||After woman, newborn die in illegal maternity home, Pilibhit DM orders probe||PILIBHIT: A day after a 28-year-old woman and her newborn died at an unregistered maternity home in Pilibhit city, district magistrate Pulkit Khare on Thursday evening ordered city magistrate Arun Kumar Singh to probe the matter and report in three days. The probe will cover circumstances under which the illegal maternity home was operating, the cause of the two deaths and the authenticity of the medical degrees of the doctors concerned. If the degrees were found to be fake, stringent action would be taken against them, the DM said. “We will also be launching a drive to check all private hospitals and nursing homes in the district to verify their registrations, valid permissions to conduct various diagnostic and clinical tests and the status of their compliance with medical norms,” Khare added. Janki Devi of Piparia Agru village under Neuria police station underwent a cesarean section at the private maternity home on Wednesday. Both newborn and mother died soon after. The deceased’s husband claimed that both Neuria community health centre staff and aganwadi worker assigned to his wife had recommended that the same maternity home in Pilibhit. He alleged that the doctor had botched up the case. After his wife and child died, a crowd gathered outside the maternity home and the hospital owner and staff fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-woman-newborn-die-in-illegal-maternity-home-pilibhit-dm-orders-probe/articleshow/79684475.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 12, 2020||Salem||Two women held for selling infant||Salem: A woman who bought a 15-day-old infant and another woman who acted as an agent for the sale were arrested by police in Salem on Friday. The arrested were identified as Nisha, wife of Chandrasdekaran from Erode, and Gomathi, a resident of Kariaperumalkadu near Annathanapatti in Salem. The infant’s father who sold the baby without the knowledge of the mother is on the run. According to police Sathya, 30, wife of Vijay, 32, a daily wage worker living in Kariaperumalkadu gave birth to a girl baby in Mecheri government hospital 15 days back. Since the couple had two girl children already, Vijay told his wife that they could not afford a third girl child and suggested that they could sell the infant. But Sathya refused. However, a few days back, Vijay took the infant out and returned home empty handed. When inquired, Vijay told Sathya that he sold the baby for Rs one lakh. Though Sathya broke down and argued, Vijay managed to pacify her. But Sathya informed neighbours about the incident and sought their help to retrieve the baby. The neighbours informed Child line authorities who in turn lodged a police complaint. Police sent a special team to probe and found out that Vijay had sold the baby through Gomathi from the same locality to a couple in Erode district. Police summoned Gomathi and Nisha to the police station and arrested them after both admitted that they bought the baby. The baby was rescued and handed over to Sathya. Vijay who learnt about the arrest fled from the home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-women-held-for-selling-infant/articleshow/79686297.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kolhapur||41 patients recover from Covid-19 in Kolhapur district||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 13 fresh cases of Covid and one death on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 49,256 cases. The number of active cases in the district reduced to 193 after 41 patients were discharged on Wednesday. As many as 47,372 have recovered while 1,691 have succumbed to the infection. Of the fresh cases, four cases were reported from Kolhapur city. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported three deaths and 32 fresh Covid cases on Friday while 43 patients were discharged after recovering. The number of Covid cases in the district has increased to 47,197, of them, 1,720 have succumbed to the infection and 45,101 have recovered Solapur city reported 20 fresh Covid cases while 54 patients were discharged after recovering on Friday. No death was reported. Solapur city has a total of 10,608 patients, of them, 573 have succumbed to Covid, 9,687 have recovered and 348 are currently undergoing treatment. As many as 122 new cases of Covid-19 along with four deaths were reported across Satara district on Thursday with six tehsils recording cases in single digits. According to a health official, 20 and 12 cases were reported in Satara and Karad tehsils. “Phaltan tehsil added 32 patients, including 10 from Maathachi Wadi and six from Widhani. Koregon tehsil also registered 12 cases, while Maan tehsil reported 15 patients — four each from Mhaswad and Malwadi,” he said. The district has so far reported 53,319 cases, out of which 50,174 have recovered. The district has also recorded 1,760 deaths, while the number of active cases stands at 1,385.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/41-patients-recover-from-covid-19-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/79684494.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: In Kochi, 1.5 lakh citizens skipped voting||KOCHI: With the final figures of the polling to the local bodies in Ernakulam out on Friday, it has been found that 1,63,014 voters, size of nearly the total electors in Kothamangalam block panchayat, stayed away from voting in Kochi corporation limit. It was women voters who refused to turn out mostly for polling in the corporation, with only 58.44% of them exercising franchise. While 65.88% male voters cast votes. Of the total 4,29,448 electors in Kochi, only 2,66,434 exercised their franchise. As per the final figure of the election commission, Ernakulam recorded 77.28% polling with 20,002,53 voters of the total 25,881,82 casting their votes. As many as 77.38% polling was recorded in 13 municipalities together. As many as 16,031 and 17,665 voters did not turn up for voting in Tripunithura and Thrikkakara municipalities, respectively. While polling to the district panchayat recorded 81%. Elanji panchayat recorded lowest polling of the total panchayats. “The local body has witnessed rise in Covid cases recently. The recent flare in Covid cases might have dissuaded voters from exercising their franchise. There are 14,000 voters in the panchayat. Names of many voters who died long ago also appeared in the voters’ list. A good number of voters in Elanji are working in other states as nurses and they could not turn up for voting. These might have reduced the polling per cent,” said former panchayat president Joys Mampally. Participation of members from transgender community in electoral system seems to be meagre as only 14 of the 41 voters in Ernakulam exercised their franchise on Thursday. Kothamangalam recorded 78.85% polling. All the block panchayats reported more than 75% polling and seven crossed 80%. Edappally block panchayat recorded only 76.22% voter turnout. The highest number of male voters turned out at Vadavukode, which is also the block panchayat recorded with the highest number of polling. The highest number of women voters turned up in block panchayat is in Vazhakulam with 78,621 voters of 94,553 exercising their franchise. In municipalities, the highest number of women voter turnout was in Muvattupuzha municipality with 9,357 voters of 11,290 exercising their franchise. While the least number of women voters exercising their franchise was in Thrikkakara municipality with only 22,807 of 32,881 voters turning up at polling booths for casting votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/in-kochi-1-5l-citizens-skipped-voting/articleshow/79685544.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Goa||State records zero deaths for second successive day||Panaji: For the second consecutive day on Friday Goa reported zero Covid-19 casualties. Since December 1, as many as 15 people have succumbed to the virus with the daily average of mortalities coming down to one. On three days over the last eleven days, there have been zero deaths. On Friday, the state reported 104 fresh infections, nine cases more than that seen on Thursday. As many as 130 people were declared cured. With 1,644 tests done, the positivity rate remained steady at 6%. For the past few days, Goa’s hasn’t seen much fluctuation in the case positivity rate. The state has witnessed a sharp decline in new infections since the last month, however, the total caseload is slowly inching towards the 50,000-mark. As of Friday, the total infections stood at 49,235 and it is expected that Goa would see new cases, albeit few, for the rest of the month. Health experts believe Goa stands a good chance to further bring down Covid-19 infections if there is strict adherence to safety precautions in place. There are apprehensions as Christmas festivities will begin in the next few days, a period when Goa normally sees a rush of tourists during the Christmas week. The footfall flow continues till the first week of the new year. Foreign visitors are absent, but the state is already buzzing with domestic tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-records-zero-deaths-for-second-successive-day/articleshow/79686298.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Manish Shukla murder case: One more held in West Bengal||KOLKATA: CID arrested Nasir Ali Mondal, one of the key conspirators in the murder of Titagarh BJP leader Manish Shukla, from Kalyani Expressway early on Friday. Hailing from Basanti in Souh 24 Parganas, Mondal had been in hiding ever since his name was spilled by two other accused. “We are taking him into custody. We are still searching for a missing link. We will file the chargesheet in time,” said an officer. Earlier, police arrested sharpshooters Sujit Kumar Rai (26) and Roshan Kumar Yadav alias Tatya (20) from Patna and brought them to Barrackpore on transit remand. They named Mondal as an accused, officers said. While Nasir alias Nazir Khan, the chief marksman, is still on the run, CID has retrieved three more names. “Our teams are still in the neighbouring states in search of a few suspects,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shukla-murder-case-1-more-held/articleshow/79686301.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||Leopard caught in Rampur, released in Amangarh forests||Rampur: A leopard that had been spotted prowling around Swar tehsil in the district was trapped early on Friday morning. Later, it was released in Amangarh tiger reserve in Bijnor. The forest department had placed camera traps and closed-circuit cameras in the area where the leopard had been spotted and placed a cage there to trap it. Speaking with TOI, Rajeev Kumar, Rampur district forest officer, said, “The leopard was seen attacking and lifting dogs in the villages of Swar tehsil. But no human being was attacked. It was safely released inside Amangarh tiger reserve by a team of forest guards.” Watch Leopard rescued by forest dept in UP’s Rampur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-caught-in-rampur-released-in-amangarh-forests/articleshow/79684492.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||BKU activists stopped by cops in Rampur||RAMPUR: Several activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) were stopped by police in Rampur from travelling towards the UP-Delhi border as part of the ongoing farmers protest. The angry BKU activists then tried to block the national highway. They sat on an indefinite 'dharna' against the three farms laws. Representatives of other farmers’ organisations also joined in the protest near Bhot police station. Rampur's BKU president Haneef Warsi told TOI, "The activists were on their way to Delhi to participate in the ongoing protest. They were stopped by the police. So, they have now decided to sit on an indefinite 'dharna' here."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bku-activists-stopped-by-cops-in-rampur/articleshow/79684483.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Kalidas Kala Mandir rent reduced by 50%: Nashik Municipal Corporation||NASHIK: The standing committee of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday reduced the rent of the Kalidas Kala Mandir (auditorium) by 50% due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The government has allowed the opening of auditoriums with 50% capacity. There were demands to slash the rent of the auditorium. Accordingly, the civic administration had tabled the proposal at the standing committee meeting held on Friday, in which, standing committee chairperson Ganesh Gite approved the proposal. The rent, which was in the range of Rs 3,500 to Rs 25,000 for various shows and programmes, has been reduced to Rs 1,750 to Rs 12,500. Kalidas Kala Mandir has a total of 942 seats, including 682 in the main auditorium, 240 in balcony and 20 in the children’s section. Apart from Kalidas Kala Mandir, the rent for other auditoriums like Dadasaheb Gaikwad, Mahatma Phule town hall and Mahatma Phule Art Gallery has also been reduced by 50%. The rent for Dadasaheb Gaikwad auditorium, which was in the range between Rs 5,000 and Rs 12,000 per event, has been reduced to Rs 2,500 to Rs 6,000. While the rent for Mahatma Gandhi town hall has been cut down to Rs 750 to Rs 1,250, Mahatma Phule Art Gallery’s rent has been reduced to Rs 5,000 for an art exhibition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kalidas-kala-mandir-rent-reduced-by-50-nmc/articleshow/79684505.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Biological E’s typhoid vaccine gets WHO prequalification||HYDERABAD: Biopharma player Biological E Ltd on Friday said its Typhoid Conjugate vaccine (TCV) TYPHIBEV has received World Health Organisation (WHO) prequalification, making BE one of the only two pre-qualified suppliers of TCV to UN agencies. BE’s TCV is available as single and multi-dose vials. Biological E said its TCV, which can be administered to children from 6 months of age to adults up to the age of 45, is a single-dose injectable vaccine that is formulated with Vi polysaccharide conjugated to a carrier protein (CRM197). The Hyderabad-based company said that the Vi polysaccharide antigen used in the vaccine is derived from C freundii, which is a non-pathogenic source (BSL 1 organism) as compared to the virulent Salmonella Typhi used by other manufacturers. The carrier protein used for conjugation is a non-toxic CRM197 protein locally developed by the company through in-house R&D efforts, it added. The vaccine was developed in collaboration with the Italy-based GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health (GVGH), which first developed the vaccine strain and transferred the technology in 2013 to BE, which further developed the vaccine, including manufacturing process optimization and scale-up, pre-clinical studies and comprehensive clinical trials for Phase I, II/III in India. The company is manufacturing the vaccine at its GMP manufacturing facilities in Hyderabad. Terming the WHO prequalification as a significant milestone in the company’s journey, Biological E MD Mahima Datla said the company expects the vaccine to save about 1.5 lakh people worldwide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biological-es-typhoid-vaccine-gets-who-prequalification/articleshow/79687136.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Banks should assist in hiking farm income: CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy emphasised that banks should work to double the income of farmers in the state. He said banks should play a proactive role in extending support for welfare schemes initiated by the government to revive the rural economy. He addressed the top managements of banks at the State-Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting at the camp office on Friday. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Kurasala Kannababu, Mekapati Gautham Reddy and senior officials were present at the meeting. Addressing bankers, the chief minister said the government is giving each farmer Rs 13,500 under Rythu Bharosa to ease the input cost burden. He said bankers should take the lead to provide relief to farmers during natural calamities as it was not possible for cultivators to come out of debts if bankers were not sympathetic. “We have cleared old dues under zero-interest loans scheme. We have also paid 100% premium for crop insurance scheme. However, bankers’ support to tenant farmers is not up to the mark,” the chief minister said. He urged bankers to look at different innovative welfare schemes initiated by the government and provide additional assistance to revive the economy. He said they have taken up several measures to provide relief to farmers through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). He said the government had also released funds for grant of Rs 10,000 assistance to street vendors and small merchants. The chief minister said the government is extending financial assistance to women from SC, ST, BC and minority communities under Cheyutha and Asara schemes. He said they have already paid Rs 18,500 to each women between 45 to 60 years from these sections and promised to grant similar amounts for another three years. The bankers should treat this amount as guarantee from the government and grant additional financial assistance to women for their self-reliance. “Women self-help groups deposited Rs 7,500 crore in banks on which they are getting just 3% interest while bankers are charging them an interest rate ranging between 11-13%. Bankers should ensure the empowerment of women as it will help overall development of the economy,” said Jagan. SLBC chairman and UBI managing director and CEO Raj Kiran Rai said they were happy they could recover from Covid-19 quickly. He said they have granted Rs 28,0519 crore to the priority sector, which is around 64.60% of total advances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/banks-should-assist-in-hiking-farm-income-cm/articleshow/79690131.cms||Samdani MN
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Banks should assist in hiking farm income: CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy emphasised that banks should work to double the income of farmers in the state. He said banks should play a proactive role in extending support for welfare schemes initiated by the government to revive the rural economy. He addressed the top managements of banks at the State-Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting at the camp office on Friday. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Kurasala Kannababu, Mekapati Gautham Reddy and senior officials were present at the meeting. Addressing bankers, the chief minister said the government is giving each farmer Rs 13,500 under Rythu Bharosa to ease the input cost burden. He said bankers should take the lead to provide relief to farmers during natural calamities as it was not possible for cultivators to come out of debts if bankers were not sympathetic. “We have cleared old dues under zero-interest loans scheme. We have also paid 100% premium for crop insurance scheme. However, bankers’ support to tenant farmers is not up to the mark,” the chief minister said. He urged bankers to look at different innovative welfare schemes initiated by the government and provide additional assistance to revive the economy. He said they have taken up several measures to provide relief to farmers through Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs). He said the government had also released funds for grant of Rs 10,000 assistance to street vendors and small merchants. The chief minister said the government is extending financial assistance to women from SC, ST, BC and minority communities under Cheyutha and Asara schemes. He said they have already paid Rs 18,500 to each women between 45 to 60 years from these sections and promised to grant similar amounts for another three years. The bankers should treat this amount as guarantee from the government and grant additional financial assistance to women for their self-reliance. “Women self-help groups deposited Rs 7,500 crore in banks on which they are getting just 3% interest while bankers are charging them an interest rate ranging between 11-13%. Bankers should ensure the empowerment of women as it will help overall development of the economy,” said Jagan. SLBC chairman and UBI managing director and CEO Raj Kiran Rai said they were happy they could recover from Covid-19 quickly. He said they have granted Rs 28,0519 crore to the priority sector, which is around 64.60% of total advances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/banks-should-assist-in-hiking-farm-income-cm/articleshow/79684499.cms||Samdani MN
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Raja not on good terms with Stalin: AIADMK||Coimbatore: AIADMK spokesperson V Pugazhendhi on Friday sought an explanation from the DMK on withdrawing the London hotel case against former chief minister the late J Jayalalithaa when it was in power in the state. He also sought to know why TTV Dhinakaran was acquitted in the case. Addressing the media, he said an investigation wing official had visited London during the DMK tenure to verify if the former AIADMK supremo had bought any hotel and the case had come up for hearing 44 times. While the case was withdrawn in 2009, he said, DMK leaders had been mounting corruption charges on Jaya. “Nilgiris MP A Raja is not on good terms with DMK chief M K Stalin. So, he has been trying to cause confusion within the DMK by levelling corruption charges against Jaya. And the DMK is tight-lipped about the death of Sadiq Basha (who was investigated in the 2G scam). I am ready to participate in a debate with A Raja and I have enough documents to argue with him,” Pugazhendhi said. He said had the party lawyers argued well in the sessions court, Jaya would not have got jail term in the disproportionate assets case. “V K Sasikala who is jailed in the case will not join the AMMK after her release.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/raja-not-on-good-terms-with-stalin-aiadmk/articleshow/79686304.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Goa||Second teacher at Cujira, student at Valpoi test +ve||Panaji/Valpoi: The spurt in Covid cases among teachers and students continued for the fourth day in a row, with a student from a Valpoi school and a teacher from a school in Cujira testing positive for the infection. For the Cujira school, this is the second teacher to test positive from the institute and the school, as a result, has decided to revert to conducting only online classes for students. “We heard of the second teacher testing positive on Friday and we immediately sent out a message on our school groups that no physical classes will be conducted from now on. All teaching will continue online,” a school official said. After the first teacher tested positive, the school had decided to stop classes only temporarily for sanitization and physical classes were to resume from December 14. The plans now stand cancelled. Meanwhile, panic gripped Valpoi on Friday after a student from an aided school tested Covid positive. Sources informed that the Class X student was infected through her uncle who is a health worker. The student has been home quarantined. Headmistress of the school confirmed that the student has tested positive and said that after learning about the infected student’s Covid positive status, they have decided to suspend physical classes until further order. Classes will be conducted online in the meantime. The school management immediately took up sanitization of the school premises. Physical classes now stand temporarily suspended in one school each in Usgao, Curchorem and Valpoi due to either a student or a teacher testing positive for Covid, while the Cujira-based institute has entirely reverted to online classes. In the case of the Cujira school, it is still unknown whether there is any link between the first and second infection cases. Physical classes for students of Class X and XII only began from November 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-teacher-at-cujira-student-at-valpoi-test-ve/articleshow/79686302.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||14-year-old boy drowns in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 14-year-old boy, Sahil Paswan, fell in a pond at Indu Parl in Kasba and drowned on Thursday, when he and his friend, Arman Khan (12), went to Boropukur for a walk. Khan tried to rescue Paswan but to no avail. Alarmed by their cries, locals pulled Paswan out and took him to Ruby General hospital but he had died by then. “No foul play was detected,” said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teen-drowns/articleshow/79686307.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath to inaugurate guest house in Ghaziabad for pilgrims today||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan in Indirapuram in Ghaziabad on Saturday. The CM had laid the foundation stone for this building in August last year. The building has come up at a cost of Rs 70 crore in an area of over 9,000 square metres. It has 100 rooms and can accommodate 300 pilgrims. “The government is making arrangements for devotees to ensure that they face no inconvenience when they go on pilgrimage. As part of a larger plan, it is setting up accommodation for pilgrims where they will be able to halt, get food and other facilities,” said an official. The pilgrims at the Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan, said the official, will be provided all facilities during their stay there from April to October, when the Yatra is undertaken. During the rest of the year, the building will be used to house pilgrims of the Char Dham Yatra, Baba Barfani Amarnath Yatra and other pilgrimages. Last month, Yogi had travelled to Uttarakhand and laid the foundation stone of a tourist guest house in Joshimath in Chamauli district. This guest house is being constructed by the UP tourism department and will be catering to pilgrims and foreign tourists who visit Badrinath. The 40-room guest house will be a green building for which a budget of Rs 11 crore has been allocated. In addition, a Bhagirath guest house is being constructed in Haridwar by the UP government. This, said a government spokesperson, is expected to be completed before the Haridwar Kumbh scheduled for early next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-inaugurate-guest-house-in-gzbfor-pilgrims-today/articleshow/79687123.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Some CBSE schools in rural areas set to reopen||NAGPUR: Some well-known CBSE schools in rural areas are all set to reopen from Monday, while others are awaiting the mandatory parental consent forms before taking a final call. Nagpur rural schools have been allowed to reopen from Monday, whereas city schools are closed till at least January 3. District education officer Chintaman Vanjari held an online meet with rural area school principals and briefed them about the modalities. Vanjari said, “The reopening of schools is being allowed so that students who do not have access to online learning are not deprived of education. We expect all schools to follow safety guidelines for both teachers and students.” He clarified that under no circumstances should online teaching be stopped. “The physical reopening is not to be construed as stopping of online classes. That part has to continue as per schedule with physical classrooms too being made part of the academic calendar,” said Vanjari. On an average, consent has come for 15% of eligible students. In Maharashtra, only classes from Std IX-XII are allowed to reopen currently. While schools are keen to reopen, many are preferring not to do so immediately. Rohan Kapai, manager of Modern School, said, “We will start Std X and XII from December 28, and Std IX and XI from January 4.” Kanika Anand, principal of Royal Gondwana Public School, said, “We will start from January first week.” Prakash Somalwar, secretary of Somalwar Academy Education Society, said numbers are important. “We need to get consent forms in substantial numbers and only then it will make sense to reopen. If just 10 students are ready to come, then it is not logistically possible to reopen schools,” said Somalwar, whose CBSE branch is located in rural area. Bhavans BP Vidya Mandir has two branches, Ashti and Koradi, in rural jurisdiction. Annapoorni Shastri, director of BVM (Nagpur Kendra), said, “No decision has been taken yet on reopening. We are awaiting the mandatory consent from parents.” Inderpreet Singh Tuli, director of Edify School (Nagpur), said, “We have reached out to our parents and sought their consent. Once their replies come, we will decide on the next step.” Central India Public School (CIPS) has both its branches in rural Nagpur, and director Pravin Tiwari says parents don’t seem very keen. “We have sent consent forms, but till date we have not received permission from them. So, for now, no reopening plans,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/some-cbse-schools-in-rural-areas-set-to-reopen/articleshow/79686303.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||After a decade of silence, Secunderabad’s own Big Ben starts ticking again||SECUNDERABAD: Almost after a decade, the 123-year-old Nizam-era antique clock in Secunderabad—near YMCA—popularly known as the Secunderabad Clock Tower, started ticking on Friday. Motorists, thrilled to hear the bells ringing, likened it to the Big Ben in the UK. Many rushed to record the bells on their phone. GHMC officials in Secunderabad (North Zone) took up the initiative of giving the clock a facelift. “We have spent Rs 10 lakh to repair the clock which has been defunct for over a decade. Another Rs 18 lakh was spent in the beautification of the 120-ft height tower made of stone,” B Srinivas Reddy, zonal commissioner, Secunderabad GHMC-North Zone, told TOI. He added: “We had planned to repair the Secunderabad Clock Tower before Covid-19, but it got delayed. In fact, we are also planning to repair two other antique clocks — at Ramgopalpet Police Station and Monda Market—in Secunderabad Zone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-a-decade-of-silence-secbads-own-big-ben-starts-ticking-again/articleshow/79687161.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Fever camps helped bring Covid cases down, say officials||Coimbatore: The district logged 155 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally to 50,196, even as the number active cases increased to 976. With 92 patients getting discharged, the number of recovered patients rose to 48,592 on the day. The recovery rate now stands at 96.8%. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, shot up to 628 with two more patients succumbing to the virus. Among the dead was an 88-year-old woman with hypertension who died of bilateral bronchopneumonia that was caused by the virus within 24 hours of hospitalization. The other one was a 59-year-old man, who died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) within 24 hours of admission. Authorities said he had tested positive on November 24 and was admitted to a private hospital. He was referred to the CMCH only when his condition deteriorated. Officials attributed the drop in cases to the fever camps that were introduced when the Covid-19 cases in the district crossed the 2,000-mark. As per the available data, 27% of the 47,000 cases that the district had logged by November-end were detected through fever camps. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “At the fever camps, people with fever or low saturation and those who were living near or working with a Covid-19 were tested to identify asymptomatic carriers before they became super spreaders.” Another health department official said at least 80 to 90 positive cases were used to be identified through fever camps even two week ago. “We are confident of bringing down the number of cases to less than 100 by next month by controlling the spread and transmission by secondary contacts.” Presently, there are only 13 containment zones in the district, compared to 120-odd in September and October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fever-camps-helped-bring-covid-cases-down-say-officials/articleshow/79686308.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops arrest 25, seize weapons||Nashik: The Nashik city police conducted a combing operation in the early hours of Thursday and seized three country-made firearms, 11 cartridges and 35 sharp weapons, including swords and choppers. The combing operation was conducted between 4 and 7 am. More than 700 police personnel were involved in simultaneously searching the houses of 38 criminals. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey said similar combing operations would be regularly conducted in the future to stop the criminal elements from taking take up illegal activities. The police could find 25 criminals who were arrested under the Arms Act and weapons were seized from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-arrest-25-seize-weapons/articleshow/79684522.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: 4 extort over Rs 9 lakh from realtor, nabbed||VISAKHAPATNAM: Duvvada police in Vizag city on Friday arrested four persons for extorting money from a realtor and threatening him with weapons. Police recovered Rs 60,000 in cash, a toy pistol and a knife from the accused. Duvvada inspector K Lakshmi said PSN Raju of Duvvada has a real estate business that he conducts in the name of his wife. Local history-sheeters P Santosh and M Lovaraju had been demanding money from Raju and had even threatened to kill him. They extorted Rs 9.5 lakh from him in phases and demanded more money on various pretexts. A couple of days ago, Santosh and Lovaraju held Raju captive and demanded large sums of money. However, Raju managed to escape and notified Duvvada police. Based on the complaint from the victim, police formed a special team and nabbed Santhosh and Lovaraju and their assistants Nagesh and Gandhi. Police said Santhosh has previously stirred trouble in Gajuwaka and Duvvada and has nine cases against him, including attempt to murder. Lovaraju has four cases pending against him. Police investigation revealed that the duo have been involved in extortion for the past few years in the area. The duo was produced before court and sent for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4-extort-over-9l-from-realtor-nabbed/articleshow/79684529.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kochi||Rs 2.41 crore/month: Kochi Metro’s lockdown revenue||KOCHI: The Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has generated an average monthly non-fare box revenue of Rs 2.41 crore during the lockdown period. In the annual report for 2019-2020, KMRL chairman Durga Shanker Mishra said the Metro agency generated this income from “office space rentals, semi-naming rights and AFC royalty premium, etc.”  The Kochi Metro trains did not operate for 169 days as the Centre had declared lockdown due to the outbreak of the pandemic. The Metro operations were suspended from March 22, and there was no revenue from the fare box during this period. It was on September 7 that the Metro resumed operations. Mishra added that KMRL incurred a monthly average expenditure to the tune of Rs 6.96 crore during the period. The expenditure was towards payment of salaries to both regular and outsourced staff, power charges, maintenance costs and the like. During the fiscal 2019-20, KMRL reported a loss of Rs 310.01 crore. In the fiscal 2018-19, KMRL reported a loss of Rs 285.18 crore. While the total revenue generated by the Metro agency stood at Rs 134.95 crore, which includes box office revenue, the total expenditure for the year was Rs 115.77 crore. The annual report stated that during the fiscal, 1,81,07,722 passengers travelled by Kochi Metro, and generated a fare box revenue of Rs 56,93,91,789. A total of 70,751 trips were run clocking 18,92,239 km with an average punctuality of 99.88 %. The annual report says that KMRL received “100 percent of the approved equity funding share from governments of India and Kerala.” The total paid up share capital of KMRL is Rs 1507.46 crore as on March 31, 2020.  The Metro agency has a total outstanding loan of Rs 1260.75 crore and Rs 1,170 crore from AFD and Canara Bank, respectively. The total outstanding loan towards cost escalation from Canara Bank is Rs 166.34 crore. The total loan outstanding for phase-1 extension from the consortium of Canara Bank and Union Bank of India amounts to Rs 50.12 crore. In addition, term loans are availed from the Kerala State Cooperative Bank Ltd (KSCBL) and Hudco towards land acquisition for project works and preparatory works with state government guarantee for repayment. There is an outstanding amount of Rs 376 crore and Rs 130 crore from KSCBL and Hudco, respectively. Moreover, there is an outstanding amount of Rs 85.30 crore as working capital loan from Canara Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rs-2-41cr/month-metros-lockdown-revenue/articleshow/79685612.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Co-op society records to be uploaded online||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has directed all cooperative societies registered in the state to upload their records on the web portal at the earliest. Strict action will be taken against those societies which fail to comply with these directions. Confirming this, additional chief secretary of cooperation department Sanjeev Kaushal said the department was ensuring records of all the cooperative group housing societies and cooperative house building societies, which number around 1,200, were made public at the earliest. A target has been set to complete this work by December 31, 2020. Data of about 400 such societies had already been uploaded on the portal. He said the availability of the data online would not only bring more transparency in operations, but would also help in resolving disputes. It would also facilitate the people who wish to buy or rent a plot or flat in these societies, as they would be able to access all basic details about the societies through the web portal. The department has already been carrying out registration of new societies in online mode only, he added. Office-bearers of these societies may log in to the portal using the username and password which had been provided to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/co-op-society-records-to-be-uploaded-online/articleshow/79686340.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-SP MLA’s Rs 50 crore assets attached||LUCKNOW: Jailed for fraud in September, properties and assets linked to former Samajwadi Party MLA Arif Anwar Hashmi worth close to Rs 50 crore were attached by Balrampur administration on Friday. Carrying out a joint exercise, additional superintendent of Balrampur police and sub-divisional magistrate of Utraula sealed the gates of five educational institutes that were run by Hashmi or his family members and close aides. The team also seized four motor vehicles during the drive and said that the value of the four cars was Rs 65 lakh. The properties sealed and attached by the team were spread over 6.1 hectare of land. Acting on the report of the local administration, Balrampur police in October had opened a history sheet after pressing UP Gangster and Anti-Social Activities Act against Hashmi. Four of his brothers who had allegedly colluded with him in amassing the wealth and properties in an illegal manner were named as the gang members. Balrampur SP Hemant Kutiyal said that at present 22 criminal cases registered against the former MLA were being probed. Earlier probes carried out in connection with the land grabbed by Hashmi in the past revealed that revenue records were changed in a fraudulent manner to usurp gram samaj land in Sadulla Nagar locality, according to the charges framed in the report. Arms licences issued to Hashmi and his brothers have been already cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-sp-mlas-rs-50cr-assets-attached/articleshow/79687147.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Puducherry||Drug racket: Jipmer doctor among 7 held||Puducherry: A senior resident of Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer), a Russian national and a woman software engineer from Bengaluru were among seven arrested on charges of possessing, selling and consuming ganja, drugs, Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and MDMA (ecstasy or molly) in Puducherry. Police busted the racket while probing a prostitution case a few days ago. Superintendent of police (south) R Lokeshwaran said a team searched a guesthouse in the town following complaints of prostitution and rescued a 25-year-old woman from Ulundurpet. The guesthouse’s lessee, his assistant and three customers were arrested. The police team found a woman and a youth in an inebriated condition in one of the rooms in the guesthouse. The woman was identified as L Nathalie, 32, a software engineer from Bengaluru and the youth as P Devanathan, 23, from Nettapakkam in Puducherry. They were sent for medical examination, which proved they were under the influence of ketamine. Ketamine is used as anaesthesia before performing surgeries. Inquiries revealed that the youth bought the drug from a Russian national identified as Ivan alias Vanaya Grigorash Chenko, 26, working as a teacher in a school in Auroville, a universal township in the making near Puducherry. Police secured the Russian national. Inquiries revealed that he had bought ganja and ketamine from R Felix, 32, from Lawspet in the town. Inquiries led to the involvement of drug peddlers K Parthasarathy, 23 and R Manikandan, 23 from Villianur in supplying ganja, and senior resident in the department of anaesthesiology and critical care in Jipmer identified as U Duraiarasan, 28 for supplying ketamine. Police booked the seven under section 20 (b) (whoever produces, manufactures, possesses, sells, purchases, transports, imports inter-state, exports inter-state or uses cannabis) of the Narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances (NDPS) act 1985 read with section 8 (c) (No person shall produce, manufacture, possess, sell, purchase, transport, warehouse, use, consume, import inter-State, export inter-State, import into India, export from India or tranship any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) of NDPS act and arrested them. Three of them - Ivan, Nathalie and Devanathan were granted bail while the remaining four, including the Jipmer senior resident, were remanded in judicial custody by a local court. "We have seized five ketamine vials of 10ml each and two empty vials and one kg ganja from them. Investigations are on and as of now, we have arrested seven people involved in the crime. We will continue our probe to identify and book all those involved in the crime," said Lokeshwaran. Mudaliarpet inspector D Suresh Babu said some of the accused confessed to consuming LSD and MDMA. "We did not get LSD or MDMA from them," said Suresh Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/drug-racket-jipmer-doctor-among-7-held/articleshow/79686347.cms||Bosco Dominique
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Emu farm owners get 10 years in jail||Coimbatore: A special court for exclusive trial of cases under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1997, on Friday sentenced two directors of an Erode-based emu farm to 10 years of imprisonment, for cheating 110 investors of Rs 2.40 crore. The convicts were identified as P Mohanasundarm, 48 and R Kannusamy, 43, residents of Perundurai in Erode district. They had launched R K Emu and Poultry Breeders Private Limited at Pattakaranpalayam in Perundurai in 2011. The firm offered two schemes, a judicial source said. “Under the normal scheme, those who invested Rs 1.5 lakh were promised six emu chicks and a shed for rearing them, along with fodder and medicines. The company assured to give monthly incentive of Rs 6,000 and yearly bonus of Rs 10,000. By the end of the third year, the invested amount will be returned. Under the VIP scheme, the firm offered to rear emu chicks for investors who deposited Rs 1.5lakh and assured all benefits of the former scheme,” the source said. As many as 110 depositors invested Rs 2.40 crore in the company, which broke the promise within a year. Fifty-year-old P N Karthikeyan, a resident of Perumapalayam in Perundurai, filed a complaint against the firm with the economic offence wing (EOW) in Erode in 2012. Police booked the accused under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian penal code and 5 of TNPID Act and arrested them. The chargesheet was filed in 2014. As the accused did not appear before the court on Friday, special judge A S Ravi issued a non-bailable warrant against them. The court also slapped a penalty of Rs 1.21 crore on them. “The court has given directions to disburse Rs 1.20 crore to the victims,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/emu-farm-owners-get-10-years-in-jail/articleshow/79686330.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||612 Covid-19 cases, three deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday reported 612 new Covid-19 infections and three fatalities, taking the toll to 1,485. There were 7,604 active Covid-19 cases in the state, but officials said they are happy with the improving recovery rate, which has touched 97%. So far, a total of 60,29,209 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state, out of which 2,76,516 tested positive and 2,67,427 persons have recovered. Data by health department revealed that 502 persons recovered on Thursday. GHMC limits saw 144 new cases followed by 73 new cases in Rangareddy. Data also showed 56,178 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state, while reports of 677 samples are awaited. “If symptoms related to Covid-19 are observed, please report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay,” a statement the The directorate of public health and family welfare read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/612-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79687162.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||CM lays foundation stone for IT Park at Vilankurichi||Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday laid the foundation stone through videoconferencing for an information technology (IT) park at the special economic zone (SEZ) at Vilankurichi in the city. The IT Park will be constructed at a cost of Rs 114.16 crore. “The IT Park will be constructed in 2.66 lakh square feet. It will have two basement floors for parking and ground plus five floors for setting up companies. It will be rented out to information technology (IT) companies.” Thanking the chief minister for sanctioning the IT Park, state municipal administration minister SP Velumani said 20,000 graduates will get direct employment and 40,000 people indirect employment in the IT Park. He said after Chennai and Bangalore, Coimbatore is in the list of cities that have IT companies in large numbers. Youths of the district should make use of it, he added. Subsequently, the minister chaired a review meeting at the collector’s office to discuss about the Covid-19 precautionary measures taken in the district and ongoing developmental work including flyover works. Speaking to reporters, the minister said he had directed the officials to speed up all the ongoing developmental work in the district. “I discussed about plans to divert the vehicle movements at locations where flyover constructions are going on,” he added. Answering to a question about DMK MP Kanimozhi’s statement regarding the government’s development work in Coimbatore in the last five years, he said that Kanimozhi does not know about the district and she is just reading from the statement that was given to her. The AIADMK government has implemented many projects including those projects that were put on hold for a long time, he added. He said that the region is an AIADMK fort and people’s support for the chief minister has increased in the delta and expressed his confidence that Palaniswami will continue as the chief minister after the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-it-park-at-vilankurichi/articleshow/79686339.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Dog tied to car dragged on road, man arrested||KOCHI: In yet another incident of inhumane behaviour towards animals, a man tied a dog to the boot of a moving car using a rope and dragged the animal along the road at Chalakka near Athani on Friday morning. Chengamanad police arrested Yusuf, 62, of Konnam House at Chalakka in connection with the incident. Police suspect that the man was trying to abandon the dog somewhere far from his house. The torture came to light after two youths intervened, before recording the brutality on camera. Akhil K S, who noticed the brutality and interfered, said, “When we confronted him, the man behaved rudely and asked us why we should be bothered even if the dog dies. He then freed the dog and drove away. A friend and I with the help of Daya Animal Welfare Association later tracked down the dog and took the animal to a veterinary hospital at North Paravoor. It had bruises all over his body. However, it is alright for now,” said Akhil. Police have suo moto registered cases against Yusuf under sections 428, 429 of IPC and 11 (1) (a) (d) (f) of the Prevention of Cruelties Against Animals Act. The video of cruelty has gone viral on social media. Humane Society International/India (HIS), in a statement, said that they would provide all support to the people who reported the incident. “We are appalled to see this sort of cruelty and are supporting this case to help those who reported the incident and Daya association to take action. We request the police to act against this cruelty. People who can be this to animals are also sure to have violent tendencies towards humans,” said HIS senior campaigner Sally Varma. Meanwhile, motor vehicles department, through a Facebook post, informed that they have booked the driver under Motor Vehicles Act and have seized the vehicle. MVD has recommended action to cancel the licence of the person as well, said the FB post. Watch Shocking: Dog tied to a moving car dragged on road near Kochi Airport||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dog-tied-to-car-dragged-on-road-man-arrested/articleshow/79685627.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal supply: Urea warehouse raided||YAMUNANAGAR: Taking action on the suspicion that a fertiliser supplier is allegedly supplying urea to plywood units illegally, officials of Haryana chief minister (CM) flying squad, agriculture and farmers’ welfare department and the district police conducted a joint raid at a warehouse in the fields at Karera Khurd village of Yamunanagar district. After the raid, officials sealed the warehouse and issued notice on the owner, Sumeet Kumar of Kisan Sewa Kendra at Karera Khurd village. He could not present the stock register for verification of urea bags stocked in the property in large quantity. Sources said the CM flying squad was informed that the urea used in the farmers’ fields is supplied to the plywood industry to make glue. Officials have sealed the stock of urea recovered from the warehouse and counting will be initiated after the owner provides the stock register for verification. Sub-inspector (SI) Dinesh Kumar of Haryana CM’s flying squad, Panchkula said, “After checking the stock register, action will be taken on the basis of whatever facts come to light. As of now, we have called officials of the agriculture and police departments on the spot and got the warehouse sealed till the owner Sumeet Kumar, who said he is out of station, provides the stock register.” Yamunanagar district deputy director agriculture (DDA) Surender Singh Yadav said, “The warehouse is a licensed Kisan Sewa Kendra belonging to a fertiliser supplier. As the owner failed to provide any documents in the given time, therefore, the warehouse has been sealed, the owner’s license suspended and notice issued. If we find any mismatch in the stock register, legal proceedings as per law will be initiated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-supply-urea-warehouse-raided/articleshow/79686349.cms||JK Singh
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Meth smuggling: One more person arrested||Coimbatore: The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIBCID) of city police have arrested one more person in connection with an attempt to smuggle 1.2kg methamphetamine worth Rs 1.20 crore to Sharjah from the Coimbatore International Airport on December 5. The arrested person was identified A Alibhai, 48, of Keeranur in Pudukkottai district, a travel agent. He told police that he was contacted by an unidentified person over phone, who promised money if he smuggles the contraband to Saudi. Alibhai informed his friend Arul of Trichy, a travel agent about the offer. The duo decided to handover the suitcase containing the drug to their friend Nagarathinam of Trichy, who was about to board a Sharjah flight from the airport. On December 5, a person handed over the suitcase to Alibhai and Arul in front of the airport. However, Nagarathinam informed CISF personnel about the contraband. Later, NIB-CID took over the case and arrested Arul on Thursday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/meth-smuggling-one-more-person-arrested/articleshow/79686356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Bhopal||1222 new cases, but more recoveries in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With 1,222 new cases, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 2,21,115 on Friday. Apart from the fresh cases, a total nine casualties were also reported as per the state health bulletin. With these casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,382. Districts in which these deaths were reported include Indore where four deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Sagar, Chhatarpur and Guna. New positive cases were reported from 48 of the 52 districts in the state on Friday. It were only Anuppur, Dindori, Burhanpur, and Agar Malwa districts where no new cases were reported. Among the 48 districts where new cases were reported on Friday, districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 412 new cases were reported, followed by Bhopal where 258 new cases were reported, Jabalpur where 52 new cases were reported and Gwalior where 49 new cases were reported. On the brighter side, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 on Friday outnumbered the number of people testing positive. Overall, 1,347 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering, the count of those who recovered from the disease so far reached 2,04,641. On Friday, a total 29,352 samples were tested in which 1,222 new cases were detected. As on December 11, there were a total of 13,092 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1222-new-cases-in-mp-tally-crosses-2-21l/articleshow/79685626.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire mishap: Auditorium destroyed||Hyderabad: A major fire accident took place in Ganapathi Sacchidananda Swami Ashram, Dundigal, on Thursday night. Cyberabad police said a meeting hall and an auditorium were gutted. Fire services department took two hours to douse flames. Police said short circuit is suspected to be the cause. “Other parts of the Ashram were unaffected,’’ ACP (Petbasheerabad Division) AVR Narasimha Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-mishap-auditorium-destroyed/articleshow/79687173.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Racetrack comes alive at Kari Motor Speedway||Coimbatore: The sound of Formula One cars reverberated around the Kari Motor Speedway at Chettipalayam here after a gap of nine months when the 23rd JK Tyre FMSCI National Racing Championship (JKNRC) was flagged off on Friday. While the National championship class on JK Formula LGB 4, an Indian manufactured single seater racing car, has received 26 entries, the JK Tyre Novice Cup for rookie drivers racing the Formula 1300s has received 16 entries. The championship used to have four rounds – three in Coimbatore and the final round in New Delhi. “But this year, due to the pandemic, we have restricted the number of rounds to two, which will be conducted in Coimbatore,” said Hari Singh, head of operations of JK Tyre Motorsports. On Friday, two races for round 1 in each category were conducted. The final round is scheduled to take place on January 20. “We have enforced all Covid-19 precautionary measures. We are screening temperature and oxygen level of everyone, including the racers,” Singh said. “We used to conduct several promotional activities and a lot of spectators, including school children, used to watch the race here. But this year, we have restricted the number of spectators.” The tracks have been renovated at a cost of Rs 3 crore, after a gap of 20 years. “I have been waiting for the championship because it has been almost a year since I drove a Formula One,” said racer Vishnu Prasad from Chennai. “I used to test drive at least once a month. But the pandemic made it impossible. Racing on the new tracks is challenging as I was used to the old tracks. The new tracks are too smooth, making it difficult to overtake, especially at the coroners.” Mira Erda from Gujarat said she kept herself fit during the lockdown period and practised using simulators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/racetrack-comes-alive-at-kari-motor-speedway/articleshow/79686351.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||50% of medical seats in Haryana yet to be filled||CHANDIGARH: Worst fears about the medical talent opting out of Haryana are apparently coming true as at least 50% seats in medical colleges across the state are left vacant after the first counselling. The medical education department has notified the second round of counselling from Saturday and Pt B D Sharma University of Medical Sciences is expected to upload vacancy position in the state by Saturday morning. There are 1,500 seats of MBBS and BDS courses in 10 medical colleges in the state. “We cannot draw any conclusion (about seat occupancy) at least after first round of counselling. Students may have availed all-India quota for admission. Let us wait for a couple of more rounds (of counselling),” said a senior official associated with admission process. Haryana had recently revised fee structure for MBBS courses and started a system of annual bond of Rs 10 lakh per student for four years. The state government assured to act as guarantor for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/50-of-medical-seats-in-hry-yet-to-be-filled/articleshow/79686352.cms||Manvir Saini
December 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Water Metro terminals taking shape; 1st boat soon||KOCHI: Nearly 50% of piling work for the Water Metro’s boat jetty at high court has been completed. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has so far completed construction of 18 piles at the site. KMRL has engaged about 40 labourers, through its contractor, and work is on in full swing. Apart from piling, other civil construction activities are also being undertaken. Construction of floating pontoon is also progressing. “Construction work on terminals at Vyttila and Kakkanad is in the final stage. Work is also progressing at Eloor, Cheranalloor, South Chittoor, Bolgatty, High Court, Vypeen, Mulavukad North, Paliyamthuruth and Kadamakkudy. Cochin Shipyard is expected to deliver the first boat soon,” a KMRL spokesperson said. The metro agency had entrusted Cochin Shipyard with building 23 boats for the project. In its annual report for 2019-20, KMRL had said that the model test for the hull design was successfully completed in Marin, the Netherlands. The first boat is scheduled to be delivered by the end of this month. The contract for building 65 floating pontoons was awarded to Finland’s Marinetek Group. The contract for dredging and hindrance removal for the first phase was awarded to Tebma Marine Pvt Ltd. The total outlay for the water metro project, excluding land cost, is Rs 747 crore. German funding agency KfW will provide a 85-million-euro loan. A tripartite agreement has been signed in this regard. KMRL has also obtained all statutory clearances for the project from agencies like National Board for Wildlife, Archaeological Survey of India, Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority and State Wetland Authority Kerala. The ministry of environment and forest had recommended environmental clearance for the project in October 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/water-metro-terminals-taking-shape-1st-boat-soon/articleshow/79685635.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Average Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases||LUCKNOW: The average Covid-19 recoveries over the past seven days have been more than the total number of new cases, according to an assessment of data undertaken by the state health department here on Friday. Officials pointed out that barring two occasions, the number of new cases has been lesser than those recovered. Calling the trend positive, the health officials expressed relief, but cautioned against any complacency towards the prevention protocol. “The trend surely speaks for the success of the state's commitment and strategy, but the numbers should in no way mean that the activity of the pandemic virus is under control. Prevention protocol remains our main armour against Covid-19 pandemic at least till the vaccine arrives,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. The experts also urged residents to make preventive norms a part of their lives as it not only helps in saving people from coronavirus, but also from scores of other infections. Meanwhile, the new cases took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 5.62 lakh. Of these, 5.34 lakhs have recovered. The officials also recorded the death of 17 persons taking the Covid-19 casualties to 8,025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/average-covid-recoveries-outnumber-fresh-cases/articleshow/79687156.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU standardizes process of extracting 4 types of dye products from achiote tree||Coimbatore: At a time when environmentally conscious textile industries and food companies are struggling to acquire large-scale quantities of natural and organic dyes, TNAU’s forest college and research institute has standardized the process of extracting four types of dye products from seeds of commercially cultivable Achiote tree—considered to be the second predominant dye yielding species in the country. The college is also in the process of releasing two high yielding varieties of the Achiote tree, also called Annatto, which farmers can opt for commercial cultivation. “Over a period of 12 years, we have standardized silviculture or tree growing practices and dye extraction protocols through various government projects including from department of science and technology and department of biotechnology,” says professor and head of department of forest biology and tree improvement, K Kumaran.The Achiote or Annatto tree grows in all types of soil but is more suitable to well-drained soil. One tree would require around 60 litres of water per fortnight and produces seeds from 9 to 12 months after planting. However, it can provide economic returns from the third year onwards. “If any interested farmer approaches us from anywhere, we can guide them on how to plant, maintain the tree, harvest the seeds and extract the dye too based on the industry he or she plans to sell to,” says Kumaran.The tree is being commercially cultivated across around 500 hectares in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. TNAU is also in the process of developing two high yielding varieties of the species which can produce 0.75 to 1 tonnes of seeds per species per year. “We will release them by 2021-22 academic year,” says the professor. They have also established a natural dye extraction lab where they keep formulate dye extraction protocols.Scientists have also identified 30 more tree species—including Eucalyptus species, Anogeissus latifolia and Tectona grandis from which they believe dyes can be extracted. “Like we know Eucalyptus bark can give red, Anogeissus latifolia leaves can give us blue/indigo and Tectona grandis leaves can give yellow,” says Kumaran. “We eventually want to be able to produce natural dyes in all colours for all industries, by pointing out the right tree sources, cultivation and extraction methods making them commercially available in large scales,” he adds.The university is in the process of applying for a patent for the extraction protocol they have come up for four types of dye products --- aqueous extract used by the textile industry, bixin in powder form used in food industry, solvent extracts which are used by pharmaceutical industries and oil extract used primarily by the cosmetic industry especially for lipsticks. They will also apply for a design patent for the automated aqueous and solvent dye extraction machine they have innovated that can extract aqueous dyes, solvent extracts and Bixin powder. However, natural dye consumers in the garment industry say the government is yet to frame separate guidelines for natural and eco-friendly dyeing units. M Raaja Rajan, partner, natural dye house says, “Along with paying a higher price for raw materials being a new industry, we are forced to follow the same regulations as a synthetic dyeing unit of “0 discharge”. We also pay a price of 0.65p per litre of water used, which further increases the price of operations and our product. This is despite our effluents being eco-friendly and good for agriculture. It would be helpful if the government came up with a separate set of guidelines for natural dyeing units after studying us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-standardizes-process-of-extracting-4-types-of-dye-products-from-achiote-tree/articleshow/79686359.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||10-year-old thrashed for stealing cane, farmer booked||FATEHABAD: A Kulan village farmer in Fatehabad district tied up a 10-year-old boy with a rope and thrashed him allegedly for taking sugarcane from his fields. The farmer also made a video of this incident and uploaded it on social media. Fatehabad police said accused Nirmal has been booked on the complaint of the victim’s father under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the IPC and 75 (cruelty to child) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. In his complaint, the boy’s father said he was playing in the schoolground with his three-four friends on Thursday when Nirmal, whose has farmland nearby, tied him with a rope and beat him mercilessly. His son has not eaten anything since, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10-year-old-thrashed-for-stealing-cane-farmer-booked/articleshow/79686355.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||'Farmers protest seems to have been infiltrated by ultra-Leftists,' says Union minister Piyush Goyal||Food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal tells TOI that the government is open to address the concerns of farmers but adds that the amendments are meant to benefit tillers across the country. He also says the movement seems to have been infiltrated by ultra-Leftists. Excerpts from a conversation with Sidhartha, Vishwa Mohan and Akhilesh Singh. Given the stance that farmers’ unions have taken, what is the way out? If the farmers were genuinely being led by farmer leaders, there would have been a way out given that the government is willing to engage with them and is sympathetic to their concerns. Obviously, dialogue and discussion are the only way to find solutions. Sadly, we are finding, despite giving an assurance, and after having addressed their concerns, there is really no issue on which they are agitating. We have assured them that MSP procurement will continue. We have agreed to ensure that states can levy the same tax on private markets as the APMC markets. The government is willing to consider all sorts of dispute resolution. We have given our written confirmation that land can never be attached under any circumstances. We have also said the law ensures that farmers will always have the upper hand in selling produce. We have agreed that all traders have to be registered, along with the agreements. The law opens up avenues without closing anything that is already happening. It’s only expanding opportunities for farmers by allowing them to sell to whomsoever they like, wherever and whenever they like. It will allow entrepreneurs to set up cold storage and other infrastructure near their farms, while encouraging farmers to go for value-added products to increase their income. Going by the demand for release of so-called poets and intellectuals, who are facing serious charges, as well as reports in media, including your own, it is evident that Leftist and Maoist elements have infiltrated the movement. Media reports also suggest that some leaders over there have such a history. Probably, they are hell bent on disrupting this movement and creating chaos. It is unfortunate they are disrupting dialogue and discussions for the resolution of the farmers’ concerns. Did the move to bring up the issue of people accused under UAPA surprise you and did they bring it up earlier? Initially, in the first meeting, there were just one or two sentences but after that, they never talked about it. It is only now that we see people holding placards at the protest site, and we are seeing statements being made to this effect. Their concerns are not with the farmers and they seem to be of a different nature which is a matter of concern for all of us. These laws are good for farmers across the country. You saw that the Bharat Bandh did not evoke response anywhere in the country. Trains ran normally throughout the day and we loaded 7-8% more freight that what was loaded on the same day one year ago. It clearly shows that they do not have the support of farmers, the visuals we saw on TV were of political party activists. Farmers across the country are happy about it. If the laws were so bad and APMC was the only option for farmers, then why did Kerala, which has either had a Left or a Congress government, not put the APMC Act into operation till date? Out of the five leaders who went to see the President, two were Left leaders, who have no presence in the country. Your political opponents are saying there wasn’t adequate consultation on the amendments. These things have been under consultation for nearly 20 years now, if not more. The day we cleared the ordinance, one of the farmer leaders, who is sitting over there, he said his father’s soul will rest in peace because this is the same law for which he had fought some 25-35 years ago. These are demands made by farmers in 2018-19 through a document called the Kisan Manifesto, which the Bharatiya Kisan Union had tweeted on April 2019 and said this is a very comprehensive document, which details problems and solutions to agriculture crisis. In that, they had said abolishing APMC Act, Essential Commodities Act etc should be taken up and they will support, whichever party takes it up. Thereafter, they supported the Congress party. We have not abolished the two laws. We have opened up opportunities to do free trade, which was also an integral part of the agenda of the farmers. Consultations were held with all the states and, by and large, there was consensus. Before that, a committee of ministers had also recommended it, the same laws that we have now brought in. Sharad Pawarji had written to all chief ministers, requesting that the model law be adopted, which was on the same lines as the law we brought out. Then, there was a committee of CMs, the National Commission of Farmers, there have been a number of reports that have focused on how it is the need of the hour to give freedom to farmers. It is unfortunate that some political parties are now trying to jump on to the bandwagon of the farmers’ protest. I do hope that the farmers will see through the design of these elements. Are the demands for repeal of the amendments and a legal framework for MSP non-negotiable? There are a number of good and positive aspects of the law. Why should the nation’s farmers be deprived of the benefits of the laws? The country has to worry about the interests of 10-12 crore farmers. On the legal framework for MSP, Congress has been in power for so many years, the Communists have supported so many governments, including the UPA and the Third Front, at no point they made any effort to make it a legal right. The Modi government almost doubled procurement. It has increased MSP with a cost plus 50% formula. The Modi government has given the highest increase and our sincerity is for all to see. We are committed to ensuring that MSP will continue. How will the new farm laws increase farmers’ income as there is no guarantee that private traders will, at least, pay MSP? Farmers don’t have to sell their produce to private players. Instead, the laws provide farmers with an alternative to government procurement at MSP. It does not replace it. Private players will exist alongside government procurement and will have to offer attractive prices and facilities in order to attract farmers. Farmers’ representatives have also been demanding withdrawal of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. How will the government address this? The government is willing to engage with them and is very sympathetic to any genuine concerns they have. Government has already said that the bill – which is still under consideration – could be modified to ensure that there is no change in how farmers pay their bills. Farmers also have strong objection to the penalty provision for stubble burning under the new ordinance on air quality management in Delhi-NCR. What’s the government plan to address it? The ordinance was promulgated as part of the government’s assurance to the court to tackle air pollution in and around Delhi. The penalties are primarily targeted at industrial pollution. The government has assured to address farmers’ concerns about the penal provisions.  Farmers’ unions have once again threatened to go for blockade of railway lines. How will you handle the situation?  I would appeal to farmers not to resort to blocking of railway lines since it causes inconvenience to people, armed forces, students, MSMEs, farmers and consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/country-has-to-worry-about-interests-of-10-12-crore-farmers/articleshow/79686357.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Won't allow unrest in garb of farmers' stir: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that those who have questioned the unity of the country and spew fire against Kashmir are ones who talk about the fragmentation of the country. Any kind of statement from Kisan Manch in support of Sharjil Imam or Omar Khalid shows the disorientation of the movement as a whole, he said. “The malicious attempt to spread disharmony inside the country by putting the farmers in front will not be tolerated. What do these faces mean by the peasant movement, these people have never been friendly to farmers and the country,” said the chief minister. He added that farmers know who their real supporter is. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party had, for years, taken steps to waive debts of farmers and provide water supply to them. “Now, the central government is asking farmers for suggestions but the Congress is taking the mask of farmers and leading the entire movement towards disorientation. It is these people who have cheated the farmers,” said Yogi. He added that the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been upgrading agriculture. “The central government has shown in six years what has not been done in the interest of farmers in 60 years,” he pointed out. “Between 2004 and 2014, most farmers committed suicide. In 2014, Prime Minister Modi expressed concern at this and programs to increase their income were undertaken but some people do not like the economic advancement of farmers. Rajiv Gandhi used to say that farmers get Rs 10 out of Rs 100 meant for their welfare. PM Modi eliminated middlemen and sent money directly to farmers,” said Yogi. ‘State government worked to enrich farmers’: The chief minister said that the state government is continuously working for the upliftment of farmers and had undertaken the completion of pending Ban Sagar project since 1977, ending the water problem. After this, the Central Ganga Project, Saryu Canal National Project and Arjuna Sahayak Project will be completed by 2021. ‘Bharat Bandh flop show in Uttar Pradesh’: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the Samajwadi Party had declared Uttar Pradesh captive during Bharat Bandh. However, the bandh announcement of SP and Congress proved to be a flop show. “Not a single shop was closed in our state. The government is continuously working for prosperity and upliftment of farmers. The government paid sugarcane farmers Rs 1 lakh crore, which is not even the budget of many states,” he said. ‘Rahul Gandhi is a failure’: Yogi also said that in Bihar and UP by-elections, the people of the country had shown confidence in PM Modi. “The certificate of a flop leader like Rahul Gandhi is not required. The 2014 and 2019 election results showed who the future of the country was,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wont-allow-unrest-in-garb-of-farmer-stir/articleshow/79687168.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||UT to engage 187 people to give Covid vaccine shots||CHANDIGARH: According to the estimates of the UT health department, 187 vaccinators will be engaged for Covid-19 vaccination in the city. All these have been involved in the routine immunisation programme. The UT health department might train more health workers and doctors for the same. Sources said around 25,000 health-care workers shall be in the priority group to be vaccinated in the city, while the data for the elderly and those with co-morbidities is yet to be generated. “No such data has been collected. We will do so as per the directions from the central government,” said Arun Gupta, UT health secretary. Under the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19, committees have been made at the state, district and block level. The UT advisor is the chairperson of the steering committee and the secretary health is the chairperson of the state task force. Sources said the committee has been holding meeting over vaccine administration and preparedness in the city. “At the moment, we have identified 187 potential vaccinators and if need be, we shall train other health workers too,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director of the UT health services. She said, “Those who can be trained will include MBBS, BDS interns, pharmacists and nurses. We will also engage more as suggested by the chairperson of the steering committee.” It is known that the incidence of diabetes, which is a known comorbidity, is one of the highest in the country. As a PGI study reported that every seventh resident in the city is diabetic. “With less than 200 vaccinators, it seems impractical to give vaccine shot to over lakhs of such residents. Though the volunteers will be called in shifts, the vaccinators shall be distributed in selected sites for immunisation,” said an official in the health department. At the PGI, the second dose of Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine has been given to all the 149 participants enrolled in the third phase of the trial. They will be followed up till six months for safety and immunogenicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-engage-187-people-to-give-covid-vaccine-shots/articleshow/79686361.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 12, 2020||Goa||Final year students enter campus for practicals in labs||Panaji: For the first time in over eight months, some final year general stream degree students stepped into their college premises this week, to complete their practical work in the institute laboratories. Colleges offering BA, BSc and BCom programmes have also begun preparations as exams for semester V are to be conducted physically starting January 4. In a regular year, both the final year exams for semesters V and VI are conducted by Goa University, but colleges have been given the levy to conduct the semester V exam on their own this academic year as per their convenience, due to the pandemic. “We have around 500 final year students studying in the BA, BSc and BCom programmes. We have 32 classrooms and ample space,” said D B Arolkar, principal of Dnyanprassarak Mandal’s College and Research Centre, Assagao. “We will ensure that for the exam, not more than 15 to 25 students are seated in a classroom. Some of our classrooms have a seating capacity of 80, so up to 25 students can be accommodated in a classroom with sufficient social distancing.” Colleges with higher enrolment will be conducting the physical exams in two to three shifts a day. The duration of each subject paper is two hours, as per Goa University instructions. The examinations are expected to last for 10-15 days in the first half of January. Besides making wearing of face masks mandatory, hand sanitisers will be placed at all gates of the institutes, and thermal scanning of every individual entering the college premises will be carried out during the examination period, colleges said. The final exam or semester VI exam for students of BA, BSc and BCom is also expected to be held in physical mode in April. “Sanitisation of the college premises will be carried out before and after the exam,” said Manoj Kamat, principal of Shree Mallikarjun College, Canacona. “Every class, every room and every bench will be sanitised. It is important to have offline exams at least for final year students, otherwise there may be a trust deficit among employers.” For final year students of BSc home science, BBA and BSW programmes, too, exams will be held starting from January 4 in physical mode. “All examinations shall commence from January 4, 2021 onwards,” Goa University has told colleges in a circular issued on Friday. “The examination for final year shall be conducted in physical mode/offline. The duration of the theory examination shall be two hours for 60/80 marks. There shall be only one question paper per subject per college.” Meanwhile, exams for first and second year students will be conducted online by colleges, as per GU’s instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/final-year-students-enter-campus-for-practicals-in-labs/articleshow/79686368.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt docs protest ‘mixopathy’||Coimbatore: Government doctors here wore black badges to show solidarity with the Indian Medical Association’s call for protest against what they call mixopathy, the government’s move to allow a section of ayurveda doctors to undertake certain surgeries. Dr Ravishankar of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association said as many as 780 doctors at GHs and primary health centres in the district wore black badges. “When thousands of students prepare hard for NEET and only the best get MBBS admission, how can ayurveda doctors be given scalpel and asked to do surgery? Even general surgery student and graduate cannot perform a cardiac surgery,” he said. However, the doctors reported for duty. But the protest proved to be damp squib at major private hospitals, where all doctors reported for duty. IMA had called for a country-wide protest, stating that doctors would boycott all outpatient services and handle only emergency cases and Covid-19 patients. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-docs-protest-mixopathy/articleshow/79686364.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Dense fog blocks sunrays, brings down temperature by 5 degrees Celsius||LUCKNOW: A thick dense fog that engulfed the city on Thursday night prevailed all through Friday. It gave the impression of an overcast sky and brought down the daytime temperatures by five degrees Celsius. Moderate fog would occur on Saturday as well, but it will be less dense, which might give way to some sunshine during the afternoon. However, the ‘chill’ in the air may increase from Sunday as the cold northwesterly winds coming from snowfed mountains are expected to revive by then. State Met director JP Gupta said the incursion of moisture in the atmosphere was responsible for the formation of dense fog on Wednesday night, but it was blown away by winds during the day hours on Thursday. However, the thick fog prevailed on Friday because wind velocity was relatively low, he said. “Fog lifted up in the atmosphere on Friday morning and remained suspended at the height of around 500 metres from the ground,” he explained. The visibility dropped below 100 metres in the morning but improved to 500 metres during the day. As dense fog did not allow the ground heat to escape into the atmosphere during the night, the minimum temperature recorded in the wee hours on Friday was 13.7 degrees Celsius, four units above normal. However, the same fog blanket also restricted penetration of sunrays to the earth during the day, leading to drop in maximum temperatures to 20.1 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. The Met director said that the western disturbance (WD) that is causing rains and snow in the northern hill state is expected to weaken on Saturday. These winds would revive as soon as the WD fizzles out. In Lucknow, maximum and||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dense-fog-blocks-sunrays-brings-down-temp-by-5-degrees-celsius/articleshow/79687177.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Congress to contest all 50 seats, says confident of victory||MOHALI: Congress has announced to contest the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) elections from all the 50 seats. Congress cabinet minister-cum-local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu will support his younger brother from Ward Number 10. The date for holding the MC elections is yet to be announced. Sidhu has sounded election bugle in Mohali and announced that the MC elections will be contested on the basis of developmental works done by Congress in Mohali. Sidhu has also announced that his younger brother Amarjit Singh alias Jeeti Sidhu will be contesting the elections from Ward Number 10 i.e. Phase VII. Balraj Kaur Dhaliwal, also from Congress, will be contesting the elections from Ward Number 9 i.e. Sector 70. Sidhu said, “We will be contesting the MC elections on the grounds of developmental works done by Congress in Mohali. Under the able leadership of Captain Amarinder Singh, we have delivered the best for Mohali.” Amarjeet Singh Sandhu, popularly known as Jeeti Sidhu, was recently appointed as the director of the Mohali Central Cooperative Bank Limited. Sidhu has been on inauguration spree as the forthcoming MC elections are nearing. He has so far inaugurated developmental works worth Rs 20 crore in the district. While announcing the names of all the 50 candidates contesting for the post of councillors, Sidhu said Congress will form the house this time and mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor will be from Congress. Senior Congress leader-cum-former councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi confirmed the final list and said he will also be contesting. “The campaigning will begin soon,” he added. Claiming that Congress was ready for the elections, Sidhu, who is also the local MLA, said, “Mohali residents have seen development in the past few years. We are hopeful of winning the elections with a clear majority.” This time it will be a four-corner battle that will now be fought between Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), Congress and BJP. The three other parties are yet to begin the process of finalising their candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-to-contest-all-50-seats-says-confident-of-victory/articleshow/79686363.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: SHOs to hold monthly meeting with RWAs||CHANDIGARH: In his first meeting with the members of the Chandigarh Residents Associations Welfare Federation (Crawfed) on Friday, the new UT senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal has ordered that every station house officer (SHO) will hold a monthly meeting with the members of the resident welfare associations of their respective areas. This was a long pending demand of Crawfed from the past three years. “I will ask for a weekly as well as monthly report of the meetings and I have already given orders to the SHOs regarding the monthly meeting for closer interaction, which will lead to resolution of problems effectively and speedily,” said the SSP. In their first meeting, Crawfed gave a memorandum to the SSP regarding the issues they have been facing in the city. The meeting was attended by representatives of about 90 RWAs at the auditorium of the traffic and security lines of the Chandigarh police at Sector 29, Chandigarh. Starting from the demand that the police should regularly visit senior citizens due to rising crime incidents, members of Crawfed kept their points in front of the top cops. Hitesh Puri, chairman, Crawfed, said, “The cops should visit the residence of senior citizens at least once a month to ask for their well-being. The decision of the monthly meeting with the SHOs will help us maintain a healthy relationship both ways. Also, the cops should also take a note and penalise unauthorised vendors, who are selling products without a valid licence.” The SSP also told the residents that they should provide information to the cops and also whenever they leave the town for any purpose, they should inform their neighbours. “Our entire force is working hard and soon the city residents will see a drop in the crime graph. I also expect full cooperation from the city residents,” said the SSP. Along with this, the SSP also requested the residents to install CCTV cameras in their respective areas. “At least entry and exit points should be covered with CCTV cameras,” he said. Chahal was accompanied by SP operations Vineet Kumar, ASP South Shruti Arora, SDPO East Gurmukh Singh and SDPO Central Krishan Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shos-to-hold-monthly-meeting-with-rwas/articleshow/79686369.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid patient gets lung transplant||Hyderabad: In a rare procedure, doctors in Hyderabad claimed to have successfully completed a double lung transplant on a recovered Covid patient. A 34-year-old patient from Haryana, underwent the surgery on November 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patient-gets-lung-transplant/articleshow/79687189.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Road accident deaths fall by more than half in city||Coimbatore: The city recorded a dramatic fall in the number of deaths due to road accidents this year, thanks to the lockdown over the Covid-19 pandemic and proactive policing.Only 62 people lost their lives in as many accidents till December 10 compared to 132 people last year, deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. “We brought down fatal accidents by more than 50% by booking more cases for traffic violations,” he said.Data released by the traffic police showed 1,377 accidents, including 287 fatal accidents in 2016 that killed 295 people. In 2017, as many as 1,299 accidents were reported in the city, including 301 fatal accidents that killed 309 people. In 2018, as many as 1,136 accidents including 149 fatal accidents were reported, which killed 158 people. In 2019, while 1,062 accidents were reported, 132 people were killed in 126 fatal accidents.The Coimbatore city police, Madurai city police and Kancheepuram district police have reduced traffic death rates by more than 50% in the state, Mutharasu said. “The Supreme Court constituted a monitoring committee to reduce fatal accidents in 2017. As per the committee’s recommendation, police, highways, health and regional transport departments should work together to identify accident blackspots, make roads safer by improving infrastructure and treat accident victims during the golden hour to reduce fatality. The committee also instructed police to register cases for red light jumping, using mobile phones while driving, drunk driving, carrying overload in goods carriages and carrying people in goods carriages, speeding, not wearing helmet and seat belt. We followed the guidelines and brought down traffic violations and accident rates drastically.”“We booked more than 150% traffic violation cases compared to the last year and issued challans worth Rs 21.06 crore for traffic violations this year,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/road-accident-deaths-fall-by-more-than-half-in-city/articleshow/79686372.cms||A Subburaj
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Ban steel export, says Codissia||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia) has urged the Union government to ban export of steel. Steep hike in raw material prices has affected MSME industries, Codissia vice-president M V Ramesh Babu said. “If the situation persists, we will not be able to repay loans. The entire MSME sector will be destroyed,” he told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ban-steel-export-says-codissia/articleshow/79686375.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Number of Covid beds won’t dip as private hospitals prefer to wait & watch||KOLKATA: A day after the state government decided to release beds requisitioned for Covid patients at private hospitals, most of the healthcare facilities said they will stick to the existing system and desist from using the free beds for non-Covid patients. It was difficult to use these beds for other patients immediately since the flow of Covid patients is yet to relent and transferring these beds to a non-Covid unit was difficult, they said. More than 400 beds have been released at hospitals like KPC Medical College, Charnock, ILS Hospital, Howrah, and Desun Hospital in Siliguri. “We cannot utilize the 100 beds that the government has released for treating non-Covid patients immediately as it is in a totally separate block. We will keep those at least for a few more months in case the situation changes. The government has said it could requisition the beds again in case the need arises,” said KPC Medical College CEO Joydip Mitra. The government had acquired 200 beds in this private medical college in mid-May. The medical college has another 500 beds that are currently catering to non-Covid patients. While the government has retained all its Covid beds in the Kolkata unit of Desun Hospital, it has released about half of the beds that it had acquired at the hospital’s Siliguri facility. Hospital sources that they will still keep those beds reserved for Covid treatment for now. Beds have also been released at the Narayana Superspecialty Hospital, Howrah. The authorities said it will help though an immediate conversion of beds was not on the cards. “The flow of non-Covid patients into the hospital has increased considerably over the past three months. We have been managing these patients till now in our new wing. But since this unit is also operating at full occupancy, we were finding it very difficult to accommodate the non-Covid patients of our old building. The release of Covid beds will help us focus on treatment of those patients on immediate basis across all major specialties,” said R Venkatesh, zonal director (east) of Narayana Health. The government had acquired 114 general beds and 16 ICU beds in the Narayana Hospital old building. Now, 74 general beds and six ICU beds have been released by the government. The 100-plus bedded ILS Hospital in Howrah has been functioning as a full-fledged Covid facility since the government requisitioned it to function as Covid hospital. Now, with the government deciding to release 50% of the beds, the hospital plans to start taking in non-Covid patients as well. “We are remapping the hospital so that we can start our non-Covid services as well, including our OPD for non-Covid patient that had been closed since the hospital got converted into a Covid facility. Now we are planning for three zones in the hospital – Covid patients, Covid-suspected patients and non-Covid patients,” said Debasish Dhar, group vice-president, ILS Hospitals. A private hospital chief said while the decision to release beds was welcome, they will continue to be used for Covid patients. “We haven’t been informed about our requisitioned beds but since there hasn’t yet been a significant drop in the number of Covid patients, we won’t be effecting a change. Also, using these beds for non-Covid patients would call for a change in set-up, which is now difficult. We don’t think it’s necessary now and will take a call later,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-of-covid-beds-wont-dip-as-pvt-hosps-prefer-to-wait-watch/articleshow/79685661.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 12, 2020||Goa||Cong, GFP question govt’s measures to maintain steady supply of beef||Panaji: Slamming BJP for interfering with people’s food choices, GFP and Congress on Friday asked chief minister Pramod Sawant if the state government had any plan to ensure that beef supply is maintained in Goa. With Karnataka imposing a ban on cattle slaughter, including bulls and buffaloes, Goa will stop getting beef supply, the two parties said. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that BJP’s divisive agenda is becoming clearer as it tries to target minorities. “This Christmas, there will be no beef on the Christmas platter,” Sardesai said, adding, “I feel that the BJP government, which has failed on the employment, development and other issues, is using a communal narrative to create a vote bank for themselves.” Congress media cell convenor Trajano D’mello, who often attacks the GFP, was in agreement with Sardesai. D’Mello said the state government needs to put in place measures to ensure that beef supply continues in Goa. Speaking on behalf of Congress, D’Mello also said that the ban on cow slaughter will hurt farmers who rear cattle and who will not be able to sell their cattle after they are past their productive age. “My question to this government, and I want a reply so that people can decide for themselves, is that since meat of bulls and buffaloes comes from Belagavi, what arrangements has the government made to ensure beef supply in the state,” the Congress office bearer said. Karnataka has introduced a law that prohibits the slaughter of all kinds of cattle with a fine of Rs 10 lakh and imprisonment of up to seven years being imposed on offenders. The Goa Meat Complex, the only state-run abattoir in Goa, is closed. “With shortage of beef, people will be forced to buy fish, vegetable and this in turn will increase prices of these food items. The meat complex remains shut even after spending crores of rupees to upgrade it,” D’Mello said. GFP said that BJP was slowing bringing the Uttar Pradesh model and Sawant is unable to resist pressure to ensure an artificial ban on beef in Goa. Congress and GFP have challenged the Christian MLAs in the BJP government to speak up and exert pressure on the government to ensure a steady supply of beef in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-gfp-question-govts-measures-to-maintain-steady-supply-of-beef/articleshow/79686376.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Umrah pilgrims want regular India-Saudi flights under air bubble||MUMBAI: After pilgrims and tour operators welcomed the resumption of Umrah visas after 10 months from Friday, tour operators have demanded that regular flights between India and Saudi Arabia should start under air bubble arrangements. Though Saudi Arabia allowed Umrah visas for international pilgrims on November 1, it had not resumed visas for Indian pilgrims and flights from India to the Saudi kingdom have remained suspended. While Haj involves performed over five days annually, Umrah, also called lesser pilgrimage, can be performed multiple times through the year. “It is good news that now Umrah visas for Indian pilgrims are being issued, but unless flights under air bubble arrangements between India and Saudi Arabia tart, it will not make much sense,” said Yusuf Ahmed Kherada of Al Khalid Tours and Travels. Currently, some NRIs are travelling to Saudi Arabia via Dubai. It is not feasible for the Umrah pilgrims to travel to Saudi Arabia via Dubai as it that will increase the cost and require a 14-day quarantine in Dubai, which no Umrah pilgrim will agree to. Imran Alvi of Alvi Tours and Travels said Umrah pilgrims had desperately wanted resumption of visa so that they can travel to Islam’s holiest places in Saudi Arabia. Though Umrah is performed near the holy shrine in Mecca, most pilgrims also travel to Medina to visit the Prophet’s mausoleum there. Before the pandemic breakout halted Umrah, around seven lakh Indian pilgrims would perform Umrah annually. “I want to visit Mecca and perform Umrah soon. It brings so many blessings,” said a Central Mumbai resident requesting anonymity. India has air bubble arrangements with 22 countries. These are special arrangements, through which flights are allowed for a short period before normal commercial flights resume between two countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/umrah-pilgrims-want-regular-india-saudi-flights-under-air-bubble/articleshow/79686409.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Power plant emission in suburbs turns Kolkata air toxic||KOLKATA: Smog persisted for the fourth consecutive day in the city with a thick blanket of haze hanging low till late morning, reducing visibility and disrupting transport services — road, water and air. Track the pollution level in your cityThe city air quality index improved a shade on Friday with AQI swerving from very poor (301-400) to poor (201-300). Health experts have advised against any strenuous outdoor physical activities, particularly for people above 50. “Recent research evidence has also shown that as the state begins to feel a nip in the air, the city experiences high sulphur dioxide (SO2) concentrations, which in most cases are not locally generated but carried by the complex wind dynamics that dominate the Indian landmass,” said a report titled ‘State of Bengal’s Air’ by SwitchON Foundation and Bengal Clean Air Network (Bengal CAN). Due to the calm conditions, pollutants are persisting at the lower levels of the atmosphere. “This calls for action for controlling secondary particulate matter pollution in Kolkata,” said the report. A CSE study has indicated that the local ambient SO2 concentration in Kolkata is quite low. The sudden increase in PM2.5 across Kolkata is largely due to emission from power plants and industries in the suburbs. In fact, Urban Emissions Info, which provides insight into air pollution in urban agglomerations to support public dialogue and policy discussions, indicates that this particular smog episode in Kolkata is influenced by power plant emissions and domestic use of solid fuel. On Friday, smog kept the sun hidden from view till after 10am that left the city cold and grey till noon. Meteorological conditions changed ever so slightly thereafter. The absolute calm that persisted for the last three days was broken by some vertical wind movement, dispersing some pollutants. “The smog contains a very high concentration of finer particulate matter like PM2.5, which are ultrafine particles of diameter less than 2.5 micrometers. They can easily travel straight into the bloodstream," PCB scientists have warned. Weathermen said the fog could persist till the weekend since moisture – one of the factors that contribute to its formation – was still flowing into Kolkata. “There’s a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal that is supplying moisture. Since the wind speed is very low, the moisture is easily crystalizing into fog,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/power-plant-emission-in-suburbs-turns-city-air-toxic/articleshow/79685667.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 12, 2020||Goa||GIDC likely to amend SEZ auction docu||Panaji: Coming up blank for the second time, Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) plans to modify the terms of the contract for auctioning the land repossessed from special economic zone (SEZ) promoters. With property and management consultancy firms once again shying from responding to GIDC’s request for proposal (RFP), the corporation is likely to dilute the contract norms and may offer a mobilization advance to start work to the consultant. As TOI reported in November, global consultancy firms had shown interest in the property advisory contract, but the success fee clause kept them away. GIDC has decided to extend the last date for bidding till December 10 but came up blank yet again. “We got no bidders,” said a GIDC official. “They want 15-20% advance as they will incur some cost, so GIDC may have to dilute the tender.” The setback means that GIDC will continue to pay steep equated monthly instalments (EMI) of Rs 4 crore per month on the Rs 200 crore short-term loan taken from the Oriental Bank of Commerce. The interest amount itself is Rs1.1 crore per month for a loan that was taken in May 2019 to pay back the SEZ promoters as part of an out-of-court settlement to help the corporation take back 38.4 lakh sqm of SEZ land across the state. On December 30, 2019, the Industries department asked GIDC to auction the SEZ land in order to repay the loan. However, bureaucratic delays and the Covid-19 pandemic delayed the process and GIDC issued the RFP for a property consultant only in October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-likely-to-amend-sez-auction-docu/articleshow/79686382.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 12, 2020||Coimbatore||More cops deployed to regulate traffic||Coimbatore: Ten cops from the city armed reserve police have been deputed to the city traffic police to regulate traffic between SITRA junction and Codissia traffic signal on Avinashi Road and Trichy Road from Friday. “The road from Coddissia traffic signal to SITRA junction is spacious. But the SITRA junction to Coddissia signal stretch is narrow and prone to traffic congestion. The pedestrian pathway on the stretch will be demolished to ease vehicle movement,” deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. The state highways department has started elevated corridor work in front of PSG College of Arts and Science and SITRA junction on Avinashi Road. The construction company has placed barricades on the two lanes. “The private contractor has removed electricity poles on the stretch and will remove CCTC cameras also. Cops will use Police-E-Eye app to click photos of traffic rule violations on the stretch,” Mutharasu said. “Due to the flyover construction work on Trichy Road, Ramanathapuram junction is witnessing heavy traffic jam. We deployed five more city armed reserve cops on the road to regulate traffic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/more-cops-deployed-to-regulate-traffic/articleshow/79686381.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Encroachers beat up revenue staff in Hyderabad, booked||HYDERABAD: Kukatpally police registered a criminal case against encroachers for allegedly assaulting revenue staff when they tried to clear the encroachments near Kamuni Cheruvu a few days ago. Kukatpally police said that that a case was registered under the sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty) and 447 (punishment for criminal trespass) of IPC. After getting complaints that some persons have constructed temporary houses near Kamuni Cheruvu by encroaching the lake land, revenue officials went to remove the encroachments. But the persons who had set up the structures allegedly assaulted and abused the officials with foul words. Kukatpally police said that no one has been arrested till now and investigation is still being done. Police added they are waiting for documents from revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/encroachers-beat-up-revenue-staff-booked/articleshow/79687241.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||India: Pakistan best example of disinformation campaign||NEW DELHI: After Islamabad claimed vindication over the EU DisInfoLab alleging a disinformation campaign by India, the government on Friday hit out at Pakistan saying disinformation is practised not by responsible democracies but those who have a record of sheltering international terrorists like Osama bin Laden. “As a responsible democracy, India does not practise disinformation campaigns,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, responding to the claims by Pakistan. “In fact, if you are looking at disinformation, the best example is the country next door which is circulating fictional and fabricated dossiers and purveys a regular stream of fake news. Disinformation is practised particularly by those who have records to hide such as sheltering international wanted terrorists including Osama bin Laden. And seek unsuccessfully to cover up their own tracks such as on the 26/ 11 Mumbai attack,” he added. Islamabad had recently circulated a dossier claiming to provide “evidence” about India’s involvement in terrorist activities in Pakistan. Reports from Islamabad said Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had appealed to the UN and EU to investigate the report, exposing a “15-year disinformation campaign” that he alleged was designed to serve India’s interests and discredit Pakistan. “We also call on the United Nations to create processes that ensure that the international system is not manipulated through such influence operations,” he said. According to an AP report, the EU DisinfoLab report, entitled “Indian Chronicles',' did not explicitly attribute the campaign to the Indian government or its intelligence agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-pakistan-best-example-of-disinformation-campaign/articleshow/79688798.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Rajkot||Groom fires in air, lands behind bars||Palanpur: His expression of joy at the outset of a wedded life literally misfired, and the groom ended up behind bars for firing in the air during the marriage procession. He ultimately landed in a lock-up as a newly-wedded man! Two others were also arrested by the Palanpur taluka police on Friday from Kanodar along with the 25-year-old groom Aashish Chavda. Cops’ action follows a video clip that went viral .The other two arrested have been identified as Chavda’s friends Vipul Chavda from Kanodar and Sagar Rananvasiya (25) Mota Karja village in Amirgadh taluka, said sub-inspector BR Patel of taluka police.  While Vipul had arranged for the gun, Sagar helped him in the process. Police arrested them soon after the rituals were over. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/groom-fires-in-air-lands-behind-bars/articleshow/79684626.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Retired CRPF inspector on fitness mission to nudge ‘lazy Indians’||HYDERABAD: For K Ravi Kumar, a retired inspector of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), walking is a passion. The 54-year-old Taranka resident is out to raise awareness among the “lazy Indians” on the benefits of walking. In the process, he also aims to walk into the Guinness Book of World records soon. On October 25, Ravi walked for 22 hours in a day to log 1,03,953 steps and enter the India Book of Records, which is yet to be ratified. He eclipsed the records of Sushant Jaiswal of Uttar Pradesh, who had walked 1,00,106 steps in April 2017 and Balaji Suryawanshi of Maharashtra, who had walked 1,00,128 steps in September 2019. Ravi took up walking after an Army officer ridiculed him for being overweight. Though he started walking then, he set his eyes on the milestone of one-lakh plus steps three months ago. So far, he has completed one-lakh plus steps on four occasions and plans three more attempts on Dec 13, Dec 25 and on Jan 1, 2021. “Walking has worked like a wonder drug for me. I used to have a couple of health issues like sinusitis etc,” he told TOI on Thursday. “But after taking up regular walking, I am free of all these issues. My aim is to reach the one-crore step mark in one year,” he said. “We Indians are lazy unlike the Chinese and the Americans. Unless we improve our fitness, it will show in the long run,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/retired-crpf-inspector-on-fitness-mission-to-nudge-lazy-indians/articleshow/79687628.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Goa||Navy bids farewell to fighter pilot||Panaji: Indian Navy fighter pilot Commander Nishant Singh was laid to rest with full military honours at INS Hansa, Goa, on Friday. The aviator, a qualified flight instructor, was cremated at the Sada crematorium in the morning after a funeral service at the naval airbase where he was stationed. Cdr Singh lost his life after his MiG-29KUB crashed off Goa on November 26 during a routine training sortie from INS Vikramaditya. His wife, Nayaab Randhawa, who he married just six months earlier, received the tricolour and Singh’s uniform from the INS 300 squadron commanding officer. Cdr Singh joined Indian Navy following the footsteps of his father, Cdr Yash Vir Singh (Retd). Cdr Singh grew up in Goa, studying at the Navy Children Schools at Goa and Vishakhapatnam. An alumnus of the Naval Academy, INS Mandovi, he was commissioned into the executive branch of the Indian Navy in 2008 and subsequently signed up to become a naval aviator. He had clocked 1,500 flying hours with the Kiran, Hawk and MiG-29K aircraft, including 400 hours on the Russian twin-engine fighter. Singh became a qualified fighter pilot and earned the ‘Wings of Gold’ after undergoing advance strike training with the US Navy in December 2011. “As a qualified flying instructor, Cdr Nishant had always incorporated best practices in training. The Indian Navy has lost one of its most accomplished aviators in Cdr Nishant as he had also received advanced strike training with the US Navy,” the Navy said in a statement. Aside from being a skilled fighter pilot, Cdr Singh was also a qualified mountaineer and a skilled yachtsman. “The demise of the officer is a huge loss to the Indian Navy, and naval aviation in particular,” said the Navy in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-bids-farewell-to-fighter-pilot/articleshow/79686406.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Colleges get ready for December 16 start to 1st year e-classes||KOLKATA: Colleges in Kolkata are figuring out ways to conduct lessons on online platforms once first-semester classes begin on December 16 following instructions from the government. Principals are deliberating on several aspects, including how tech-savvy their professors are, whether all the students have access to a common online platform or not and the status of net connectivity in far-flung areas. Many institute heads are also toying with the idea of conducting a training programme for some of their professors. Ever since on-campus classes were discontinued in March, most colleges have been preparing study materials and emailing them to students or posting on official WhatsApp groups. A few institutes held live online classes on social media. But with the government making it clear that on-campus classes might not be a reality any time soon, college authorities have gone into a huddle to figure out ways to conduct online classes. At Maulana Azad College, WhatsApp groups have been formed for first-semester students. “The timetables have been shared on WhatsApp groups. Students will shortly be informed about the mode of online classes,” said Subhasis Dutta, principal of Maulana Azad College. Many institutes, such as Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration, J D Birla Institute and The Bhawanipur Education Society College, have been holding online classes. But it has not been possible at most other colleges. “Many students do not have access to smart devices. Many others do not have strong net connectivity. College principals must factor in a lot of aspects,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University chapter of All Bengal Principals’ Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-get-ready-for-dec-16-start-to-1st-year-e-classes/articleshow/79685680.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Airport Metro station takes a leap towards completion||KOLKATA: The top slab casting of Airport Metro station has just been completed. The hub station coming up on the airport premises will be linked to three Metro corridors: New Garia-Airport, Noapara-Airport and Airport-Barasat. The Airport-Barasat line will initially end at New Barrackpore. To construct the station’s top slab, 20 transit engines and 1,730 cubic metres of concrete were used. The entire process involved 30 hours of non-stop pouring from Monday morning. “This is the country’s biggest underground Metro facility. It will also have the city’s first underground railway yard. Construction activity has been on during the pandemic and this milestone was crossed on Tuesday,” Devendra Kumar, chief engineer, Metro Railway, told TOI on Thursday. “We aim to complete the station by December 2021,” he added. The station’s location changed several times. The current site, around 150m from the airport, was finalized last year. ITD Cementation started construction in March. The project includes five platforms, a concourse level and the underground railway yard. The platforms will be 12m below the ground and the concourse level at 6m. A corridor with walkalators will connect the station with the airport terminal. Passengers can take an escalator or elevator to reach the arrival or the departure level. The station was initially supposed to be an elevated one, near the Circular Railway line that is no longer in use. But the Airports Authority of India objected saying the construction would affect flight safety. And the decision to build an underground station was taken. In the earlier plan, passengers would have to walk longer — around 500m — to reach the airport terminal. Now, it’s only 150m. Along with the station, there will be an underground yard with basic maintenance facilities and space for three to four trains. Two pedestrian subways are being built to join the station with Jessore Road and airport terminal. On Tuesday, a part of the subway’s diaphragm wall was cast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-metro-station-takes-a-leap-towards-completion/articleshow/79685675.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 12, 2020||Goa||Goa’s meat traders in a quandary over impact of K’taka’s proposed cattle slaughter law||Panaji: Meat traders from Goa are apprehensive over the anti-cattle slaughter bill that is proposed to be tabled in the Karnataka assembly. With Goa dependent on cattle from Belagavi to sell beef in the state, the new bill may thwart their business of bringing in fresh beef from the neighbouring state, which leaves their fate hanging in the balance. Alternatively, bringing in live animals instead and slaughtering them at the government abattoir – the Goa Meat Complex - is also currently off the table with the complex being non-operational. “The transport of animals from Karnataka will not be affected, but the Goa Meat Complex is not carrying out any slaughter as of now. What might be affected is the fresh beef which was coming from Karnataka. In Goa, since there is no generation of beef, there is going to probably be a beef shortage in the state,” deputy director of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Dr Marwin Lopes said. He further said that Goa already imposes a ban on cow slaughter, but other cattle above a certain age and on certification by a veterinary doctor are permitted for slaughter. “This ban has left us unsure of whether we will receive beef supply for the Christmas season. Our suppliers in Belagavi have not yet got the ban order from the Karnataka government. Until then, Goa may continue to get beef supply. But since the Christian wedding season is ongoing and Christmas is also approaching, we are worried,” a trader said. President of the Quraishi Meat Traders’ Association Anwar Bepari said that the bill’s implementation will leave traders in Goa with no choice but to shut shop and deprive the Goan population and tourists of beef. “Goa is totally dependent on Karnataka for the sale and consumption of beef because there are hardly any live cattle in Goa that can be slaughtered for beef. We therefore import beef and livestock from Karnataka to Goa. This bill, however, does not permit the transportation, slaughtering and consumption of cattle,” he said. The association is therefore going to approach chief minister Pramod Sawant, to intervene in this matter and resolve the issue since the portfolio of animal husbandry and veterinary services is with him. Prior to that, the meat traders will have a meeting with their suppliers in Belagavi as well, Bepari said. Sources from the Goa Meat Complex said that they will wait for the model code of conduct, enforced in view of the zilla panchayat elections, to end before they take steps to reopen the abattoir. “We have all the licences and have updated all our permits, and therefore ready to restart. Once traders start bringing cattle for slaughter, we can resume operations. After the code of conduct is lifted, we will have a meeting with the board of directors and decide when to open the abattoir,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-meat-traders-in-a-quandary-over-impact-of-ktakas-proposed-cattle-slaughter-law/articleshow/79686414.cms||Nida Sayed
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||UT asks departments to submit report on works done from April till Nov-end||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh administration has written to heads of different departments to submit report on projects carried out during the first eight months i.e. between April and November of current financial year 2020-21. Shortage of budget has affected many projects and the UT wants to keep a track on all the important projects in the city. Recently, the Chandigarh administration and the municipal corporation (MC) were criticised for not carrying out road repair works in the city. However, after the recent unlock guidelines, the road repair work started in many sectors and UT villages. The UT finance department had already made it clear to various departments that office expenses, barring fuel charges, will not be allowed and there will be a complete ban on LTC. Also, travelling allowance (TA) and dearness allowance (DA) and medical allowances will be released only after approval from the adviser to the Chandigarh administrator. The UT finance department had also earmarked funds for each department of the UT administration and asked them to stick to the same. Against the demand of Rs 5,300 crore, the Union government in February had allocated Rs 5138.10 crore budget for financial year 2020-21 to the Chandigarh administration. While the UT administration was expecting a good hike in the budget for 2020-21, but the Centre had given a hike of only Rs 384.98 crore in comparison to the last financial year’s budget. The UT was allocated a total of Rs 5,138.10 crore - Rs 4,643.96 crore under revenue and Rs 494.14 crore under capital head - against the demand of Rs 5,300 crore. In the last budget, the administration was allocated a total of Rs 4,753.12 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-asks-depts-to-submit-report-on-works-done-from-april-till-nov-end/articleshow/79686421.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Goa||Post dept’s spl ink stamp for Christmas||Panaji: Goa postal division on Friday released a special cancellation bearing the slogan ‘Let’s enjoy a Covid-19 free Christmas 2020’ at the hands of senior superintendent of post offices Sudhir G Jakhere. This special cancellation bears the message of maintaining social distancing, wearing mask and washing hand regularly while celebrating the festival of Christmas. The cancellation will be impressed upon all articles received for delivery at the Panaji head post office and the Margao head post office till December 24. Assistant director postal services, regional office, Panaji, K Balaraju and President Goa Philatelic and Numismatic Society, MR Ramesh Kumar, were also present for the function held at conference hall, Tapal Bhavan, Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/post-depts-spl-ink-stamp-for-christmas/articleshow/79686444.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Forest department, NKDA team up against biomass burning||KOLKATA: The forest department has joined hands with New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) to take up a number of initiatives to prevent biomass burning and protect bird diversity in New Town. NKDA authorities on Thursday held a meeting with stakeholders, including forest and environment department officials and members of NGO New Town Forum and News (NTFN), to discuss the next course of action. “The wildlife department officials have already started awareness campaigns in New Town. On Friday, they distributed leaflets on the issue in the area. A WhatsApp number has been provided to all residents’ associations so people can report incidents of biomass burning. Vigilance teams are also being posted in many locations and a water tanker is kept on stand by to reach the spot and douse the flames,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Officials said that drone surveillance has started, which has brought into focus the fact that, at times, discarded items like thermocol boxes dumped in vacant plots are set on fire. “We are requesting residents to sell items that can be recycled only to authorized vendors who collect garbage,” said an official. A list of authorized vendors will be published soon, another official said. The authorities, NTFN members and other residents are also trying to come up with a list of repeat offenders. miscreants who have been earlier noticed to interact with them to stop them from doing the nuisance. “Awareness drives will be conducted and we are keeping watch,” said NTFN chairperson Samaresh Das. NKDA is also engaging a nodal officer who will take action against the miscreants by reporting to the police and wildlife department. There are plans to use weedicide to clear areas that have been burnt. Earlier, a group of six volunteers was engaged to keep a check on bikes and notice boards were put up, but biomass burning continued. Environment activist Subhas Datta has filed a petition at the NGT on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/forest-dept-nkda-team-up-against-biomass-burning/articleshow/79685700.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 12, 2020||Goa||IMA-Goa supports nationwide strike||Panaji: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Goa branch, supported the nationwide strike call given by the association to protest the Centre’s move to allow ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. All non-essential medical services remained closed on Friday. The IMA-Goa did not stage any dharnas. “Around 1,500 doctors affiliated to IMA-Goa attended only emergency cases as part of its nationwide protests held against mixopathy,” president of IMA-Goa, Dr S Samuel, said in a press statement. The government notification allows post graduate ayurveda practitioners to perform 39 general surgery procedures and 19 other procedures. IMA has termed the government’s attempt to allow ayurveda practitioners to enter general medicine “mixopathy”. Services in hospitals across the state were unhindered. Past president of IMA-Goa, Dr Shekhar Salkar, submitted a memorandum to Ayush minister Shripad Naik on the issue. IMA representatives on Tuesday had a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is an ayurvedic doctor himself, and urged him to look into the matter. Samuel said that they brought it to the notice of the authorities that they are “disappointed and dismayed” over the steps taken by the central government to disrupt the allopathic system of medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-goa-supports-nationwide-strike/articleshow/79686458.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Schools wait for West Bengal nod to resume practicals||KOLKATA: Though one prominent city school has started its practical classes on campus attended by small groups of students, others have decided to wait and watch. Most schools said parents were willing to send their wards if the schools followed sanitization protocols. Loreto House has started holding practical classes in its laboratories for Class XII (science) girls in small batches since Thursday after taking consent from all parents. The school is affiliated to CISCE, which has science practicals as part of the ISC (XII) board examinations. The school felt that students are totally out of touch with the practicals and need on-site practice and asked parents if they would be willing to send their girls. All parents consented after they were satisfied with the sanitization and other measures that the school had taken. Principal Aruna Gomes said the practical classes will happen for five working days before the winter break. The only other Loreto School that has science as part of its curriculum is Loreto Bowbazar, where board-year students are being called to school in batches to submit projects and practical files that will be sent to the council. During a few days in October when the girls came in, they were given on-site practical classes by the teachers, said principal Purbita Bagchi. “We are still hesitant about calling them for practical classes though we have parental consent. We are waiting for further clarity both from the state and the Council,” she said. Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas, too, has parents’ consent to start practical classes on campus but is waiting for instructions from the state. “Both parents and kids are worried about the practicals in the Class XII boards because this is a scoring portion and most have called in to say that they are willing to come for classes. However, we are waiting for the state nod,” he said. Even Class X board examinees need to come to campus to engage with teachers and Biswas hopes for greater clarity soon. Modern High School has opted to be extra careful in this matter and wants for the state government’s reply to the Council’s request of re-opening campuses on January 4. “As of now there is no permission and I am sure by January 4 we will have greater clarity,” said director Devi Kar. Science teachers will come to school from January and demonstrate experiments from the labs at St James School, principal Terence Ireland said. “For the submission of practical files, we will call kids in small numbers from January,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-wait-for-state-nod-to-resume-practicals/articleshow/79685695.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||5 professors in race for Arabi-Farsi varsity VC post||LUCKNOW: The race for the vice-chancellorship of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Arabi Farsi University (KMCAFU) has entered final stages. Interviews of five professors shortlisted for the task are said to have been completed. Two Lucknow University professors are in the fray along with academicians from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET-AKTU) and Allahabad University (AU), source said. The post has been lying vacant since October 25. Recipient of 2017 President of India Certificate of Honour Syed Ainul Hasan, who is professor at Centre of Persian and Central Asian Studies, JNU, is among the front-runners. With 32-year teaching and research experience, he played a key role in enhancing Indo-Afghan relations by starting Afghan Resource Centre in JNU. Prof Nishi Pandey and Prof Somesh Shukla from LU have also put up a strong claim. Recipient of Fulbright fellowship twice and several other awards, Pandey, a professor of English, holds three decades of teaching, research and administrative experience and was LU’s first woman proctor. Shukla, a professor of commerce, too has three decades of teaching, research and administrative experience. At present, he is also executive council member of KMCUAF and director of LU’s Bhaurao Deveras Research Chair. Another strong contender Bharti Dwivedi, ex-professor of electrical engineering at IET-AKTU has 40 years of teaching, research and administrative experience and has over 130 publications. Shabnam Hameed Ansari, head of the Urdu department, AU, has also put up a strong presence. She has 35 years of research and teaching experience and 12 books and various awards to her credit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-profs-in-race-for-arabi-farsi-varsity-vc-post/articleshow/79687261.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 12, 2020||Goa||Illegally mined sand poured back into river||Ponda: Seven canoes and a truck were seized and around 225 cubic metres of sand were poured back into the river basin, following a raid on illegal sand mining at Betki in Ponda. The raid was carried out by officials of the directorate of mines and geology on Friday morning. Deputy director Abhir Hede said some complaints were received that illegal sand extraction from River Mandovi at Betki was being carried out. A team of around seven officials led by senior geologist Sudhir Mandrekar found a huge stock of sand at the site during the raid, but no person was found actively extracting the sand. Heaps of sand along the river bank and the truck parked nearby were found, along with the canoes anchored in the river. The team had initially engaged some labourers to pour back the sand into the river basin. However, as the quantity was huge, an excavator had to be called in as well to perform the task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegally-mined-sand-poured-back-into-river/articleshow/79686503.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Activists and regulars breathe new life into Rabindra Sarobar with clean-up campaign||KOLKATA: Green activists started plantation activities at Rabindra Sarobar on Friday to improve the depleting oxygen level and rejuvenate the water body. In winter, due to low dissolved oxygen, which normally drops in the absence of strong sunlight, dead fish are found floating in the city’s biggest man-made lake. They have been found floating in the water over the last week. Rabindra Sarobar and its counterpart on EM Bypass Subhas Sarobar were reopened with pre-Covid timings on Thursday. The same day, environmentalist groups under the banners of Saviour and Friends of Environment (SAFE), Earthday Network and Active Citizens Together for Sustainability, supported by the lakes’ custodian KMDA, started a clean-up drive at Rabindra Sarobar. . The 192-acre Lake premises with a 73-acre water body and Subhas Sarobar were recently spared the annual onslaught of Chhath rituals with National Green Tribunal (NGT), Calcutta High Court and the Supreme Court refusing to allow festivities there. However, during the clean-up drive, sample tests revealed oxygen levels had depleted to 60% in pockets. So, on Friday, underwater plantation was carried out with Amazonia plants as a remedial method to absorb the pollutants. Dissolved oxygen (DO) is a measure of the amount of oxygen dissolved in water. “With poor DO, the biological oxygen demand (BOD) in the lakes have increased substantially and is affecting the flora and fauna. We are trying to address this and reduce the BOD,” said Sudipta Bhattacharjee, secretary, SAFE. Environmentalist and Lake regular S M Ghosh said, “Oxygen level in the lake has depleted considerably. The amount of oxygen the water can hold is related to temperature. So, on one hand, the addition of oxygen is getting reduced because the dead leaves and trunks need oxygen to decompose while on the other, the demand for oxygen in the water is rising because there are aquatic beings who need it for survival. The main sources of DO are plants and algae. Friday’s plantation will increase the oxygen.” On Thursday, with the help of manpower and boats from KMDA, dead leaves, trunks felled by Amphan and plastic were removed from the water. This should also help increase DO, the green activists said. They also released some fish, like guppy, techokha and silver carp, which will prevent mosquito larvae formation in the water that has been rendered stagnant because rowing had been stalled for months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activists-and-regulars-breathe-new-life-into-rabindra-sarobar-with-clean-up-campaign/articleshow/79685710.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||5 tanneries fined Rs 1 lakh each for PCB norms violation||LUCKNOW: The Kanpur unit of special task force (Magh Mela) has levied a penalty of Rs 1 lakh each on five Jajmau-based tanneries for violation of roster norms introduced by the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB). Power supply to these tanneries was also disconnected with immediate effect. UPPCB officials said the tanneries were found to be violating roster norms introduced to keep pollution in river Ganga under control ahead of Magh Mela scheduled from second week of January. On the directions of UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, at least 27 STFs comprising members of UPPCB, electricity department and executive magistrates were formed in districts through which the Ganga passes. Member secretary of UPPCB Ashish Tiwari said, “There are four pumping stations at Jajmau which are responsible for pumping waste discharge of local tanneries to common effluent treatment plant (CETP), where solid waste is segregated and waste water is treated before been released into the river. However, due to overburden of waste discharge via pumping stations, it was decided that only two pumping stations will work at a time, subsequently forcing tanneries to follow roster in which each tannery was supposed to work 15 days a month.” “However, even after reminder ahead of Magh Mela, five tanneries were found violating norms and continued to release waste into Ganga.We have directed power department to disconnect supply to tanneries and also imposed Rs 1 lakh penalty each,” he added. UPPCB also issued notice to at least seven other industries in Kanpur asking them to take appropriate measures to check air pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-tanneries-fined-rs-1l-each-for-pcbnorms-violation/articleshow/79687279.cms||Arvind Chauhan
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Commuters negotiate a maze due to lack of signboards, police help||ROHTAK: Arpit Tyagi of Panipat was scheduled to take a flight for Dhaka from Delhi international airport on December 1 but he had to cancel it due to lack of clarity on the route to enter the national capital in view of the blockade of Singhu and Tikri borders. “I contacted some of my friends to ascertain the route map due to the blockade by farmers’ unions but none of my acquaintances had any idea. They said there are blockades even at routes on link roads on the way to Delhi,” said Arpit, who works in Dhaka. Finally, he got another ticket for December 8 but his journey, which would ordinarily have lasted three to four hours, was stretched to a day. He also said cops were deployed on highways to divert traffic from blocked sites but they would not tell how to enter Delhi. Gurkirpal from Punjab, who was on his way to Delhi via the Jind-Rohtak highway, found himself in similar circumstances. He said he was not clear if he would be able to reach Delhi since both main routes via Sonipat and Bahadurgarh-Tikri border were closed. “The only help for me was the GPS navigator,” he said. Ram Singh from Punjab, who went to Delhi recently, said there are no route maps or signboards on the way from Haryana. “I reached Bahadurgarh to enter Delhi but got stuck on the bypass as it was blocked from both sides. Police deployed on Jakhoda bypass were of no help to commuters like me. It took me a long time figuring out the Najafgarh route to enter Delhi as tractor-trolleys were parked on both sides of the highway,” he said. A resident of Sonipat attributed this to lack of coordination between Haryana and Delhi police. He said they have not issued any joint advisory for commuters travelling through Haryana. “An unknown person travelling by his own vehicle starts getting confused from Murthal Toll Plaza as there are diversions on KMP expressway. There is some relief to those who travel in the day but those who are travelling at night by personal vehicles find it very challenging,” he said. While police personnel have put up barricades, they have not set up signboards. A common sight at the farmers’ agitation site is that of men, women and children walking on foot with luggage on their heads. IGP, Rohtak range, Sandeep Khirwar said Haryana police have issued a traffic advisory on Twitter as well as mass media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/commuters-negotiate-a-maze-due-to-lack-of-signboards-police-help/articleshow/79686556.cms||Sat Singh
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||29 deaths, 549 cases in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: As many as 29 people infected with Covid died in Punjab while 549 tested positive on Friday. So far, 159,099 people have been tested positive while the death count is 5,036 in the state. Districts which reported positive cases included Jalandhar (97), Mohali (76), Ludhiana (67), Amritsar (62), Patiala (35), Bathinda (31), Hoshiarpur (24), Gurdaspur (23), Ropar (19), Pathankot, Muktsar and Faridkot (18) each), Nawanshahr (10), Ferozepur, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Kapurthala (7 each), Moga (6) and Fazilka and Tarn Taran.(4 each). Five persons died in Amritsar, four each in Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar, three in Ludhiana and one each in Tarn Taran, Patiala, Ropar, Pathankot, Mohali, Mansa, Kapurthala, Fazilka and Hoshiarpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/29-deaths-549-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/79686565.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers' protest: ‘Open to talks, let Centre get ready to repeal laws’||BATHINDA: Punjab farmer unions protesting against central farm laws, announced that they have not closed doors for talks but the central government must come up for a proposal to repeal the three laws and they will hold talks. However, the protests at Delhi borders will continue till then, they added. The farm unions have also prepared a strategy to implement toll-free Saturday across the country and to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway. The farmer organisations, in the meanwhile, have made it clear that they have no plans to block railway traffic anywhere. However, the 30 farm organisations have distanced themselves from BKU (Ekta Ugrahan)’s use of photos of those facing UAPA and Delhi riot cases during a protest at the border on Thursday. “The farm organisations are still open for talks with the Union government but it should be open for repealing the laws which are not liked by the farmers. Whenever the government will call us after it is ready for repealing laws we will go for talks,” farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said on Friday evening. Reacting to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar again asking farmers to lift the protests as Modi government was ready to clear all the objections raised by them on any clause in any of the three laws, Rajewal reiterated they only want the laws to be repealed and till then the protest would continue unabated. “Farmers do not fear cases being registered for violation of Covid protocols as they keep on facing many cases,” he said and added that no farmer would go from Singhu border to block the Delhi-Jaipur highway on Saturday. The farmers from Rajasthan or those near the highway will block it, he said. The farmers and like-minded organisations will support the call of making the country toll-free on Saturday and the protests will be held at deputy commissioner’s offices and Reliance group malls on December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/open-to-talks-let-centre-get-ready-to-repeal-laws/articleshow/79686577.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Non-agri property registration slot bookings begin in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In what could come as a relief to those waiting for their properties to be registered in Telangana, the government on Friday began online booking of slots for registration of non-agricultural properties after a break of three months. Launching the slot booking system, chief secretary Somesh Kumar said people could also opt for challans by using the net banking system. “Old charges will be applicable for registrations as soon as details of the properties to be registered are uploaded into the system,” he said. Registrations will, however, be carried out according to the old online slot booking system and not through the Dharani land portal. Houses, plots and flats can be registered under the slot booking system. With the high court giving its nod, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had ordered the CS to begin the registration process of non-agricultural properties. A decision on those who do not provide Aadhaar numbers but want to register the properties will be taken soon, officials said. The slot booking process began across 141 sub-registrar offices in the state on Friday. Though users can book the slots online for registration of properties, registrations will begin from December 14 at the sub-registrar offices. In the sub-registrar offices, 24 slots each were made available for booking. Officials said the current availability would be increased depending on the demand. Officials said buyers and sellers along with witnesses have to be present in the sub-registrar offices for registering a property. The CS said a separate facility would be opened for real estate builders for registrations. After the registration, an e-passbook will be generated and within 7-10 days, a regular passbook will be given. The passbooks will be in orange colour. Meanwhile, the CS said a decision on registration of those who did not opt for the layout regularisation scheme would be taken at a later date. Earlier in the day, some technical glitches arose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-agri-property-registrationslot-bookings-begin-in-state/articleshow/79686561.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Many hotels in Doon and Mussoorie don’t have clearance from pollution control board to operate, says reply to RTI query||Dehradun/Mussoorie: A number of hotels and commercial hospitality establishments in Dehradun and Mussoorie have failed to adhere to environmental norms prescribed by the state pollution control board, the reply to an RTI query filed by an environmental activist has revealed. According to the RTI reply provided by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection & Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB), only 116 hospitality establishments in Dehradun and 147 in Mussoorie have the required certificates and clearance from the board to run their operations. A total of 433 hotels, resorts and guest houses in Dehradun district (covering Dehradun, Rishikesh and Mussoorie) are currently registered with the state's tourism department, which means that there is only around 60% compliance to pollution norms among hotels in these areas. Terming this as ‘a gross violation of the Indian Water Act, 1974 and Air Act, 1981’, Akash Vashishtha, the activist who filed the query, said, “The numbers are shocking, especially for a tourist town like Mussoorie, which has a highly eco-fragile environment and sees tourists from across the country as well as outside. The figures reveal that there is hardly any concern to ensure environmental guidelines are followed in the hill town either. Details of the board's inspections, which ought to be conducted at least once a quarter were also missing from the records that were provided.” As per the Mussoorie Municipal Council, 207 hospitality establishments are registered with the local body. The RTI response lists 147 properties in the town as having obtained the required clearances which means around 60 hotels and guest houses in the hill town are running without the necessary consent to operate. These include a few big hotels, too, as per details provided by the UEPPCB. Most noticeable is the case of a large resort located near the Mall road having about 80 rooms. When TOI contacted the general manager of the resort, he chose not to respond. Meanwhile, Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association (MHA) when queried, said that the association had around 140 member hotels, all of whom had obtained the requisite clearance from the pollution control board to operate. According to Vashishtha, approval of about 125 hotels/commercial establishments in Dehradun and Mussoorie have expired by March this year, adding that UEPPCB did not provide the status of clearance for 45 hotels/commercial establishments. This, he said, indicates that the actual number of hotels and guest houses running without a pollution board clearance would be higher than the numbers cited. When contacted about the issue, SP Subudhi, secretary, UEPPCB, said that two years ago, all hotels in the state were identified through the respective district administrations and asked to register themselves with the board. "There are around 3500 identified hotels in the state which have more than 20 rooms. In order to register with us, they were earlier required to pay a fee which we have waived off incurring a loss to the board to the tune of Rs 118 crore. This was meant to encourage them to register with us by March this year but owing to Covid-19, this deadline has now been extended till March next year. If they don’t do so, hefty penalties will be imposed on them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/many-hotels-in-doon-and-mussoorie-dont-have-clearance-from-pollution-control-board-to-operate-says-reply-to-rti-query/articleshow/79684652.cms||Shivani Azad
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||24.19% Covid positivity in Punjab, 96% asymptomatic: 2nd sero-survey||CHANDIGARH: The second sero-survey conducted in 12 districts of Punjab has found that 24.19% state’s population has been infected by Covid-19. As part of the survey, 4,678 participants were interviewed and their blood samples collected. Of these, 1,201 tested IgG (Immunoglobulin G) reactive, of which only 4.03% were symptomatic and 95.9% turned out to be asymptomatic. The findings of the exercise conducted in randomly selected populations were revealed by health secretary Hussan Lal at a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Amarinder Singh. Urban areas showed a positive rate of 30.5%, while rural areas reported 21.0% positivity. Ludhiana, with 54.6% total positivity and 71.7% urban positivity was found to be the worst hit, followed by Ferozepur, Jalandhar and SAS Nagar (Mohali). Female positivity was found to be higher in both urban and rural areas. Each district was assigned the task of completing a sample size of 400, with 200 from rural areas and 200 from urban areas. Earlier, in August, a total of 27.7% of the people in Punjab’s containment zones were found to be positive for Covid antibodies as part of Punjab’s first exclusive survey which was conducted in five containment zones from August 1-17. The results indicated that those tested had already been infected and recovered from the coronavirus. Before that, generalised surveys had been conducted by the state government in coordination with ICMR. Restriction of 100 on indoor & 250 on outdoor gatherings till Jan 1 Amid complaints of mass violations of Covid-19 curbs at weddings and parties, the chief minister on Friday ordered a cap of 100 guests at indoor locations and 250 for outdoor gatherings in the state, as well as extension of night curfew (10 pm to 5 am) in all cities and towns till January 1. He also directed DGP Dinkar Gupta to strictly enforce the restrictions at marriage palaces and other places, with penalties to be imposed on the hosts in case the norms were not adhered to. At a Covid review meeting, Amarinder also ordered stopping home quarantine for those above the age of 70 years and having co-morbidities, unless adequate medical facilities can be made available at home. To further check fatality, Amarinder also ordered a thorough check of all private hospitals to ensure that only those with adequate Level 3 infrastructure and manpower be allowed to admit Covid patients. Hospitals lacking such facilities should refer patients to other hospitals, he said. The CM said that the declining positivity trend in Punjab over the past 3 weeks was welcome, but the fatality rate remained a matter of concern. He also directed the DGP to ensure strict compliance of Covid safety protocols, including wearing of masks and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/24-19-covid-positivity-in-punjab-96-asymptomatic-2nd-sero-survey/articleshow/79686542.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Amritsar||Release of political prisoners part of demand charter, say farmers||BATHINDA: Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday took exception to a farm union observing International Human Rights Day at the Tikri border on the Delhi-Haryana border and displaying posters of UAPA accused like Varvara Rao, Sudha Bhardwaj and Umar Khalid. Tomar, in an interview to a TV news channel, said farmers were on the Delhi border to raise farming issues and they should limit themselves to these. He said pictures of people accused of Delhi riots, which took place amid protests against CAA-NRC earlier this year, needed to be avoided. Earlier, BJP leaders had claimed that the farm protesters had Khalistani links. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar too had claimed that his government had “inputs” on presence of Khalistani separatists in the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious agriculture laws. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), which organised the event to observe International Human Rights Day at Tikri on Thursday, said they had included the demand for releasing intellectuals in the charter submitted to the Centre and there was nothing wrong in raising voice against what was “not right.” “We had been raising the voice for release of intellectuals for a long time. A score of intellectuals, writers and rationalist leaders have been arrested in the past for opposing the government. They are being called anti-nationals or urban naxals, which is not right. We have raised the voice against violations of human rights on human rights day and there is nothing wrong in it. It was not to go away from farming issues as the release of intellectuals is one of the demands put forth by farm organisations in their demand charter,” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan. A demand charter sent by the farm organisations to the Centre on October 14, under the signatures of organisation president Joginder Singh Ugrahan and general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri and 14 others included the demand for the release of intellectuals across the country. The same demand was also included in the draft sent by 31 farm organisations in the recent past, he said. “We have sent a demand charter long back to the agriculture minister, which included demand for the release of intellectuals arrested on false grounds. Why didn’t Tomar react at the time and stop farm organisations from pursuing this matter? Why It seems now the government is using the bogey of naxalism to crush this protest. We are against the way the opposing voices are being silenced by the government,” said Kirti Kisan Union vice-president Rajinder Singh. Another senior member of 32 farm groups said, “When we are demanding the release of politically arrested intellectuals and writers, there is nothing wrong in using the pictures of those who are victims of state oppression or repression. The government never gave heed to the health of Varvara Rao and snatched rights from Gautam Navlakha in jail, then why is it using the farmer struggle in putting forth its agenda and creating a scene where farmer struggle could be softened by exploring sentiments?” Even BJP Punjab general secretary Subhash Sharma claimed that farmers were playing into the hands of naxals and disruptive forces. He described the demand for release of “naxals” and “anti-national elements” as a clear indication of “disruptive and divisive” forces cashing in on the situation. He said farmers’ concerns have been addressed appropriately and adequately in the seven promises made by the Centre after four rounds of talks with farmer leaders and they should withdraw their protest. Sharma also said, “Newspaper reports suggest that disruptive elements have infiltrated the farmers’ agitation. Farmers must remain vigilant against them in the interest of Punjabis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/release-of-political-prisoners-part-of-demand-charter-say-farmers/articleshow/79686562.cms||Neel Kamal
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gears for Covid-19 vaccine roll out with 729 cold chain points||CHANDIGARH: As the state gears up for the mega exercise with a total of 729 cold chain points, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the health department to incorporate the results of the 2nd sero survey in the state’s strategy for Covid-19 vaccine roll out so that the high risk population was covered first. At a virtual meeting to review the Covid situation in the state, Capt Amarinder said the state was ready for the vaccination drive in terms of database of priority lists, infrastructure for cold chain management, identification and training of vaccinators. Apart from vaccine safety and vaccination site safety, correct and timely information communication was critical to the successful roll out of the vaccination, which was expected to be available soon in India, the CM said. Besides one state-level vaccine store, 22 district vaccine stores and 127 block-level vaccine stories were being prepared in Punjab, which would also have 570 cold chain points. Besides one walk-in freezer at Ferozepur, the Centre had decided to provide one more at Chandigarh. In addition, the state would have one walk-in cooler each at Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ferozepur, with more to be received from the Centre. In addition, the state has 1165 ice-lined refrigerators and 1,079 deep freezers. In line with the central government’s guidelines, data of about 1.25 lakh healthcare workers (government and private) had been compiled by the state government for the first phase vaccination. Other steps being taken as part of the vaccine roll out preparedness in the state included mapping of vaccinators, digital platform training in districts, trained manpower for vaccine inventory management and coordination at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-gears-for-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out-with-729-cold-chain-points/articleshow/79686588.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bareilly||16-year-old booked for attempting to rape minor girl, Pilibhit police on hunt to nab him||PILIBHIT: A 16-year-old boy was booked for allegedly attempting to rape a 14-year-old-girl in a village situated at the outskirts of Pilibhit city. The boy was caught by the girl’s father after listening to her screams for help. According to the girl’s father, his daughter had gone to collect cow dung cakes from market near their house on Thursday evening when the accused confronted her and attempted to rape her. "The boy started to hurl abuses at my daughter. Listening to the hue and cry, the family members of the accused rushed to the spot and freed the boy from me. Later they left and threatened me with dire consequences if I report the matter to the police," the complaint filed by the victim’s father said. Meanwhile SHO, Shrikant Dwivedi said the boy is on the run and has been booked under sections 354 (criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Codie. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/16-year-old-booked-for-attempting-to-rape-minor-girl-pilibhit-police-on-hunt-to-nab-him/articleshow/79684654.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Video shows Jio tower power cut; cops deny it||Fatehabad: A video showing farmers from Hansawala village in Tohana region of Fatehabad district snapping power supply to the Jio tower installed in the village has gone viral on the internet. However, the veracity of the video could not be confirmed as police have denied it and the mobile phone number of the sarpanch was switched off. The video showed a large number of farmers gathered near a mobile tower in Hanswala village, raising slogans against government of Haryana, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. Then they went to the transformer and knocked off its handle, snapping power supply. Mobile phone number of the village sarpanch was switched off. Sadar Tohana police station in-charge Jaibhagwan said he went to the spot but found no evidence of mischief or a cable having been cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/video-shows-jio-tower-power-cut-cops-deny-it/articleshow/79686595.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP: ‘Love jihad’ rumour takes cops to a ‘runaway bride’||GORAKHPUR: Rumour about a 'love jihad' wedding in Kushinagar led cops to a runaway bride early this week. However, when police found that both bride and groom were not minors and belonged to the same faith, they soleminsed their marriage after convincing the girl's family. “On Tuesday evening, someone from Gurmia village informed the local police station about a couple marrying quietly in the village and expressed suspicion that a Muslim boy was getting married to a Hindu girl who was not a local resident. Police team, along with circle officer Kasia -- Piyush Kant Rai -- reached the spot and found a maulvi and the couple and took them for interrogation. Police found that both of them were not minor and of the same faith (Muslim),” Kushinagar SP Vinod Kumar Singh said. “The girl had eloped with the man around 13 days ago from Azamgarh and during a video call the family of the girl recognized her. They also informed us that they had lodged a missing report in Azamgarh," SP Kushinagar said, dismissing allegations that cops assaulted the boy. Singh clarified to TOI that the man was not a criminal, nor had any case registered against him in any of the police stations of the district, so there was no question of torturing or detaining the couples for any purpose. A social worker of the area, Armaan Khan, who helped the couple solemnise the marriage told TOI that he was present with the couple throughout at the police station. “I was with them at the police station and no policeman had beaten them or used any abusive language,” he added. He also said that some locals had informed police about interfaith marriage however when police found that both man and woman were adults and also of the same faith, they talked to the woman’s family on video call as there was a missing report against her in Azamgarh. The groom, identified as Haider Ali, 39, has a barber’s shop in Gola bazaar in Kasia and he asked me to help him in his marriage, Armaan said. The couple met for the first time on a train to Narkatiaganj in Bihar a year ago and since then they started talking on phone and later decided to get married. However the girl’s family was against it, Armaan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/love-jihad-rumour-takes-cops-to-a-runaway-bride/articleshow/79687347.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana recovery rate crosses 94%||CHANDIGARH: Haryana registered 1,065 Covid-19 positive cases and 23 deaths due to the deadly virus on Thursday. With this, the number of Covid cases in the state has reached 2,50,394 and 2,699 deaths. Besides, 1,812 recoveries during the day took the overall tally to 2,37,009 and recovery rate to 94.65%. Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases were Gurugram (296), Faridabad (211), Sonipat (93), Hisar (46), Karnal (45), Panhkula (40), Rewari (31), Jhajjar (23), Kurukshetra (21), Yamunagar and Jind (17 each), Bhiwani (15), Palwal (13), Sirsa and Kaithal (10 each), Nuh and Charkhi Dadri (5 each), Mahendragarh (3) and Fatehabad (2). The new fatalities included four each from Mahendragarh and Hisar districts, three each from Gurugram and Faridabad, two each from Sonipat and Jind, and one each from Ambala, Yamunanagar, Jhajjar, Bhiwani and Fatehabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-recovery-rate-crosses-94/articleshow/79686597.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Lucknow||How Samsung proposal saw the light of day||LUCKNOW: The Samsung’s decision of investing Rs 4,825 crore in UP not only reiterates the huge potential the state has in the field of electronics and IT, but also sends a strong signal how the state has transformed under the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath as many global companies are now opting for UP as their destination, said MSME and export promotion minister Sidharth Nath Singh who along with his cabinet colleague and chairman of a committee of ministers Suresh Khanna pursued the revival of the project which was lying unattended in the ministry of IT. Amidst shrinking economy and growing pandemic challenges, the CM had constituted the committee of ministers and appointed Khanna as its chairman. The committee comprised Sidharth Nath Singh and industry minister Satish Mahana. Though Samsung was interested in investing in Noida, due to procedural complexities the proposal was not able to materialise. Later, Khanna discussed the matter with the promoters asking them not to press for an incentive of Rs 965 crore which the state as a policy did not allow. Sidharth Nath Singh also interacted with the Central government and sought clarifications on the policy to offer incentives to promoters. Later, Khanna convinced the company to set up their unit for the manufacturing of display units. “This is a major achievement for UP. Samsung has confirmed its proposal for investing in the state,” remarked Suresh Khanna. Despite the pandemic, UP has attracted investment of Rs 48,000 crore from India and abroad. Apart from the investment, the state also tied up with an American university for higher education for students in the field of artificial intelligence, cyber security management and machine learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-samsung-proposal-saw-the-light-of-day/articleshow/79687398.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP MLAs pipe down, say farmers being manipulated||HISAR: Two JJP MLAs, who had earlier backed the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s agri-marketing laws, on Friday said agitating farmers were playing into the hands of what they described as “anti-government forces”. The change in the stance of MLAs Jogiram Sihag from Barwala and Ramkumar Gautam from Narnaund came a day after their party’s senior leader and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said farmers should not prolong their agitation if the government was giving them a written assurance of MSP. The two MLAs had created a furore in state politics by speaking in favour of farmers five days ago. Though both said they supported farmers even today, they added the farmers should stop protesting now when the government had agreed to them. Gautam said there was no patriot greater than the farmer in the country, but now farmers were playing into the hands of anti-government forces. “This agitation has become anti-government forces’ agitation, not of farmers’. Mainly Congress, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other parties which are against BJP, PM Narendra Modi and CM Manohar Lal Khattar Khattar are playing with farmers. Now they will not accept even if the three laws are repealed,” he said. Gautam said farmers were earlier demanding a written guarantee on MSP and the government had now agreed to it, but these people (the so-called anti-government forces) would not allow farmers to accept the written guarantee because they wanted to spread unrest in the country. “The government should also accept the withdrawal of all three laws. Later, the laws can be made again by discussing with farmers,” he said. Gautam also hit out at the Punjab CM on the issue of Satluj-Yamuna link (SYL) canal, saying though he considered Punjab as the elder brother of Haryana, the order of the Supreme Court should be followed in the case. Gautam said he backed PM Modi because he removed Article 370 as per his promise, started the construction of Ram Mandir and enacted a law on triple talaq. Sihag said that if the government was giving guarantee of MSP and there is talk of buying crops outside the market with market fees, farmers should not have a problem. With this, he said, the government will do what it is saying. “If farmers do not believe, it is the government’s job to believe them,” he said. According to the sources in the JJP, a virtual meeting of all JJP MLAs was held on Thursday, after which MLAs had toned down. However, sources added, the meeting was kept such a secret that information about it was not given to anyone other than the MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-mlas-pipe-down-say-farmers-being-manipulated/articleshow/79686614.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 102cm of rain since October 1, but jury out on water harvested||CHENNAI: The city has recorded 102cm of rain so far since October 1 as of Friday, but the jury is out on how much of the water has been harvested. A civic official says 0.5 tmcft has been harvested and stored in lakes and temple tanks and another 1 tmcft must have percolated to recharge the ground water table. Independent water experts say more should have been done. There are 210 ponds in the city, of which 135 have been restored, and 63 temple tanks. Metrowater and the Greater Chennai Corporation are mandated to ensure that every household and commercial establishment in the city has a working rainwater harvesting structure. Percolation pits are to be set up every 20m in a stormwater drain and wells should be sunk on the roads near drain mouths. All this should be desilted before the monsoon. Are the government agencies doing all this? The civic body says it has. But independent experts point out that many city localities faced water stagnation. “If you see the Mylapore temple tank, Chitrakulam, the Parthasarathy temple tank, and the Thiruvotriyur temple tank, they are all dry or only half full. If the networks are working fine, why are these tanks not full. Most of the drain network is such that the water goes into the rivers and the sea. We had suggested that structures be constructed to drain surface water into these temple tanks. But it is not being done,” said Shekar Raghavavan of Rain Centre, a pioneer in water harvesting. N Ram Shankar, coordinator of Swaran, a citizen network for water conservation, said residents associations and the civic body have set up nearly 100 rainwater harvesting structures on roads and in public spaces. “Instead of designing huge drains, harvesting should be done,” he said. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash said an inspection during the last drought found 80% of the city’s rainwater harvesting structures were functioning. “We have saved a lot of water and we will take up similar proposals in the future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/102cm-of-rain-since-oct-1-but-jury-out-on-water-harvested/articleshow/79685758.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm outfits change gears amid protests||In view of the decision of various farmers’ associations to stage mass protests and ensure free movement of all at toll plazas on December 12, police and civil administration are on alert. Some farm leaders have already started making announcements in this regard in villages. On December 14, farmers’ organisations as well as other unions and organisations have announced gherao of all ministers and MPs. Four rounds of talks between the government and farmers, whop have been protesting against three agri-marketing laws, since November have failed to halt the blockade. While protesters are insisting that the laws be repealed, the Centre has refused to do so. “The gathering will be more than that in Delhi. Announcements are being made in villages to participate in protests at toll plazas on Saturday and in front of DC offices on Monday. The morale of farmers is high after the central government admitted that new laws are not perfect,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Sangrur leader Jagtar Singh. Patiala BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Jaswant Singh said, “Farmers will be sitting at all the toll plazas in Punjab, where commuters do not have to pay a single penny. Our protest is against the silos godowns and fuel filling stations directly under control of the Reliance corporate. The protest at toll plazas will surely witness huge gatherings.” Hisar district collector and deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni has appointed 20 duty magistrates in the district to maintain law and order. Besides, eight duty magistrates have also been kept in reserve. In rural areas, young workers of farm unions have started calling for boycott of BJP and JJP leaders and to restrict their entry to villages. A video of a young worker of BKU (Charuni), Mandeep Singh Waraich of Lohar Majra village in Pehowa area of Kurukshetra district surfaced on Thursday, in which he can be heard urging farmers to reach toll plazas in large numbers to ensure the success of the toll-free movement on December 12. “We supported and elected Sandeep Singh as MLA from Pehowa, who is now Haryana sports and youth affairs minister. But he has been speaking in favour of the Centre’s three ‘black laws’ and did not take any stand with the protesting farmers of his constituency, which is an agrarian block,” he told TOI. “On Saturday, the toll plaza at Thana village will be freed according to the directions of our senior leader Gurnam Singh Charuni. A mahapanchayat will also be held on the day, to discuss the minister’s (Sandeep) boycott and restrict his entry to villages. A resolution will also be passed in this regard,” he added. Vicky of Sandhola village said, “Our village has already restricted the entry of BJP-JJP leaders. In October, the minister had an event scheduled in our village but it was cancelled after he came to know that we will be opposing him.” Haryana home minister Anil Vij had also faced opposition and was shown black flags by some farmers in Panjokhra Sahib village on November 30. A day later, Union minister and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria and Ambala City MLA Aseem Goel were also shown black flags at Jandali in Ambala City. Officials revealed that in Punjab, there are 23 toll plazas under the state government and 25 under NHAI. NHAI regional officer R P Singh said, “There are 48 toll plazas in Punjab and Haryana under NHAI, of which 25 are in Punjab.” (With inputs from Kumar Mukesh in Hisar, Bharat Khanna in Patiala and J K Singh in Pehowa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-outfits-change-gears-amid-protests/articleshow/79686606.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chennai||Covid vaccine: Health workers will get shot first in Chennai||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has started the process of identifying all frontline healthcare workers who will be the first to be given the vaccines for Covid-19 whenever they are made available. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said on Friday that the civic body has set up a special desk in Ripon Building to register all doctors and paramedical staff in the city. “Anyone who has set up shop under clinical establishments act, right from a small dispensary to a big hospital, can come and get themselves registered. We are expecting around 60,000 people to be registered through this,” Prakash said. This includes nurses, ward boys and technicians. “The numbers may go up to 1 lakh. There are around 5,000 such facilities in the city,” Prakash said. Once the healthcare workers are vaccinated, next in line will be conservancy staff of the civic body, other staff of the corporation and the lower-rung staff of police who are on the field and in close contact with patients. “This database is already available with us,” Prakash said. Prakash said after this, they will vaccinate senior citizens who have co-morbidities. During the early days of Covid-19, the corporation has collected zone, ward and street wise data on the number of elderly in the city. “This was done during the door to door screening,” he said. The number of door to door survey workers has been reduced to 8,000 from the 12,000 during the peak of Covid-19 cases in the city. There would be further reduction in the numbers, Prakash said. Prakash said the test positivity rate in Chennai has reached levels of 3%. “We continue to maintain high test rates. The turning point came on June 19 when the chief minister asked us to increase testing. But citizens will have to continue maintaining all precautions for two more months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-vaccine-health-workers-will-get-shot-first/articleshow/79685765.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Glada sends notice to owners who use residential flats for commercial purposes||LUDHIANA: While taking notice of violations, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) has served notices to allottees of residential flats, who have converted the sites into commercial ones. The officials have served the notices to more than 100 such allottees. Some of the allottees have replied while clarification of some allottees was not satisfactory. The officials are planning to cancel the allotment of flats after completing the formality of notices. The Glada had allotted nearly 300 flats under special scheme in Dugri Phase 2. Some of the allottees have converted the flats to shops at main road. Many of the flats are converted into shops on main road. Some of the owners have even clubbed two to three flats into one and from one shop at least Rs 25,000 to Rs 35,000 rent is being collected. A few years ago too, this matter had come to light but at that time officials had served the notices and no action was taken. Now, when matter was again highlighted, the officials have taken it strictly . The estate officer of Glada Baljit Singh Walia said already notices were served to the defaulters twice and now it is third and last notice to them and after completing the departmental procedure they will recommend the allotment of flats. The chief administrator of Glada, Bhupinder Singh said conversion of flats in commercial activity is a serious matter so he has instructed the estate officer to take action against violations in residential areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/glada-sends-notice-to-owners-who-use-residential-flats-for-commercial-purposes/articleshow/79684676.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||One killed, two hurt in road accident in Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: A 28-year-old man was killed and two others sustained critical injuries in a road accident in the Dunda area of Uttarkashi district on Thursday night. According to TOI sources, Bhupendra Aswal, resident of Patudi village, was heading towards his home when his scooter collided with another two-wheeler coming from the opposite direction, killing him on the spot. The two injured men — identified as 29-year-old Ajaypal Singh and 24-year-old Sarthak Singh — were riding on the two-wheeler that collided with Aswal’s scooter. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “Both the injured men are undergoing treatment at the district hospital and the body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-two-hurt-in-road-accident-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/79684669.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Not falling to Centre’s divide & rule: Farmers serving Delhi-bound protesters||JIND: Residents of Jhanjh Khurd village in Jind district, on the Jind-Patiala national highway, have started offering tea, biscuits, bread and water to farmers heading for Tikri border in Delhi. With the help of donations from the village, locals have pitched a tent on the roadside where services are being offered. Villagers have deputed some persons on the roadside who request farmers with folded hands to make a short stay for tea and water. Jind falls on the way for people travelling from Shambhu border to Delhi. Farmers have started resting at the tent, where farmers rest and are also greeted by their counterparts in Haryana. Ajmer Singh, a native of Jhanjh Khurd, said their services would continue till the protest went on. “Punjab farmers are our elder brothers. If they pass through our village without having anything, our future generations will not forgive us. Punjab farmers have shown the courage to fight against a dictator and no one has dared so far to raise their voice for their rights. It’s our moral duty to stand for solidarity at this time as it is the only way to win against a man who has become autocratic. The PM doesn’t understand the pain of farmers who feed the nation by day working in fields,” he added. Jai Kumar, another villager, said around 2,000 people were stopping for tea at their village. “We stop Punjab number vehicles and those which have the Bhartiya Kisan Union flag. We are pleased to offer such service to farmers fighting for our future. We know farmers will win this fight and Centre will step down. Though farmers are protesting peacefully, centre is trying to split the agitation by followng a divide-and-rule policy,” he asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-falling-to-centres-divide-rule-farmers-serving-delhi-bound-protesters/articleshow/79686625.cms||---
December 12, 2020||World||Covid: US buys additional 100 million doses of Moderna vaccine||WASHINGTON: The US said Friday it was purchasing 100 million more doses of the Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed by Moderna, amid reports the government passed on the opportunity to secure more supply of the Pfizer jab. The agreement brings the total number of Moderna doses bought by the US to 200 million, enough to immunize 100 million people with the two-shot regimen. "Securing another 100 million doses from Moderna by June 2021 further expands our supply of doses across the Operation Warp Speed portfolio of vaccines," said Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar. A statement by the New York state-based biotech firm said that the new order would be delivered by the second quarter of 2021, while the first order would be completed by the first quarter. The total federal funding allocated to Moderna for the vaccine mRNA-1273, which it co-developed with the National Institutes for Health (NIH), now stands at $4.1 billion. The latest deal comes after media reports that over the summer the US decided against extending its order of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine beyond the 100 million doses it had initially ordered, allowing other countries to buy up precious supply. An emergency use authorization is thought to be imminent for the Pfizer jab, which is also a two-dose regimen, after an independent expert committee voted in its favor on Thursday. A similar expert panel will be convened to discuss the Moderna-NIH vaccine on December 17, and emergency approval could follow soon after. It has been found to have an efficacy of 94.1 percent in a clinical trial involving 30,000 people. Both these frontrunners use mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid) technology, a new approach which delivers genetic instructions to human cells to make them express a surface protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. This simulates an infection and prepares the immune system in case it encounters the real virus. Developing these vaccines is faster than more traditional approaches, which often rely on using weakened or inactivated forms of disease-causing microbes. The main drawback that has been identified so far is that mRNA molecules, which are encased in fatty particles, have to be stored at ultra cold temperatures: -70 degrees Celsius for Pfizer's, -20 degrees Celsius for Moderna's.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/covid-us-buys-additional-100-million-doses-of-moderna-vaccine/articleshow/79688816.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||CS reviews districts’ prep to tackle cold waves||Dehradun: Chief Secretary (CS) Om Prakash on Friday interacted with the district magistrates and other state officials to review the preparations to safeguard people from cold waves. After each district presented its SOP, the CS asked them to ensure that the names of all key officials are posted on notice boards of far flung and rural areas. Prakash added that besides setting up bonfires, the district administration needs to make arrangements for blankets, and night shelters. He also asked the district officials to forward the list of requirements to the state government, so that the needs can be met on time. He asked authorities to make arrangements for manpower and machinery to help clear roads in districts that have witnessed snowfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-reviews-districts-prep-to-tackle-cold-waves/articleshow/79684687.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 12, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Wet spell in winter leaves farmers worried of crop loss||RAJKOT/SURAT/VADODARA: Unseasonal rains in form of light to heavy drizzle accompanied by chilly wind was recorded in most parts of the state since Thursday night. Nearly 136 talukas of Gujarat received rain with highest 35 mm in Umergam block of Valsad till 2pm on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the overcast sky, increase in atmospheric humidity and rain was due to western disturbance induced cyclonic circulation over Southwest Rajasthan. The rain has raised fear of crop damage among the farmers. Many farmers in seven districts of Saurashta where were concerned about damage to standing crops of wheat, cumin seeds, grams, onions, garlics and pulses due to the overnight spell. These districts included Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Morbi, Botad and Jamnagar. Rapar taluka of Kutch district also received unseasonal rains on Thursday. Groundnut and cotton bales stored in the yards at Gondal, Rajkot, Jetpur, Dhoraji, Jasdan, Morbi, Tankara, Bhavnagar, Palitana, Rajula, Mahuva, Sihore, Dhari, Jafrabad, Una and Jamjodhpur were all drenched. “The paddy crop has suffered a lot of damage due to the rains. Also red grams and cotton crops too will suffer,” said Bhaskar Patel, chairman of Padra agriculture marketing produce committee (APMC) in Vadodara. For the first time in winter, doors of Dhatarvadi dam in Rajula taluka of Amreli were opened as it started overflowing due to incessant rain. Five villages in the downstream of the dam were alerted. Weather remained overcast in South Gujarat as many parts received light to moderate rain ranging from 35 mm to 5 mm since Thursday night. Surat city received 25 mm rainfall while Umarpada and Kamrej taluka recorded 20 mm and 17 mm respectively. In Bharuch, Seevagram road was waterlogged early in morning and commuters had to wade through dirty water. Sources say that the rainfall at this time of the year will be impacted on crops like tuvar, chana, beans in South Gujarat region and delay sugarcane harvesting . Meanwhile, Vadodara woke up to wet spell that left some areas water-logged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wet-spell-in-winter-leaves-farmers-worried-of-crop-loss/articleshow/79690249.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Wet spell in winter leaves farmers worried of crop loss||RAJKOT/SURAT/VADODARA: Unseasonal rains in form of light to heavy drizzle accompanied by chilly wind was recorded in most parts of the state since Thursday night. Nearly 136 talukas of Gujarat received rain with highest 35 mm in Umergam block of Valsad till 2pm on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the overcast sky, increase in atmospheric humidity and rain was due to western disturbance induced cyclonic circulation over Southwest Rajasthan. The rain has raised fear of crop damage among the farmers. Many farmers in seven districts of Saurashta where were concerned about damage to standing crops of wheat, cumin seeds, grams, onions, garlics and pulses due to the overnight spell. These districts included Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Morbi, Botad and Jamnagar. Rapar taluka of Kutch district also received unseasonal rains on Thursday. Groundnut and cotton bales stored in the yards at Gondal, Rajkot, Jetpur, Dhoraji, Jasdan, Morbi, Tankara, Bhavnagar, Palitana, Rajula, Mahuva, Sihore, Dhari, Jafrabad, Una and Jamjodhpur were all drenched. “The paddy crop has suffered a lot of damage due to the rains. Also red grams and cotton crops too will suffer,” said Bhaskar Patel, chairman of Padra agriculture marketing produce committee (APMC) in Vadodara. For the first time in winter, doors of Dhatarvadi dam in Rajula taluka of Amreli were opened as it started overflowing due to incessant rain. Five villages in the downstream of the dam were alerted. Weather remained overcast in South Gujarat as many parts received light to moderate rain ranging from 35 mm to 5 mm since Thursday night. Surat city received 25 mm rainfall while Umarpada and Kamrej taluka recorded 20 mm and 17 mm respectively. In Bharuch, Seevagram road was waterlogged early in morning and commuters had to wade through dirty water. Sources say that the rainfall at this time of the year will be impacted on crops like tuvar, chana, beans in South Gujarat region and delay sugarcane harvesting . Meanwhile, Vadodara woke up to wet spell that left some areas water-logged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wet-spell-in-winter-leaves-farmers-worried-of-crop-loss/articleshow/79690248.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Dehradun||Secure Himalaya Youth Video Fellowship Films launched on International Mountain Day||Dehradun: The SECURE Himalaya Project, a collaborative initiative of the central government and United Nations Development Programme, launched ‘SECURE Himalaya Youth Video Fellowship Films’ on the occasion of the International Mountain Day on Friday. The project involves youths — selected after some rounds of screening — from higher altitude remote villages of Uttarakhand. The selected youths, most of them in their twenties, were enrolled in a four-month-long fellowship program. During their course of fellowship, the Dusty Foot Productions provided the youths with training in video making and radio programming. As many as eight films were produced by the fellowship members which were ultimately packaged into one project. The films were released on various social media platforms on Friday. The films were shot mainly in the Darma, Gangotri, and Govind valleys of the state. According to its officials, SECURE Himalaya Youth Video Fellowship aims to build a cadre of youths, belonging to the region, who can become future spokespersons for conservation and sustainable livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/secure-himalaya-youth-video-fellowship-films-launched-on-international-mountain-day/articleshow/79684679.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Wet spell in winter leaves farmers worried of crop loss||RAJKOT/SURAT/VADODARA: Unseasonal rains in form of light to heavy drizzle accompanied by chilly wind was recorded in most parts of the state since Thursday night. Nearly 136 talukas of Gujarat received rain with highest 35 mm in Umergam block of Valsad till 2pm on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the overcast sky, increase in atmospheric humidity and rain was due to western disturbance induced cyclonic circulation over Southwest Rajasthan. The rain has raised fear of crop damage among the farmers. Many farmers in seven districts of Saurashta where were concerned about damage to standing crops of wheat, cumin seeds, grams, onions, garlics and pulses due to the overnight spell. These districts included Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Amreli, Gir Somnath, Morbi, Botad and Jamnagar. Rapar taluka of Kutch district also received unseasonal rains on Thursday. Groundnut and cotton bales stored in the yards at Gondal, Rajkot, Jetpur, Dhoraji, Jasdan, Morbi, Tankara, Bhavnagar, Palitana, Rajula, Mahuva, Sihore, Dhari, Jafrabad, Una and Jamjodhpur were all drenched. “The paddy crop has suffered a lot of damage due to the rains. Also red grams and cotton crops too will suffer,” said Bhaskar Patel, chairman of Padra agriculture marketing produce committee (APMC) in Vadodara. For the first time in winter, doors of Dhatarvadi dam in Rajula taluka of Amreli were opened as it started overflowing due to incessant rain. Five villages in the downstream of the dam were alerted. Weather remained overcast in South Gujarat as many parts received light to moderate rain ranging from 35 mm to 5 mm since Thursday night. Surat city received 25 mm rainfall while Umarpada and Kamrej taluka recorded 20 mm and 17 mm respectively. In Bharuch, Seevagram road was waterlogged early in morning and commuters had to wade through dirty water. Sources say that the rainfall at this time of the year will be impacted on crops like tuvar, chana, beans in South Gujarat region and delay sugarcane harvesting . Meanwhile, Vadodara woke up to wet spell that left some areas water-logged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wet-spell-in-winter-leaves-farmers-worried-of-crop-loss/articleshow/79684697.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||2 Covid deaths, 174 new cases reported in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Friday reported two deaths related to Covid-19, 174 new infections and 168 recoveries. The two deaths are reported from Bokaro and Hazaribag. With Friday’s deaths, the casualty rate stands at 0.89% while the death toll has reached 995. The cumulative caseload in the state is also climbing steadily and now touched 1,11,117, of which 1,08,488 have recovered and 1,694 are still active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-covid-deaths-174-new-cases-reported-in-state/articleshow/79687039.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Schoolteachers to queue up for RT-PCR tests again||Nagpur: As schools in rural Nagpur prepare to reopen, teachers have to again queue up for RT-PCR tests. Teachers had undergone done this test last month when the district collector’s office had given a verbal green signal for reopening of schools. “Our teachers had complied with that order and underwent tests. Is it our fault that the local authorities deferred the plan to reopen schools? Now, the same process has to be repeated all over again with teachers flocking to testing centres,” said the principal of a CBSE school. Another principal said her teachers will now have to be given an entire day off. “It’s not like you walk-in and get your test done in five minutes. Queues are getting longer as more and more people are rushing to get tests done,” she said. Fearing a backlash from the education department, none of the principals wanted to speak on record. “None of the students are being tested but my staff is being made to run around for RT-PCR tests. This exercise will delay the reopening date of my school because results won’t be out for at least two days. There is no way we can reopen on Monday,” said a school’s trustee. Another principal said there has to be some logic in the frequency of testing. “Within two weeks we will be heading into the Christmas break. Will my teachers have to line up for RT-PCR tests again in January when schools reopen? All this is entirely illogical. A teacher can turn positive even 10 minutes after getting tested and no one will ever come to know,” said the principal. District education officer Chintaman Vanjari said, “Our department implements orders of the state government. We have asked for tests to ensure that there’s no danger to the health of students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schoolteachers-to-queue-up-for-rt-pcr-tests-again/articleshow/79684718.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Lalu plea for suspension of sentence deferred for 6 weeks||Ranchi: Incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad’s dream to be a free man sooner was dashed on Friday after the Jharkhand high court deferred the hearing of his sentence suspension plea for another six weeks in one of the fodder scam cases. The legal team of Lalu, who is convicted in four fodder scam cases in Jharkhand and jailed in Ranchi since December 2017, had filed a petition for suspension of his sentence on the ground that the former Bihar chief minister had completed half of his jail terms and should be released as provisioned in CrPC 436(A). However, during the hearing on Friday in connection with the suspension of sentence for the fraudulent withdrawal of funds from the Dumka treasury, the legal team sought deferment, saying it needs time to compute the quantum of his jail time after getting certified documents from lower courts and to file a fresh supplementary affidavit. Talking to TOI, Lalu’s counsel Anant Kumar Vij said, “We have sought time to file a supplementary affidavit on the exact term of custody period that my client has served till date.” In the Dumka case, the special CBI court had sentenced Lalu to seven years’ imprisonment. In the previous hearing of the case on December 4, the team had also sought time to file the supplementary affidavit to compute his jail time. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which had prosecuted Lalu and opposed his suspension of sentence, also sought time as it’s counsel Rajeev Sinha could not attend court because of personal reasons. After hearing both sides, Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh adjourned the hearing. Notably, Lalu faces five fodder scam cases in Jharkhand. The Dumka case is the only fodder scam case which is in the way of Lalu’s freedom. In three cases, he has got bail. Hearing in another case for fraudulent withdrawal of funds from the Doranda treasury is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lalu-plea-for-suspension-of-sentence-deferred-for-6-weeks/articleshow/79687063.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Online drive helps warring overseas couples settle disputes||Ranchi: The District Legal Service Authority’s (DLSA) special five-day online mediation drive, which concluded on Friday, proved to be a boon for those living in other cities and even overseas who would have otherwise had to come down to the state capital to settle their disputes. Thanks to the pandemic, those people, including some disputing couples, have been able to settle their tiffs while sitting within the confines of their home. For instance, a man, going through divorce proceedings, appeared from Nepal while his estranged wife appeared from Ranchi after their case came up before the family court of judge Piyush Kumar who referred it to DLSA for mediation. The couple agreed to put an end to their differences though the court formalities for their divorce will continue. Mediator P N Singh and lawyers of the both parties played the role of facilitators in the case. In another instance, the DLSA mediators were able to reach out to a disputing couple living in different cities of the United States of America. Their mediating process, however, could not be concluded. DLSA secretary Abhishek Kumar said, “The disputing parties are appearing for mediation at their convenient time, irrespective of the office hours of the court. Many of these disputes were pending but the video conferencing method of settling them has brought relief to these couples.” He added, “The mediators and the lawyers of both the parties played a crucial role in the process. A total of 11 mediators took part in the five-day drive.” Meanwhile, the special drive, which was conducted upon the direction of executive chairman of Jharkhand Legal Service Authority, Justice H C Mishra, resolved a total of 70 cases in which both parties agreed to put an end to their disputes. Judicial commissioner Ranchi Navneet Kumar said that mediation is the best method for ensuring speedy justice. The highlight of the drive was the amicable resolution of a couple’s 12-year-old dispute. After four sessions of mediation through video conferencing, the couple agreed to set aside their differences and live under the same roof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/online-drive-helps-warring-overseas-couples-settle-disputes/articleshow/79685977.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Mining dept neck-deep in corruption: Sudesh, Saryu||Jamshedpur: Ajsu Party president Sudesh Mahato and Independent MLA from Jamshedpur (East) Saryu Rai on Friday levelled charges of corruption, particularly in the mining department, against the Hemant Soren-led coalition government. Mahto claimed that corruption is rampant in all departments since Hemant Soren took charge as the chief minister last year. The MLA from Silli also alleged that middlemen are stealing from the state's coffers by selling natural resources like sand, minerals and stones illegally. He further claimed that the government is supporting such illegal activities and corrupt acts by turning a blind eye. Stating that the ruling JMM has moved miles away from its promises in the election manifesto to protect jal, jungle and jameen, Mahto questioned JMM working president and CM, Soren, over the non-formulation of a law to regularise sand mining in the state. Rai, too, questioned the functioning of the mining department for the last 20 years since the formation of the state on November 15, 2000. Highlighting an incident of corruption in the West Singhbhum mining department, the former BJP heavyweight said a district mining department officer slapped a fine of Rs 605 crore against a mining company for its wrongdoing in 2014 but the amount was reduced to only Rs 194 crore and the officer was transferred after the Hemant Soren government came to power. The Independent MLA asked why was the officer transferred and said a probe must be launched into it by an independent agency. He added that the government has also taken a soft stand on the mining magnate, M/S Shah Brothers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mining-dept-neck-deep-in-corruption-sudesh-saryu/articleshow/79685934.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Tea seller files plaint over PLFI’s Rs 5L demand||Chatra: A tea-seller on Friday lodged a complaint at Pratappur police station after getting calls from an alleged PLFI member who has been demanding Rs 5 lakh from him over the past few days. Officer-in-charge of Pratappur police station P C Sinha said they have initiated an investigation on the matter. The complainant has been identified as Naresh Bharti — a resident of Pathra village under Pratappur block, who makes ends meet by selling tea and fritters at his shop in the hamlet. According to his complaint, Bharti found posters demanding Rs 5 lakh on behalf of PLFI pasted on his shop on November 29. Later, he started getting calls from one Saurabh Yadav, who claimed to be a PLFI member, and he demanded the same amount from him. “At first I thought someone from the village was playing a prank on me but upon getting the phone calls, I decided to contact the police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tea-seller-files-plaint-over-plfis-rs-5l-demand/articleshow/79685995.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: Three goats, Rs 75,000 to rape survivor’s family!||SURAT: Three goats and Rs 75,000 cash!. Family of a 19-year-old man, accused of minor girl’s rape, merrily assumed that this ‘largesse’ would be enough to secure bail for him. But the accused drew the court’s ire who dubbed him as a repeat offender for this compensation offer to the survivor. The fast-track special court (Surat) turned down the bail plea of the accused, who was arrested for raping a 15-year-old, in October. He was booked under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) on October 17. Last year, families of the man and the girl had decided to get them married after they attained the legal age as they had an affair. However, he entered into physical relationship with the girl who is now pregnant for a month-and-a-half. A year ago, a bitter dispute arose between the two families over their physical relationship and his family gave her parents three goats and Rs 75,000 as part of a compromise struck. His lawyer cited this compromise while arguing for the bail. However, the court observed, “The compromise was reached between the families of accused and victim and the accused family had given three goats and Rs 75,000 to victim’s family as part of this truce. This itself shows that the accused is habituated to such crimes which he has committed more than once. It proves that he had abducted the girl from her native village to Surat and had repeatedly had physical relations with her.” The accused was working as a casual labourer in Surat. He has been lodged Surat’s Lajpore jail since his arrest. Opposing the bail plea, additional public prosecutor AP Vasoya said that despite knowing that the girl was minor, the accused lured the victim and raped and impregnated her. Also, the chargesheet has also been filed against him. He is a resident of another state and if given bail, he may escape justice, Vasoya argued. “Considering the affidavit filed by the girl’s mother, the accused had also threatened the family through the village sarpanch, and therefore if given bail, he might again threaten the victim, tamper with evidence or repeat the offence. He may also not appear during the trial,” the court observed. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/goats-rs-75k-to-rape-survivors-family/articleshow/79684608.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Elderly couple hacked to death in Lohardaga||GUMLA: An alleged witch-doctor and his wife were killed in Putrar village under Peshrar police station of Lohardaga district on Friday morning. The deceased were identified as Harisewak Kherwar and his wife Lakshmania Devi, both of whom were in their fifties. “Kherwar used to do sorcery to cure the villagers. A man from an adjacent village had been visiting him for the last few days for the treatment of a member of his family. But when Kherwar refused to visit the man’s house, the latter killed him and his wife,” Lohardaga SP Priyanka Meena said. Kherwar had been telling the visitor that he was busy thrashing and storing paddy and so he would not be able to visit his house, the SP added. Eyewitness accounts said that on Friday morning, two persons came to Kherwar’s house and they were adamant to take him with them. But when the latter again turned down their request, the visitors hacked Kherwar and his wife to death. “We are investigating the incident and the killers will be nabbed soon,” Meena said. Meanwhile, Gumla police arrested one Vijay Oraon for allegedly hacking an elderly woman, Karmi Oraon, to death at Koynara village under Town police station on November 4. Karmi Oraon was killed with a sharp weapon when she had gone to wash clothes and bathe in a village pond. “Vijay Oraon has confessed that when his brother, Chaitu Oraon, died, he suspected Karmi of practising witchcraft on his brother, so he decided to avenge his death,” the OC of Town police station, Manoj Kumar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/elderly-couple-hacked-to-death-in-lohardaga/articleshow/79687075.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||I was raped even when I lost consciousness: Dumka gang-rape survivor||DUMKA: The deposition by the 35-year-old rape survivor, who was gang raped by 17 men on December 8 when she was returning home with her husband from a village fair, before the court of judicial magistrate first class in the district court on Thursday has shed light on some horrific details of the crime, which includes that the men continued with their assault even after she lost consciousness. Deposing under Section 164 of the CrPC, the mother of five — who lodged a complaint on December 9 — said that two of the accused performed anal sex on her while making calls to their friends, asking them to come and rape her. “By the 10th man, I lost my consciousness,” she added. While deposing before magistrate Bijay Kumar Yadav, the woman allegedly complained of pain in her waist which was caused by the assault. She even had to lie down on the floor of the witness box for some respite from the pain. The woman further said that the accused covered her mouth with a towel as they raped her one by one while her husband was held at gun point after being tied up and thrashed. The men, while handing over the woman to her husband, threatened the duo of dire consequences if they lodged a complaint. Meanwhile, Dumka SP Ambar Lakda said Mangal Mohli — the only accused to be arrested so far — was forwaded to jail on Friday. He added, “The rest of the accused have been identified and attempts are on to nab them. The SIT has gathered some evidence from the crime scene and it’ll be examined by the forensic experts soon.” He further said that the suspect, who has detained on Thursday, is still being interrogated. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/i-was-raped-even-when-i-lost-consciousness-dumka-gang-rape-survivor/articleshow/79685954.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Matric marking pattern to change as students missed classroom teachings this yr||RANCHI: The marking pattern for matriculation examination conducted by Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) will be changed this year in the wake of disruption to classroom teaching due to the ongoing pandemic. Director, Jharkhand Project Education Council Sailesh Chourasia said, “Since no school activities were possible during the pandemic, a series of meetings were held to streamline the marking pattern. The changes would be implemented by JAC.” He added that no decision on the date of matriculation examination has been taken. Sources said internal assessment for all subjects, except science, will be of 10 marks instead of 20. A decision to this effect was taken as the students were unable to attend schools since mid-March. Notably, earlier 20 marks were given through internal assessment which included internal examination, attendance and other activities. Under the new pattern, students will now have to answer multiple choice questions of 30 marks and write very short, short and long answers of 20 marks each. The questions of science will, however, be 20 marks each for multiple choice, very short, short and long questions. JAC is expected to frame questions for each subject on the basis of a reduced syllabus this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/matric-marking-pattern-to-change-as-students-missed-classroom-teachings-this-yr/articleshow/79687112.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Goa||Till Fri, no +ve voter list handed over||Panaji: Uncertainty prevailed among the polling booth staff about Covid positive persons going to vote in the zilla panchayat elections on Saturday, as also about safety measures. While positive persons will be provided with PPE kits, the polling staff didn’t have the list of Covid positive persons till Friday evening. An official told TOI that it’s a good thing that positive persons are not denied the right to vote, but that the authorities hardly provided polling staff any information about the cases during the training session held earlier this week. There is anxiety among some polling staff as to what could happen between 4pm and 5 pm. There has been no specific training for the staff to handle a situation related to Covid cases. Besides, no social distancing was adhered to during the training session and also on Friday when polling staff had gathered to collect the election material What is worse, said another polling staff, is that safety measures for Covid are far from foolproof. Two bottles of sanitisers have been sent per booth. “They are not hands-free sanitisers.” The staff have been given masks, and gloves, too. Whether sanitisation of the premises was done is also not known, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/till-fri-no-ve-voter-list-handed-over/articleshow/79686647.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Ignou to promote intermediate year, semester students||NAGPUR: Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) has decided to promote non-final year or semester students, whose term-end exam (TEE) was supposed to be held in June 2020. This exam had been postponed to February 2021, but now the varsity has approved a promotion policy which exempts students from the TEE. P Sivaswaroop, Ignou regional director (Nagpur), confirmed the development. “Decision has been approved by the varsity. Students must check the terms and conditions to see whether they are eligible for promotion or not,” said Sivaswaroop. There are multiple riders attached, which means that this promotion is not applicable to everyone enrolled in the varsity. The biggest condition is that this rule is not applicable to courses that are being offered through MoU/collaboration with external agencies. It’s also not applicable to those courses which are professional in nature or approved by regulatory bodies. Second condition is that only those students who had registered or re-registered in July 2019 can claim the exemption. The varsity still believes that some students would not like to avail this promotion facility. For such students, the option to appear for TEE in February is very much open. They will be intimated about forms to be filled up for waiving off their right to TEE exemption, and instead choosing to appear for the written exam. For those who do opt for the promotion facility, Sivaswaroop provided details on how marks will be awarded to students. “Those who are in first year, will be awarded marks based on their performance later in second year exams,” said Sivaswaroop. For second-year students, marks will be awarded based on their performance in first-year exams. Due to the multiple riders involved in claiming the exemption, Ignou students are advised to visit the official web site and access the latest circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-to-promote-intermediate-yr-semester-students/articleshow/79684730.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Traffic cops find over 1.8k abandoned vehicles on roads||Nagpur: More than 1,854 vehicles are lying abandoned on Nagpur roads, a survey conducted by the city traffic police has revealed. This was informed by DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad in a meeting with NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Friday.However, the NMC traffic department’s survey says that the city has 359 abandoned vehicles. As per its study, the vehicles are lying abandoned in Laxmi Nagar zone (7), Dharampeth (52), Dhantoli (38), Gandhibagh (27), Sataranjipura (23), Lakadaganj (17), Ashi Nagar (95) and Mangalwari (100). Nehru Nagar and Hanuman Nagar zones have no abandoned vehicles in their respective jurisdictions, it was informed in the meeting.They are the major reason for traffic bottlenecks at different places. However, the survey, which did not include vehicles seized by cops lying outside police stations, found the maximum number of them at these places only.Even the Motor Vehicles Rules say a vehicle is considered abandoned if it is found in one place for over 24 hours and adequate steps have not been taken by the owner for its repair and/or removal. There is a provision in the act to impose a fine of Rs50 per hour against owner of the vehicle.Zalke told TOI that traffic police have expressed willingness to end the menace. Zalke agreed to the proposal of DCP traffic that NMC will provide land somewhere in the city where these vehicles can be dumped.He also asked the NMC to prepare a policy to scrap old vehicles in the city limits. Zalke gave his nod to the proposal of Awad of appointing Scrap Trading Corporation to dispose such abandoned vehicles.The issue of parking of vehicles on roads and footpath was also discussed in the meeting. “Now, the NMC and traffic police will join hands to end the menace of parking on footpaths and roads. The DCP has suggested imposing hefty fines on vehicle owners for parking vehicles on roads and footpaths causing jams,” said Zalke. During his tenure in Pune, Awad had implemented similar moves. Zalke said the NMC will study Awad’s suggestion.The issue of inter and intra state luxury buses creating chaos on several roads too were discussed. The DCP said his department is taking regular action against private bus operators. But unless the NMC provided any space to them, the issue could not be resolved.Traffic police also stressed the need for implementing parking policy in the city. Following high court directives, the NMC has prepared a parking policy for the city, but it is yet to get nod from the general body since over a year now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-cops-find-over-1-8k-abandoned-vehicles-on-roads/articleshow/79684747.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 12, 2020||Goa||KTC resumes buses on Mumbai, Hyd, Pune routes||Panaji: Faced with fierce competition from private bus operators in the face of the pandemic, Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) has started operating interstate buses from Goa to Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad at a nominal fee of Rs 900 per head. The interstate market has always been competitive, but now they have to push harder to compete with their private counterparts. “Their rates are fluctuating but we have kept our rates steady. If we continue to charge about Rs 1,200 per ticket, we have to retain the fare. Private bus operators, however, change their fares at the last moment, sometimes reducing them to as much as Rs 700 per ticket,” KTC general manager, Sanjay Ghate said. KTC operates a seater each from Margao to Borivalli and Panaji to Hyderabad. A sleeper coach runs from Margao to Pune. KTC’s load factor is still far lesser on the Goa to Mumbai route compared to that on the Hyderabad and Pune routes. “The Pune route see a lot of office goers and college students whose work and classes have resumed. The Hyderabad route sees a lot of migrant workers.There is 100% ridership on both these routes,” Ghate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-resumes-buses-on-mumbai-hyd-pune-routes/articleshow/79686657.cms||Nida Sayed
December 12, 2020||Goa||Parrikar Mahotsav on Dec 13 at NIO||Panaji: The annual scientific event Manohar Parrikar Vidnyan Mahotsav 2020 will be held on December 13 from 10am to 12.30pm. Organised by the state government through the department of science, technology and waste management, the inaugural event will be at National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Dona Paula. Owing to the pandemic, the inaugural will be in virtual mode in the presence of chief minister Pramod Sawant, minister for science, technology and waste management Michael Lobo, Goa Public Service Commission chairman Jose Manuel Noronha, NIO director Sunil Kumar Singh, principal scientific advisor to government of India K Vijay Raghavan and director general of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CISR) Shekhar Mande, among others, who will join online. The inaugural function will be followed by lectures by eminent personalities. The event shall be live streamed via virtual mode on Facebook page, Manohar Parrikar Vidnyan Mahotsav-MPVM, and on YouTube live.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikar-mahotsav-on-dec-13-at-nio/articleshow/79686665.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||8-fold increase in Aapli Bus passengers||Nagpur: Coming out of the Covid lockdown shadow slowly, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has earned Rs1.64 crore revenue by operating 157 Aapli buses on 85 routes in November. Transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar on Friday directed the department to increase the number of Aapli buses by another 60 from next week. After remaining shut for almost seven months, the NMC had resumed the Aapli Bus operations partially from October end. As a result, passengers on many routes, including Kamptee route, are facing inconvenience, while autorickshaw drivers are getting good business. The passenger footfall on Aapli Bus is increasing steadily. On October 29, when the Aapli Bus resumed service, 4,654 passengers had travelled in it. Now, on an average, 39,000 passengers are travelling daily, data procured from the transport department revealed. On Friday, Borkar had convened a meeting of inspectors appointed by Aapli Bus programme manager Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS). Of the 70-odd ticket checkers, only 54 attended the meeting. He also formed a two-member committee of transport department officials Ravindra Page and Arun Pipurde for hearing cases of conductors caught pocketing bus fares. “If any conductor is found guilty for pocketing bus fares, he should be terminated directly,” said Borkar. The transport committee chairman also expressed concern over ill-maintained buses and following his directives a flying squad has been formed to monitor the condition of buses. Discrepancy in fine The transport committee chairman has asked the department officials to ensure passengers don’t board city buses without wearing mask. Though NMC is levying Rs500 fine on people without mask, Borkar has directed to levy Rs100 fine on drivers and conductors found not wearing mask. Date—-Passengers—-Revenue Oct 29—-4,654 ——Rs82,825 Dec 10—-39,000—-Rs5,50,007||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-fold-increase-in-aapli-bus-passengers/articleshow/79684760.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 12, 2020||Goa||Stop harassing our drivers, appeals GoaMiles||Panaji: GoaMiles, a taxi app service, on Friday made a public appeal to local taxi operators asking them to stop harassing their drivers. It also requested that the propaganda initiated against them by people with criminal mentality be stopped as it would only serve to bring disrepute to the state. There have been instances of clashes between GoaMiles drivers and local taxi operators in the last few days. GoaMiles operators have alleged that their drivers and vehicles have been singularly targeted even as they have removed 1,000 drivers following a transport department notification that a taxi driver should have a badge besides a licence to drive a commercial vehicle. “Yet our vehicles are stopped and drivers questioned. Also, videos spreading misinformation have been posted on social media,” director of operations of Goa Miles, Parashar Pai Khot told reporters at a press conference. The badge is issued to a driver who fulfils certain criteria, mainly a 15-year domicile certificate. The measure taken by the transport department ensures that only locals are recruited. Other conditions for obtaining a badge are that an applicant must have a police clearance and produce a character certificate from a local MLA, besides the domicile certificate. Since their drivers were being repeatedly stopped and humiliated, Pai Khot said that they questioned seven drivers at the Goa airport recently. Five of them did not have a badge, and they were all from outside Goa, he said. “One driver also did not have a licence,” Pai Khot added. When the driver in question informed the owner of his vehicle, the owner posted a message in his group stating his driver was assaulted and that all local owners should get together and smash GoaMiles vehicles, he alleged. “It was absolutely false. This kind of incidence will affect the image of the tourist state,” Pai Khot said. He said that this was not an isolated instance. Goa Miles has informed the director general of police and other senior police officials about the problems they face on a day-to-day basis and police have assured to help them, Pai Khot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stop-harassing-our-drivers-appeals-goamiles/articleshow/79686670.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Goa||App-based service set to expand business to Pune and Mumbai||Panaji: The app-based taxi service GoaMiles on Friday announced its plan to expand its services to Mumbai and Pune with headquarters in Goa. The new service will kickstart from mid-January and will create 500 job opportunities for Goans, Parashar Pai Khot, director of operations of GoaMiles said. Locals will be hired to work in the back office and call centre. A graphic designing team and software personnel will also be appointed, Pai Khot said, adding that all their office staff are from within Goa. Presently, travellers going outside the state have the option of booking a GoaMiles taxi. With their operations starting in two cities, visitors travelling to Goa by road will also be able to book the service from the two cities. GoaMiles also has plans to go pan India in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/app-based-service-set-to-expand-business-to-pune-and-mumbai/articleshow/79686672.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Illegal liquor worth Rs73L destroyed||Yavatmal: After a court order, Wani police destroyed illegal liquor worth Rs.73 lakh on Friday. The liquor was seized from the mafia operating across the district borders to neighbouring Chandrapur where the government had earlier banned manufacturing, sale and consumption. The ban had paved the way for the mafia to smuggle liquor from Yavatmal district to Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Wardha (all dry districts). A road roller was hired to smash the entire stock of illegal liquor to pulp. The illegal liquor had piled up since five years. MP Balu Dhanorkar and state minister Vijay Wadettiwar have been demanding the lifting of the liquor ban. They said the rising sale of illegal liquor is hitting the revenues of the state government. Various anti-liquor lobbies have challenged the proposal and threatened to intensify their agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illegal-liquor-worth-rs73l-destroyed/articleshow/79684797.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Goa||Goa zilla panchayat elections chance to defeat politics of hatred: GFP, Congress||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Congress on Friday said that BJP is bringing in a divisive agenda based on politics of hatred, which needs to be defeated through the December 12 zilla panchayat elections. GFP, which is not contesting the elections, said that the polls are an opportunity to indicate to the Pramod Sawant government that Goa is looking for change. Congress said that people will teach BJP a lesson for its politics of convenience and opportunism during the ZP elections. “I appeal to the people of Goa to support Congress candidates in the zilla panchayat elections. I assure you that our candidates will continue to be the voice of the people and will be committed to protect the identity of Goa. I am confident that Congress will comfortably win the zilla panchayat elections,” opposition leader Digambar Kamat said. GFP also derided BJP for fielding just one candidate from the minority community in the ZP elections. “Goans have the opportunity to save Goa now from the grassroots and up. Use this ZP election to tell Pramod Sawant and BJP what democracy looks like in Goa. Vote for change, but most important vote for the future of our youth,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said. Sardesai said that BJP makes communal sensitive policies in order to target a particular vote bank. “This government is encouraging culture of hatred. Does this chief minister have the guts to stop the Yogi model from coming to Goa? They want to bring in their divisive agenda in Goa,” Sardesai said. Meanwhile, Kamat said that the state government's “obsession for the celebrations” has resulted in a huge financial burden on the beneficiaries of the monthly pension social welfare schemes, who have not received the dues for more than six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-polls-chance-to-defeat-politics-of-hatred-gfp-cong/articleshow/79686680.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Cops book Shiv Sena MP in sexual harassment case||MUMBAI: A day after the state cabinet approved draft bills for strengthening laws on prevention of atrocities against women and children, a Shiv Sena Member of Parliament has been accused of sexual harassment at the workplace. The 38-year-old complainant employed at a gas distribution agency on Friday filed a case of sexual harassment against her employer. He denied the sexual harassment charges and told TOI the woman made the allegations after she and three staff were caught black-marketing LPG cylinders to the tune of more than Rs 1 crore. He said she was fired and a case was registered with police under Essential Commodities Act and IPC section 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) on November 26. She secured anticipatory bail from a Thane court on December 5, said her advocate Edgar Braganza. He said she had been complaining since 2015 but no action was taken against the MP. Police on Friday booked the MP under sections 354 (A) (sexual harassment) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The single mother alleged that a year after she took up the job of a customer care staffer at the gas agency in 2004, he was demanding sexual favours. She claimed he even visited her rented home and lured her with a flat and money. When she did not respond, he began harassing her mentally and physically. The woman filed two non-cognizable offences with police on October 13 and December 10, 2015, after he allegedly groped her in front of other staff. In her complaint, she said she held on to the job as she is in dire need of money to fund her son's education. She said after her husband abandoned her and their son in 2003, she had been working. She stated that he was aware of her financial situation and tried to lure her. She said she was refused weekly holidays and made to work long hours. She alleged he would call her to his cabin and threaten her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cops-book-sena-mp-in-sexual-harassment-case/articleshow/79688825.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 12, 2020||Business||Factory output growth rises to 8-month high of 3.6% in October||NEW DELHI: The country’s industrial output growth rose for the second successive month to an eight-month high in October, bolstered by festive demand and led by a turnaround in manufacturing, electricity, consumer durables sectors. This is the latest in a spate of encouraging data pointing to a recovery after the lockdown took a heavy toll on the economy. Data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Friday showed the index of industrial production (IIP) rose an annual 3.6% in October, higher than the upwardly revised 0.5% in September and a contraction of 6.6% in October 2019. During the April-October period, IIP contracted 17.5% compared with an expansion of 0.1% in the same year-earlier period, highlighting that the recovery needs to add strength. The manufacturing sector, which had borne the brunt of the impact of the lockdown, rose an annual 3.5% in October, compared with a contraction of 5.7% in the year earlier period while the electricity sector rose 11.2% compared with a decline of 12.2% in October 2019. Experts cautious about sustainability of recovery Led by festival demand, both the consumer durables and non-durables sectors posted robust expansion rising by 17.6% and 7.5% in October. The capital goods sector returned to the positive zone after 21 months, rising an annual 3.3% in October compared with a 22.4% contraction in the yearearlier month. The PMI manufacturing survey has also pointed to a recovery in the manufacturing sector although some segments display some stress. The sector had contracted for six consecutive months since March with April posting a record decline of 57.6%. But since May the contraction has narrowed as economic activity gathered momentum after the lifting of the lockdown in phases. Latest data has also shown that the economy contracted 7.5% in the September quarter, sharply shallower than the record 23.9% decline in the June quarter. “.. The varied dimensions of recovery in industrial activity is progressing with support from rural economy, pent-up demand, and support from accommodative fiscal-monetary policy. This support framework is expected to continue in the remaining part of FY21, which would also see a favorable statistical base effect compared to H1 (months of Oct and Mar have the maximum support from a favorable statistical base),” said Shubhada Rao economist and founder of QuantEco research. “Having said so, we also acknowledge that there could be few factors that could potentially weigh on industrial activity,” said Rao, adding that the possibility of any lockdowns in the US and Eruope to counter the fresh wave of Covid-19 infections could hurt export demand. But most economists urged caution saying the months ahead could be crucial to sustaining the recovery. “A variety of available indicators such as output of coal, electricity, non-oil exports and GST eway bills have revealed that the pace of growth flagged in November 2020, on account of a combination of an unfavourable base effect, fewer working days related to the shift in the festive calendar, as well as some slack after the satiation of pent-up demand,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ratings agency ICRA. “Based on the available information, we anticipate a slide in IIP growth in November 2020. Moreover, a slippage back into a mild contraction in November 2020, cannot be ruled out at this point,” said Nayar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/factory-output-growth-rises-to-8-month-high-of-3-6-in-october/articleshow/79688824.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||No immediate plans to open local trains to all: Maharashtra govt||MUMBAI: A day after speculation that the state government may decide on opening local trains to all commuters after Christmas, senior officials clarified there are no such immediate plans. Overcrowded trains could become Covid-19 "superspreaders" and controlling the number of commuters on locals is the biggest challenge before the state government now, officials said on Friday. Currently, travel by local trains is permitted to limited categories of commuters, including those engaged in essential services. "There are a lot of reservations on starting local trains for all. There are no such immediate plans because there is no immediate solution available for these reservations," said a senior government official.  Aslam Shaikh, Maharashtra cabinet minister and guardian minister of Mumbai (island city), said, "We want to start trains for all but slowly and thoughtfully. We will consider all aspects and take the opinion of our (Covid-19) task force team before making a decision."  A senior government official said, "Trains carry multiple times more passengers than the total carrying capacity. We want to ensure only half the passengers are allowed than the capacity, which is difficult to implement and regulate." BMC commissioner I S Chahal said it is the government's prerogative to decide on restarting trains for all as it involves various municipal corporations and districts from where people travel to Mumbai on suburban trains. He clarified that there is no BMC plan to make any related request to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-immediate-plans-to-open-local-trains-to-all-maharashtra-govt/articleshow/79688842.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 1,000 cases in Vidarbha for 6th day, recovery rate nearing 93%||NAGPUR: For the sixth consecutive day on Thursday, Vidarbha reported less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases at 873. On the other hand, 1,073 patients recovered in a day which took total recoveries in December past the 10,000-mark. The region also reported 16 deaths taking December’s toll to 203. The first 10 days of December have shown significant improvement in Covid conditions, better control on spread of infection and reduction in number of deaths in the region. Vidarbha reported 16 deaths on Thursday, but these deaths were reported from only 5 districts. Wardha, Gondia, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim reported no death. Of the total deaths, 11 were from Nagpur, five of them were from Nagpur city, 2 from Nagpur rural while four were of outstation patients who reported in Nagpur on Thursday in critical condition. With Amravati (2), Bhandara (1), Chandrapur (1), and Gadchiroli (1) reporting deaths, Vidarbha’s toll has reached 6,247. Case fatality rate is 2.64%. The 873 new cases came from Nagpur (409), Chandrapur (96), Amravati (74), Bhandara (71), Gadchiroli (50), Wardha (42), Yavatmal (39), Akola (28), Gondia (27), Buldhana (20), and Washim (17) which took the total caseload of Vidarbha to 2,36,380. On the other hand, 1,073 recoveries came from Nagpur (402), Chandrapur (184), Amravati (101), Wardha (80), Gondia (75), Bhandara (60), Gadchiroli (58), Buldhana (36), Yavatmal (33), Washim (23), and Akola (21). With total 2,195,10 patients recovering till date, the recovery rate of Vidarbha is nearing 93% now. Gondia: The Covid scenario seems to be improving in the district with every passing day. The district continued to post more recoveries than new patients as 75 patients won their battle against the virus. Total 27 new patients were detected. No death has been reported in the last 72 hours. Now, the district has 12,955 cases, 12,380 recoveries, 168 deaths and 407 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 71 new cases while 60 patients recovered. A death was also reported in Bhandara which took the toll to 270. Now, Bhandara has 11,370 cases, 10,506 recoveries and 270 deaths. Recovery rate is 92.4%. Total 594 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Total 50 new cases and 58 recoveries marked Thursday in Gadchiroli. Death of a patient which happened on Wednesday was reported on Thursday. This took total the death toll to 90. Now, of the total 8,420 cases, 7,912 have recovered which means the recovery rate is nearly 94%. At present, 418 patients are under treatment of which 113 are in home isolation. Akola: Out of more than 870 reports of both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, 28 reports came positive. This took the caseload to 9,770. With 21 patients recovering in a day, the total number of recovered patients reached 8,789. No death was reported. The toll remained at 301. Total 680 patients are under treatment. Washim: At 17, Washim once again reported the least number of new cases in Vidarbha for the 6th day in a row. The district also reported 23 recoveries. Now, of the 6,318 cases, 5,999 have recovered. No death has been reported in the last 10 days. The district now has 171 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The district received 697 reports of which 20 came positive. With this, total cases in the district reached 11,718. On the other hand, 36 patients recovered taking the total to 11,272. No death was reported. With 141 deaths reported till date, total 305 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: The caseload of the district surged to 21,129 with detection of 96 more cases. There was a lone death reported taking the toll to 130. The day also saw discharge of 184 patients taking leading the total recoveries to 19,681. There are now 1,118 active patients under treatment in the district. Yavatmal: The district reported 39 positive cases on Thursday. Currently, 293 active positive patients are under treatment in various Covid care centres across the district. The caseload has touched 11,848 of which 11,178 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals. Total 33 patients were discharged during the day. Wardha: The district recorded 42 more cases while 80 patients were discharged. The caseload of the district has reached 8,293 and recoveries 7,706. Active patients in district are 328. The cases came from Wardha (23), Deoli (7), Samudrapur (5), Hinganghat (3), Arvi and Karanja (2 each). No death was reported for the second day while the death toll stands at 259. Amravati: Two deaths and a spike of 74 new cases took the district’s toll to 387 and caseload to 18,422. The recoveries crossed the century mark after several days. The day reported 101 recoveries to take the total to 17,593. The recovery rate has improved to 95.5%. There are now 442 active cases under treatment, including 249 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-1k-cases-in-vid-for-6th-day-recovery-rate-nearing-93/articleshow/79668723.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||BMC plans to vaccinate 1.25 lakh health workers in 15-20 days||MUMBAI: The city's 1.25 lakh healthcare workers will be administered a Covid-19 vaccine at eight centres in a span of 15-20 days, the BMC said after the first meeting of the vaccine task force was held on Friday. Preliminary plans are to vaccinate a minimum of 10,000 health personnel every day, with each centre working in two shifts. Maharashtra has informed the Centre that it has the capacity to store 3 crore vaccine doses in cold storage, National Health Mission commissioner N Ramaswami told TOI. Till Friday, the state had uploaded data of nearly 1.91 lakh healthcare workers on the government application, CoWin, for priority vaccination. In Mumbai, the vaccination drive would be carried out in four medical colleges- KEM in Parel, LTMG in Sion, BYL Nair in Mumbai Central and RN Cooper in Juhu-and four peripheral hospitals- Rajawadi (Ghatkopar), Bhabha (Bandra), V N Desai (Santacruz) and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli). At each centre, there would be three teams working in two shifts. Each team will comprise a vaccinator, a person to verify beneficiary details, and support staff. They will vaccinate up to 200 beneficiaries a day. 1st round of vaccinations in city only at public hosps, BMC gets 17 fridgesFor the Covid vaccination drive in Mumbai, a total of 1,365 vaccinators have been identified from the civic public health department. Of the identified 1.25 lakh health workers in line to be the first recipients, the details of 10,000 have been uploaded on CoWin, which is being used to track the Covid vaccine movement nationally. “We want to finish vaccinating the healthcare workers in 15 days. One centre will vaccinate 1,200 beneficiaries per day,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is also heading the city’s vaccine task force. He said the first round of vaccination will be held in public hospitals alone. The vaccine doses will be stored at the F-south ward office in Parel, from where they will be directed to the eight sites. The BMC will receive 17 ice-lined refrigerators of 225 litres from the state for the centres. Each refrigerator can stock up to 50,000 doses. The storage will most likely support 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, a civic official said. “The new refrigerators are being given to avoid any mix-up with the existing vaccines,” he said. BMC will also be floating tenders for the installation of two walk-in coolers of 40 cubic metres that can store up to 50-60 lakh doses each at its Kanjurmarg facility, which has been identified to function as a central storage. Dr Sheela Jagtap, in-charge of immunization, said BMC has three vehicles to transport the vaccine doses from a central depot to the vaccination points. BMC will add physicians and specialists to the Adverse-Effect Following Immunization (AEFI) committees, she said. As per the Centre’s plan, healthcare workers will be the first to get vaccinated, followed by frontline workers such as conservancy staff, fire brigade personnel, police, and transport personnel, among others. Kakani said the process to compile a list of frontline workers has begun. In this case, the vaccination centres could be located at hospitals, schools, community halls as per the load of beneficiaries. The third in line for vaccine would be the general public. Vaccination for this category could be carried out at hospitals, health post, dispensary, schools and community halls. Dr Jagtap said that additional vaccinators from the private sector could be sought at this stage. Next Monday, a two-day training of trainers will be held which will be followed by training of vaccinators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-plans-to-vaccinate-1-25-lakh-health-workers-in-15-20-days/articleshow/79688844.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: At 80, Sharad Pawar 'keen' to reach out to regional outfits to form anti-BJP front?||MUMBAI: Sharadchandra Govindrao Pawar is in a hurry: a whistle-stop Maharashtra tour is on cards, so is a sequel to his autobiography; and chances of an Opposition front appear alluring in the wake of the farmers' stir. Every reason for the Baramati man, who is celebrating his 80th birthday on Saturday, to purr like a Siamese cat. Pawar has his tasks cut out: Mollycoddle Shiv Sena into shedding its Hindutva baggage, keep BJP at bay and keep his own flock in the state assembly — and in the clan — on a leash. Also, he will have to draw up a strategy for the 2022 BMC elections which will test MVA's resilience and popularity. Though he and his party have dismissed talk of his heading the UPA, sources said Pawar was keen to reach out to regional bigwigs — Mamata Banerjee, Mulayam Singh Yadav, Naveen Patnaik and others — in a bid to forge a loose front to take on the BJP. Pawar, as a young politician, rubbed shoulders with Y B Chavan (Congress leader and Pawar's mentor), humorist P L Deshpande, scholar Lakshmanshastri Joshi and rationalist A B Shah, among others. To this, Pawar added adaptability. "Baba is a quick learner. He'd sit with Dr M S Swaminathan and Dr Anil Kakodkar for an update on agriculture and nuclear science," said Supriya Sule, Pawar's daughter and NCP MP. Rejecting the mould of a jaded, Gandhi-capped neta, Pawar made his debut as a new-age politician in the 1970s, bonding with the youth and cultivating a wide circle of friends: George Fernandes, Balasaheb Thackeray, Rahul Bajaj, Nusli Wadia, Mukesh Ambani, Lata Mangeshkar and Dilip Kumar. Lata Mangeshkar said, "Pawarji is arguably India's tallest leader. He can transcend sectarian politics and uphold a cause." Recalling her visit to Baramati, Mangeshkar described Pawar's hometown as a "centre of education and enterprise." "Pawarji has a ear for classical music; that should make every music lover happy," she said. Stories of his administrative acumen abound. Ex-industries secretary B K Agrawal recalled how Pawar got the Bombay Stock Exchange phone lines reconnected within 48 hours of the 1993 blasts. "He rang up New Delhi and got equipment shipped to Mumbai by a late-night flight. He sent the chief secretary to the airport to receive it," said Agrawal. "He camped in Latur for nearly a month after the 1993 earthquake, and his instruction to the CMO in Mantralaya was that phone calls should be answered before the third ring," he said. Describing Pawar as an "excellent administrator and mature politician," BJP's Ashish Shelar said, "As MCA president, Pawar gave me a free hand while hosting the World Cup at Wankhede stadium. As chairman of the infrastructure committee, I was saddled with problems. But Pawarji was cool and gave me valuable tips." Controversies have often marred Pawar's political innings. He was in the eye of a storm in 1993 following allegations of land deals. "But Baba takes everything in his stride. 'Main zindagi kaa saath nibhataa chalaa gaya' is his credo," said Sule. Added Vijay, Supriya's teenaged son, "I admire grandpa for his spunk, his planning and ability to put in long hours of work. He is ready to meet visitors at 7am." Political analyst Pratap Asbe said Pawar's no-nonsense style upsets many. "As CM he brought in the women's quota Bill despite protest in a section of Congress. He backed Muslim reformist leader Hamid Dalwai when Congress was wary of upsetting orthodox leaders," Asbe said. Pawar has reinforced his clout in the state by forming the Maha aha Vikas Aghadi. That he should continue to define Maharashtra's coalition politics is testimony to his leadership qualities, Asbe added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-at-80-sharad-pawar-keen-to-reach-out-to-regional-outfits-to-form-anti-bjp-front/articleshow/79688858.cms||Ambarish Mishra
December 12, 2020||India||103kg gold worth Rs 45cr goes ‘missing’ from CBI custody in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: More than 103kg of gold worth at least Rs 45 crore seized in a raid by the CBI and kept in its 'safe custody' has gone missing. This came to public knowledge on Friday when the Madras high court ordered a probe by Tamil Nadu's CB-CID. The missing gold is part of 400.5kg in bullion and ornaments seized by the CBI in 2012 when it raided the office of Surana Corporation Ltd in Chennai. The gold was kept in the safes and vaults of Surana under the CBI's lock and seal. The central agency said it had handed over the 72 keys of the safes and vaults to the Chennai principal special court for CBI cases. The CBI claimed that during the seizure, the gold bars were weighed all-together but while handing over to the liquidator, appointed for a settlement of debts between Surana and the SBI, it was weighed individually and that was the reason for the discrepancy. Refusing to accept the submission, Justice Prakash directed a CB-CID probe by an officer in the SP rank to be completed in six months. The CBI told Justice Prakash that its prestige would "go down" if the investigation is done by local police. To which Justice Prakash said: "...law does not sanction such an inference. All policemen must be trusted, and it does not lie in the mouth of one to say that CBI have special horns, whereas, local police have only a tail."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/103kg-gold-worth-rs-45cr-goes-missing-from-cbi-custody-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79688854.cms||Sureshkumar
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt gives its staff formal dress code now||MUMBAI: They can do a policy flip-flop, but wearing them to work is a no-no. The state government has issued a dress code banning informal wear for its staff. The code, aimed at encouraging good conduct and discipline, will apply to officers and employees, both men and women, in all government establishments. The order spells out the details of what construes "appropriate" clothing by urging staff to wear "formal" shirts and trousers or churidaar kurtas. Clearly, critics said, there's no room for government staff to sport a 'smart casual' or 'semi-formal look'. However, G D Kulthe, chief convenor of Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers Federation, said the union will not oppose the move. ‘Dress code gives a feeling of responsibility’Kulthe said, “We are okay with the decision. We will not raise any objection.” The general administration department has issued a government resolution (GR) explaining the rationale for the move. It said many employees do not wear suitable attire to work and that this affects government’s image in general. To promote the use of khadi, every employee, including IAS officers, is expected to wear khadi clothes at least on Friday. Principal secretary Shrikant Deshpande, who issued the GR, told TOI that many staffers are often seen dressed in inappropriate attire, especially the newly recruited ones and those doing outsourced work. “Though it has nothing to do with the work directly, it does have a psychological effect. The dress code gives you a sense of work and feeling of responsibility,” said Deshpande. He said those who fail to comply with the guidelines will be issued a warning initially. However, a senior HR professional, Bindu Vyankatesh, said such diktats do not necessarily work. “I don’t think government should mandate any kind of dress code, it has nothing to do with the official nature of their work,” said Vyankatesh. “Shouldn’t they (government employees) be friendly and accessible? When we go to the government or municipal office to pay bills or other work, we want them to look like ourselves.” But another official, while reacting to the decision, said government should have gone a step ahead and imposed a uniform on employees. “Many can be seen roaming around during working hours on the pretext of having a tea break or going out after lunch. In such cases, they would be identified by their dress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-gives-its-staff-formal-dress-code-now/articleshow/79688860.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 12, 2020||Delhi||AAP govt orders probe into Rs 2,500 crore rent dues ‘waiver’ by North Delhi Municipal Corporation||NEW DELHI: The Kejriwal government on Friday ordered a probe into an alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,457 crore by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation after the civic body “waived” rent dues of the south corporation. The additional chief secretary (urban development) will investigate the matter. This comes at a time when three mayors and BJP councillors are holding an indefinite protest outside the CM’s residence, claiming that the government owed Rs 13,000 crore to the civic bodies. “The incapacity of north corporation to pay salaries of doctors and other employees is apparent. The Delhi government pays all dues to the corporations before time and their accusations towards us are baseless,” Urban development minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday. However, BJP termed Jain’s remarks politically motivated. Corporations owe us thousands of crores, says govtAP said the civic body’s inefficient handling of finances and corruption had ruined its financial condition. “On one hand, the corporations are incapable of paying salaries, but on the other they are misappropriating a hefty amount of Rs 2,457 crore. This is quite unbelievable,” said Jain. Asked about the mayors claiming the government owed Rs 13,000 crore to the corporations, Jain said, “Delhi government has been paying whatever is due to the corporations before time. We are not supposed to pay them anything. Instead, they owe us thousands of crores.” “During the last election, they were confident about getting funds from the central government. The amount that Delhi government owes the corporations according to the finance commission’s recommendations has been duly paid before time. Rather, they are yet to repay the loans given to them,” said the minister. The issue was raised by AAP two days ago. “When the erstwhile MCD was trifurcated, south corporation didn’t get its own office space. It functions from the Civic Centre, which is the office space of north corporation, and needs to pay rent for it. SDMC owes Rs 2,457 crore to north corporation, according to last year’s budget documents,” said Durgesh Pathak, AAP incharge of corporations. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor termed Jain’s remarks politically motivated. “The commissioners of the three corporations independently bring the budget proposal before the standing committee. It is up to the councillors to accept or reject the budget proposal. North corporation has resolved to reject the commissioner’s proposal to write off SDMC’s rent arrears,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-govt-orders-probe-into-rs-2500-crore-rent-dues-waiver-by-north-delhi-municipal-corporation/articleshow/79688866.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Second wave of Covid-19 infections likely in Jan-Mar||VISAKHAPATNAM: The health department is anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 between January 15 and March 15, 2021. The state expert committee on Covid-19 of the health department has prepared an advisory on measures to foresee and contain a surge in infection numbers. As per these projections, clinical facilities such as ICU beds and ventilators need to be ramped up by the first week of January to October 2020 levels. The health department is also planning to move towards 100% RT-PCR tests while continuing with its aggressive testing policy. A major thrust will be given to creating awareness on Covid-19 precautions and preventive measures, such as wearing masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and other Covid-appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, the health department is also preparing for the arrival of the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine is likely to be first administered to healthcare workers, followed by other frontline staff and the elderly. According to officials, the seven-day average growth rate can be used as an indicator to predict the second wave. A rapid increase in case positivity rate and hospitalisations, despite no change in testing patterns or other numbers, compared to earlier weeks may also point to a second wave. There has been a surge in case numbers in Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, while the US and some European countries have also been witnessing a second wave. Speaking to TOI, Dr K Rambabu, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said the health department conducted a series of deliberations and discussions on the situation in the state with the experts and officials from Delhi and Johns Hopkins University. “Even though the daily case numbers have drastically dropped, we cannot completely deny the possible resurgence of the virus. The health department requests the public to take all precautionary measures,” said Dr Rambabu. The state nodal officer added that it would take at least six to eight weeks before a person develops antibodies against the virus after taking the vaccine. “The news over the arrival of Covid-19 vaccines should not lead to any complacency,” said Dr Rambabu. The advisory stressed on specific measures to reduce the severity of a probable second wave. These include cluster detection, testing, tracking and contact tracing, adoption of individual precautionary measures, resuming activities with safety measures and protecting the vulnerable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/second-wave-of-covid-19-infections-likely-in-jan-mar/articleshow/79685217.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 12, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Second wave of Covid-19 infections likely in Jan-Mar||VISAKHAPATNAM: The health department is anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 between January 15 and March 15, 2021. The state expert committee on Covid-19 of the health department has prepared an advisory on measures to foresee and contain a surge in infection numbers. As per these projections, clinical facilities such as ICU beds and ventilators need to be ramped up by the first week of January to October 2020 levels. The health department is also planning to move towards 100% RT-PCR tests while continuing with its aggressive testing policy. A major thrust will be given to creating awareness on Covid-19 precautions and preventive measures, such as wearing masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and other Covid-appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, the health department is also preparing for the arrival of the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine is likely to be first administered to healthcare workers, followed by other frontline staff and the elderly. According to officials, the seven-day average growth rate can be used as an indicator to predict the second wave. A rapid increase in case positivity rate and hospitalisations, despite no change in testing patterns or other numbers, compared to earlier weeks may also point to a second wave. There has been a surge in case numbers in Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, while the US and some European countries have also been witnessing a second wave. Speaking to TOI, Dr K Rambabu, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said the health department conducted a series of deliberations and discussions on the situation in the state with the experts and officials from Delhi and Johns Hopkins University. “Even though the daily case numbers have drastically dropped, we cannot completely deny the possible resurgence of the virus. The health department requests the public to take all precautionary measures,” said Dr Rambabu. The state nodal officer added that it would take at least six to eight weeks before a person develops antibodies against the virus after taking the vaccine. “The news over the arrival of Covid-19 vaccines should not lead to any complacency,” said Dr Rambabu. The advisory stressed on specific measures to reduce the severity of a probable second wave. These include cluster detection, testing, tracking and contact tracing, adoption of individual precautionary measures, resuming activities with safety measures and protecting the vulnerable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/second-wave-of-covid-19-infections-likely-in-jan-mar/articleshow/79689975.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Second wave of Covid-19 infections likely in Jan-Mar||VISAKHAPATNAM: The health department is anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 between January 15 and March 15, 2021. The state expert committee on Covid-19 of the health department has prepared an advisory on measures to foresee and contain a surge in infection numbers. As per these projections, clinical facilities such as ICU beds and ventilators need to be ramped up by the first week of January to October 2020 levels. The health department is also planning to move towards 100% RT-PCR tests while continuing with its aggressive testing policy. A major thrust will be given to creating awareness on Covid-19 precautions and preventive measures, such as wearing masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene and other Covid-appropriate behaviour. Meanwhile, the health department is also preparing for the arrival of the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccine is likely to be first administered to healthcare workers, followed by other frontline staff and the elderly. According to officials, the seven-day average growth rate can be used as an indicator to predict the second wave. A rapid increase in case positivity rate and hospitalisations, despite no change in testing patterns or other numbers, compared to earlier weeks may also point to a second wave. There has been a surge in case numbers in Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, while the US and some European countries have also been witnessing a second wave. Speaking to TOI, Dr K Rambabu, state nodal officer for Covid-19, said the health department conducted a series of deliberations and discussions on the situation in the state with the experts and officials from Delhi and Johns Hopkins University. “Even though the daily case numbers have drastically dropped, we cannot completely deny the possible resurgence of the virus. The health department requests the public to take all precautionary measures,” said Dr Rambabu. The state nodal officer added that it would take at least six to eight weeks before a person develops antibodies against the virus after taking the vaccine. “The news over the arrival of Covid-19 vaccines should not lead to any complacency,” said Dr Rambabu. The advisory stressed on specific measures to reduce the severity of a probable second wave. These include cluster detection, testing, tracking and contact tracing, adoption of individual precautionary measures, resuming activities with safety measures and protecting the vulnerable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/second-wave-of-covid-19-infections-likely-in-jan-mar/articleshow/79689976.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Vedanta arm set to begin oil, natural gas exploration in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: The Cairn Oil & Gas, a division of Vedanta Limited, is all set to begin oil and natural gas exploration in Krishna district. The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has already completed the ground work and identified the drilling area for the purpose. The ONGC had drilled three exploratory wells back in 1985 of which one was successful and extraction of oil and natural gas were not ruled out. The Centre later introduced the Discovered Small Field (DSF) policy and handed over 35 wells spread across Movva, Gudur, Machilipatnam and Kaldindi mandals to Vedanta in 2018. The company is now estimating production of 30,000 barrels of oil and 30 million cubic feet of gas per day. Pipelines have been laid jointly by Gail and MEIL and the work is awaiting environmental clearance. The Centre has posted the public hearing for environmental clearance on December 17 at Tarakaturu village in Gudur mandal where most wells will be set up for a major part of the exploration activity. Vedanta proposed taking up well drilling with water base mud (WBM) initially and shift to synthetic oil base mud (SOBM) for the rest of the operation. The Centre wants Vedanta to commission the work by early 2021 and execute operation for the next ten years. The project is estimated to cost around Rs 650 crore in addition to which the company will have to spend another Rs 525 crore for drilling 35 wells, each at a cost of around Rs 15 crore. Meanwhile, Human Rights Forum (HRF) activists have started a campaign in the villages against the exploration exercise and the proposed public hearing for environmental clearance. “The process of hydraulic fracturing or fracking to extract gas involves drilling huge amounts of water, chemicals and sand into earth which is deleterious to the environment. These extraction processes would kill the delicate ecological balance in this highly fertile region,” HRF convenor for AP and Telangana, VS Krishna told TOI. “Toxic chemicals that are unleashed will contaminate aquifers which is why fracking is banned in many European countries in Europe and several states in the US. Scientific research has proven pollution of air, water and other community resources in the vicinity,” Krishna said. Besides HRF, activists from SC, ST and BC communities along with the Chinna Kulala Hakkula Vedika are also creating awareness among locals about the effects of the proposed exploration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vedanta-arm-set-to-begin-oil-natural-gas-exploration-in-krishna-district/articleshow/79685235.cms||Gopi Dara
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Four more BEST staffers die, toll rises to 54||MUMBAI: Four more BEST staffers admitted to Covid-19 hospitals have died, taking the toll to 54 till Friday. Meanwhile, Ashok Lohar, one of the bus conductors, finally got discharged from a Covid hospital in Bhayander after a 52-day stay, said officials. BEST unions, though, claimed the death toll was over 115 and demanded a "white paper" with details of all those who have died. BEST chief medical officer Anil Kumar Singal said, "We have conducted a proper scrutiny before declaring official figures for the deaths." He said the department had launched Operation Zero- zero deaths and zero active cases. "Our active cases in hospitals are 34 now and we want to bring them down to zero," he said, adding till Friday, 2,726 of 2,858 staffers (95%) had recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-four-more-best-staffers-die-toll-rises-to-54/articleshow/79688874.cms||Somit Sen
December 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Police register case against Vaddera Corporation chair||VIJAYAWADA: Mangalagiri police on Friday registered a case against Vaddera Corporation chairperson Devalla Revathi for assaulting a Kaza toll booth employee. According to Mangalagiri police, Kolanti Praveen, the alleged victim of the assault, filed the complaint against the Vaddera Corporation chairperson. Police said that a case was registered against Revathi under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 294 B (using obscene words), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Cops further said that the Vaddera Corporation chairperson will be spoken to regarding the incident. The complainant has also submitted the video of the incident which went viral on social media as evidence where Revathi was allegedly seen trying to move the barricades to the motorcycle lane and slapping him. The incident took place on Wednesday when the Vaddera Corporation chairperson, who was taking her injured mother to a hospital, got into an argument with toll booth staff. Devalla Revathi has alleged that the toll booth employee misbehaved with her and abused both her and her driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-register-case-against-vaddera-corporation-chair/articleshow/79685269.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Surat||Girl jumped off Parle Point terrace to kill self||Surat: Investigation into the case of the 18-year-old girl who was found severely injured in Parle Point on Thursday revealed that it was not a case of rape as suspected, but an attempt to commit suicide. Cops further revealed that the teen was neither raped nor pushed from the terrace as she had claimed. Earlier, considering the injury in the pelvic area doctors suggested medical examination doubting it to be a case of rape. After her statement, police had already reached the conclusion that the girl had pre-planned to kill herself a day earlier and accordingly jumped off the terrace of the four storey building. However, she survived with multiple fractures and her statement was registered early on Friday after she regained consciousness. Before jumping off the terrace of Gokul Dham Apartment in Parle Point on Wednesday at around 9.45 pm the girl also consumed a pesticide chalk used to kill cockroaches. Police suspect that she may have sent the message to her father stating ‘I love you mom and dad, (name) no more’ at the same time. “However, she started vomiting soon after and doubted that she would not die from it and started roaming in the Parle Point area before she jumped off the building’s terrace,” said Vidhi Chaudhary, deputy commissioner of police, zone III. “She is refusing sexual assault and now police will file a closure report in court as we have already registered a rape offence in the case based on medical report,” Chaudhary added. After regaining consciousness, the girl, however, told the police that she does not wish to live with her family. As cops dug deeper, they were shocked to find the pre-planning. The girl tried multiple options to end life before taking a plunge from the apartment terrace. She took Rs 7,000 from home informing that she is going to college to buy books. She left at 11 am and went to buy new clothes in Parvat Patia and also visited a beauty parlour near her home in Godadara. She then went to Dumas beach in a rickshaw searching for a place to jump into the sea. But low tide kept the water far away from the beach and she then had to go to Ubhrat, another beach near the city, in a hired cab. There too she was unsuccessful as the beach was closed. She then got down at Magdalla where cops suspect she may have planned to jump from the river bridge, but ultimately came to Parle Point in a rickshaw and also bought the chalk from a store. She then searched for an isolated location to consume it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/girl-jumped-off-parle-point-terrace-to-kill-self/articleshow/79685580.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Vadodara||VMC standing committee clears 16 works on last day||Vadodara: The standing committee of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) cleared a series of works in its meeting on Friday. The day was effectively the last day of the tenure of the elected wing of the civic body as Saturday and Sunday are closed days. From Monday, municipal commissioner Swaroop P will take over as the chief executive of the civic body. He will hold the post till the civic polls are not held. However, he will not be able to take policy decisions. A series of works were brought before the standing committee to ensure that these were cleared before its term came to an end. The committee took up 19 works on its agenda and cleared 16 of them. The works include a proposal to digitalise important records of the civic body. The civic body will also conduct the process of marking the limits of town planning schemes in the city. It cleared a road in the Laxmipura area of the city and annual contracts for seal coating and carpeting of roads. The committee also cleared proposals for laying and replacing water lines in the Tarsali area of the city. Work for a drainage line in Tandalja and a storm water drain in Manjalpur area also got a nod. Annual contracts for various other tasks were also taken up by the committee including those for drainage, cleaning storm water drains and pavements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-standing-committee-clears-16-works-on-last-day/articleshow/79684303.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Bengaluru||12 weeks on, Karnataka HC grants bail to Sanjjanaa on medical grounds||BENGALURU: Sandalwood actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has been arrested in a drug-peddling case, was on Friday granted bail by the high court on medical grounds after considering her health evaluation report submitted by Vani Vilas Hospital. She walked out of Central Prison at 8.30pm. Sanjjanaa was arrested and arraigned as accused No. 14 in a drug-peddling case with links to Sandalwood celebrities. She has been in judicial custody for about 12 weeks. She was arrested on September 9 in connection with a case registered by Central Crime Branch under NDPS Act with Cottonpet police on September 4. Her name did not figure among 2 suspects listed in the FIR for peddling drugs in parties. Sanjjanaa directed to mark attendance once a fortnightSanjjanaa, who was shifted to Central Jail on September 16, sought bail on medical grounds. The high court directed her to undergo a medical checkup. Though the prosecution contended she can get treatment in prison itself, Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar did not agree and allowed her plea. Senior advocate Hashmath Pasha, who appeared for Sanjjanaa, said the court ordered her release subject to furnishing a bail bond for Rs 3 lakh and two sureties for the same sum. She was directed to mark her attendance once a fortnight before CCB, not to leave India and co-operate with the probe, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/12-weeks-on-karnataka-hc-grants-bail-to-sanjjanaa-on-medical-grounds/articleshow/79688870.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Classical musicians shocked with the news of unnatural death of Pt Nikhil Banerjee’s daughter||Kolkata: Sitarist Purbayan Chatterjee, whose father was one of the closest associates of Pt Nikhil Banerjee, was shocked with the news that the maestro’s younger daughter being found dead in the upscale Jodhpur Park locality on Friday morning under mysterious circumstances. Arya (40), originally Devdutta Banerjee, was the younger daughter of late sitarist Pt Nikhil Banerjee who is commonly regarded as one of the three greatest sitarists of the 20th century, along with Pt Ravi Shankar and Ustad Vilayat Khan.  She was just six when her father had passed away. What was even more shocking for her was that she lost her father on her sixth birthday. That was in January 27, 1986. “I am pained to know that Pt Nikhil Banerjee’s progeny has gone down like this. It is a terribly sad news. I have known her as a toddler. Her mother would bring her over to our house so that she could take lessons from my father. She was very talented since music was in her DNA,” Chatterjee said.  Pt Anindo Chatterjee, who used to regularly accompany her father on tabla, is shocked with the news of her demise. “She was born in 1980 and I first saw her when she was just ten days old. It is so shocking to hear this news. I would go to their 346 Jodhpur Park residence for rehearsals with her father,” he said.  In fact, Devdutta had done her masters in Hindustani classical music. But she chose modelling as a career option. That’s because she had said she knew she “wouldn’t be able to achieve his greatness in the field of music”. Model Madhabilata Mitra remembers doing a show with her. “She was my senior. She was doing quite well as a model. I remember she would get selected along with national models to do fashion tours. I would look up to her with awe. She was reserved and was also a good singer,” Mitra said.  Subsequently, she had made her Bollywood debut in Dibakar Banerjee’s ‘Love Sex Aur Dhoka’ and then Milan Luthria’s ‘The Dirty Picture’. When Purbayan had first moved to Mumbai, her name figured on the list of people he would connect with. They had met up too. That’s when she had mentioned about quitting modelling to groom models. “Later, she had come for my concert. This was seven years back. I had heard that she had moved back to Kolkata after her mother passed away. She was way ahead of others and very well-spoken,” Purbayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/classical-musicians-shocked-with-the-news-of-unnatural-death-of-pt-nikhil-banerjees-daughter/articleshow/79688973.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 12, 2020||Nagpur||Ryots allege flood man-made, demand higher compensation||Nagpur: Two Chandrapur farmers have knocked the doors of high court here alleging that floods that hit Vidarbha’s four districts on August 28-30 were “man-made”. They charged the state government with discrimination while awarding compensation to farmers in the region when compared with those in western Maharashtra and Konkan. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote on Friday issued notices to the respondents, including Central and state governments, asking them to reply in six weeks. Through their counsels Anand Deshpande and Kalyan Kumar, also the Elgar Pratishthan secretary, the petitioners prayed for constitution of judicial commission to inquire into the floods that devastated many crops in districts of Nagpur, Bhandara, Chandrapur, and Gondia. They further demanded that flood-hit farmers be compensated as per the Disaster Management Act, 2005, at par with their counterparts in western Maharashtra. On August 28-30, Gosikhurd dam’s 33 gates were opened for discharging water into Wainganga. However, the release at 30,000 cubic metres per second led to large-scale flooding of riparian towns and villages in all four districts. About 261 villages got submerged and over 96,000 people were affected. According to the petitioners, the respondents didn’t comply with the guidelines in operation and maintenance manual for dams issued by the Central Water Commission (CWC) and Central Dam Safety Organization. Petitioners Manik Choudhary and Manohar Naktode from Bramhapuri have made Union Ministry for Water Resources and River Development, Central Dam Safety Organisation directorate, State Irrigation Department, Department of Disaster Management, Relief and Rehabilitation along with collectors of Nagpur, Gondia, Bhandara and Chandrapur as respondents. Pointing out there were no rains when the floods hit them, the petitioners said they suffered massive losses due to the undeclared calamity. Not only were their standing crops damaged, but even their homes were washed away. Terming the event as “administrative negligence”, they blamed the government for meting out partial treatment to them in relief and rehabilitation measures. Quoting the state minister for relief and rehabilitation who announced a compensation of Rs18,000/per hectare to the farmers for the losses, the petitioners said the officials later told them the amount was reduced to Rs13,600/hectare which means they will receive a pittance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ryots-allege-flood-man-made-demand-higher-compensation/articleshow/79684686.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 12, 2020||Goa||BJP confident of majority in Goa zilla panchayat polls: Sadanand Shet Tanavade||PANAJI: BJP is confident of getting an absolute majority in both the ZPs, the party’s state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Friday. “Overall, our candidates in both the districts are getting good responses,” he said. He said that ZP and assembly elections are different and “we consider all elections differently”. BJP is contesting 25 seats in North Goa and 16 seats in South, Tanavade told reporters. Asked about the impact of agitations across the state, Tanavade said that those involved are not BJP workers or supporters, they have never voted for BJP. “Our supporters have confidence in us — that if at all any issue will impact the state, then BJP will resolve it,” the state BJP president said. He denied allegations that BJP continued to campaign after campaigning ended in March. “Nobody has stopped people-to-people contact, campaigning means you cannot hold public meetings. We have not held any public meeting. No one stopped the opposition from visiting houses. Basically, they didn’t want to go and meet people,” he said. BJP candidates were in touch with the people even during lockdown, he said. “When a party realises that they are going to lose the elections then they start making allegations,” the state BJP president said. Tanavade said that most of our MLAs who have come from Congress have fielded candidates as independents. “We will win those seats,” he said. In some seats, Congress candidates are now supporting MGP or independent candidates, he said. “BJP expects the opposition to come together for elections and accordingly BJP plans the strategy, so even if that happens, there won’t be any impact on BJP,” Tanavade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-confident-of-majority-in-zp-polls-tanavade/articleshow/79686633.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Surat||Life imprisonment awarded to 3-year-old’s rapist||Surat: The special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act convicted a 26-year-old man on Friday for raping a three-year-old minor in August 2018. The convict was sentenced to life in jail till he is alive for brutalizing and seriously injuring the minor. The court, which ordered compensation of Rs 7 lakh to be paid to the survivor also ordered city police to take departmental actions against investigation officer of the case H R Brahmbhatt for negligence in investigation. The court of additional sessions judge P S Kala convicted Mangal Singh and sentenced him to life imprisonment. “The accused was convicted based on statements of witnesses and other evidence. Had her father not reached on time the girl would have died,” said Kishore Revaliya, assistant public prosecutor. The minor was kidnapped by the convict on August 13 from outside her home. He was seen by neighbours who alerted the family and the father rushed to the terrace where he found Singh without any clothes on him with the child. While the convict then escaped from the spot, the father took the minor with serious injuries in her private parts to the hospital and also lodged a complaint. Meanwhile, locals managed to nab the culprit and hand him over to the police. The survivor’s father and the convict used to work in the same company in Sachin and lived on the company’s premises. Departmental action against IO The special court for POCSO ordered the city police commissioner to take departmental actions against investigation officer of the case H R Brahmbhatt, the then police inspector of Sachin police station, for showing negligence and carelessness during investigation. Asking the police chief to take action within three months, the court has also ordered submission of report on action taken. “Police failed to collect some crucial evidence from the spot including samples of semen and blood. They have also failed in collecting CCTV footage of the spot and for all negligence the PI was reprimanded by court during proceedings,” said Kishore Revaliya, assistant public prosecutor. Rise in crime against minor The city is witnessing rise in crime against minor girls again. On Monday, a 10-year-old minor girl was kidnapped and raped by Dinesh Baisane, 24, in Pandesara. On Thursday, a seven-year-old minor girl was raped and brutalized by some unidentified man in Sachin GIDC area. Cops are yet to identify the accused even after two days despite availability of multiple CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/life-imprisonment-awarded-to-3-year-olds-rapist/articleshow/79685093.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 12, 2020||Vadodara||Union govt mulling monthly pension for farmers: Giriraj Singh||Vadodara/ Anand: Centre is evolving a scheme to provide pension of Rs 3,000 per month to farmers. Union minister of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying Giriraj Singh said this on Friday. Singh, who was on a one-day visit to milk city Anand, said that he has discussed this “revolutionary” scheme with officials of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) and the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited (Amul Dairy). “After 60 years, nine crore farmers, of which 2 crore are involved as members with the milk unions, will get Rs 3,000 as pension. I had come to discuss this scheme and modalities with NDDB and Amul here,” he said. When asked about the funding pattern, the union minister claimed that half of the fund will be sanctioned by the centre while the milk unions will fund the rest of the amount. He stressed that milk is country’s single largest agricultural commodity in value terms and is more than the combined value of paddy and wheat put together. Earlier in the day, he visited Anand’s Zakariyapura village where dairy farmers have installed biogas plants to produce gas that is used as cooking fuel. The bio slurry produced from these biogas plants is used by the farmers in their own field and surplus bio slurry is either sold to other farmers or converted into organic fertilisers. NDDB’s Sudhan trademark also helps them in creating a brand identity ensuring quality of products. While lauding the model, he advised to promote poultry amongst small dairy farmers to enhance their incomes. He also visited NDDB’s modern ovum pick up and in vitro embryo production (OPU-IVEP) facility, an assisted reproductive technology to multiply elite germ plasm at a faster rate. This R&D facility has been established to standardise the OPU-IVEP technology in cattle and buffaloes and also to train veterinarians for large scale adoption of the technology.  Singh takes dig at Nehru over Gir cows Union minister Giriraj Singh also took a dig at former Prime Minister late Jawaharlal Nehru. “After Independence, if Nehruji had paid attention to gav and garib kisan (village and poor villagers), Gujarat’s Gir cows would have not been in Brazil as Girlando giving 50 litres milk. They would have been right here in Gujarat,” said Singh. The union minister claimed that in six years, PM Narendra Modi has assigned the work of indigenous breed development to 30 institutes in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/union-govt-mulling-monthly-pension-for-farmers-giriraj-singh/articleshow/79685223.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Marriage in the times of Covid||Ranchi: Marriage rituals and ceremonies have undergone significant changes owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Alok Kumar (name changed on request) tested positive for the novel coronavirus a day ahead of his marriage, which was scheduled for November 25. At first, the family was in two minds, whether to cancel the ceremony or to go ahead with it. Finally, it was decided that the groom and the bride will not sit together at the mandap, and the groom would briefly appear for the sindoor daan ceremony. The marriage was solemnized in the presence of a handful of guests and the groom remained isolated all through the wedding. A health official with the state government, who was privy to the marriage, told TOI: “I believe it was smart decision to go ahead with the marriage. The families took necessary precautions to check the spread of the virus and also saved themselves from huge financial losses.” O P Singh, another resident whose son recently got married, said: “The wedding was deferred from January to May due to a death in the family but then the pandemic broke out and again the wedding got postponed. This time, the marriage was finally solemnized on November 24 in a simple way.” Owners of various banquet halls also admitted that things were quite different this time. “A lot of food was wasted because the number of guests in attendance was lower than the permissible number,” Jitendra of Manya Palace said. Instead of the usual photo and video shoots, some of the families even arranged for the wedding ceremony to be live-streamed so that elderly family members, who are vulnerable and cannot go to the wedding venue, can catch all the rituals from the confines of their homes. Sanjeev Sahay, a lawyer by profession, used his experience of attending online court hearings to live stream his niece’s marriage on Zoom. “My mother is approaching 70 and we did not want to risk her health, so she attended the function online,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/marriage-in-the-times-of-covid/articleshow/79685229.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Mitra calls Centre’s fiscal fillip a ‘bluff’||Kolkata: Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra took to Twitter to dismiss the Centre’s claim that expenditure had been increased amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Calling it a Narendra Modi government “bluff”, he pointed out that the Centre’s “own data” showed a fiscal stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore. “In fact, GoI Expend fell by 0.62% between April-Sept 2020 compared to 2019! No wonder GDP shrank by the highest % in the world! Common people in misery while GoI holds back demand stimulation. Terrible!” Mitra tweeted. The minister later told TOI that the Controller General of Accounts, which functions under the Union ministry of finance, had shown that the expenditure had reduced. According to data, he said, the Centre spent Rs 14.8 lakh crore in the first two quarters of 2019-20. During the same period of the current fiscal (2020-21), the expenditure was Rs 14.7 lakh crore despite the economic situation being pretty bad in the current quarter and requiring strong government intervention, he said. Mitra maintained that the cash component of the stimulus was only 0.9% though the Centre had claimed it to be much more. He pointed out that the cash component was “almost nothing” compared to similar packages in the US and the UK. The finance minister further said that if one set aside the 100 days’ work component, then the figure would be only 0.0005%. “It is a long-term crisis. You need a fiscal stimulus with at least 50% cash component,” he had earlier said. The minister pointed out that the economy wasn’t doing any better before the Covid lockdown either. The GDP growth for January-March quarter was only 3.1%. A former chairman of the empowered group of finance ministers to roll out GST, Mitra stressed on the need for monetary assistance to states when revenue collection is poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mitra-calls-centres-fiscal-fillip-a-bluff/articleshow/79687068.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu writes to CBI on letter by Saradha accused||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress rebel Suvendu Adhikari has drawn CBI authorities’ attention to a prisoner’s petition to the PM and the Bengal CM making allegations in the Saradha Ponzi scam. Suvendu wrote to the CBI director on Thursday referring to the petition written by Saradha prime accused Sudipto Sen, now in jail, in which Sen alleged that several influential people took “financial advantages” from him, including one “…now joining BJP”. Suvendu wrote: “I have also been named in the purported letter which was purportedly written at a time when I have just resigned from the cabinet as irrigation and transport minister.” Sen wrote to the PM and the CM on December 1, four days after Suvendu put in his papers as Bengal cabinet minister. The Trinamool rebel also took note that the prisoner’s petition, which was part of an “internal communication” between Presidency Correctional Home and the ADG & IG Correctional Services, got wide publicity. Suvendu expressed the fear that Sen’s purported letter was written “under duress” and under the “influence” of jail authorities in connivance with “very influential persons”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-writes-to-cbi-on-letter-by-saradha-accused/articleshow/79687106.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Shah on 2-day Bengal visit from Dec 19||Kolkata: Union home minister Amit Shah is coming on a two-day visit to Bengal on December 19, the announcement coming a day after the attack on BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy. On Thursday, Shah had dropped hints on his Twitter handle by raising “concern over the law and order situation in Bengal”. On Friday, after taking feedback from Kailash Vijayvargiya and Mukul Roy, he asked Bengal BJP leaders to make arrangements for a two-day visit. Sources said Shah also called up Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh to get details of the chain of events since Thursday. “We were expecting that Amitji might want to visit Bengal. It was confirmed on Friday morning,” said a Bengal BJP leader. Shah is likely to visit North 24 Parganas and Birbhum, where he would take part in a few programmes involving locals. “He is interested in meeting Matua community representatives. We are trying to arrange a meeting either in Barasat or Bongaon,” said a leader. “It seems that Shah is likely to address the Matua community regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,” he added. Shah would also visit Santiniketan on the second day of his visit on December 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shah-on-2-day-bengal-visit-from-dec-19/articleshow/79686869.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Delhi summons West Bengal chief secretary, DGP; TMC says action is ‘mala fide’||KOLKATA: The Union home ministry has called state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and state director-general of police Virendra to Delhi next Monday over Thursday’s attack on BJP national president J P Nadda’s convoy, prompting Bandyopadhyay to respond that the state government was “already addressing the issue with utmost seriousness” and so their “presence” in Delhi be “dispensed” with. The central government letter, asking Bandyopadhyay and Virendra to meet the Union home secretary at his Delhi office by 12.15 pm on Monday, reached Nabanna on Friday morning and followed calls from PM Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh to BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya — who was hurt in the attack — and governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s report to the Centre. Bandyopadhyay’s response followed a few hours later, where he gave in detail the “elaborate security arrangements” made for Nadda: a deputy inspector-general was “deputed to monitor” security and “four additional superintendents of police, eight deputy superintendents, 14 inspectors” and more than 700 personnel were deployed along Diamond Harbour Road “in addition to a bullet-proof car for Nadda and an escort vehicle for the CRPF contingent”. “The tagging of many vehicles with the convoy made the situation unwieldy because, typically, security authorities handle a convoy of a few vehicles only,” Bandyopadhyay’s letter said, adding that three cases had been registered and seven persons arrested. Dhankhar, who sent his report to the Centre on Thursday itself, did not divulge its contents but said the law-and-order situation had been “declining” in Bengal. “The honourable CM is under Constitutional obligation. She cannot depart from the path of the Constitution,” he added. The Trinamool Congress responded politically, calling the Union home ministry directive “mala fide” and raising questions about the presence of people who were “convicts and facing multiple criminal cases” in Nadda’s convoy. The state government was “answerable only to the state legislature”, Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee said, even as other seniors played up the vandalism of Banga Bhavan and MP Abhishek Banerjee’s residence in Delhi late on Thursday. “They are tourists, a gang of outsiders. They targeted Banga Bhavan and an MP’s residence in Delhi like cowards,” TMC MP Saugata Roy said. Banerjee added that the state government had provided adequate security to Nadda and blamed him for “provocation”, specifically mentioning BJP leader Rakesh Singh for provoking people present at Trinamool gatherings on Nadda’s route. “Singh was travelling in a car in Nadda’s convoy. How could the BJP president allow a convict and a criminal in his convoy? Singh has 59 criminal cases pending against him,” the Trinamool MP said. Trinamool secretary-general Partha Chatterjee blamed the BJP for its pre-planned efforts to rake up trouble. “The BJP president is rattled by CM Mamata Banerjee’s development work,” he tweeted on Friday. The BJP disagreed, with Vijayvargiya saying everything had happened in public view. “This is the beginning of the Trinamool’s end,” he said. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy said there was no rule of law in Bengal. “Vijayvargiya has got a ligament tear on his left arm. I have injuries on my fingers. Bengal has slid to lawlessness,” Roy said. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said it was a measure of the Trinamool government’s desperation that the attacks occurred in the presence of so many police personnel. “Wreaking violence and then blaming us cannot go forever,” he said, adding that the incident showed how nervous the Trinamool had become. Bengal police officials said three FIRs had been registered, two of them pertaining directly to the attacks at Shirakol and Debipur, and seven persons arrested. A third FIR was lodged for trying to incite protesters along the route, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/delhi-summons-chief-secy-dgp-tmc-says-action-is-mala-fide/articleshow/79687814.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Urbanites shift to villages, take up farming as passion||BOKARO: During the months-long lockdown this year, while some found time to follow their passion, others found new passions and dedicated time for them. In Bokaro too, the trend is similar, but here a chunk of the urban population has taken up farming in the villages of the district. The fashion to shift to a village for a few days to practice farming had started a few years ago, but it found more takers when during the lockdown, many wanted to trace back to the roots. While some are taking land on lease, others are buying acres of land to cultivate organic crops. Yet others are simply collaborating with farmers and promising them better technologies to grow their crop with a sole motive — to fulfil their passion of farming. From community health experts to engineers and agriculturists, TOI spoke to a few such urbanites who have taken up farming and are heralding a change. Dr Siddharth Biswas, a community health expert, lives in Delhi with his wife, but his passion for farming bring him to Bokaro at least twice a year. His interest in farming has led him to introduce enriched vegetables and grains that have more food value. Biswas said, “Research has proved that grains, vegetables and fruits have suffered nutrition loss in the past 100 years. The spinach which used to have 64mg iron in 1914, at present has 2mg iron. We are working to enhance nutrients and micro-nutrients in the crops using native seeds and increasing carbon contents in the soil using cowdung and natural biomass.” Biswas practices farming in Chakuliya village under Chas block, which is slowly becoming an farm-friendly destination for urbanites. Arti Sinha, wife of an officer of Bokaro Steel Plant, said, “We had initially cultivated seeds on a 10-acre land and will soon expand it to 50 acre. At present we have harvested black rice, adan shipla (red rice), bhukti, navin arwa and tulsi mukul varieties of rice in the farm.” Sinha too practices farming in Chakuliya. Both Biswas and Sinha are engaged in Amrut Krushi — an initiative where more than a hundred farmers are now engaged in growing crops with native and genetically modified seeds that enhance micro-nutrients and minerals in the crop. Prasanjeet Kumar, a resident of Datu village under Kasmar block, is a young agricultural scientist who made farming his passion. Instead of a job, Kumar saw his future in cultivating stevia — a medicinal plant. He also went to Chennai to learn the tricks of stevia cultivation. He said, “Stevia has medicinal value. Their leaves are plucked and packed by the two dozen women I have employed for the work. These leaves are supplied to Patna, Prayagraj, Pune, Ahmednagar, Bengaluru and other places. I also sell them online.” Passion for farming also made two brothers — Vijay Kisku and Ram Kisku — of Shyampur village under Jaridih block to leave their plum engineering jobs. The Kisku brothers have become role models for other youths of their village who now have joined them or are getting encouraged in giving up jobs to take to farming. The Kisku brothers studied electrical engineering from RVS Engineering and Technology College, Jamshedpur and later started farming on a seven-acre land. They brother said, “Initially we found the work difficult and taking care of plants was a tough task, but we did not lose hope. We got help from Sunil Oraon who knows a lot about farming and adopted modern techniques by seeing YouTube. Our hard work bore fruit and our vegetables sold in the local market, yielding us unexpected returns.” Vijay said, “In a month, we are churning out around Rs 50,000. About 20 to 25 youths and villagers have joined us in farming.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/urbanites-shift-to-villages-take-up-farming-as-passion/articleshow/79685237.cms||Divy Khare
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||TMC slams ‘vandalism’ at Banga Bhawan, Abhishek’s Delhi house||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress on Friday said the “attacks” at Banga Bhawan and MP Abhishek Banerjee’s official New Delhi residence were “an act of cowardice”. In a statement, the party said, “By vandalising the Banga Bhawan in Delhi, BJP has once again proven that violence is their only solution to undermine the 10 years of good work by Mamata Banerjee. This attack showcases BJP’s sheer disregard for the cultural sentiment of the people of West Bengal.” The statement, posted on Facebook, added: “BJP goons did not even spare the residence of our Hon’ble MP! Such scathing attacks are directly meted out to the people that our MPs represent. We highly condemn these attacks.” Party secretary general Partha Chatterjee said, “I strongly condemn the attack on Abhishek Banerjee’s residence and Trinamool Congress office in Delhi.” TMC’s Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy said, “Whether someone pelted stones or not will be probed. But the attempt to make a hullabaloo over this is an attempt to deflect attention from the enormous success of the ‘Duare Sarkar’ efforts by the state government. In the last 10 days, over 56 lakh people have turned out for these camps — 60% of them to enrol for the family health policy Swasthya Sathi.” Roy said that the “tremendous success of this effort was unnerving them and hence this urge to create news”. The MP said, “The allegations also coincided at a time when the party was presenting its decade-long performance report card, which will be taken to people. They are talking of violence, but data say something else. In the 2001-2010 decade, Bengal witnessed 670 political killings. In 2011-2020, this number dropped to 150. Even when people are dying of Covid or committing suicide due to failed love affairs or financial distress, BJP is claiming their party workers are being killed.” He added, “They are tourists in Bengal. A gang of outsiders.” TMC MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee said, “Why were so many motorcycles and vehicles there in a convoy of a person who gets Z-category protection? Is this the norm? If they are alleging security breach, they must also answer why their party workers and leaders compromised the security of the Z-category protectee by joining his convoy.” “Over and above the Z-category security, the state had provided for vehicles and personnel. The problem was there for 10-15 minutes and the public meeting took place without any incident,” Banerjee said. “There was clear instigation from people in the convoy. Who were these people?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-slams-vandalism-at-banga-bhawan-abhisheks-delhi-house/articleshow/79686864.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Shot of hope: Kolkata couple volunteers for vaccine trial||KOLKATA: When Rai and Saptarshi Bhose of Jadavpur walked into National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (ICMR-NICED) last Saturday, they became Bengal’s only couple — and only among a handful in India and the world — to sign up for candidate vaccine trials. ICMR-NICED, the Beliaghata research institute, is one of the 24 institutes in the country where phase III trials of Covaxin, the made-in-India candidate vaccine, is on. The couple had registered themselves as potential volunteers for the vaccine trial a couple of weeks ago.They received a call from NICED officials last Thursday to report at the institute the following Saturday. “We read in newspapers about the Covid vaccine trial at NICED, and that volunteers were required for it,” says Saptarshi, a credit risk management professional. “We were excited that there was an institute in the city where trials were on, and applied to become volunteers.” This particular vaccine, he adds, is “indigenous, which would ensure greater access for Indians, more than other vaccines. Therefore, if our participation as volunteers helps prove the vaccine’s efficacy, we would be proud and happy”. Not everything was, however, smooth. Their parents were very apprehensive, as they have a daughter who is just seven years old. What if they suffered any adverse effects? “Prior to registering, we had a discussion with Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, the director of clinical research at Peerless Hospital, who’s a friend,” says Rai, a public relations professional. “He encouraged us to go ahead, explaining the need for volunteers for a successful trial.” Finally, armed with sound advice, both of them argued and convinced their parents. They reached the institute around 9.15 on Saturday morning, where they were first subjected to screening tests to evaluate whether they could be volunteers. The screening included measuring BMI and blood tests — including Covid antibody test and RT-PCR — to rule out Covid. Once they passed the screening, a team of researchers explained the process, the vaccine, the trial, risks, dos and dont’s. They were given the first shot (they were not told whether it was the actual vaccine or a placebo, according to testing rules) after they signed the agreement. “There is always some amount of risk in everything,” Saptarshi says. “But the risk is worth taking, in this case. Moreover, the safety of the vaccine has been established in previous trials. So, at the most, I might get some fever, rashes and fatigue. Even in case of more serious events, there are doctors who would take care of it.” The second shot is scheduled for the first week of January. The double-blinded placebo-controlled trial at ICMR-NICED will involve 1,000 volunteers, where half will get the actual candidate vaccine and the other half the placebo. All volunteers will be monitored for a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shot-of-hope-kolkata-couple-volunteers-for-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79687746.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker death: Dist court recalls 2nd autopsy order||Jalpaiguri/Siliguri: The Jalpaiguri district and sessions court on Friday recalled a December 8 lower court order for a second post-mortem in BJP worker Ullen Roy’s death case and directed that both parties — the state and the victim’s sister Shantibala — be heard before a fresh order is passed by December 16. The state had moved the district court, saying it was not even heard before the second autopsy order was passed. BJP leaders have, meanwhile, indicated that they are seeking the family’s views on whether they should move Calcutta High Court. On Thursday, New Jalpaiguri police had moved a court against its second autopsy order. Urging the court to “recall” the order, they said the first post-mortem on Roy, 44, was performed at 9.30pm on December 7 by a medical board of three experts and the procedure videographed. The state made an appeal in the district and sessions court, urging that the government counsel be heard first. The district court thus asked the lower court to hear the matter afresh and pass an order by December 16. The development comes after forensic medicine and toxicology (FMT) head of North Bengal Medical College (NBMC) Vivek Kumar wrote to New Jalpaiguri cops, stating that a requisition by a Siliguri police assistant commissioner — also a special executive magistrate — had prompted the first post-mortem by a medical board. Kumar said he, along with senior forensic experts of NBMC Jagadish Biswas and Dibyakar Chhetri, had performed the autopsy after the body was identified by two relatives of Roy and the investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-worker-death-dist-court-recalls-2nd-autopsy-order/articleshow/79687089.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||Covid cases breach 17,000-mark in East Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: After 214 days from the first case on May 12, the number of positive cases of Covid-19 in East Singhbhum district crossed the 17000-mark on Thursday. Though, there’s been a comparative decline in the daily number of fresh cases in the district, the count is steadily increasing. “Cases are not rising in big numbers every day, but the virus and the associated threat remains. We have to be alert and sincerely comply with the safety guidelines as we used to do at the peak of the pandemic,” said India Medical Association’s Jamshedpur chapter secretary Mrityunjay Singh. Notably, for the past three weeks, the district has been reporting an average of 20 cases each day with a current recovery rate of 97% and mortality rate of 2.2%. Till Thursday, the district recorded 16,453 recoveries and 374 deaths. The last 1,000 cases took 35 days when 1,980 recovered and 18 died of the virus. Currently, 175 active cases are under treatment in the district. The Covid data of the district administration suggests that the urban municipal areas like Jamshedpur, Mango and Jugsalai require more precaution as more number of cases are being reported from these areas. “Of the total 17,002 cases, the urban circle’s contribution is 13,309 whereas, the cumulative share of the remaining nine blocks is 3,693,” said a data commuting official at the civil surgeon’s office. The additional chief medical officer, Sahir Pal, said testing in the district is on with a focus on crowded public places in the urban and rural areas. The health department has collected 4,18,706 samples and tested 4,06,277 samples so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/cov-cases-breach-17k-mark-in-east-singhbhum/articleshow/79685201.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Modest response to admission in nursery classes||Ranchi: The response of parents for admission to nursery classes has been lukewarm this year. Notably, schools are taking admission through the online system since the past 20 days. They are also giving option to the parents to visit campuses and complete the admission process while following Covid protocols. Several schools like the Delhi Public School have also stopped receiving applications. School principal Dr Ram Singh said that his institution would select the students from the applications received on the basis of several factors like proximity of their residences to the school, among others. While refusing to share the exact details of applications this year, the school said that the number of applications has been significantly lower in comparison to previous years. DPS public relation officer Ravi Shankar Niyogi said, “We feel that since the children are aged between three and half to four and a half they are quite vulnerable. Under the prevailing pandemic scenario, many parents may have decided to postpone admission by a year hoping that the situation may improve later.” He said another factor might be economic distress owing to large-scale unemployment and wage cuts. The principal of Bishop Westcott, R Thornton, said, “The school admission is going on through the online method with an option given to parents to also visit the school. We will take admission after a brief interaction with children and their parents. Even though the process is in the initial phase. the applications have been lower than previous years. I feel financial issues are deterring many parents this year.” A similar view was expressed by the principal of Guru Nank Public School, Manohar Lal. It may be mentioned here that several schools, including the Jawahar Vidya Mandir, would soon announce admission dates for the nursery classes. Meanwhile, the president of Jharkhand Abhibhawak Sangh, Ajay Rai, said that sending kids to reputed schools involve a big investment, which many parents were not willing to take under the prevailing circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/modest-response-to-admission-in-nursery-classes/articleshow/79685155.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||STF arrests Birbhum printing press owner for ‘jihadi’ links||Kolkata: The Special Task Force of Kolkata Police has arrested a printing press owner from Birbhum on charges of printing books on Islamic extremism and trying to indoctrinate and radicalize youths through these books and social media. The accused — identified as Najibullah (50) — is believed to be a member of the Jamaat-Ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh. However, given his unique modus operandi, the STF is investigating if he was recently radicalized by any South Asian offshoots of the Islamic State or its ideological opponent, al Qaida. He was arrested from his residence at Paikar’s Kabi Nagar, located about 23 km from Nalhati and close to the Murshidabad border late on Thursday after keeping him in both technical and physical surveillance running for weeks. “Najibullah maintained a Facebook account in the name of one Saqib Ali and used to spread radicalised ideas regularly from here and fan hatred against different communities. He was also instigating a section of the youth in contact with him to take up the path of Islamic fundamentalism. The accused has a printing press business from which we have recovered several controversial literature and books etc were recovered. Several electronic devices — including a laptop — were also seized from his possession,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. “It is suspected that he too is from JMB. His laptop should provide us important leads. On examining the seized items, we will know exactly whose loyalty he has sworn allegiance to, said an officer. In June this year, the STF had arrested a suspected JMB operative from Hooghly district. Another operative was arrested from Murshidabad in May-end. This fresh arrest, though, has shocked the local residents. A sense of disbelief, though, has grabbed his village at Paikar with many who failed to comprehend how Najibullah, initially a tea-shop owner, got involved in terrorism. “Among his immediate targets was to try and influence youths from south Bengal into radicalism. The accused had access to a lot of Bengali literature, including those suspected to have been collected across the border. There have been multiple arrests of youths from Birbhum even in the past — most of whom served the JMB. But what makes Najimullah’s arrest different from others was that he was trying to instigate the youths to choose the path of Islamic fundamentalism mostly through the use of books and social media. He had used FB which is easily accessible, a path usually not taken by terror module members. Though we have no conclusive evidence till now, we are not ruling out the possibility that he might have been a lone wolf radicalized over the internet,” stated a police source. The accused has been sent to police custody till December 24 after being produced in a local court in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stf-arrests-birbhum-printing-press-owner-for-jihadi-links/articleshow/79686950.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||FIR-named Rakesh Singh is no stranger to controversies||Kolkata: Rakesh Singh, implicated in an FIR on Friday for instigating people to hurl stones and brickbats at the BJP national president’s convoy, is not alien to controversies. His name had also cropped up in the 2019 Vidyasagar bust vandalism case. Singh, 49, who took the plunge into politics in 2003 as a Congress worker and later headed the Alipore zoo workers’ union, defected to BJP in 2019. He now gets Y-category security.  Singh was in an SUV, right in front of BJP president J P Nadda’s bulletproof vehicle, when the incident took place, and behind 40 motorcycles that led the rally. Trinamool Congress’ Lok Sabha MP and senior lawyer Kalyan Banerjee said: “Police have filed an FIR against Singh for instigating the crowd. He is a convict and faces 55 criminal cases. What was he doing in a convoy of a Z-category protectee?” Singh, however, said he wasn’t bothered even if the number of cases was 555. “I have been slapped with numerous cases over the years, but they haven’t been able to prove even one ,” he said . In politics for 17 years, Singh rose through the ranks within a few years after he took control of the workers’ union at Alipore zoo. Over the years, he took control of employees’ unions at multiple private hospitals in Alipore-Ekbalpore area, the Kolkata racecourse and nearby hotels. In 2017, CMRI hospital had named Singh in an FIR for allegedly creating a ruckus at the hospital and attempted extortion. In 2019, he was implicated in the Vidyasagar bust vandalism case. Singh claimed he had always been a victim of political vendetta by ruling parties, be it Left Front or Trinamool . “My car was the second vehicle in the convoy. It was the first to be attacked with three bricks that broke the side-view mirror. My security personnel and I immediately came out of the car to spot the attackers but we realised we were being mobbed by a large crowd who were attacking all our vehicles,” Singh said. “We quickly got inside and asked my driver to keep moving slowly to get to a safer zone. I didn’t provoke anyone. In fact, I am a victim,” he added . Police said they would question Singh. Police sources indicated that several video footage had surfaced showing Singh emerging from his vehicle and shouting at bystanders with clenched fists. Speaking to TOI, Singh said prior to the journey, he had sent an email to the Diamond Harbour police superintendent that he feared an attack on the convoy. He added that during Thursday’s attack, several bikes belonging to BJP workers went missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fir-named-rakesh-singh-is-no-stranger-to-controversies/articleshow/79686896.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 12, 2020||Ranchi||Bok pvt hosps asked for details of staff for vax||Bokaro: The district health department wrote to all the private hospitals and clinics, asking them to provide details of their healthcare staff for vaccination in the first phase. This comes after the private centres, including the dental clinics, failed to furnish the necessary details on Thursday despite the health officials giving them a deadline. According to the letter, the health department has warned of strict action against the proprietors concerned if the private centres fail to provide the details. “If any doctor, paramedical staff, sweeper and other health workers are deprived of the Covid vaccine in the first phase due to non-submission of their details, the health department will take strict action against the proprietor or manager of those hospitals and clinics,” the letter said. Besides writing to the hospitals, deputy development commissioner Jaikishor Prasad on Friday held a meeting with the representatives of private hospitals, asking them to submit a list of their staff who are eligible for the first phase of vaccination. The meeting was also attended by district data manager Kanchan and civil surgeon Dr Ashok Pathak. “The state government will administer the vaccine strictly on the basis of the names given in the list,” Pathak said, adding, “All the hospitals have been asked to provide an identity proof (either voter card or Aadhaar card) and the phone number of the frontline staff.” He further said, “Once their names are registered on our database, an OTP will be sent to the registered person’s mobile and based on that, he/she will get that vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bok-pvt-hosps-asked-for-details-of-staff-for-vax/articleshow/79685261.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 12, 2020||Kolkata||Actor of Love, Sex Aur Dhokha, Dirty Picture found dead in Kolkata's Jodhpur Park house||KOLKATA: Actor and model Arya Banerjee, who has starred in films like ‘Love, Sex Aur Dhokha’ and ‘The Dirty Picture’, was found dead inside her second floor residence at the upscale Jodhpur Park locality on Friday morning under mysterious circumstances. Arya (40), originally Devdutta Banerjee, is the younger daughter of late sitarist Pt Nikhil Banerjee. She was found lying in her bedroom, face down with blood and vomit oozing from her nose and mouth. The house, though, was locked from inside, said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. A forensic team that spent over an hour at the residence ruled out foul play. “We have found different forms of alcohol and gutkha packets in her room. There were several tissue papers with blood stains suggesting she might have bled even in the past. She was also on medication. We believe that she suffered a stroke in the night or on Friday morning and was in severe pain. In an effort to get help, she moved off the bed and fell down,” said a forensic expert adding that Arya — who mostly ordered food through app services — had not touched her dinner. Police said that she was also facing financial issues. “Her maid is yet to get her November salary which is usually settled by the first week. the house too needed some urgent repairs,” said a source. The police said that the actor’s Rottweiler dog has been removed by a pet organization at the request of Lake police. According to police and local sources, Arya’s maid Chandana Saha had called her up several times on Friday morning. But her phone was found switched off. Neighbours told cops that they had seen Arya at the second floor balcony on Friday morning. “I rang the bell several times but there was no answer. I called neighbours after I waited for a long time,” said Saha. Saha said Arya spoke to her last on Thursday. “I have never seen any of her friends at the house,” she said. Her neighbours told TOI that she hardly socialized or spoke to anyone. “I knew her well as she came to my mother for tuitions. But she liked staying alone,” said neighbour Aditya Chakraborty. The cops claimed they have come to know from neighbours that there was some consultations in her extended family of promoting the flat. However, it did not go through. “Unless someone in the family confirms the same, there is no point beating around the bush. This might be one of the several angles of the probe. we are going through her call lists. it will help ascertain if she tried calling for any help,” said an officer. Arya was just six when her father passed away on her birthday on January 27, 1986. Pt Anindo Chatterjee, who used to regularly accompany her father on tabla, said he was shocked at the news of her unnatural death. “She was born in 1980 and I first saw her when she was just ten days old. It is so shocking to hear this news. I would go to this 346 Jodhpur Park residence for rehearsals with her father,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/actor-of-lsd-dirty-picture-found-dead-in-jodhpur-park-house/articleshow/79685587.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 12, 2020||India||Col who served in Army, Navy & IAF turns 100||CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI: In his 28 years as a defence man, Colonel Prithipal Singh Gill (retired) saw it all — from World War II to the India-Pakistan War of 1965. On Friday, the only surviving officer to have served in all three wings of the armed forces turned 100. “I was fortunate. Today, I would have been thrown out had I switched so many times,” Gill told TOIamid celebrations at his Chandigarh residence with his family and the regiment he raised. From scanning the skies to manning the high seas, his has been a unique career. It started in 1942, when he joined the Royal Indian Air Force as a pilot, without his family’s consent. “I would fly Howard aircraft when I was posted in Karachi,” he said. 1/6Colonel who served in Army, Navy & IAF turns 100 Previous NextShow Captions<p>On the 100th birthday of Colonel Prithipal Singh (retired), the regiment he raised, 71 Medium, sent a cake on behalf of the Indian Army to his Chandigarh residence, where he celebrated the occasion with his kids and grandkids</p><p>Colonel Prithipal Singh (retired) with his kids and grandkids at his Chandigarh residence</p><p>Colonel Prithipal Singh Gill (retired) with his wife Preminder Kaur</p><p>Colonel Prithipal Singh Gill as an Army Major</p><p>Colonel Prithipal Singh Gill as a Colonel before his retirement</p><p>(Left) Prithipal Singh Gill during his Navy stint; he turned 100 on Friday</p>3 generations had served in the Army before GillSo worried was his family that Lt Gen RA Savoy, a senior British army officer whom the family knew, got him transferred to the Navy in 1943. “I went on to serve on a minesweeping ship before joining INS Teer as a gazetted officer during World War II.” As a young sub lieutenant with the Navy, he attended a long range gunnery course and was graded Instructor Gunnery. “Then, in hopes of carrying on a family tradition of serving the 1 Sikh Regiment, I joined the Army,” he said. Because of his experience as Instructor Gunnery, Gill was posted with the Gwalior Mountain Battery, equipped with 5.4 inch Howitzers, in 1951, his son Dr Ajay Pal Singh told TOI. Three generations of his family had served with Army before him — his great grandfather Nehan Singh, his grandfather Bir Singh and his father Harpal Singh. Gill was then posted with the 34 Medium Regiment and later raised and commanded the 71 Medium Regiment. On Friday, it was 71 Medium that sent him a cake on behalf of the Indian Army to mark the occasion. Looking back, one of the best memories he has is those from the 1965 India-Pakistan War. “We retrieved four guns from enemy camp,” he said. Five years later, he retired as sector commander of Assam Rifles at Ukhrul in Manipur as a Colonel. “I have been busy since retirement. Squash, hockey, tennis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/col-who-served-in-army-navy-iaf-turns-100/articleshow/79688988.cms||Ajay Sura
December 12, 2020||World||Car hits multiple protesters in New York, causing injuries||NEW YORK: A motorist struck about half a dozen people taking part in a protest in New York City on Friday, causing injuries but no deaths, police and eyewitnesses said. A spokesman for the New York Police Department told AFP that the vehicle hit "multiple" people in Manhattan's Murray Hill area at 4:08 pm (21:08 GMT). "An unknown number of people have been injured. They have been taken to various hospitals. It is not thought that any of the injuries are life-threatening," he said. The spokesman added that the driver, a woman, had stayed at the scene and was in custody. The spokesman said it was "too early to tell" whether it was intentional or a traffic accident, and it is not yet known whether the driver will face charges. Eyewitnesses said they saw at least six people hurt. They were protesting against the detention of immigrants by Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents. The protesters were marching in support of detainees on hunger strike. Local media initially reported that the protest had been a Black Lives Matter demonstration. ABC News said between 40 and 50 protesters were in the area at the time. The outlet said the demonstration had spilled onto the street and that protesters had surrounded a car. The car then drove into the protesters, injuring at least six of them, ABC added. An eyewitness told NBC that the car was a navy BMW with two women, who were white, sitting in the front seats. "They hit, to my knowledge, at least six of our non-violent protesters," she told the network, adding that she ran out of the car's way. "I heard people screaming... I looked behind me, (and) a woman is plowing through," she said. The protester added that she saw "bodies flying" through the air as people scrambled to get out of the vehicle's path. "I look up, the car is speeding, people are trying to run. There were bodies and people fleeing to people sitting on the sidewalks who got hit." A protester called Joey, who declined to give his surname, told AFP that he thought the woman had accelerated into the crowd on purpose. "It was absolutely intentional. (She) just drove right through," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/car-hits-multiple-protesters-in-new-york-causing-injuries/articleshow/79689057.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Meerut||Delhi trader kills wife, three kids before taking his own life||MEERUT: A 37-year-old Delhi trader hanged himself allegedly after strangling to death his wife and three children — two sons aged 10 and seven years, and a four-year-old daughter — in Meerut’s Parikshitgarh. The recovery of five bodies from the home sent shock waves across the city on Thursday evening. When policemen entered the house, they found iron trader Raees Ahmad’s body hanging from a rope while his second wife Rihana, and the children, Afwan, Haidar and Aayat were found lying on beds. The family members of Ahmad, who live in Delhi, were informed and they reached the city for the last rites. Ahmad’s first wife had allegedly killed herself seven years ago. And over a year after the death, Ahmad got married again. The two sons were from his first wife and the daughter from the second one. Police, citing the neighbours’ statements, said that there were constant fights in the family. The two sons of the first wife and their step mother, Rihana, used to fight quite often due to which Ahmad was always upset. A similar fight also took place on Thursday evening when Ahmad returned from Delhi, neighbours say. In a suicide note, purportedly written by Ahmad on a page taken out from the notebook of one of his children, he has sought forgiveness from family members. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Meerut, Ajay Sahani, said, “We have recovered a suicide note in which Raees Ahmad has taken responsibility of his extreme step and has asked for forgiveness. But we are not ruling out foul play. There is no witness to the tragic incident. A probe is on.” On October 7, 2016 the city had witnessed a similar tragic incident. Five members of a family, including a businessman in heavy debt, were found dead in their home. Vineet Arora (40), wife Pooja Arora (38) their son Abhishek Arora (15) and Vineet’s mother Krishan Arora (65) were found hanging at their house in city’s Rahgukul Vihar colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-trader-kills-wife-three-kids-before-taking-own-life/articleshow/79689046.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 12, 2020||India||Allopathy & ayurveda: A study in difference||Ayurveda practitioners are seeking equivalence with allopathic doctors in doing certain surgeries, but there seems to be a vast difference in the amount of training received in the two systems. Everything from the minimum number of beds in teaching hospitals to bed occupancy and the outpatient attendance required in a medical college to be allowed to do undergraduate and postgraduate training is much less for ayurveda colleges than for allopathic ones. Barely a quarter of the 414 ayurveda colleges have 100 seats. Nearly two-thirds (64%) of UG ayurveda seats are in colleges with 60 seats or less, which need to have just a 60-bedded teaching hospital with 40% occupancy, or about 24 beds occupied. Of the 60 beds, beds that must be kept aside for shalakya tantra and shalya tantra (surgeries) are just 25. In comparison, almost all MBBS colleges have at least 100 MBBS seats and for that they need a 500-bed teaching hospital with 75% occupancy (375 beds) and 120 beds kept aside for general surgery. Thus students who join for postgraduation in surgical specialties in ayurveda would have seen fewer patients and would have had much fewer opportunities to be trained in surgery. Postgraduation in the surgical disciplines of shalya tantra and shalakya tantra are taught in the same colleges with stipulation of just marginal augmentation of beds, patients, faculty and support staff — one professor or reader and one lecturer of the concerned subject, under the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016. If a college has more than ten PG seats in clinical subjects, additional beds in the student-bed ratio of 1:4 will have to provided, much less than that for an allopathy college for which the facilities and training mandated are much higher. For instance, just three acres are required to start an ayurveda college with an intake of 60 students or less, and five acres if taking in 61-100 students. For an allopathic college, the stipulation in force is a minimum 25 acres. The number of faculty and support staff required in ayurveda colleges is about a third of that in allopathic colleges. Land is one of the most expensive investments and salaries among the biggest chunks of expenses for any medical college. If minimum requirements for allopathic colleges were brought down to the level of ayurveda colleges, arguably hundreds more of them could be opened. But would that be desirable or would it bring down the quality of training and teaching? If so, it raises questions about equivalence too. Unlike at UG level when the ratio is 1:1. Also, the college will have to show 50% bed occupancy the previous year, and not 40% as required at the UG level. But colleges which have less than ten PG seats can make do with the same facilities as stipulated for undergraduate teaching. Thus clinical material is less in ayurvedic colleges than in allopathic ones. Of course, there is no centralised admission or entrance test to get a postgraduate seat. While there are several government ayurvedic colleges and a few private ones which have teaching hospitals with over 200 beds and high bed occupancy, the majority don’t. More than threefourths of these colleges are private and a large number have been mired in controversies over meeting the minimum standards prescribed, not very different from private allopathy colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allopathy-ayurveda-a-study-in-difference/articleshow/79689094.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 12, 2020||India||Sikkim band’s album among top 15 metal picks of 2020||The introduction can throw readers off: “Five young long-hairs doing their absolute best Skid Row/Slaughter/Saigon Kick impersonations amongst architectural ruins somewhere in the Indian desert...No band from anywhere in the world has done this solid of a job recreating the magic of late ’80s/early ’90s hair metal since, well, those bands first did it!” ‘MetalSucks’, a US-based music site with a dedicated metalhead following globally, has listed Indian band Girish and the Chronicles’ album ‘Rock the Highway’ among its top 15 for the year. Now based in Bengaluru, vocalist Girish Pradhan told TOI: “They listed it at number 3, which is really cool.” Ahead of Ozzy Osbourne’s ‘Ordinary Man’. The album, Girish said, had been announced a year ago. “We suddenly realised it would be out during a pandemic. We wouldn’t be able to tour. But it got noticed.” In June, Girish, 34, joined former Megadeth and Lamb of God drummer Chris Adler, former Megadeth bassist James LoMenzo and guitarist Myrone to form Firstborne. “That helped a lot, the association.” He’s dividing his time between the two bands now. Girish and the Chronicles goes back to 2009. After a travel stint, as he started playing at clubs in Gangtok, his YouTube channel, Girish Pradhan, gathered a good following. So when he formed a band with his brother and friends, they knew they would retain his name. “The Chronicles came from this band I had formed in Nepal for seven days. We didn’t even perform. But I liked the name,” said Girish. “Chronicles of Narnia was famous around that time.” Then they had a strangle problem — his solo channel had more followers than the band’s. “It was just not working out. So one day, I thought, I’ll just change the name. I renamed my own channel as Girish and the Chronicles.” That may be the catch with everything going digital. It’s difficult to say what clicks. “You may not need anybody with YouTube, Spotify around. But it’s nice to have a big record label,” said Girish. That’s hard to come by, and not just in India. “So we have been working with this label from Denmark which is fully dedicated to the kind of songs we do. We are selling CDs in Europe, getting a lot of streams out there.” And does he plan on breaking free of the mould ‘MetalSucks’ cast his band in? “We have a plan of evolving … But if I want to do something experimental, with sounds of Sikkim or a progressive album, it might confuse people. Sometimes, you need to find the right time to do your thing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sikkim-bands-album-among-top-15-metal-picks-of-2020/articleshow/79689103.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
December 12, 2020||Rajkot||1L people used Girnar ropeway in six weeks||Rajkot: The Girnar ropeway ferried one lakh tourists in just six weeks, Usha Breco, the developer of the ropeway said on Friday. The ropeway company also announced special fares for Covid-19 warriors and defence personnel in recognition of their service to the nation and to mark the milestone. The Girnar ropeway was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 24, and has received overwhelming response from tourists. “We have achieved this milestone of ferrying one lakh people from across Gujarat and India in a short span of time since its inauguration,” said Deepak Kaplish, regional head-west, Usha Breco. Under the special scheme announced by the operator, doctors, nurses, ambulance drivers, police, ASHA workers, medical students engaged in Covid-19 work, media persons, staff of essential services such as power, gas, telecom, defence personnel, and their family and friends can avail of the two-way ropeway ride at 40% discount to the regular fare. The special offer will be in force till December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/1l-people-used-girnar-ropeway-in-six-weeks/articleshow/79686481.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Business||I-T case against Karti, wife over non-disclosure premature: HC||CHENNAI: In a reprieve to Sivaganga MP Karti Chidambaram, the Madras high court quashed the criminal prosecution initiated by the income tax department against him and his wife for alleged non-disclosure of income saying it is not maintainable and premature. However, Justice N Sathish Kumar granted liberty to the department to initiate penal action as per the law, if it chooses to. The issue pertains to criminal prosecution initiated by the department for alleged nondisclosure of income by Karti and his wife Srinidhi to the tune of 7.73 crore in the financial year 2015-16. Opposing the same, the duo contended that the prosecution is liable to be quashed for procedural lapse. They argued that the prosecution has been initiated for filing of false return, which amounts to offence of giving false evidence before a court. As per the Income Tax Act only the proceedings of the assessing officer are deemed to be that of a proceeding of a civil court. Therefore, only the assessing officer should have initiated the prosecution. But, in the case on hand, a deputy director of investigation of the department has initiated the prosecution, they added. Concurring with the arguments, the HC declared the prosecution as non-maintainable. According to the prosecution, Karti received Rs 6.38 crore while Srinidhi received 1.35 crore through sale of a land owned by them near Muttukadu. However, they had neither disclosed the same in their assessment nor paid taxes for the income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/i-t-case-against-karti-wife-over-non-disclosure-premature-hc/articleshow/79689124.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||EU watchdog accuses India of propaganda||NEW DELHI: A European disinformation watchdog recently claimed to have unearthed a massive campaign that mainly drives Indian security interests by publishing content against Pakistan and China, reports Anam Ajmal. According to the report by EU DisinfoLab , this coordinated network, which it named “Indian Chronicles”, “resurrected dead media, dead think tanks and NGOs. The actors behind this operation hijacked the names of others and tried to impersonate regular media and press agencies such as the EU Observer, The Economist and Voice of America,” read the executive summary of the year-long investigation. The “sophisticated” disinformation campaign lasted over 15 years, covered 116 countries and spread propaganda through 750 fake media outlets, it alleged. Its purpose was to “discredit Pakistan internationally” and influence decision-making at the UNHRC and European Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eu-watchdog-accuses-india-of-propaganda/articleshow/79689143.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra toll hits 48,000; decline in Mumbai's Covid curve continues||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported an increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths on Friday. A total of 4,268 cases and 87 deaths were reported, taking the total cases in the state to 18,72,440 and the total toll to 48,059, breaching the 48,000 mark. Unlike the state, the number of Covid cases in Mumbai continued to dip, with 654 cases added on Friday. The city's tally has climbed to 1.89 lakh even as the total toll reached 10,955, including 13 deaths added on Friday. "The decline in Mumbai's Covid curve continues and a second wave seems unlikely," said a senior doctor from a BMC hospital. The doubling rate in Mumbai has climbed to 305 days, the recovery rate is steady at 92%, and the overall growth rate of Covid cases in the past week has been at 0.23%. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the civic corporation would continue to be in a state of high alert as far as Covid health infrastructure is concerned. He said the present level of preparedness would continue for another few weeks or more even as the focus is now also on mass vaccination drives. However, Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said that Mumbai could witness a surge in the December 25 to January 25 period. "The weather has changed in the past few days. The temperatures have dropped, and pollution levels will increase. Unless people adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour, the fear of a second wave is always there," he said. The daily recoveries in the state dropped significantly on Friday. A total of 2,774 people recovered on Friday as against over 5,000 that recovered on Thursday. The total number of people recovered so far is nearly 17.5 lakh, and the rate of recovery is 93.5%. With this, active cases in the state also increased on Friday. A total of 73,315 cases are still under treatment in the state, of which 10,955 are in Mumbai. At the state level, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 1,301 cases and 17 deaths, taking the total cases in the region to 6.4 lakh and the total deaths here to 18,688. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli belt, which is the second worst-hit in the MMR after Mumbai, reported 104 fresh Covid cases and two deaths, taking the total tally there to 55,492 and the deaths to 1,079. At present, 1,402 active patients are undergoing treatment there. In Thane city, 146 new cases were identified on Friday, taking the tally there to 53,214. Three Covid deaths took place, taking the toll there to 1,205. The recovery rate in Thane city has increased to 95%. In Navi Mumbai, 90 cases were reported on Friday, taking the total count there to 49,477. Of these, 95% have recovered. Two deaths were also reported from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas, taking the total toll there to 1,009. The PCMC areas reported 44 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total case tally there to 26,774. With no death reported, the toll in Panvel city remained at 584.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-toll-hits-48000-decline-in-mumbais-covid-curve-continues/articleshow/79689145.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 12, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra toll hits 48,000; decline in Mumbai's Covid curve continues||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported an increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths on Friday. A total of 4,268 cases and 87 deaths were reported, taking the total cases in the state to 18,72,440 and the total toll to 48,059, breaching the 48,000 mark. Unlike the state, the number of Covid cases in Mumbai continued to dip, with 654 cases added on Friday. The city's tally has climbed to 1.89 lakh even as the total toll reached 10,955, including 13 deaths added on Friday. "The decline in Mumbai's Covid curve continues and a second wave seems unlikely," said a senior doctor from a BMC hospital. The doubling rate in Mumbai has climbed to 305 days, the recovery rate is steady at 92%, and the overall growth rate of Covid cases in the past week has been at 0.23%. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the civic corporation would continue to be in a state of high alert as far as Covid health infrastructure is concerned. He said the present level of preparedness would continue for another few weeks or more even as the focus is now also on mass vaccination drives. However, Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said that Mumbai could witness a surge in the December 25 to January 25 period. "The weather has changed in the past few days. The temperatures have dropped, and pollution levels will increase. Unless people adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour, the fear of a second wave is always there," he said. The daily recoveries in the state dropped significantly on Friday. A total of 2,774 people recovered on Friday as against over 5,000 that recovered on Thursday. The total number of people recovered so far is nearly 17.5 lakh, and the rate of recovery is 93.5%. With this, active cases in the state also increased on Friday. A total of 73,315 cases are still under treatment in the state, of which 10,955 are in Mumbai. At the state level, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region added 1,301 cases and 17 deaths, taking the total cases in the region to 6.4 lakh and the total deaths here to 18,688. Meanwhile, the Kalyan-Dombivli belt, which is the second worst-hit in the MMR after Mumbai, reported 104 fresh Covid cases and two deaths, taking the total tally there to 55,492 and the deaths to 1,079. At present, 1,402 active patients are undergoing treatment there. In Thane city, 146 new cases were identified on Friday, taking the tally there to 53,214. Three Covid deaths took place, taking the toll there to 1,205. The recovery rate in Thane city has increased to 95%. In Navi Mumbai, 90 cases were reported on Friday, taking the total count there to 49,477. Of these, 95% have recovered. Two deaths were also reported from the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas, taking the total toll there to 1,009. The PCMC areas reported 44 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday, taking the total case tally there to 26,774. With no death reported, the toll in Panvel city remained at 584.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-toll-hits-48000-decline-in-mumbais-covid-curve-continues/articleshow/79692558.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 12, 2020||India||BSY: Soon, ordinance to ban cow slaughter||BENGALURU: The BS Yediyurappa government said on Friday that it would take the ordinance route to introduce a new anti-cow slaughter law, which has been passed by the Karnataka assembly but is yet to clear the council test. The CM performed a gau puja at his official residence in the morning and said the government would work on bringing the ordinance at the earliest, so the law can be implemented with immediate effect. “In Hindu dharma, cows are revered and they are considered an asset by farmers. The new law aims to strengthen existing rules and protect cattle,” he said. The assembly passed the Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, on Wednesday. But the BJP government suffered embarrassment on Thursday as it could not table the bill in the legislative council, where it is outnumbered by the opposition of Congress and JD(S). BJP had been banking on JD(S) support, but the latter backed out on the last day of the winter session. The government has two options: promulgate an ordinance or wait till the next session of the legislature. Yediyurappa’s statement made it clear that the first option was in play. “We are exploring legal possibilities to issue the ordinance,” said animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsy-soon-ordinance-to-ban-cow-slaughter/articleshow/79689148.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Business||City-based ISP unveils ‘four-play’, eyes nat’l mkt||Kolkata: City-based Meghbela Cable & Broadband Services has launched ‘bundled four-play services’ — voice, video, data and wireless services — with the help of the fibre to the home (FTTH) technology in Bengal. In order to attract subscribers, mostly students attending online classes and professionals working from home, the company has tied up with Oriental Insurance to offer Covid Kavach health insurance worth Rs 1 lakh to the consumers, who have subscribed for six months or one year. With the new business strategy, the company that came up in 2007 hopes to double the present broadband customer base of more than 1.5 lakh in Bengal and add nearly two lakh new subscribers by the end of 2021. “When the pandemic started in the end of March, we noticed a spike in internet subscriptions that went up by around 25% on an average. But we could not launch cater to the consumers with such facility as the internet service providers were earlier not allowed by the Central government to offer fixed line voice services,” Tapabrata Mukherjee, co-founder and director of Meghbela Broadband, told TOI. The other co-founder and director of the company, Indranil Bhattacahrya said, “Though the service was launched in Kolkata, we are set to roll it out in other markets in phases. To become a national player, we have planned to launch the android box in Odisha, Jharkhand, Bihar and other parts of Eastern India.” “Our 10,000km over-head fiber network and 2,000km underground optic fibre cable will help the subscribers with unlimited local and STD calls to any network,” Mukherjee. The Android box introduced by the internet service provider allows consumers to turn their regular TV sets into smart ones and provides them access to OTT platforms along with over 150 live channels. Those who are comfortable at streaming the content on their smartphones and don’t need the Android box can avail of the services by downloading the Meghbela app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/city-based-isp-unveils-four-play-eyes-natl-mkt/articleshow/79686285.cms||Sarthak.G
December 12, 2020||India||Terror, Afghanistan peace top agenda of PM’s talks with Uzbek president||NEW DELHI: Connectivity, terrorism and the Afghanistan situation dominated India-Uzbekistan virtual summit on Friday with PM Narendra Modi saying it is essential that the gains of the last two decades in Afghanistan are preserved. Speaking after his meeting with the central Asian country’s President, Shavkat Mirziyoyev, Modi said the two countries had similar concerns about extremism, fundamentalism and separatism. “We both stand firmly together against terrorism. We also have an identical approach on regional security issues,” said Modi, adding both leaders also agreed that the Afghan peace process must be Afghanled, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. The Indian side also welcomed an Uzbek proposal to hold a trilateral dialogue among India, Iran and Uzbekistan to promote connectivity through the Chabahar port. India and Uzbekistan also signed nine agreements to expand cooperation in several areas. The Indian side confirmed the approval of $448 million of Line of Credit for developmental works in Uzbekistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terror-afghanistan-peace-top-agenda-of-pms-talks-with-uzbek-president/articleshow/79689160.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: No night curfew but lens on bars||Commenting on BMC’s warning that night curfew may be reimposed as bars and restaurants appear to be dropping their guard against Covid, Maharashtra cabinet minister Aslam Shaikh said, “We opened restaurants and bars but found some violating rules. We will act strongly against such establishments, instead of reimposing night curfew. Why should we create hardship for all for mistakes of a few?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-no-night-curfew-but-lens-on-bars/articleshow/79689153.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Business||ED nabs Gujarat techie in Rs 1,100cr Chinese betting app case||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate has arrested a crypto-currency operator in the Chinese betting Apps case for transferring money from Chinese companies to abroad in the form of USDT (Tether), a blockchainbased crypto-currency. Accused Naisar Kothari, a 26-year-old techie from Bhavnagar, carried out Rs 14 crore transactions. He was booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The PMLA court remanded him ED custody for questioning from December 13 to 22. The ED said the online betting scam and hawala transactions involved Rs 1,100 crore transactions. An ED note said: “Login credentials and dongles for HSBC Bank accounts and payment aggregators like Paytm, Cashfree and Razorpay were shipped to China and operated from there. The money trail has revealed that large amount of money was being transferred to cryptocurrency traders based in Bhavnagar, Gujarat.” Kothari transferred them to unknown wallets on foreign exchanges. Investigation revealed that the accused began transactions from 2016 and was involved in crypto-currency trading since then. Sources in the ED said the destination of transferred cryptocurrency would be Hong Kong or China. ED began a probe under PMLA against two Chinese companies — Linkyun Technology Private Limited and Dokypay Pvt Ltd — based on an FIR lodged by Hyderabad central crime station (CCS) sleuths. A victim, who had lost money by investing in a betting App, filed a complaint with CCS. The Enforcement Directorate investigation had revealed that apart from providing payment aggregator re-seller services to banned Apps in India, the Chineseowned companies were indulging in international hawala and illegal activities. Three persons, including a Chinese national, were arrested earlier in this case and a chargesheet has been filed against them in the PMLA court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ed-nabs-gujarat-techie-in-rs-1100cr-chinese-betting-app-case/articleshow/79689177.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Two agriculture officers suspended as Jalyukta work under lens||MUMBAI: A week after the government set up a committee to probe the Jalyukta Shivar water conservation scheme launched by erstwhile chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, the agriculture department on Friday suspended two senior officials from Marathwada for alleged involvement in irregularities linked to the scheme. Divisional agriculture officer Vishnu Misal and tehsil agriculture officer B B Bangar are both facing action for their role in connection with water conservation projects. Beed-based Congressman Vasant Munde had lodged a complaint with the governor and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleging rampant corruption in the Jalyukta Shivar scheme. Subsequently, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) too made adverse observations on the scheme launched in 2106 when large parts of the state were in the grips of a drought. CAG's analysis showed that while Rs 9,364 crore was spent, groundwater levels had not improved nor water neutrality achieved. CAG studied 1,128 projects in 120 villages across six districts in the Marathwada region. After preliminary reports, when it was confirmed that there were irregularities, Thackeray on December 2 set up a committee headed by retired IAS officer Bijay Kumar to conduct a probe into the scheme. The committee has been asked to complete its work in six months. Activist Munde's contention was that projects in Beed were completed on paper, but in reality, no work was done. He alleged illegal payments to 138 contractors. Earlier, a district-level panel in Beed headed by the collector had unearthed corruption of Rs 8 crore in 307 projects. Then, the agriculture department had suspended 32 officials and initiated criminal proceedings against 167 labour cooperative societies and contractors. A senior bureaucrat said the CM should ensure the probe is completed in six months and that it does not drag on like the investigation into the irrigation scam. When Fadnavis took over the reins, he had granted permission to the anti-corruption bureau to conduct an open inquiry against NCP leaders Ajit Pawar and Sunil Tatkare. During the five years Fadnavis was in power, while offences were registered against officials of the water resources department, no case was registered against NCP politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-two-agriculture-officers-suspended-as-jalyukta-work-under-lens/articleshow/79689178.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Two of Ivory Coast among four held with Rs 1.4 crore drugs in Mumbai||MUMBAI: City crime branch arrested a gang of four, including two Ivory Coast nationals, with 700gm of mephedrone (MD) worth Rs 1.4 crore in Kandivli on Thursday. Sunny Sanjay Sahu, Dinanath alias Tuntun Chouhan, Germain Jerry Abad and Flugance alias Rollas Mustafa were booked under the NDPS Act and were remanded to police custody. Unit XI, led by inspector Sunil Mane, received a tip-off that some drug peddlers were likely to go to Khajuria Nagar in Kandivli (W). While the Ivory Coast nationals arrived in an autorickshaw, the two others came on a motorcycle. Both discussed and exchanged packets when the team detained them. Police said that the two Indians are history-sheeters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-of-ivory-coast-among-four-held-with-rs-1-4-crore-drugs-in-mumbai/articleshow/79689186.cms||S Ahmed Ali
December 12, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD slams Arvind Kejriwal for FIR against ‘peacefully protesting farmers’||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has condemned Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal for allegedly creating grounds for summary use of force against peacefully protesting farmers at Singhu border by getting an FIR registered against 1,000 farmers through Delhi health department. Sukhbir said this shameful action had again proven that the Delhi chief minister always acted according to the orders of the central government and only shed crocodile tears for the cause of the farming community. “Earlier too, Kejriwal had proved that he was a wolf in sheep’s clothing by notifying the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, even though he had publicly supported the demand of farmers that it be repealed forthwith,” alleged the SAD president. Stating that the Delhi chief minister had taken another anti-farmer step immediately after a sham visit to the farmers who were protesting on the borders with Delhi, Sukhbir said these two steps show where Kejriwal’s sympathies lie. The SAD would protest any attempt by the Delhi government to get the farmers evicted forcefully from the dharna site, Sukhbir said, demanding that the Delhi government not only annul the notification of the farm law but also direct its health department to take back the police complaint it had filed against farmers. The former deputy CM Sukhbir said it would have been better if the Delhi chief minister had created necessary facilities at the dharna site to take care of health safety issues instead of using coercive tactics against farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-slams-arvind-kejriwal-for-fir-against-peacefully-protesting-farmers/articleshow/79689188.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||‘India not responsible for climate change’||NEW DELHI: A day ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled virtual address to the global climate action summit, India on Friday said the country, being among historically low contributors of carbon dioxide emission, is not responsible for climate change but, as a responsible nation, has joined hands with others to address the issue. The summit is being co-hosted by United Nations with UK and France on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement which was adopted by 195 countries on December 12, 2015. Few countries are expected to announce their carbon neutrality plan by committing to net-zero emissions time-lines during the event. The Paris Agreement will become operational from January 1, 2021. “We are in no way responsible for climate change. But being a responsible nation, we have joined hands with others in fixing the problem,” said environment minister Prakash Javadekar, noting that India contributed to only 3% of global historical emission while the USA contributed as high as 25%, followed by EU (22%) and China (13%). Underlining the country’s better track record, the minister flagged recent independent assessment reports which showed that India is the only G-20 nation which will meet its Paris Agreement commitment and is among few countries whose target is 2°C compliant. The minister also highlighted that India figured among the top 10 high performers in the climate change performance index in 2020 whereas big polluters such as China and the USA figured much below in the list. The minister’s remarks came at a time when global communities are looking at India for announcement of its revised commitments with some indication of timeline for being carbon neutral as recently indicated by the EU, China, South Korea and Japan. Though India has no such plan on the table, the country has been encouraging its private sector to go for carbon neutrality by switching over to renewable energy and adopting operational efficiency. Referring to this approach which his ministry adopted by bringing industries on a platform such as ‘India CEO Forum on Climate Change’ for this purpose, Javadekar noted announcement of certain industries such as Reliance Industries, JSW Group, Tech Mahindra, Dalmia Cement, ITC and Tata Motors for their plan of carbon neutrality, gradual reduction of emission and push for renewable energy. “Against the backdrop of growing ambition, nations must move from discussions about how the Agreement works, to how they will fully implement it in their countries, and how the most vulnerable countries will be supported in this over the long-term. The outcome needs to be a balanced package – the kind of balance that was achieved in Paris - that also enables actions by all stakeholders at all levels of society,” the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) said in a statement ahead of the Summit. The UNFCCC is the parent treaty of the Paris Climate Change Agreement. It said, “This work urgently needs to start now for it to be finalised at COP26, which is set to take place in Glasgow, Scotland. COP26 needs to send a clear signal that the transformations required to put the world towards a 1.5 Celsius trajectory really are underway.” The main aim of the Paris Agreement is to keep a global average temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees Celsius and to drive efforts to limit the temperature increase even further to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The UNFCCC is also the parent treaty of the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. The ultimate objective of all agreements under the Convention is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that will prevent dangerous human interference with the climate system, in a time frame which allows ecosystems to adapt naturally and enables sustainable development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-not-responsible-for-climate-change/articleshow/79689191.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 12, 2020||Thane||Thane: Woman ends life with kids after hubby's second marriage||BHIWANDI: Over a month after a woman and her three minor children went missing, they were found hanging from a tree in a Bhiwandi taluka of Thane district, barely 5 km from their home, on Thursday evening. The woman allegedly took the drastic step as she was upset with her husband's second marriage. On seeing the bodies, the woman's husband and his second wife also tried to commit suicide by consuming poison. Both have been admitted to hospital and are said to be out of danger. Meanwhile, acting on a complaint by the brother of the deceased woman, Padgha police have booked her husband, Shreepat Vakhare (35) and his second wife, Savita (30), for abetment to suicide. The incident took place in Umbarkhand Pachhapur forest area. The deceased have been identified as Ranjana Vakhare (25), Darshana (12), Rohini (6) and Rohit (9). The incident came to light when Shreepat's older brother went to the forest to collect wood and noticed the decomposed bodies. The deceased were identified from their clothes. On Friday, police visited the area with a forensic team and took the help of villagers to bring the bodies down. The bodies were sent for autopsy to JJ Hospital. Preliminary probe has revealed Ranjana was not keeping good health. A senior official said as she was not able to work, Shreepat decided to marry another woman from the same village. Police said despite Ranjana's protests, Shreepat married Savita on September 16. An upset Ranjana left home with her children on October 20. Police said Shreepat had filed a missing case on October 21. From the highly decomposed condition of the bodies, police suspect Ranjana and the children ended their lives the day they left home itself. Talking to TOI, Shreepat's mother Manda said, "After my daughter-in-law left home, we searched for her for an entire month and even posted their photographs everywhere. We had never imagined she would take such an extreme step." Senior inspector Dinesh Katke said, "The complainant has alleged the accused used to harass his wife and despite her opposition, he got married again. Hence, she took the extreme step." This is the second such incident in Thane rural in recent times. Last month, three people, including a tantrik in Shahapur, had committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree purportedly to gain special powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-woman-ends-life-with-kids-after-hubbys-second-marriage/articleshow/79689204.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Pre-boards: Schools to chart own course in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) might have decided to conduct all board exams offline this academic year, but there still appears to be no clarity over the fate of pre-boards in city schools. Result: Every school has decided to go their own way. While some have taken the virtual route, others are contemplating a pen and paper test at school — in the third week of December — but only if the state government gives a go-ahead. “We virtually conducted the first pre-board last month but realised it is very difficult to gauge a student's level of preparation through this system,” said Minu Salooja, principal of Glendale Academy that’s now planning to take the test offline. “If the government permits, we will have in person pre-boards this month. If it doesn’t, we will concentrate on revisions. Virtual examinations don’t serve the purpose,” she said. Usually, most schools conduct two pre-boards before class 10 and 12 board exams. Despite challenges, some have decided to stick to online tests and even designed indigenous platforms to make them fair. Chirec International School, for instance, have asked students to use two devices – a laptop in front to read the question paper and a mobile phone camera behind for the invigilator to keep a watch on the sitting area. Additionally, parents have been asked to stand guard. “The laptop will be kept at a two-arm distance so that the camera captures the table on which the student is writing. We will run the answer sheets through Turnitin to check for plagiarism and unethical practices,” said Iffat Ibrahim, the principal. Going online are pre-boards at Oakridge International School, Gachibowli, that’ll be conducted through their own home-learning platform. “Students can download the question paper using a code at a specific time. Once they are done, the paper can be uploaded on the platform for correction. Teachers can download the scanned papers and assess them,” said Hema Chennupaty, the principal. Unsure of the virtual route, majority schools in town, however, are looking to the government for clarity. Though they are mulling various options — including arranging the exams in small batches — the plans will be firmed up only post clearance from authorities. “Currently, we are calling students in batches of 50 for practicals. Since CBSE has clarified that the board exams will be held offline, we are awaiting Telangana government’s nod to call students back to school and conduct in-person exams,” said Narasimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur. At P Obul Reddy Public School too, principal Lata Shankar said the plan is to hold exams in school, albeit with only 10 to 15 students at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pre-boards-schools-to-chart-own-course-in-hyderabad/articleshow/79689200.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Panchayat polls to be held in Maharashtra on January 15||MUMBAI: Gram panchayat elections in 14,234 villages in 34 districts were announced by the state election office on Friday.  The elections were deferred since April 2020 but could not be conducted due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The polls will now be on January 15, 2021, and the counting of votes will be on January 18. The elections will be held in 34 districts, except Mumbai and Mumbai suburbs. Of the total 14,234 gram panchayats, over 1,000 had completed their terms in April 2020, while the rest will expire on December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/panchayat-polls-to-be-held-in-maharashtra-on-january-15/articleshow/79689216.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||HC stays CIC order on PM security info||NEW DELHI: The Delhi HC on Friday stayed an order by the Central Information Commission (CIC) seeking disclosures under the RTI Act about the security apparatus and entourage of the PM of India. Justice Navin Chawla, while hearing a petition filed by the IAF, stayed the CIC order directing them to provide information regarding Special Flight Returns (SRF)-II and listed the matter for further hearing in April. The bench also issued notice asking the RTI applicant, Air Commodore Lokesh Batra (Retd), who had sought the details. It also asked the IAF how disclosing the number of passengers would affect security. “ You may not give the names. But how does it affect the sovereignty of the country if the number is given,” the bench wondered. It observed that the CIC ought to have been more clear as to what information is exempt under the RTI Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-cic-order-on-pm-security-info/articleshow/79689219.cms||---
December 12, 2020||India||Need stimulus for print media, INS tells govt||NEW DELHI: The Indian Newspaper Society (INS) on Friday urged the Centre to announce a stimulus package for the newspaper industry to tide over the crisis in the wake of the pandemic, a request that INS, the representative body of newspapers in India, has made several times over the past few months. The INS reiterated its demand for removal of residual 5% customs duty on newsprint, a 2-year tax holiday, 50% increase in government advertisement rates, 200% increase in government spend on print media and immediate settlement of outstanding bills of advertisements, owed by the central and state governments. Stressing on the troubles faced by the print media, INS President L Adimoolam said revenue streams are facing an “unprecedented crisis” especially since both advertising and circulation have been severely impacted by the pandemic. “As a result, many of the publications have either shut down or suspended some of their editions indefinitely. If this situation prevails, many more will be compelled to close their operations in the near future. In the past 8 months, the industry has already lost around Rs 12,500 crore and annual loss is likely to be around Rs 16,000 crore,” an INS statement said. It also said the government’s failure to step up for the newspaper industry would result in the downfall of the fourth pillar in India and will have “severe socio-political repercussions” as it would affect 30 lakh workers and staff, directly and indirectly involved in the newspaper industry as journalists, printers and delivery vendors, among others. “The devastating ripple effect of the collapsing newspaper industry will impact lakhs of Indians, including employees and their families, as well as the larger ecosystem of allied industries, printing presses, distribution supply chain including newspaper vendors and delivery boys etc who have for decades been earning their livelihood from these operations,” the statement said. INS said the Indian newspaper industry has played a vital role in dissemination of verified and factual news, a service that has been duly acknowledged by the Supreme Court, and added that the entire industry is putting in its best efforts to bounce back and is looking to the government to provide the much needed stimulus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-stimulus-for-print-media-ins-tells-govt/articleshow/79689225.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Three more die in Mumbai's Lalbaug cylinder blast case, toll five||MUMBAI: Three more persons, including caterer Mangesh Rane (61), who had sustained critical injuries in the Lalbaug cooking gas cylinder explosion died during treatment on Friday. The toll is now five, while eight persons continue to be critical. Besides Rane, Mahesh Munge (56) and Dnyandev Sawant (85) also succumbed to their injuries. A cooking gas cylinder had exploded at Sarabhai building in Lalbaug on Sunday. Rane, whose daughter was getting married, had taken a room to prepare food for the guests. It is stated that the family members had been alerted about a gas leak, but the complaints were ignored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-more-die-in-mumbais-lalbaug-cylinder-blast-case-toll-five/articleshow/79689228.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 12, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC on Kanjur: Stop this 'my land and your land', the praja suffers||MUMBAI: A Bombay high court bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni on Friday, while continuing a hearing in the Centre's claim over the Kanjurmarg salt pan land transferred by the state in October for the Mumbai Metro Rail Line 6 car shed, said: "Please do not say it is my land or your land, it's ultimately our land. When two kings fight, it is the praja which suffer." The high court adjourned the hearing to Monday, asking the Centre to provide an update on a cabinet note proposed in July which was to follow a joint land survey. The state, through advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, submitted that the 102 acres in Kanjur village was its land since 1981 and, citing revenue records of 1959, even earlier. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), through senior counsel Milind Sathe, adopted the state's submissions. The MMRDA is developing the 14.5 km Metro Line 6 through the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). The bench asked the MMRDA counsel why then did it as late as December last year write to the Centre offering to pay the market value of the land for the Metro shed and kept communicating till July this year. Sathe said the assumption then was that salt pan land was centrally owned. He said in any case the "public importance" of the Metro project for the city must be considered as land was coming free for the car shed now. He showed plans for all the lines and said the car shed was crucial as a focal point to ensure smooth progress of the project. For the Central Salt Department, ASG Anil Singh and Rui Rodrigues had last week cited a letter by the metropolitan commissioner that said the "MMRDA undertakes to pay market value" of land for the Metro project in Kanjur village. The Centre had moved the high court against a November 2018 order of the state revenue minister declaring the state as owner of various salt pan lands in Mumbai. Some have also been declared to be privately held. The Centre had pointed to a 1996 order of an officer on special duty (OSD) in a statutory enquiry, which it said established that about 1,464 acres, including the transferred land, belonged to the Centre and not the state. The high court asked the state why it never challenged the 1996 OSD order. It asked the AG if the 1981 collector order also proved possession. He said it did. He said possession follows the title of the land. Kumbhakoni said that there were no contemporaneous records that showed possession of the land by the central government. The Centre had named a few private parties, including Piloo Bomanjee, Yazad and Farhad Bomanjee and Kermeen Bose, as respondents in the case. Appearing for them, advocate Janhvi Durve said they owned parts of survey number 275 and if the Centre confined its challenge to only the land transferred for the car shed, then they would not contest the plea for interim relief, else they were opposing the petition. The Centre sought interim orders to stay the land transfer for the car shed and any ongoing work on it by DMRC. Sathe said no stay may be given as it would set the clock back by "five years".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-on-kanjur-stop-this-my-land-and-your-land-praja-is-suffering/articleshow/79689230.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 alert! Rare fungus is preying on corona patients||AHMEDABAD: The battle for survival has got more challenging for coronavirus patients. Doctors are now reporting an alarming incidence of rare and serious fungal infection which is preying on patients either battling Covid-19 infection or those who recently recovered. City-based retina and ocular trauma surgeon Parth Rana has reported five cases of mucormycosis, an uncommon fungal infection with 50% mortality rate. Two died while two survived having lost their vision. Four were young males aged between 34 and 47 years. On Friday night, a 67-year-old man from Bhuj too was rushed to Ahmedabad in a critical condition. All have reported enlarged eyeballs which literally bulged out of their sockets. “All the four patients had a history of uncontrolled sugar and they were on strong drugs including steroids. Their immunity was very low. We believe that these two conditions led to the rapid spread,” said Dr Rana. He said pre-Covid-19, mucormycosis infection takes 15-30 days to spread, but in these four cases, it happened within just 2-3 days. Mucormycosis cases spikeLeading infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel who was part of the national study on mucormycosis fungal infection earlier red-flagged the growing incidence of the serious infection in Covid-19 patients. “We have recorded 19 cases of mucormycosis infection in Covid-19 recovered patients in the past three months. This is 4.5 times higher than the burden reported conventionally before the pandemic. This is a serious issue and healthcare providers should be extra-cautious as it has a mortality rate of 50%," said Dr Patel. Dr Patel said that poor sugar control, use of high doses of steroids and overall compromised immunity due to immune dysregulation and hyper-inflammation in Covid-19 patients has rendered them more vulnerable to the deadly fungal infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-covid-19-alert-rare-fungus-is-preying-on-corona-patients/articleshow/79689241.cms||Tushar Prabhune
December 12, 2020||India||Contaminated food may have caused Eluru mystery illness: Reports||AMARAVATI: Reports of various research institutions indicate food contamination, while ruling out water or air pollution, as the possible cause for the ‘mystery’ disease in Eluru that has left over 600 people hospitalised since December 6. While the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) found mercury residues in rice and pesticides on tomatoes, the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology suspected that pesticides may have triggered the acute symptoms. All research bodies said they need more time to zero in on the exact cause. How lead and nickel, which were not present in water, entered the human body remained a puzzle. They said that they have also found abnormal level of organo phosphorus in the blood samples of the victims. NIN scientists said that high usage of pesticides in the region might have been the reason for the illness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/contaminated-food-may-have-caused-eluru-mystery-illness-reports/articleshow/79689304.cms||---
December 12, 2020||Gurgaon||One licence, two guns: Gurugram police ask people to deposit extra weapons||GURUGRAM: Residents can no longer have more than two weapons on one arms licence. Those in possession of more than two legal weapons should deposit the additional ones with the local police station or take permission from the arms licensing unit to sell the same by Sunday. The move is aimed at reducing the misuse of firearms, the Gurugram police said. Earlier, people could keep more than two guns of different makes on one arms licence. As per official records, Gurugram has some 6,685 arms licence holders, of which 230 have more than two weapons. Police said the decision to deter people from possessing more than two arms on one licence was taken in the wake of a recent amendment to the Arms Act, 1959, by the Union home ministry. Before the amendment, the Arms Act allowed a person to own multiple weapons across three kinds of firearms on a single licence. “Some people have purchased multiple weapons on a single licence and at times these firearms are not in their possession, which could lead to misuse,” Gurugram police’s joint commissioner of Kulwinder Singh told TOI. “If these licence holders do not deposit their additional weapons by Sunday or sell them off, then those firearms would be considered illegal.” On how police will check if the license holders have deposited their additional weapons, Singh said, “After Saturday’s deadline, we will check the records of the weapons surrendered or sold to gun houses. The records will be tallied with the data of the arms licensing unit of the police.” In fact, the arms licence scam of 2017 had highlighted misuse of licences for purchasing additional weapons. The licences of sportsmen and even cops were used to buy multiple guns, often leading to the misuse of weapons. Earlier this year, the Gurugram police digitalised the records of the arms licensing unit. With the help of the daily crime data and news items published in the media, the branch verifies its records on a daily basis to find out if any of its licence holders are involved in any crime. On its own, police have also started cancelling the licence if any of the holders are booked for any crime. The new method also helps the cops in plugging the loopholes in the system of licence renewal and cutting short the delay. The system automatically sends a message alert to license holders two months before its lapse. After the digitisation of records, several instances came to light when people booked for crimes had applied for licence renewal and address change to manipulate police verification. All such applications get rejected, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/one-licence-two-guns-police-ask-people-to-deposit-extra-weapons/articleshow/79687926.cms||Bagish Jha
December 12, 2020||India||Recruitment test to fill Railways 1.4L vacancies||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways will hold a mega recruitment drive in three phases starting December 15 to fill up about 1.4 lakh vacancies in which more than 2.4 crore candidates will appear in different cities across the country. The ministry said RRBs have made extensive preparations for conducting examinations of this large scale amid the pandemic times following standard operating procedures as laid down by government to ensure social distancing, compulsory use of masks, sanitisers and curtailing shifts for conducting exams to only two shifts per day. Efforts are being made by RRBs to ensure that as far as possible the candidates are accommodated in their own state so that they can reach their exam centres without much difficulty. Women and candidates with disabilities are being accommodated within their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recruitment-test-to-fill-railways-1-4l-vacancies/articleshow/79689342.cms||---
