December 13, 2020||Chennai||When the spirit of Christmas brought them together||The spirit of Christmas is here and we see events of the holiday season happening one after the other in the city. With restrictions relaxed now, people are willing to step out and catch up with pals at private gatherings after ensuring all safety measures are followed. This was one such gathering at a star hotel in the city. With some caroling and photo sessions in front of the fully adorned Christmas tree, it truly emanated a Christmassy feel. The evening gathering, which was attended by actress Aishwarya Rajesh, also had a social cause attached to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-the-spirit-of-christmas-brought-them-together/articleshow/79697720.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Rajarajeshwari Nagar residents catch tanker dumping effluents in river||BENGALURU: Two Rajarajeshwari Nagar residents caught a tanker discharging chemical effluents into Vrishabhavathi river, that has turned into a storm water drain (SWD) in the locality, in the wee hours of Friday. However, the culprits, including the tanker driver, managed to give residents the slip and vanish. Vishal Suresh and Vadiraj S waited at the spot along with three Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) staffers and managed to catch the tanker around 3.15am. “For a few days, many residents had been complaining about a toxic smell lingering in their homes and a yellowish discharge in the river,” said Vishal. On his morning walk, he recently spotted a truck passing the spot where the stink as unbearable. “I later spoke to my friend Vadiraj, who also complained of the foul smell, and we decided to track down the tanker,” Vishal said. The duo found a spot near Banashankari 2nd Stage where chemical effluents were spilt on the street. On Monday evening, they informed KSPCB officials about the spot and sought their help to catch the culprits. Around 3am on Friday, the residents and KSPCB staffers lay in wait. “A cab passed by twice and stopped near the drain. In a few minutes, a truck (KA 50 2826) arrived at the spot with its headlights turned off and discharged the effluents,” said Gangadharswamy Gowda, a KSPCB guard. The residents and guards immediately rushed to catch the tanker driver and other people in the cab. While the driver was caught, the others fled. “The driver immediately called someone, who came in a cab with four other people. We then alerted police. But in less than two minutes, the tanker driver got into the cab and escaped,” said one of the KSPCB guards. Senior KSPCB officials said they will look into the matter and in case any industrial unit is found guilty, action will be initiated against it. “An FIR has been lodged against the tanker owner and driver, but no details are known yet,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-catch-tanker-dumping-effluents-in-river/articleshow/79699593.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru burglar facing 70 cases knew how not to leave fingerprints||BENGALURU: House break-ins are cracked using fingerprints extracted from the scene of crime. Some ingenious miscreants use hand gloves to avoid leaving behind those marks. But a habitual burglar, with 15 years of experience, did not use gloves and yet never left behind any fingerprints at the crime spot. Experience taught Srinivas alias Appu, of Bhuvaneshwarinagar in Hebbal, not to touch smooth surfaces, which absorb fingerprints quickly. However, Srinivas’s luck ran out this week when Jalahalli police caught him red-handed roaming suspiciously near a jewellery shop in their jurisdiction. Police recovered 343 grams of gold ornaments and 235 grams of silver articles stolen from two houses in Mahalakshmi Layout and one each in Nandini Layout and Jnanabharathi areas. Several years ago, Srinivas had been arrested a few times. An investigating officer said Srinivas discovered the risk of touching smooth surfaces after those arrests. “In those cases, police would take him to the houses which he burgled. During such visits, Srinivas overheard cops talking about how touching smooth surfaces leaves behind clear fingerprints,” he said. As per police records, Srinivas’ name figures in 70 cases. CCB sleuths arrested Srinivas in September 2019 when he had visited a goldsmith to sell stolen jewellery. He was booked on charges of breaking into 14 houses. Srinivas had walked out on bail from Central Prison in June. DCP (north) Dharmender Kumar Meena said Srinivas would identify locked houses on the basis of newspapers piled up at the front door. “After breaking into the house, he made sure he never touched any smooth surface,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/burglar-facing-70-cases-knew-how-not-to-leave-fingerprints/articleshow/79699602.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Transport impasse continues as workers stick to demand for govt employee status||BENGALURU: Regular passengers, particularly dailywage workers, have urged the state government to hold talks with employees of the transport corporations and end the protest. Hundreds of passengers are feeling the pinch after employees of four state road corporations, including KSRTC and BMTC, went on an indefinite strike since Friday. Several passengers were stranded for hours at bus terminuses across the state. Many said they cannot afford to pay auto fares. “If I pay Rs 150 per day for an autorickshaw, I won’t have any money left. So it is better not to work till the strike is over. I have a monthly pass, so it is cheap to travel in buses. The government should resolve this issue at the earliest to help poor people like us,” said K Kamalamma, a dailywage worker, stranded at Majestic. Bangalore Bus Prayanikara Vedike, an NGO fighting for the rights of bus passengers, pointed out that transport corporations cater to an important public need, yet during the pandemic, they are struggling to get their salaries. “Putting the staff on government payroll will protect them from such vagaries and give the RTCs some breather from revenue pressures. Instead of cutting short the assembly session, the House should have taken this up for discussion. We demand that a joint legislative subcommittee be set up to look into workers’ demands and strengthen the RTCs,” the NGO added. While the government is contemplating imposing Essential Services Maintenance Act (Esma), the employees have decided to go ahead with the strike. “The government has money to build statues and the Maratha Development Board, but why are our genuine demands not considered? If we are essential workers, why are they ignoring us?” asked a BMTC conductor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/transport-impasse-continues-as-workers-stick-to-demand-for-govt-employee-status/articleshow/79699613.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Gang stole Rs 30 lakh by cloning ATM cards in Tumakuru; 2 foreigners held||BENGALURU: Tumakuru police busted an international gang which siphoned off lakhs of rupees by cloning debit cards and cracked at least 60 cases reported in two months with the arrest of two foreign nationals. While Ivan Kabonge, 22, is from Uganda, Lawrence Makamu, 29, belongs to Kenya. Both are residents of Delhi and had arrived in India on student visa due for expiry in March 2021. However, police said the visa is now subject to verification. During September and October, more than 60 cases were registered in Tumakuru district: Rs 30 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from bank accounts of 60 locals. Initially, police thought the victims may have shared credentials such as card verification code (CVC) with the fraudsters. However, as cases started pouring in, investigators found there was more than what met the eye. Tumakuru CEN police formed a special team which discovered that some ATM kiosks in Nittur, Bheemasandra and Kunigal had been rigged. A tiny camera and skimming machine had been fixed in the kiosks to steal debit card data of users and clone them. Police found the duplicate cards were used to withdraw money from the victims’ accounts from kiosks in Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi and Mumbai. To gather clues about the accused, cops started collecting information about vehicles entering Tumakuru from the Bengaluru side. They got to know a Delhi-registration car often crossed the toll plaza during the two months and began efforts to trace it. Investigation revealed a few foreign nationals had been paying frequent visits to Tumakuru. “The culprits would carry a mobile debit card skimming machine and install a camera in the ATM machine. The copied data was transferred to Delhi, where the cards were cloned,” sources said. The gang, which has four more foreigners as members, was led by James, who is from South Africa and is also based in Delhi. An officer said the accused did not stay for more than a day in Tumakuru district. They would install the skimming machine and camera in the morning and take them out by evening. They visited the district 20 times in six days to siphon off the money. With ATM kiosks being unguarded, their job became easier,” he said. Twenty fake ATM cards, a skimming machine and a Honda CRV have been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gang-stole-30l-by-cloning-atm-cards-2-foreigners-held/articleshow/79699624.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Metro, app-based mobility firms in Bengaluru see rise in ridership||BENGALURU: The transport employees’ stir has come as a blessing in disguise for Namma Metro and app-based mobility companies in the city. On Friday, Namma Metro recorded a ridership of 1.13 lakh — 44,000 on the Purple Line, 45,000 lakh on Green line and 24,000 on Majestic interchange. This is the highest ridership ever since it resumed services on September 7 after the lockdown. The daily ridership was around 5.2 lakh before March 22, when BMRCL suspended services. The ridership on Saturday was not available till evening. Owing to electrical cable-laying work, services between Mysuru Road and Vijayanagar stations were suspended on Saturday and Sunday. BMRCL operates 50 trains BMRCL has decided to operate all its 50 trains during peak and non-peak hours to help people already suffering due to the transport employees’ strike.  “We are at 20% of the normal level. Ridership is increasing as pandemic incidence is becoming low key,” said BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth. App-based rental scooter firm Bounce is observing mobility week between December 12 and 19. On Saturday, it offered free rides to everyone. Bounce is also offering 50% cashback on all rides through the week. “The number of rides has gone up by 40-50%. Some of it is due to the strike while the offers also helped,” said Vivekananda Hallekere, CEO and co-founder of Bounce. Amit Gupta, CEO of Yulu, said: “In the past few days, we witnessed a huge surge of up to 40% in usage. We’ve made regular commute even more affordable. We’re also giving offers to new users.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/metro-app-based-mobility-firms-see-rise-in-ridership/articleshow/79699625.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Residents complain of rude towing staff, minors at wheel||BENGALURU: Hooliganism by towing staff, non-issuance of challans for traffic fines, refusal to receive online payment of fines, pavement encroachments by traders and push-cart vendors, minors driving and riding inside residential localities and innumerable potholes on city roads ... A deluge of complaints and suggestions poured in at the first police-public interaction on traffic issues at Sanchar Sampark Divas on Saturday. The interaction was held at all 44 traffic stations in the city and police commissioner Kamal Pant accompanied by joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikantegowda met citizens at Whitefield traffic station. Sanchar Sampark Divas, held during the second Saturday of every month, is a sequel to Maasika Jana Sampark Divas, the monthly public interaction organised for an hour on the last Saturday of every month at each police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-complain-of-rude-towing-staff-minors-at-wheel/articleshow/79699629.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||9 areas may get cycling & walking facilities in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Nine localities are likely to get non-motorised transport facilities to encourage walking and cycling. In August, the directorate of urban land transport launched a sustainable mobility accord (SuMA), inviting resident welfare associations and NGOs wanting to promote NMT in localities. “Of the 20 proposals, nine were chosen after a screening process,” said DULT commissioner V Manjula. The selected forums are: I – Care Trust (RR Nagar), HSR Citizens’ Forum (HSR Layout), Malleswaram Social-Sensing Local Foundation-Malleswaram Urban Living Lab and Malleswaram Swabhimana Initiative, Ferns Paradise Plot Owners’ Association (Doddanekundi), SWAR Voice for Change (Begur), Change Makers of Kanakapura Road and Sobha Forest View Apartment Owners’ Association, Women of Wisdom Trust, JP Nagar, Defence Colony Residents’ Association (Indiranagar) and Rotary RMV Welfare Foundation (Raj Mahal Vilas Extension). A task force will be set up under the DULT commissioner for the purpose. Each forum will get Rs 50 lakh to pilot tactical interventions in their areas. DULT will help communities transform into a sustainable neighbourhood by giving support in the form of capacity building, holding baseline surveys, cycle days.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/9-areas-may-get-cycling-walking-facilities/articleshow/79699634.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||We were staring at a mob of 5,000 people: Constable at iPhone plant in Karnataka||BENGALURU: “None of us had ever imagined largescale violence at the break of dawn. When we reached the spot, we were in for a bigger shock...We were staring at a mob of over 5,000 people,” said a police constable who was one of the first to reach Wistron Corp’s production plant at Narasapura industrial area in Kolar district on Saturday morning. The cop, who did not want to be named, had completed night-patrol duty and was looking forward to some rest when he was sent to check for trouble at the plant. “We knew we were totally outnumbered and the only way to take control of the situation was by calling for additional reinforcements,” he said. “The angry workers were destroying everything that came their way. We have not seen mob violence of this magnitude in Kolar district in recent times,” the constable added. Read AlsoViolence at iPhone plant in Karnataka: 125 Wistron employees held for arsonViolence broke out at Wistron Corp’s manufacturing plant, which makes iPhones, at the Narasapura industrial estate in Kolar district in the early hours of Saturday as workers ransacked the premises demanding payment of salaries on time along with overtime allowance.Calls to different police stations in nearby areas did not evoke immediate response as several cops on night duty were getting ready to go home. Around 6.10am, Kolar SP Karthik Reddy was alerted about the violence and he directed the District Armed Reserve (DAR) to rush to the spot apart from informing his senior, inspector general of police (central) Seemanth Kumar Singh, about the enormity of the situation. Read AlsoWistron unrest may come under Apple’s scrutinyIn the past, Apple has come down heavily on contract manufacturers for breaching its supplier code of conduct. The latest episode of unrest at Taiwanese iPhone manufacturer Wistron’s Narasapura plant would call for Apple’s scrutiny on what triggered worker violence at the site.Though Reddy reached the site along with around 50 personnel and resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd, police’s job became more challenging as the workers started striking at multiple places. As videos from the spot started to emerge, the central range sought deployment of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP). By 8am, about 400 police personnel arrived at the spot. Workers began to fleeThe cops strategically positioned themselves in different locations and started detaining those resorting to violence. Soon, the workers realised they were surrounded by hundreds of police personnel and started fleeing. Watch Watch: Violence breaks out at iPhone manufacturing plant near Bengaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/we-were-staring-at-a-mob-of-5000-people-constable/articleshow/79699652.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Staff get vocal about factory working conditions in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Karnataka is seeing a growing number of employee agitations at factories. This could be a cause of concern for the government as the state is known to have a peaceful environment, which has drawn domestic and foreign investors. In the latest case on Saturday, employees of Wistron Corp rampaged the company’s factory over allegedly getting less pay than what was promised to them while joining. Such violence is rare in the state’s manufacturing hub and comes at a time when Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are locked in an intense competition to grab investment from Pegatron, one of the biggest makers of iphones. Such incidents may have a bearing on the firm when it takes a final decision. Concerns of extra workloadThe government is yet to resolve the matter involving the lockout notice issued by Toyota Kirloskar Motors at two of its units in Bidadi. They have been under lockdown for a month with no solution in sight. The factories are now manufacturing just 100 vehicles per day, down from about 450, due to the ongoing dispute between the workmen and management. Staff have raised concerns about “extra workload” and the management reducing daily pay under the pretext that an employee was on a loo break. The dispute could not have come at a worse time as the auto sector is yet to recover from the pandemic’s onslaught. Page Industries, the exclusive licensee of Jockey in India, has also been criticised for poor treatment of workers. It relates to “humiliating verbal and physical punishments when employees return from lawful holiday or sick leave,” and “violations of national regulations relating to fire safety, personal protective equipment...”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/staff-get-vocal-about-factory-working-conditions-in-state/articleshow/79699653.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Wistron unrest may come under Apple’s scrutiny||BENGALURU: In the past, Apple has come down heavily on contract manufacturers for breaching its supplier code of conduct. The latest episode of unrest at Taiwanese iPhone manufacturer Wistron’s Narasapura plant would call for Apple’s scrutiny on what triggered worker violence at the site. Last month, Apple’s key supplier Pegatron broke the former’s supply chain rules after the Taiwanese firm asked students to work night shifts and overtime at one of its plants in mainland China. Apple said the contractor had falsified paperwork and misclassified some of the workers to disguise the violations. Apple takes employee working conditions at supplier sites seriously and Wistron India has to pass the litmus test. An email sent to Apple on the violence at Narasapura remained unanswered till the time of going to the press. Wistron’s Narasapura facility works for other consumer brands, but it counts Apple as its key customer. Apple conducts stringent audits on suppliers. It has put enough safeguards in place for working conditions at its suppliers’ facilities and is aligned with international labour and human rights standards. It even removes suppliers from its list if they don’t meet the standards. Apple Supplier Responsibility 2020 Progress Report showed of the 12 core violations found in the labour and human rights category in 2019, 10 were related to working-hour violations. Overall supplier working hours compliance for the year was 95%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wistron-unrest-may-come-under-apples-scrutiny/articleshow/79699654.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: WFH and amenities make large gated communities a big draw||BENGALURU: The pandemic is shifting the preference of people from standalone buildings or smaller complexes to flats in big gated communities. This can be attributed to the host of advantages these societies provide when it comes to integrated services, which are not available in smaller complexes. A NoBroker survey across the top six cities in the country shows 61% of those surveyed are looking for flats in large societies. This trend is boosted by the conveniences offered, especially through society management apps. These apps are packed with features that facilitate hassle-free living, such as in-app grocery store or even touchless entry of visitors. “During a crisis like the present one, their popularity is increasing,” the report added. Brigade Group’s residential business CEO Rajendra Joshi said those who live in gated communities have access to amenities, which makes life easier. Sobha MD JC Sharma said staying in larger gated communities gives one a defined neighbourhood. Most large projects come with swimming pools, gym, grocery stores, salon, party halls, clinic etc. The quality of civic amenities, including internal roads, pavements, drainage and garbage collection, is often better than what civic agencies have to offer. The maintenance charges tend to be higher in large gated communities. But given that they have hundreds, often thousands of units, the extra sum that each resident has to pay is not very significant. While a small complex may have a maintenance charge of about Rs 2.5 per sqft, for bigger projects, it tends to be between Rs 3.5 and Rs 4. Many are willing to pay more to ensure they don’t have to step out of the premises. Errol Fernandes, secretary, Credai Bengaluru, said buyers are showing greater interest in such properties, which are often a little distant from their workplace or central business district. “Considering the work-from-home arrangement, distance is not a big factor now and customers are preferring those places which provide more comfort,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wfh-and-amenities-make-large-gated-communities-a-big-draw/articleshow/79699664.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Larger HC bench to decide on evidence, bail-related aspects||BENGALURU: A larger high court bench will take a call on two important issues arising out of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The first is: If the evidence of the child has not been recorded within a period of 30 days of taking cognisance of the offence and, if the special court doesn’t complete the trial within one year from the date of taking cognisance, will the accused be entitled to be released on bail, holding that it’s a default clause which gives a right to the accused? The second is whether the evidence recorded by the magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC can be considered evidence under section 35 of the Pocso Act. These questions were raised by an accused hailing from Udupi district while seeking bail. However, declining to grant bail, Justice BA Patil directed the matter to be placed before the chief justice for constituting a larger bench to take a call on the two matters. The judge added that in case the larger bench’s verdict is in favour of the petitioner-accused, he is at liberty to revive his right. The allegation against the petitioner is that he along with another accused used to enter an adoption centre at night and subject the inmates to sexual assault. A case was registered at the women’s police station and the petitioner was arrested. The petitioner contended though cognisance was taken on May 13, 2019, the child’s evidence was not recorded and the trial was completed within a year as required under the Pocso Act. Another argument put forth by him was that on March 18, 2019 itself, the magistrate had recorded the statement of the child under section 164 of CrPC, which was contrary to medical evidence which clearly indicated there was no sexual assault. The petitioner further claimed he is an outsider and has no connection with the institution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/larger-hc-bench-to-decide-on-evidence-bail-related-aspects/articleshow/79699675.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Punish offenders, look into workers’ demands, says Karnataka CM||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who reviewed the law and order situation following the workers’ protest and violence in Narasapura industrial area, has directed police to provide full protection to the Wistron unit. He also told police to investigate the matter and take stringent action against the perpetrators. Yediyurappa asked labour department officials to look into the workers’ demands and see what best could be done. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan condemned the violence and said it would be investigated from all angles to know the actual trigger. Even complaints about non-payment of salary and pay cuts would be probed, he said. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar expressed concern over rising workers’ protests and said: “Our preliminary investigation revealed the incident happened over non-payment of salaries and the anger had been brewing for some time. But neither the company nor the workers reported the matter to us. If workers are facing any such issues, they should approach the labour commissioner or district commissioner. Indulging in unlawful activities can’t be justified,” he said. Citing the example of the labour unrest at Mysore Paints plant, Shettar said the dispute was resolved within 24 hours after the workers raised a complaint with the labour commissioner. In case of the Toyota Kirloskar plant at Bidadi, he said measures are being taken to resolve the issue. On the need for an audit of workers and the payroll system, the minister said it’s too early to take such decisions based on one incident. “Karnataka has been a much sought-after destination for investments in the country and we will do everything to protect the interest of both investors and workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/punish-offenders-look-into-workers-demands-says-cm/articleshow/79699676.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Govt reconvenes Council session for just one day||BENGALURU: The government has managed to get the legislative council session, adjourned sine die by chairman Pratap Chandra Shetty on Thursday, reconvened for a day on Dec 15.  The BJP is expected to demand the chair take up its no-confidence motion. The BJP, with the help of the JD(S), plans to oust Shetty from the post. On Thursday, Shetty adjourned the house even as ruling BJP members were demanding their no-confidence motion against him be taken up for discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-reconvenes-council-session-for-just-one-day/articleshow/79699985.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka Covid-19 tally crosses nine lakh mark||BENGALURU: The total Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 9 lakh on Saturday, of which more than 8.7 lakh patients have recovered. Karnataka reported the first Covid case on March 8. The state reported 1,203 new cases, of which 606 were from Bengaluru. The state’s daily positivity rate stood at 1.1% and in a relief, the daily fatality rate was below 1%. Of the 11 Covid deaths reported in the past 24 hours, six were from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ktaka-covid-tally-crosses-9-lakh-mark/articleshow/79702586.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka Covid-19 tally crosses nine lakh mark||BENGALURU: The total Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 9 lakh on Saturday, of which more than 8.7 lakh patients have recovered. Karnataka reported the first Covid case on March 8. The state reported 1,203 new cases, of which 606 were from Bengaluru. The state’s daily positivity rate stood at 1.1% and in a relief, the daily fatality rate was below 1%. Of the 11 Covid deaths reported in the past 24 hours, six were from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ktaka-covid-tally-crosses-9-lakh-mark/articleshow/79702588.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka Covid-19 tally crosses nine lakh mark||BENGALURU: The total Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 9 lakh on Saturday, of which more than 8.7 lakh patients have recovered. Karnataka reported the first Covid case on March 8. The state reported 1,203 new cases, of which 606 were from Bengaluru. The state’s daily positivity rate stood at 1.1% and in a relief, the daily fatality rate was below 1%. Of the 11 Covid deaths reported in the past 24 hours, six were from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ktaka-covid-tally-crosses-9-lakh-mark/articleshow/79702587.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka Covid-19 tally crosses nine lakh mark||BENGALURU: The total Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 9 lakh on Saturday, of which more than 8.7 lakh patients have recovered. Karnataka reported the first Covid case on March 8. The state reported 1,203 new cases, of which 606 were from Bengaluru. The state’s daily positivity rate stood at 1.1% and in a relief, the daily fatality rate was below 1%. Of the 11 Covid deaths reported in the past 24 hours, six were from Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-covid-tally-crosses-9-lakh-mark/articleshow/79700007.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||‘No one can speed up vaccine trials, and their evaluation’||As the founder of Shantha Biotechnics, one of the first Indian companies to develop vaccines indigenously and the only one to develop a vaccine independently, KI Varaprasad Reddy has a unique insight into the ongoing global race to launch a Covid-19 vaccine. In an interview with Swati Bharadwaj, the Padma Bhushan awardee talks about the challenges aheadIt takes years to develop a vaccine but now the process is being fast-tracked. Are you worried that safety is being compromised?Everyone knows that no vaccine was ever developed this fast. TB vaccine took 28 years, Ebola took 5.5 years. AIDS, though known for 40 years, does not have a vaccine as yet. Yes, technological advancement in virology and experiments with repurposed vaccines speeded up the development of this vaccine but no one can speed up clinical trials and their evaluation. A car can be designed to go at 300 km/hr speed. Still we fix a 100/120 speed limit on Indian roads because our road tests say so. Similarly, tests alone can testify to the safety of this vaccine. Also, risks involved will be different for each vaccine and will be known once mass vaccination starts. Vaccine makers are facing tremendous public and political pressure to deliver a vaccine. Are basic aspects of vaccine development being ignored in this haste?Pressure from governments is obvious. A scientist does not compromise on quality or ignore basic aspects of development of vaccine but he cannot be sure of the efficacy and immunogenicity of his invention unless it is analysed and observed on a reasonable time basis and peer-reviewed. But governments are eager to put the stamp of approval under the head ‘Emergency Authorisation of Use’, even without this essential process. I am afraid vaccine makers are running the risk in these circumstances as their image is at stake. Do you think there is enough scientific data on Covid-19 vaccine candidates?We get only press reports. Data is revealed only to a committee of experts in the regulatory authority’s office. They are neither crosschecked nor peer-reviewed nor published in international scientific journals as much as they should be. The world is looking to India and vaccine capital Hyderabad to churn out Covid vaccines. What challenges do Indian vaccine makers face? Let us be clear on one point. India has not produced any original vaccine so far, except for cholera by Shantha Biotechnics. What we have here is robust infrastructure to manufacture vaccines in bulk. If someone hands us over a good vaccine, we can produce them in large quantities at an affordable cost so that even third world countries can buy it. The challenge Indian vaccine makers face is how to keep producing other ongoing vaccines with the same infrastructure, while trying to produce billions of doses of Covid vaccines in a short span of time. Once Covid-19 vaccines are approved for use, what is the way forward?As of now, we are far from having a viable vaccine, whatever it means. Normally, after a vaccine has been approved, we manufacture five consistent batches of vaccine and send them for testing to the National Testing Laboratory for sterility, potency tests, etc and start mass production only after getting clearance. In the case of the Covid vaccine, large-scale manufacturing started even before third-stage clinical trials were concluded. In these circumstances, every step poses a challenge, right from determining shelf-life to the period it takes for developing immunogenicity in the body. The biggest challenge is to see that the public does not lose faith in the whole process of vaccination, in case there are any adverse effects. How prepared are we for the mammoth task of vaccinating 1.3 billion Indians?The delivery system poses a number of problems especially since our primary health centres (PHCs) are in poor condition. Government should use this as an opportunity to develop logistics to strengthen the healthcare system. Many developed nations have already cornered a chunk of Covid-19 vaccines? What are its implications for developing nations?Here production capacity does not matter. What matters is who funded the research and had modern technology. Successive Indian governments did not encourage R&D in the country and, now, we are depending upon others’ innovations. Developed nations paid huge amounts to block the production for them. India did no such thing and we cannot grumble. Indian government allowed 100% FDI in the healthcare industry. So even socially conscious entrepreneurs like me are hand-tied to do our bit in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-one-can-speed-up-vaccine-trials-and-their-evaluation/articleshow/79698747.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||A wedding celebrated with care in Lucknow||The wedding of Anjali and Rajat Sharma was a grand affair. The wedding, which had its share of prominent guests, was celebrated keeping in mind all the prescribed Covid-19 protocols. Those among the invitees included Rajnath Singh, Dr Dinesh Sharma, Brajesh Pathak, Sanyukta Bhatia, among others. (L) Rajnath Singh (R) Sanyukta Bhatia (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Rajnath Singh (R) Sanyukta Bhatia (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) The bride'’s parents Mukesh and Rekha Sharma and the groom’s parents BL Sharma and Kamlesh looked after the guests. (L) Babu Lal and Kamlesh Sharma (R) Kumar Keshav (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Babu Lal and Kamlesh Sharma (R) Kumar Keshav (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L-R) Shreya, Aayushi and Pooja (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L-R) Shreya, Aayushi and Pooja (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Anushri Vashisth (R) Arushi Puri and Palak Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Anushri Vashisth (R) Arushi Puri and Palak Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Brajesh Pathak (R) Dr Dinesh Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Brajesh Pathak (R) Dr Dinesh Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Dr Jagdish Gandhi (R) Dr Neeraj Bora (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Dr Jagdish Gandhi (R) Dr Neeraj Bora (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Mohsin Raza (R) Mukesh & Rekha Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Mohsin Raza (R) Mukesh & Rekha Sharma (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Neetu & Rajesh Sharma (R) Palak Sharma and Puru Vashisth (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Neetu & Rajesh Sharma (R) Palak Sharma and Puru Vashisth (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Piyush Singh and Pawan Singh Chauhan (R) Swati Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Piyush Singh and Pawan Singh Chauhan (R) Swati Singh (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-wedding-celebrated-with-care-in-lucknow/articleshow/79698704.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Mallya says he can't afford his legal fees for his court cases in India or UK, wants French property sale money||LONDON: Vijay Mallya cannot afford his legal fees for his court cases in India or the UK, nor his £22,500 (Rs 22 lakh) per month living expenses, and has applied to the UK court funds office to obtain £1.5 million (Rs 14 crore) to meet both. The Insolvency and Companies Court (ICC) heard on Friday an urgent application from the indebted liquor and airline tycoon in which he requested £1.5 million from the realisation of the sale of his property in France, of which he said £550,000 was needed to pay his outstanding legal costs to the barrister representing him in his bankruptcy case. Philip Marshall QC, representing Mallya, threatened to withdraw from the case if the outstanding fees were not paid and said the 64-year-old would not have any legal representation at his bankruptcy hearing on December 18 if the money was not released from the court funds office. He also said Mallya needed this money to fight his legal battles in India. “Previously Dr Mallya had income from consultancy payments and a few other places to get his legal and living expenses paid for, but since October 2020 these consultancy arrangements are not continuing so he has to resort to this fund derived from the sale of a property in France which took place over the summer and was placed into court as a convenient place to put the money,” Marshall said. “We must get his legal fees paid otherwise no firm of solicitors will progress with this case with half a million pounds outstanding. How can he deal with the hearing with eminent expert witnesses and all the points about Indian law? He couldn’t possibly deal with that on his own. It would be absurd. There will be no level playing field at all and total denial of justice,”Marshall said. “The hearing on December 18 would have to be adjourned. … He has heavy litigation in India too as these respondents are engaged in litigation there and are persisting with that despite this bankruptcy petition, and he has to bring his own proceedings and so has heavy costs incurred in India that need to be met too,” Marshall said. Deputy ICC Judge Daniel Schaffer adjourned the application seeking release of £1.5 million to January 2021 and agreed instead to release £240,000 just to fund Mallya’s legal fees related to the December 18 hearing. The court heard that £200,000 of this was to fund his lawyers on the day and £20,348 was to fund an expert witness, Justice Verma, a retired judge of the Indian Supreme Court, appearing on Mallya’s behalf. Marcia Shekerdemian QC, representing the consortium of Indian banks to whom Mallya owes more than Rs 11,000 crore, had objected to the release of the £1.5 million, saying: “What Dr Mallya wants is the release of 94% of the money held in court, which represents a substantial portion of his admitted UK assets.” She said Marshall was requiring the judge to “approve £1.5 million out of £2.6 million held in court, and of that amount £1.2 million is in respect of incurred and estimated legal costs.” “It is not right for the court to entertain this application when discussing eye-watering amounts of money,” she said, adding there was a supporting creditor owed £2.8 million who had not been told about this application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mallya-says-he-cant-afford-his-legal-fees-for-his-court-cases-in-india-or-uk-wants-french-property-sale-money/articleshow/79699997.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 13, 2020||India||Air India ordered by UK court to pay £13 million to aircraft leasing company for non-payment of rent on five leased aircraft||LONDON: Air India was ordered on Friday to pay £13 million (Rs 130 crore) to an aircraft leasing company in Dublin for non-payment of rent and related charges on five Airbus A320-200 aircraft it had leased. India’s national flag carrier has until January 11, 2021, to make the full payment to Aircraft Limited or else it could face enforcement action. Simon Salzedo QC, sitting as a judge of the high court, entered summary judgment against the airline for the full debt that Aircraft Limited in Dublin is claiming — $17.6 million (£13.4 million). Salzedo criticised Air India for its “unsatisfactory and discourteous conduct” by failing to respond to the application for summary judgment until after the time the skeleton arguments were due to be filed. Air India did not contest the application for summary judgment. Arshad Ghaffar, representing the claimant, said: “Air India is a government-owned entity and the idea it does not have enough money to meet this is simply fanciful. The government of India can always have enough money to fund Air India.” The commercial court heard Air India had been “making some payments” towards the debt but these were for current amounts accruing that are due, as opposed to historic amounts, and that the airline was “juggling a number of creditors”. Giles Robertson, representing Air India, said: “We hope to be able to pay what we can. There is a huge amount of uncertainty about the projection of the airline industry at present. Some of the effects of enforcing judgment on an operating airline pose particular issues that may fall into special circumstances.” He requested until January 29, 2021 to settle the debt, but Salzedo fixed the date for 9 am on January 11, 2021, and this was contingent on Air India making an interim payment of $4 million (Rs 29 crore) by midnight of December 31, 2020. Air India’s Manoj Kumar said in a statement the airline does not “dispute that the claimant in principle is entitled to sums under its leases with Air India. Air India is not seeking to put forward substantive defence to claim.” Kumar blamed its default on the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown in India from March 24, and the restrictions which followed, such as the suspension of domestic travel until May, and now quarantine restrictions at airports as well as international air travel being limited to evacuation and bubble countries. He said the airline was operating at 40% of its operational capacity on domestic flights. “The aircraft were on the ground for the lockdown period and traffic is expected to be low for some time to come. As a result we are facing difficulty in making payments. We can agree rent reductions with most of our lessors but cannot agree with this one,” Kumar said. On June 21, 2014 Air India, as lessee, had entered into five separate, but identical, lease agreements with respect to five Airbus A320-200 aircraft. The court heard that Air India had defaulted on its rent, maintenance reserves and default interest “on various dates between September 2018 and August 31, 2020.” The terms of the lease stated that legal notices relating to the agreement should be served at the airline’s registered UK address in Middlesex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/air-india-ordered-by-uk-court-to-pay-13-million-to-aircraft-leasing-company-for-non-payment-of-rent-on-five-leased-aircraft/articleshow/79700320.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 13, 2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC in Poonch||JAMMU: Pakistan on Saturday violated the ceasefire after a lull of three days, resorting to unprovoked firing and intense shelling targeting forward posts and civilian areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in J&K’s Poonch district. “Around 6pm, Pakistan initiated firing with small arms and heavy mortar shelling along the LoC in Poonch’s Balakote sector, to which Indian Army retaliated effectively,” Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, adding that there were no reports of injury or damage on own side so far. Earlier on Wednesday (December 9), Pakistan breached the truce along the LoC in Poonch’s Mankote sector. On December 5-6, Pakistan violated the ceasefire four times — thrice along the LoC in Poonch and once along the International Border in Hiranagar sector in Kathua district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-poonch/articleshow/79700342.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
December 13, 2020||India||India busts Malaysia-based outfit’s terror attack plot||NEW DELHI: The Indian intelligence establishment is learnt to have intercepted crucial financial transactions with links to wanted Islamic preacher Zakir Naik suggesting that a Malaysia-based Rohingya outfit may be in an advanced stage of orchestrating a terror strike in the country by a group led by a woman. The intelligence suggests that a woman-led group, who has been trained in Myanmar, may attempt a strike in an Indian city in the next few weeks. Late on Friday, the intelligence establishment alerted the police and state intelligence bureaus of Delhi, Haryana, UP, Bihar and West Bengal to step up surveillance, a source confirmed. Read AlsoNIA books Zakir Naik in 'love jihad' case involving top Bangladesh politicianThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has named Islamic preacher Zakir Naik and two hardline preachers of Pakistan origin as accused in an FIR pertaining to a high-profile "love jihad" case.An intel document, seen by TOI, states that a slew of suspicious India-centric transactions to the tune of around 2 lakh dollars have been tracked to Kuala Lumpur based Rohingya leader Mohammed Naseer and controversial Islamic cleric Zakir Naik. The intel document states that a Chennai-based suspect, probably a hawala dealer, had received a part of this fund. Digging deeper, the sleuths were able to deduce that a group was to infiltrate India in mid or end of December through Bangladesh. The origin or any identity related details of the woman who supposedly trained in Myanmar for this strike is unclear but it is suspected that she was sent to Myanmar from Malaysia early this year, a source said. In the communication to the states, likely targets mentioned are Ayodhya, Bodhgaya, Punjab and Srinagar. The agency also suspects that a few conduits belonging to Popular Front of India may extend support to the group for logistics and hence watch may be stepped up on elements associated with the outfit, it states. Intelligence sources said that sleuths were trying to figure out if a Rohingya militant group which came under the scanner last year for raising funds for Rohingya refugees in Malaysia was involved in the current set of transfers. Naik is wanted by Indian authorities since 2016 on charges of money laundering and inciting extremism through hate speeches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-busts-malaysia-based-outfits-terror-attack-plot/articleshow/79701295.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 13, 2020||India||India being tested at LAC, will meet challenge: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar said Saturday India was being tested in the LAC standoff with China in eastern Ladakh even as he expressed confidence India will meet the national security challenge. The minister also said that the LAC situation is not in China’s interest as its “carefully developed” goodwill will likely dissipate because of border tensions with India. He described the recent events at the line of actual control as very disturbing. Just a few days ago he had noted that China had advanced five different reasons for it mobilisation along the LAC. Speaking at the FICCI annual general meeting, Jaishankar refused to hazard a guess on whether or not a breakthrough is expected soon in the talks for disengagement. The external affairs minister said a lot of discussions had taken place over the proposed deal. “For a variety of reasons, they didn’t close it out. I can tell you on our side, we were dead serious. We wanted to deal with those issues because we thought there was something much bigger that was in store for the relationship. But it didn’t happen. And often when it comes to trade discussions (they) are like business discussions between two governments,” he said. “I would not go into pre diction zone at all, whether it is going to be easy or not, and what will be the timelines. I do not believe that the events of this year have helped at all. In fact I think the real danger is that the goodwill which was so carefully developed will dissipate,” he said. “But I also would say that, yes, we are being tested. I have every confidence that we will rise to the occasion; we will meet that national security challenge. But beyond that, at this time, I would really frankly keep my own counsel,” he added. He said these events have raised some very “basic concerns” as the “other party” had not abided by agreements on respecting the LAC. According to the minister, what has happened in the past 6-7 months is not actually in the interest of China. “Because what it has done is — it has significantly impacted public sentiment (in India). Professionally, I have seen the evolution of how the Indian public feels about China over the last many decades and I am old enough to remember much more difficult days, especially in my childhood and in my teens,” he said. Jaishankar also said a lot of work had gone into developing the relationship on both sides. When asked about the outcome of the US presidential election, he suggested that the ties between the two countries will continue to expand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-being-tested-at-lac-will-meet-challenge-jaishankar/articleshow/79701478.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Centre, Bengal in tussle over three IPS officers||NEW DELHI/KOLKATA: In what will be seen as an escalation of BJP’s political confrontation with Trinamool Congress, the home ministry has called three IPS officers of West Bengal cadre on central deputation, as part of an exercise to fix responsibility for the alleged lapses that led to Thursday’s attack on BJP chief J P Nadda’s convoy near Kolkata. The Centre has sought concurrence of the West Bengal government in the matter by December 15, while the state’s official response is awaited. Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee wrote to home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday, saying, “Your motive is very clear... you want to create pressure on the officers.” The officers sought by Centre for deputation are South Bengal IG Rajeev Mishra, Presidency Range DIG Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Diamond Harbour SP Bholanath Pandey. The state government did not issue any statement till Saturday evening. However, officials in Kolkata said the Centre usually seeks the state’s consent before such a move. “They are Bengal cadre IPS officers. This is a unilateral decision taken by the Centre. Bengal, like the rest of the country, is battling a pandemic. So, in this backdrop, the state cannot relieve these officers immediately,” a senior state government official said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has, however, suggested that the stoning of Nadda’s convoy was the handiwork of BJP itself. The officers concerned were directly in charge of Nadda’s security detail at the time of the mob attack. While Nadda escaped unhurt owing to his car being bulletproof, other BJP leaders like Kailash Vijayvarghiya were injured. The action against the West Bengal cadre IPS officers comes a day after the home ministry summoned the state chief secretary and the DGP to New Delhi on December 14 for a discussion with Bhalla on law and order situation in the state. The Bengal officials had, however, requested that their presence be dispensed with, saying the state government “was already addressing the issue with utmost seriousness”. TMC MP Saugata Roy insisted the Centre could ask for names of officers to be sent on central deputation, and the final authority to release them lay with the state. A letter from the home ministry on Saturday asked the Bengal government to convey its concurrence on the three officers, “failing which it will be presumed that the state government has no objection in the matter”. A home ministry officer told TOI that Rule 6 of IPS cadre rules require a cadre officer to be deputed for service under the central government or another state government or any government-owned company or association, with the concurrence of the state government. However, the same rule adds that in the case of a disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government concerned shall give effect to such a decision. Usually, requests are settled by mutual consideration. “This means that after December 15, even if the state disagrees with the Centre’s decision to call the three officers on central deputation, it will have no choice but to relieve them,” said an officer. Watch MHA orders central deputation of 3 IPS officers after BJP chief JP Nadda's convoy attack||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-bengal-in-tussle-over-three-ips-officers/articleshow/79701637.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||In strong pitch, PM Modi says laws open new doors for farmers||NEW DELHI: PM Modi on Saturday made a strong pitch for agricultural reforms legislated by the government saying that they increase the marketing options for farmers without taking away the one of trading through mandis. Addressing the annual general meeting of FICCI, the PM said while mandis are being strengthened and modernised, the new laws give farmers the option of selling their produce anywhere. His comments come in the backdrop of a deadlock between farmer groups agitating against the new agriculture laws and the Centre. Referring to the economic uncertainties around the Covid-19 pandemic, the PM said the situation, however, appeared to have changed by December when economic indicators are now quite encouraging. “We have answers (to those problems) as well as a roadmap (for recovery).… The things learnt by the nation at the time of cri sis have further strengthened the resolutions of future,” said Modi while addressing FICCI’s 93rd annual convention. “In the match of 20-20, we saw a lot of things changing rapidly. But the year 2020 baffled everyone. But it’s good that the situation is now improving at the same pace as it got deteriorated earlier," said the PM. He said the reforms are aimed at bringing down the barriers that exist between various sectors and are the only way forward for a farm economy plagued by the small size of land holdings and importantly, opening the doors to enhanced investment. The PM said the reforms would help bring investment to strengthen cold storage and food processing infrastructure for the benefit of farmers. “Investment in the sector will help our small and marginal farmers. We don’t want walls between different sectors. We want more and more bridges to support each other,” said the PM. Modi said the private sector has not done enough to tap investment opportunities in the agri-sector (cold chain etc) and asserted that the measures taken in the recent past , such as allowing the blending of ethanol with petrol, will help improve farm incomes. He said the Centre is committed to protect the interests of farmers through its ‘niti’ (policy) and ‘niyat’ (intention), noting that the new farm laws will give them new markets, access to technology and help bring invest ments in agriculture. The PM, however, asked industries to show their interest and increase investment in the farm sector. He also urged the industry to invest in rural areas, including the agriculture sector, as investments would open new opportunities for people in those areas. “The ambitions of rural India are increasingly on the rise. They want socio-economic mobility, and the government is trying to fulfil these ambitions,” Modi said. Watch Agriculture reforms will bring new markets and opportunities to farmers: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-strong-pitch-pm-modi-says-laws-open-new-doors-for-farmers/articleshow/79701648.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||Civic body to give a facelift to parks, water bodies for clean air||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to renovate all the parks (except the ones managed by the environment, forests and climate change department) and water bodies in a bid to tackle air pollution in the city. Under the Centre’s programmes for combating air pollution and ensuring proper solid waste and water supply management, the civic body will work on different projects for which Rs 204 crore has been released by the Centre on the basis of recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission. Some projects focus on improving pedestrian facilities, using water sprayers and mechanical street-sweeping machines to tackle dust pollution, making urban spaces greener and keeping a check on open air burning of municipal waste. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said of Rs 408 crore by the 15th Finance Commission, the first instalment of Rs 204 crore has already been allotted for formulating and implementing plans for ensuring cleaner air and bridging the infrastructure gap for waste and water supply management over a period of five years. The PMC is likely to get the second instalment by March next year, he added. Sharma said the civic body would procure sweeping machines, smog guns, mist sprayers and water sprinkler vehicles to improve air quality in the city. “Under the programme, we will increase the green cover in the city through massive afforestation drive. Saplings will be planted on the roadside and on dividers. We will work as per the Bihar State Pollution Control Board’s comprehensive clean air action plan prepared in 2019,” he said. Sharma added around 50 parks would be upgraded and the water bodies rejuvenated as the recreational area, where people can spend quality time with their families. “After upgrading these parks by installing benches, children rides, lighting, constructing boundary walls, planting saplings and providing food kiosks, we will hand over the parks to the environment, forests and climate change department for the upkeep,” the PMC commissioner said. As far as solid waste and water supply management is concerned, the civic body will install 23 organic waste compost plants at vegetable and fruit markets in the city and also set up compositing pits. For non-organic material, a material recovery facility plant worth Rs 30 crore will be set up at landfill site in Bariya Chak. The bidding process for several projects for solid waste management has already been initiated by the PMC. Sharma said for water supply management, the civic body has already started implementing ‘Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal Yojana’ and running 117 pumps. “Work is on to build 13 overhead tanks and install 100 high-yield borings,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-to-give-a-facelift-to-parks-water-bodies-for-clean-air/articleshow/79698997.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 13, 2020||Patna||IIM-Bodh Gaya to host ‘PRotathlitis’||PATNA: The Indian Institute of Management (IIM) in Bodh Gaya is set to host ‘PRotathlitis’, a nationwide virtual competition for students, from December 13 to 26. “More than 900 students from different B-schools will participate in the maiden edition of the ‘PRotathlitis’, which means champion in Greek. The competition is meant for those who are willing to test their business acumen and problem-solving skills,” IIM-Bodh Gaya’s media representative Oorja Agrawal told TOI on Saturday. The winners will receive a cash prize of Rs 50,000 each. “The event will be conducted in three rounds on December 13, 15 and 26 respectively. The top 10 teams will present their proposed solution in front of an esteemed panel of judges,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iim-bodh-gaya-to-host-protathlitis/articleshow/79699236.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Patna||Heritage walk marks end of Buddhist meet||GAYA: A heritage walk from Mahakala caves in Dhungeshwari hills to world heritage Mahabodhi Mahavihara in Bodh Gaya was organised on the concluding day of the three-day International Buddhist Travel Mart (IBTM) organised by Association for Buddhist Travel Operators (ABTO). Before concluding the conference, new office-bearers of ABTO were also elected for two years ending December 9, 2022. ABTO secretary general (founder) Kaulesh Kumar, a Buddhist sector specialist, said, “ABTO has about 1,500 members in India and overseas, which consists of specialists in Buddhist destinations, culture-promoting tour operators, tourism professionals, educationists, monks, travel trade partners, philanthropists and others.” Mahabodhi Society of India (MSI) general secretary P Siwalee Thero was elected supreme council and former vice-chancellor of Nav Nalanda Mahavihara Ravindra Panth president of ABTO. During the three-day conference, discussions were held for revival of tourism sector, which has suffered huge loss due to Covid-19 pandemic. It has come to light that there is plan to develop Bodhgaya as an ‘iconic site’. Union tourism department assistant director general Dheeraj Sharan, who also participated in IBTM, said on Friday, “Work is going on to make available infrastructure at par with international standard to the tourists visiting Bodh Gaya and other places. An integrated system, including good roads, lighting, hotel, road side amenities and other facilities is being developed. The proposal has been sent to the Centre for approval.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/heritage-walk-marks-end-of-buddhist-meet/articleshow/79699230.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Marlim-Tirval sees usual voting trend||The residents of Marlim-Tirval near Poinguinim, had given a call to boycott ZP elections, over some local issues, but the call did not go as expected. The usual voting trend was witnessed in polling booths here. The locals are upset over bad roads and power issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marlim-tirval-sees-usual-voting-trend/articleshow/79700789.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||Extra chairs for flyers at Patna airport||PATNA: As chaos continues to prevail at the Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport due to the cancellation and rescheduling of flights amid dense fog, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has increased the manpower and the passenger facilities. “The number of CISF personnel, airlines and AAI staff has been increased to manage the chaos at the airport. Besides, extra chairs have installed and new washrooms set up,” Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi told this newspaper on Saturday. He added, “There is a food court with a waiting area on the eastern side of the terminal building for the visitors and the flyers. We have more space, baggage machines and frisking booths now.” Negi also said the airport was handling 40 flights from 11am to 8pm for the last few days due to delay in flight operations. “On normal days, we handle flights between 7am to 10pm,” he added. Meanwhile, at least 14 flights were delayed because of poor visibility on Saturday. A frequent flyer, Aniruddh Gupta, rued, “The chaos inside the terminal building has improved slightly, but the attitude of the airlines towards passengers has not. There should be more check-in counters and departure gates.” Another passenger, Sonali Singh, echoed similar views. She said, “The airport authorities need to ensure social distancing inside the terminal building. The situation outside is much better as there are more chairs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/extra-chairs-for-flyers-at-airport/articleshow/79699063.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 13, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Mild showers, fog guide mercury down||JAIPUR: Mild showers and foggy conditions at many places in the state on Saturday guided the mercury to dip. Though maximum temperatures witnessed a dip of almost 8°C, not much impact was seen on minimum temperatures. Sriganganagar remained the coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 8.4°C and a maximum temperature of 17.6°C was recorded, the Met reports said. Attributing the climatic conditions to the active western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that northerly winds would revive in the state from Tuesday onwards and mercury will fall further. People in Jaipur woke up to fog and mist but not much impact on the minimum temperature was witnessed in the morning. A minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 24.4°C was recorded in the city. “We have been witnessing maximum temperature of 32°C to 33°C in Jaipur for past one week. But this was the coldest day of the season so far in Jaipur as a drop of almost 9°C was witnessed during daytime,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Fog and mist affected vehicular traffic and trains’ movement in the districts including Churu, Sriganganagar and Bikaner. Vehicles during early morning and late evening hours moved at a slower pace due to poor visibility. However, no impact was witnessed on the flights. Sriganganagar recorded the lowest day temperature with a maximum temperature of 17.6°C. “For the first time during the day, majority of the places in the state witnessed maximum temperatures below 30.0°C in the absence of a clear sunny day,” the officer added. Sriganganagar was followed by Jaisalmer where a minimum temperature of 9.3°C was recorded, Churu 9.6°C, Bikaner 10.3°C, Pilani 10.5°C, Phalodi (Jodhpur) 11.8°C, Alwar 12.2°C, Sikar 13.0°C, Barmer 13.2°C, Udaipur 14.0°C, Kota 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in Jaipur. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury is likely to dip in the next 24 hours, as there would be mainly clear skies with revival of northerly winds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/mild-showers-fog-guide-mercury-down/articleshow/79702772.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Mild showers, fog guide mercury down||JAIPUR: Mild showers and foggy conditions at many places in the state on Saturday guided the mercury to dip. Though maximum temperatures witnessed a dip of almost 8°C, not much impact was seen on minimum temperatures. Sriganganagar remained the coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 8.4°C and a maximum temperature of 17.6°C was recorded, the Met reports said. Attributing the climatic conditions to the active western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that northerly winds would revive in the state from Tuesday onwards and mercury will fall further. People in Jaipur woke up to fog and mist but not much impact on the minimum temperature was witnessed in the morning. A minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 24.4°C was recorded in the city. “We have been witnessing maximum temperature of 32°C to 33°C in Jaipur for past one week. But this was the coldest day of the season so far in Jaipur as a drop of almost 9°C was witnessed during daytime,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Fog and mist affected vehicular traffic and trains’ movement in the districts including Churu, Sriganganagar and Bikaner. Vehicles during early morning and late evening hours moved at a slower pace due to poor visibility. However, no impact was witnessed on the flights. Sriganganagar recorded the lowest day temperature with a maximum temperature of 17.6°C. “For the first time during the day, majority of the places in the state witnessed maximum temperatures below 30.0°C in the absence of a clear sunny day,” the officer added. Sriganganagar was followed by Jaisalmer where a minimum temperature of 9.3°C was recorded, Churu 9.6°C, Bikaner 10.3°C, Pilani 10.5°C, Phalodi (Jodhpur) 11.8°C, Alwar 12.2°C, Sikar 13.0°C, Barmer 13.2°C, Udaipur 14.0°C, Kota 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in Jaipur. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury is likely to dip in the next 24 hours, as there would be mainly clear skies with revival of northerly winds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mild-showers-fog-guide-mercury-down/articleshow/79702771.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||Gaya-Mumbai flight to be operational from Dec 25||GAYA: Private airline IndiGo will start operating its direct flight to Mumbai from the Gaya airport from December 25. The move is likely to boost Jain and Buddhist tourism in the region. IndiGo is already operating its daily flight to Delhi from Gaya. IndiGo station manager at Gaya airport Quresh Husain said, “The Mumbai-Gaya flight will be operated four days a week – Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. We are also planning to operate direct flights to Bengaluru and Kolkata from Gaya by next year,” he said, adding the slot request for flights to Bengaluru and Kolkata was cleared by the Gaya airport authorities recently. Meanwhile, IndiGo has started bookings for the Mumbai flight. The flight from Mumbai will take off from Mumbai at 8.30am and land at Gaya airport at 11am on December 25. On its return journey, the flight will take off from Gaya airport at 12 noon and reach Mumbai at 2.05pm. Bodh Gaya Travel Association president Suresh Singh said, “The direct flight to and from Mumbai will boost tourism in the region. Parasnath on Gaya-Dhanbad rail section and Pawapuri and Kundalpur in Nalanda are the places having importance for Jain devotees. Only one train – Howrah-Mumbai Mail – currently passes through Gaya Junction for Mumbai.” “Buddhist devotees and foreign tourists willing to visit Ajanta and Ellora caves near Mumbai can also get the benefit of Mumbai-Gaya flight service,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-mumbai-flight-to-be-operational-from-dec-25/articleshow/79699243.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||First ‘black box’ theatre in Pune with flexible seating is a surprise hit||PUNE: The first black box theatre space in the city, simply titled The Box, opened inside a former industrial shed, off Karve Road, in the middle of Covid-19 pandemic in August. “The shed we acquired for the space was of an ideal dimension for a black box theatre, and it had high-voltage electricity supply and ideal lights. We were preparing some of the space for green rooms when Covid-19 struck. We were forced to stop all work mid-March. The resumption of work started in June and we threw our doors open two months later,” Pradeep Vaidya, a theatre professional and the proprietor of The Box, told TOI. Black box theatre spaces are not exactly a novelty in India and used only by experimental theatre groups. While early forms of it existed in the US, the use of black boxes as an avant-garde theatre movement took off in post-World War II Europe, with playwrights like Antonin Artaud laying the groundwork for such spaces. As the name suggests, the walls and floors of theatre are black, preferred due its “neutrality” during theatre performances, and the structures are always boxy in nature, with high ceilings, which makes for good acoustics and flexible lighting. Incidentally, the most well-known black box theatre spaces in the country, such as the Black Box Okhla in New Delhi, are also located inside former factory floors. “Depending on what the producer wants, we can do anything with the seating. People can be seated around the performers, or the performers can stage the play around the audience. That also contributes to what is known as the immersive theatre setting.,” Vaidya added. As theatres were allowed to open in early-November, The Box became surprisingly popular for a variety of plays across languages. It has played host to a play nearly every weekend since November 5. “We are hosting Theatron’s Year End theatre festival later in December, and in the coming weeks we are hosting Satish Alekar’s play Mahanirvan, as well as a play by Purushottam Berde. Our bookings for all major slots in December are full,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-black-box-theatre-in-city-with-flexible-seating-is-a-surprise-hit/articleshow/79700115.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 13, 2020||Varanasi||GIDA firm offers to supply dry ice for Covid vaccine||GORAKHPUR: Corona vaccine is expected to be available by January and chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to set up a cold chain for the vaccination drive in all districts across the state. However the storage of vaccines requires an ultra cold atmosphere for transportation and storage. Covid-19 vaccines will need storage at very low temperature to remain effective. Dry ice is a good option for packing the vaccine during transport from manufacturer, supplier to administration sites and for storage in some locations. A chemical unit at GIDA, Gorakhpur is ready to chip in and claims it can prepare and supply five tonne dry ice on a week’s notice. Gorakhpur’s industrialist Pravin Modi said, “I was reading in newspapers that one corona vaccine requires a temperature of -70 degree Celsius for storage while others also need a low temperature. We manufacture oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, sanitizer and dry ice and have sufficient resources and plants to manufacture dry ice.” “If the packaging is good and it does not come in contact with air, the vaccine could be safely stored for three-four days with dry ice. Dry ice will be a very useful way of storing corona vaccine safely in rural areas,” he said. “Our plant can produce five tonne dry ice per day at a one week notice and if dry ice is available locally it will cut cost and also many hassles,” he said. Dry ice is the solid form of carbon dioxide having lower temperature than that of water ice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gida-firm-offers-to-supply-dry-ice-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79700125.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 13, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Wedding guests pack a Covid test report along with gifts||PRAYAGRAJ: Loaded with wedding finery and gifts, relatives and friends coming to attend weddings in Prayagraj from metros like Mumbai, New Delhi and Bengaluru are now packing another essential item — a Covid negative test report. Sample this: Friends and relatives of AK Kapoor who arrived from Delhi and Mumbai to attend his son’s wedding in the city first got themselves tested for novel coronavirus and then started their journey towards Prayagraj. “We had restricted our activities in Delhi prior to the date of the wedding (December 9) and got the test done on December 1 before booking our flight tickets,” said Pankaj, one of Kapoor’s relative. “There were limited number of guests in the house as well as the wedding pandal so that all ceremonies could be conducted in strict compliance with the Covid-19 safety protocol,” he added. There were only five auspicious days for weddings in December and Friday (December 11) was the last of them. People with weddings in their families claimed that they had invited only a limited number of guests in order to follow the Covid-19 safety protocol. Prayagraj-resident AK Mishra, whose son got married on November 30, had hosted a reception for his guests on December 3 while following all guidelines. “The families of both the bride and grooms invited only a limited number of guests. My family organised three different parties for the tilak, wedding and the reception. However, we invited less than 50 guests on each occasion so that there is no violation of the Covid-19 protocol.” He added that the guests who arrived from other cities had got themselves tested for Covid-19 before arriving in Prayagraj for the safety of other guests. As per the latest Covid-19 guidelines, if a venue can accommodate 100 or less visitors, then the number of guests has been restricted to 50% of its capacity. According to the new guidelines, it would be mandatory for the organisers to arrange for masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners at the venue and, the guests will have to follow social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/wedding-guests-pack-a-covid-test-report-along-with-gifts/articleshow/79699098.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||BJP to raise awareness among farmers in Bihar||PATNA: The state BJP will launch a 13-day campaign on Sunday to raise awareness among farmers on three farm laws brought out by the Centre. As part of the campaign, at least 99 rallies and conferences will be addressed by the Union and state ministers and other senior leaders of the party across the state. The three farm laws and matters related to minimum support price (MSP) have evoked protests by farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other states. State BJP president Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal said the protests by farmers were misplaced as the laws were enacted to facilitate contract farming and related benefits for the farmers. He said middlemen engaged in the collection of agriculture produce from the farmers – for which they collect their own commissions and also Rs 6,000 worth of revenue by way of taxes for the Punjab government – were behind the agitation. “What has become a matter of serious concern is that extraneous demands have also been added to it even as they are in no way connected to the farmers,” Jaiswal said. As per the plan, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Jaiswal and state health minister Mangal Pandey would launch the mass awareness programme on Sunday. While Prasad and Jaiswal are scheduled to address a rally of farmers at Bakhtiarpur on Sunday, Pandey will address the farmers at Mohiuddinnagar assembly constituency the same day. Similar rallies are also scheduled to be held at Narpatganj, Raniganj and Bihpur. Jaiswal said the campaign would conclude on December 25 to mark the Good Governance Day held in the memory of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-to-raise-awareness-among-farmers-in-bihar/articleshow/79699217.cms||Abhay Singh
December 13, 2020||Patna||Banka site to turn a tourist spot: Nitish Kumar||PATNA/BANKA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday visited the recently discovered archaeological site on the banks of Chanan river in Banka district and declared that the site located at Bhadaria village under Amarpur block would be developed into a tourist spot. He also said the Chanan river’s course prior to 1995 would be revived and the current stream would be diverted towards the old course so that the works of mining and investigation at the site could be carried in a proper way. Earlier in the day, the CM accompanied by the state’s water resources minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary visited the historical site and issued relevant instructions to the officials of Banks district administration. The archeological importance of the site came into limelight during the Chhath Puja in November this year after some villagers, in the process of making ghats for the Chhath Puja, uncovered some ancient-age bricks and structures made of bricks. “After the discovery of the bricks from the bed of the river, some local people and the local MLA informed me about the development. Subsequently, a team of archaeological experts visited the site and informed me about the findings. Now, it has been established that it is a historical place. Local people are also aware that Lord Buddha had visited this place. As per initial studies, the remains found here are 2,600 years old,” Nitish told media persons near Bhadaria village after visiting the archaeological site. The CM said, a joint team of archaeological experts and the Banka district administration is working to investigate the importance of the remains uncovered from the river bed. “Proper mining work at this archeological site will be carried out so that people of not only Bihar but across the world can get important information about the ancient age,” the CM said after visiting the site. The CM also announced proper development around the dam on Chanan river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/banka-site-to-turn-a-tourist-spot-nitish/articleshow/79699150.cms||Madan Kumar
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Stories of joy & pride at POP: A 4th generation officer, a cadet with five of family in Army, a farmer's son who was inspired by Victoria Cross||Dehradun: The pipping ceremony on Saturday witnessed several stories of joy and pride including that of a cadet who became the fourth generation of his family to become an officer, one with five of family in the Army, a farmer's son who was inspired to join the forces after hearing the story of Umrao Singh (who was awarded the Victoria Cross in WWII), and many more. The ceremony in which family members pin stars on the uniforms of the cadets marking their transition to officers was an especially poingant one for Lt Anirudh Sangwan who became a 4th generation army officer. “The legacy of serving in the armed forces started with my great-grandfather. I feel proud that I followed the family tradition,” the newly-commissioned officer said. Lt Ravinder Pal Singh, a young officer from Punjab, too, echoed similar sentiments. Five members from his family have been associated with the armed forces. “My father’s elder brother who is a retired Colonel has been my inspiration. My cousins, too, have joined the armed forces,” he said. Standing quietly away from the crowd of parents and family was Arjun Prasad. He works as an assistant teacher at a government school in Nalanda, Bihar. His elder son Lt Rajeev Ranjan was commissioned as an officer on Saturday while his younger son, currently in NDA, would be coming to IMA in January 2021 to complete his training. “This is a big day for me. My two sons are serving the nation. As a teacher, I always tell my students to serve the country. My sons have made me proud,” Prasad said. The occasion was also emotional for many young officers. For instance, Lt Naveen Bhatt from Tehri said that by becoming an Army officer, he had been able to fulfill the dream of his father who passed away in 2012. Sugnub Das, son of a farmer from Kerala, was also able to fulfill his father’s dream. He is the first in his family to join the armed forces. Lt Dinesh Kumar, a native of Jhajjar district in Haryana, also from a family of farmers, was ecstatic at becoming an Army officer. His father Swarn Singh, told TOI that his son was inspired by the story of honorary Captain Umrao Singh who received the Victoria Cross during World War II. “Since then, he had only one dream - to be a part of the Army,” the proud father said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stories-of-joy-pride-at-pop-a-4th-generation-officer-a-cadet-with-five-of-family-in-army-a-farmers-son-who-was-inspired-by-victoria-cross/articleshow/79698889.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Mhapa locals claim boycott, officials differ||A group of villagers from Mhapa, Panchawadi in Shiroda claimed the village’s voters had boycotted the ZP elections. Officials involved in the polling process here, however, denied the claim. Villagers are angry over a land dispute, claiming that a developer had encroached on a holy shrine, a crematorium and a pathway in the village. As the government did not intervene despite their pleas, villagers said they have boycotted the polls. However, an official said of the 734 voters listed in the Mhapa booth, nearly 250 had cast their votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhapa-locals-claim-boycott-officials-differ/articleshow/79700792.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||Renovated Beerchand Patel Path likely to be ready by month-end||PATNA: Work on giving a facelift to 1.25km-long Beerchand Patel Path under Smart City project is likely to be completed by the end of this month. A buffer zone has been created on the arterial road to enhance the streetscape and beautification. Service road, storm water drainage and parking facilities have also been introduced on the road. The stretch between R-Block roundabout and Income Tax roundabout is developed as a model road with modern amenities and infrastructure to ensure better mobility and safety for the travellers. The estimated cost of the project is Rs 6.4 core. The estimated project cost was Rs 33 crore earlier. However, several provisions were removed after a survey. Patna divisional commissioner-cum-Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) chairman Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said due to duplication of several facilities, some provisions were removed. “For instance, underground utility facilities for electric wires and optical fibres were already done by the power department. We excluded these provisions from the project,” he said. “Besides, the proposal to install closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras was also shelved as it was already sanctioned to Beltron under the Integrated Command and Control Centre project of PSCL. Altogether 1,000 CCTV cameras would be installed in the city under ICCC project. Cycling track is not feasible on the road. Hence, it was removed,” Agarwal said, adding the other arterial roads of the city would also be developed in future. The renovated Beerchand Patel Path will have sidewalks and decorative lighting on plants and trees, two smart bus stops, modular toilets, parking facilities under the flyover and additional landscaping. Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Himanshu Sharma said work on storm water drainage, lighting and landscaping has been completed. “The road construction department will have to do the remaining work, which is likely to be completed within the next 10-15 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/renovated-beerchand-patel-path-likely-to-be-ready-by-month-end/articleshow/79699028.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 13, 2020||Patna||Cadets of Sainik School Nalanda treated to rich Dhrupad||PATNA: Nearly 400 cadets attended a virtual ‘Dhrupad Gayan’ programme organized by Sainik School Nalanda in association with SPIC MACAY on Saturday. Dhrupad maestro Pt Abhay Narayan Mallick, who belongs to the Darbhanga Gharana, mesmerized the cadets with his melodious recital. Welcoming him, cadet Aryan said, “Pt Abhay has received numerous prestigious awards, including the Sangeet Natak Akademi, for his contribution to the Hindustani vocal music.” Cadet Divanshu added, “Pandit ji has not only performed widely, but popularized the Dhrupad music of his gharana all over. His renderings of Dhrupad, Dhamar, Thumri, and Bhajan are very popular in India, Germany and France.” Later, an interactive session was organized where the cadets asked questions about the different aspects of Dhrupad. Pt Abhay thanked the school for giving the students an opportunity to learn about Hindustani classical music. Principal Col Tamojeet Biswas expressed his gratitude towards Pt Abhay for entertaining the audiences and answering their questions. Vice-principal, wing commander P S Gujral, and chief coordinator of the event, Pramod Kumar, also took part in the virtual programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cadets-of-sainik-school-nalanda-treated-to-rich-dhrupad/articleshow/79699321.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||Cattle owner killed over suspected affair||Vadodara: Two persons were arrested on Saturday for killing a cattle owner near Panvad village in Chhota Udepur district last month. The two accused Dursing Rathwa and his friend Sanjay Tadvi were called for interrogation by the local crime branch, during which they broke down and confessed to killing Yogesh Bharwad (22) on November 28 along with their two other friends Kachudiya Rathwa and Manu Koliya. They had dumped the body on November 30 in nearby ravines. Dursing told police that Bharwad used to talk to his girlfriend on phone regularly. He suspected that Bharwad used to encourage her to cheat on him. On November 28, when Bharwad was out grazing his cattle, Dursing attacked him. An hour later, when Dursing came again with his three friends they found that Bharwad was still breathing. The four thrashed Bharwad with wooden sticks while he was unconscious. As Bharwad succumbed, they hid his body in bushes and two days later threw it in the ravines. “We became doubtful about the key accused on getting evidence against him and later when we kept a watch on him, his behaviour too was unusual, so we picked him up for interrogation,” said a police official. Later, Tadvi too was picked up and interrogated. The other two accused have been declared as wanted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cattle-owner-killed-over-suspected-affair/articleshow/79699306.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Mild showers, fog guide mercury down||JAIPUR: Mild showers and foggy conditions at many places in the state on Saturday guided the mercury to dip. Though maximum temperatures witnessed a dip of almost 8°C, not much impact was seen on minimum temperatures. Sriganganagar remained the coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 8.4°C and a maximum temperature of 17.6°C was recorded, the Met reports said. Attributing the climatic conditions to the active western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that northerly winds would revive in the state from Tuesday onwards and mercury will fall further. People in Jaipur woke up to fog and mist but not much impact on the minimum temperature was witnessed in the morning. A minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 24.4°C was recorded in the city. “We have been witnessing maximum temperature of 32°C to 33°C in Jaipur for past one week. But this was the coldest day of the season so far in Jaipur as a drop of almost 9°C was witnessed during daytime,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Fog and mist affected vehicular traffic and trains’ movement in the districts including Churu, Sriganganagar and Bikaner. Vehicles during early morning and late evening hours moved at a slower pace due to poor visibility. However, no impact was witnessed on the flights. Sriganganagar recorded the lowest day temperature with a maximum temperature of 17.6°C. “For the first time during the day, majority of the places in the state witnessed maximum temperatures below 30.0°C in the absence of a clear sunny day,” the officer added. Sriganganagar was followed by Jaisalmer where a minimum temperature of 9.3°C was recorded, Churu 9.6°C, Bikaner 10.3°C, Pilani 10.5°C, Phalodi (Jodhpur) 11.8°C, Alwar 12.2°C, Sikar 13.0°C, Barmer 13.2°C, Udaipur 14.0°C, Kota 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in Jaipur. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury is likely to dip in the next 24 hours, as there would be mainly clear skies with revival of northerly winds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mild-showers-fog-guide-mercury-down/articleshow/79702770.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||240 more test +ve for Covid in Patna||PATNA: The state recorded 596 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. With this, Covid tally in the state has jumped to 2,42,748. Five more deaths in the last 24 hours took the state’s toll to 1,317. According to the state health department, Patna, Buxar, Lakhisarai, Madhepura and Madhubani recorded one death each on Saturday. With this, Patna Covid toll has risen to 340. Altogether 575 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state on Saturday, taking the number of cured persons in the state to 2,36,189. The number of active cases in the state stood at 5,242 on Saturday. The state’s recovery rate has remained same at 97.3%, 2.5% higher than the national average of 94.8%. As many as 1,20,706 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories across the state on Saturday. So far, 1,61,54,121 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. At All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P), two more Covid patients have died – a 52-year-old man from Bajitpur village in Barh and a 72-year-old man from Sultanganj in Patna. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 25 patients were admitted to the hospital, including many from different Patna localities like Awadhpuri Colony, Meethapur, Jaganpur, Kankarbagh, Buddha Colony, Bailey Road, Sheikhpura, and Mahendru, and 17 discharged on Saturday. Altogether 183 patients are currently undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-P. At NMCH, no new Covid casualty was reported on Saturday. Of the 596 new Covid cases recorded in the state on Saturday, Patna alone accounted for 240. The fresh cases have taken the district’s tally to 44,834. With 42,417 patients recovering from the virus so far, there were 2,077 active cases in the district on Saturday. Among other districts, Gopalganj recorded 62 new cases, Muzaffarpur 19, Jehanabad, Nawada and Sitamarhi 17 each, Gaya and Sheohar 15 each and Araria 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/240-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-patna/articleshow/79699172.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 13, 2020||Patna||Patna’s air quality slips to ‘very poor’ category||PATNA: Patna’s air quality slipped to “very poor” category on Saturday after remaining in the “poor” and “moderate” zones for last 3-4 days. A government forecasting agency, however, said the city’s air quality would get better over the next 24 hours, thanks to a favourable wind speed. A thick haze was clearly visible in the environment on Saturday due to slow winds, cloudy sky, dip in temperature and low ventilation, which traps the pollutants from vehicle emission and stubble burning close to the ground. Track the pollution level in your cityThe city recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 317 in the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. Data from different areas having continuous ambient air quality-monitoring station showed four in the “very poor” category, including Planetarium (398), DRM office-Khagaul (382), Eco Park (327) and S K Memorial Hall (318) and two in “poor” category – Patna City (271) and BIT-Mesra (206). An AQI between 0-50 is considered “good”, 51-100 “satisfactory”, 101-200 “moderate”, 201-300 “poor”, 301-400 “very poor” and 401-500 “severe”. Above 500 is the “severe-plus or emergency” category. The “very poor” air quality can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 307 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Saturday, as per the CPCB data. The PM2.5 level was more than five times the permissible limit of 60µg/m3. The level of PM10 was recorded at 224.6 µg/m3 and carbon monoxide at 98.3. Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB), said deterioration in air quality during winter was an annual phenomenon. “Vehicular emission, fuel burning and dust particles from construction sites are some of the reasons for rise in pollution level. Stubble burning is also picking up in Bihar as the farmers have switched from manual harvesting of crops to machineries. While using machinery for harvesting, the crop residue remains in the farm, which farmers later burn,” he said, adding there was need to create awareness among the farmers regarding this. “The stubble can be used for composting. The state government is also taking stern action against farmers burning stubble,” Ghosh added. Altogether 900 incidents of burning of stubble have been reported from 11 districts in the state since September. Maximum 462 cases have been reported from Rohtas district, followed by 133 from Kaimur, 100 from Nalanda, 93 from Buxar, 40 from Gaya, 33 from Patna, 21 from Bhojpur and seven from Jamui. These farmers were exempted from government’s incentives and schemes for next three years. Ghosh said, “Thermal inversion during winter months is another factor for rise in pollution level, in which the cooler air gets trapped near the surface with the pollutants in it and people breathe the polluted air. We have started working on the action plan that was prepared by the BSPCB and it will take time to see the results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnas-air-quality-slips-to-very-poor-category/articleshow/79698973.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 13, 2020||Patna||Many farmers turn to floriculture in Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: A section of farmers at Jagatpur village under Lodipur panchayat in Sabour block of Bhagalpur district has started experimenting with cultivation of ornamental flowers and plants in their farm fields in order to increase their incomes. Major ornamental flowers and plants being grown in Lodipur village include marigold, dahlia, rose, petunia, chrysenthemum (guldaudi in local parlance), hibiscus, balsam, bougainvillea, jasmine and dianthus. Ornamental flowers and plants are used in decoration purposes during marriages, social events and presentations to beautify the surroundings. Assistant director-horticulture (ADH), Bhagalpur, Vikash Kumar, said several farmers have started experimenting with cultivation of ornamental flowers and plants along with traditional farming in order to augment their income. “Huge potential and income prospects are there for the farmers in this area if cultivation is done scientifically and a proper market network is established,” the ADH added. District agriculture officer (DAO) Krishna Kant Jha said many farmers have also opened plant nurseries after getting training from the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in order to promote farming and sell ornamental flowers and plants. “Earlier, the traders used to procure ornamental flowers and plants from Kolkata and other places of West Bengal,” the DAO said. “We are trying to promote local cultivation for bringing positive changes in the farming patterns besides increasing the farmers’ income and making the ornamental flowers and plants available at low cost to the customers,” he added. Deepak Jha, a nature lover, environmentalist and owner of a plant nursery, said there was vast potential in cultivation and commercial sale of ornamental flowers and plants as people have become fond of nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-farmers-turn-to-floriculture-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/79699356.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 13, 2020||Patna||Fog prompts railways to reduce frequency of several trains||PATNA: Railways has reduced frequency of at least eight long-distance special trains originating from different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) from December 16 to January 31 next year to avoid any untoward incident due to dense fog and poor visibility. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Patna-Howrah Janshatabdi special train (02023/02024) will be cancelled on Thursdays from both ends while Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express special (02391/02392) will remain cancelled on Mondays from Rajgir and on Tuesdays from New Delhi. The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi Sampoorna Kranti Express special (02393/02394) will be cancelled on Wednesdays from Rajendra Nagar Terminal and on Thursdays from New Delhi. Similarly, Saharsa-New Delhi special train (02553/02554) will not run on Tuesdays from Saharsa and on Wednesdays from New Delhi. Jayanagar-New Delhi special train (02561/02562) will be cancelled on Thursdays from Jayanagar and on Fridays from New Delhi. The Raxaul-Anand Vihar special (05273/05274) will be cancelled on Thursdays from Raxaul and on Fridays from Anand Vihar, the CPRO said. Muzaffarpur-Anand Vihar special (02557/02558) will not run on Wednesdays from Muzaffarpur and on Tuesdays from Anand Vihar. Dhanbad-Ferozpur Cantt special train (03307/03308) will remain cancelled on Thursdays from Dhanbad and on Saturdays from Ferozpur Cantt side, the CPRO said. Three pairs of trains cancelled: The railways has cancelled at least three pairs of special passenger trains from December 16 to January 31 due to foggy weather conditions and poor visibility. Among the cancelled trains were Sealdah-Ajmer special (02987/02988) and New Delhi-Malda Town special trains (03413/03414 and 03307/03308), the CPRO said. Meanwhile, New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express special (02310), New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express special (02394) and New Delhi-Rajgir special (02392) were delayed by two to three hours due to poor visibility on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-prompts-railways-to-reduce-frequency-of-several-trains/articleshow/79699048.cms||Kumod Verma
December 13, 2020||Patna||4-week crossword contest from Wednesday||PATNA: Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) chairman Anand Kishor launched the first edition of the ‘Crossword Competition’ for the students of classes IX to XII on Saturday. He also rolled out a website (www.b3c.biharboardonline.com) and a mobile app (BSEB Crossword) which is available on Google Play Store. The process of registration began with the launch of the portal. “The four-week crossword contest from December 16 to January 12 will boost the students’ vocabulary, reasoning ability, critical thinking and decision-making power. A crossword practice session will continue on the portal and the app till December 15 after which the main event will begin,” Kishor said. He added, “A puzzle will be uploaded for the participants at 3.45pm every day from December 16 and their scores displayed on the leaderboard. The top 10 scorers from each district will get weekly prizes.” By the end of the month, altogether 30 participants, who score the highest points, will be rewarded. The top 10 scorers will receive tablets and the remaining will get smartphones and smartwatches. They will also receive a set of crossword puzzle books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-week-crossword-contest-from-wednesday/articleshow/79699069.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Govt lifts 1-hr restriction, crooners to get more time for live performances at bars||Kolkata: The government has allowed crooners’ bars in central Kolkata to resume live music performances after it withdrew the permission last month, restricting them to playing only pre-recorded music to prevent crowding. Permission has also been granted to extend hours of live music from between 7.30pm and 11pm. Earlier, the police had restricted playing of live music between 8pm and 9pm only. The latest directive just before Christmas and New Years’ Eve has brought cheer to the bar owners, crooners and others associated with the trade. “Crooners can sing between 7. 30pm and 11pm from now onwards,” said an owner of a central Kolkata singing bar. “In the pre-pandemic era, we could start at 5pm but the guests would come around 8pm only.” Currently, crooning is allowed only in some bars in central Kolkata and a handful off EM Bypass. Even after bars reopened in September after the lockdown was lifted in phases, permission for crooning was granted only a few days before Durga Puja with a pre-condition that it would be allowed for only one hour between 8pm and 9pm. Soon after the pujas, the government withdrew permission to play live music with only allowing pre-recorded music. “Bars with valid permissions for crooning have been allowed to play live music between 7.30pm and 11pm,” said an official of the excise department. TOI had earlier written how many central Kolkata bars had done the pandemic pivot-turning into eateries, catering to office goers to sustain their staff and fixed expenses. The bouncers started working as security guards in community markets and stores, thermal-scanning customers, while bar girls either moved back to their hometowns or shifted to other professions. Musicians, singers and bouncers depend heavily on tips for their earnings. “Between November and January, which is also referred to as the party season, is the best time for us with so many festivals and the year drawing to a close. Even the weather is cooler, driving up bar sales. With the relaxation granted by the government, we are hopeful of good business over the next eight weeks and make up for some of the losses incurred due to the pandemic,” said another owner of a central Kolkata bar. Several regulars have already raised concerns over how some of the bars are not following the Covid safety guidelines by the government. According to the rules, bars must leave 50% of the seats vacant so that social distancing becomes possible. “But by 9pm, the entire place is full with no vacant chairs. This is not safe for the hundreds of people who visit these places every day,” said a regular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-lifts-1-hr-restriction-crooners-to-get-more-time-for-live-performances-at-bars/articleshow/79699417.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Look out for shooting stars tonight||Kolkata: The Geminid meteor shower, one of the most spectacular celestial shows, will be visible on the night of December 13 and early hours of December 14 with as many as 150 meteors streaking across the sky every hour. While the meteor shower occurs every year around the second week of December, M P Birla Planetarium director (research & academic) Debiprosad Duari said 2020 is particularly favourable for viewing it since the moon is near the new moon phase and will not shine bright. “The peak of the meteor shower will be around 1am-2am on December 14, when the Gemini constellation will be overhead Kolkata,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/look-out-for-shooting-stars-tonight/articleshow/79699440.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Nilanjana back on feet three months after Bypass attack||Kolkata: Nilanjana Chatterjee, who fractured her leg and sustained serious injuries while trying to rescue a woman she thought was in distress three months ago at Anandapur, is finally ready to walk without crutches. Last Thursday, she underwent her final reconstruction surgery (dynamization) and the last screw was removed from her leg. According to her husband Deep Satpathy, Chatterjee has finally been able to walk up and down the stairs without anybody else’s support. “She is back on her feet and can put full pressure on both her legs. She has to be a bit careful over the next few days and might need a crutch occasionally, but the doctors are happy with her progress. We are grateful to the people who stood by us in these past three months. Our fight for justice will continue. Among those who helped us at each step are chief minister Mamata Banerjee and MP Mimi Chakraborty, who called her up even after the Pujas, and police commissioner Anuj Sharma, the DCP and OC. Most importantly, a host of doctors from the hospital — most importantly orthopaedic surgeon Kunal Sengupta and plastic surgeon Dipanjan Dey,” Satpathy wrote on social media. “It was a prolonged process, but we never had to question how to go about it as the doctors were always guiding and encouraging us. On the day of the final operation, too, the doctors had to use anaesthesia. But when she regained consciousness, we brought her home based on the recommendations of the doctor,” Satpathy told TOI. The family later celebrated with a small get-together with relatives. Chatterjee said she was happy with the way things have progressed. “This police action will inspire others to come forward and help fellow citizens,” Chatterjee said, adding that her family does not mind making a few trips to court to ensure justice gets served. On September 6, Chatterjee was injured while trying to save a 31-year-old bank official reportedly being assaulted inside a car. The charge sheet was served against Abhishek Kumar Pandey 34 days later and he received bail a few days after that. The state had picked up the tab for Chatterjee’s hospitalization and it will now seek a fast-track trial. He has being charged under attempt to murder section along with multiple other charges. Anandapur cops have also moved court seeking permission for a trial against the bank official for “deliberately concealing the name of the accused and delaying the investigations”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nilanjana-back-on-feet-three-months-after-bypass-attack/articleshow/79699438.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 13, 2020||Patna||JPU gears up for 1st virtual convocation||CHHAPRA: Adhering to the recent directives of governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan, the vice-chancellor (VC) of Chhapra-based Jai Prakash University (JPU) has constituted a core committee for holding the first virtual convocation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At a meeting convened on Friday, JPU VC Faruque Ali asked the members of the committee to prepare a minute-to-minute programme for the convocation. “The purpose behind conducting a virtual convocation is to save time and ensure everyone’s safety by following the Covid protocols,” he said. JPU’s public relations officer Harishchandra told this newspaper on Saturday that the number of students receiving the degrees would be limited. The chancellor’s secretariat has directed the universities in Bihar to organize virtual convocations in the second half of January, 2021. They have also been told to complete the pending examinations so that the results are published and the next academic session starts on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jpu-gears-up-for-1st-virtual-convocation/articleshow/79699258.cms||H K Verma
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mild showers, fog guide mercury down||JAIPUR: Mild showers and foggy conditions at many places in the state on Saturday guided the mercury to dip. Though maximum temperatures witnessed a dip of almost 8°C, not much impact was seen on minimum temperatures. Sriganganagar remained the coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 8.4°C and a maximum temperature of 17.6°C was recorded, the Met reports said. Attributing the climatic conditions to the active western disturbances, Jaipur Met office stated that northerly winds would revive in the state from Tuesday onwards and mercury will fall further. People in Jaipur woke up to fog and mist but not much impact on the minimum temperature was witnessed in the morning. A minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in the city. It was followed by a chilly afternoon as a maximum temperature of 24.4°C was recorded in the city. “We have been witnessing maximum temperature of 32°C to 33°C in Jaipur for past one week. But this was the coldest day of the season so far in Jaipur as a drop of almost 9°C was witnessed during daytime,” said an officer with the Jaipur Met office. Fog and mist affected vehicular traffic and trains’ movement in the districts including Churu, Sriganganagar and Bikaner. Vehicles during early morning and late evening hours moved at a slower pace due to poor visibility. However, no impact was witnessed on the flights. Sriganganagar recorded the lowest day temperature with a maximum temperature of 17.6°C. “For the first time during the day, majority of the places in the state witnessed maximum temperatures below 30.0°C in the absence of a clear sunny day,” the officer added. Sriganganagar was followed by Jaisalmer where a minimum temperature of 9.3°C was recorded, Churu 9.6°C, Bikaner 10.3°C, Pilani 10.5°C, Phalodi (Jodhpur) 11.8°C, Alwar 12.2°C, Sikar 13.0°C, Barmer 13.2°C, Udaipur 14.0°C, Kota 15.8°C and a minimum temperature of 16.2°C was recorded in Jaipur. In its forecast, Jaipur Met office stated that mercury is likely to dip in the next 24 hours, as there would be mainly clear skies with revival of northerly winds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mild-showers-fog-guide-mercury-down/articleshow/79700118.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||Darbhanga gold loot case: Seven arrested||DARBHANGA/PATNA: Police have cracked the daylight loot case in which criminals had decamped with Rs 2 lakh and gold jewellery worth Rs 5.35 crore from a shop in Darbhanga on December 9. Seven suspects, identified as Bhushan Sahni, Kanhaiya Kumar, Keshav Kumar, Raj Kumar, Pawan Kumar, Ganesh Kumar and Raju alias Shaka, were arrested in connection with the incident on Saturday. A countrymade pistol, live cartridges, two motorbikes, including one used in the loot, five cellphones and intoxicants were seized during the raids at their hideouts. Police, however, failed to recover the looted jewellery. “The arrested men have no criminal antecedents. We ascertained their identity with the help of CCTV footages,” Darbhanga SSP Babu Ram told mediapersons on Saturday and added that Kanhaiya worked as a liner for the robbers who carried out the operation. Sources said a police team conducted raids on the suspected hideouts of a Samastipur-based gangster, Vikas Jha. Raids were also conducted in Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and Madhubani districts in search of the robbers. “We hope to get more clues in the case soon,” the SSP said, but refused to share more information on the plea that it would hamper the investigation. Earlier, an FIR was lodged with the Darbhanga town police station on the statement of the jeweller, Pawan Kumar Lath. JD(U) slams opposition: The JD (U) slammed the opposition that has been raising a hue and cry over the deteriorating law and order in the state. “Police successfully cracked the Darbhanga loot case within four days of the incident, proving that the offenders won’t be spared,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, adding that the quick police action had given an answer to the opposition parties. Prasad also claimed that there had been an 80% decline in the incidents of dacoity in the state in 2019 compared to 2004 when the RJD was in power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-gold-loot-case-seven-arrested/articleshow/79699254.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
December 13, 2020||Surat||Surat man kills his wife, puts body in sack and flees to Ahmedabad on foot||SURAT: Surat police on Saturday arrested a man from Khedbhrama in Sabarkantha district who is accused of killing his wife and packing her body in a gunny bag in city’s Puna area. Police said that the accused travelled on foot with his fruit cart to Ahmedabad and then to Sabarkantha in a private luxury bus after killing his wife on December 4. Likharam alias Laxman Kesharam Chaudhary, 36, a resident of room number 650 at Muktidham society at Archana circle in Puna killed his wife in cold-blood and packed her body in the gunny bag on December 4. Accused slept with his wife’s body for one night before leaving for Sabarkantha the next day. Talking to TOI, VU Gadariya, inspector of Puna police station said, “The accused had married the victim through an agent by paying Rs 3 lakh a few months ago. The couple was not in good relations since the beginning and had frequent fights over monetary issues.” According to Gadariya, the accused had been operating a fruit and vegetable cart in Puna for the last couple of years. “The accused stayed the night with his wife’s body on December 4 and left home the next day with his cart to Ahmedabad travelling on foot the entire distance. He sold his cart in Ahmedabad and boarded a private bus to Sabarkantha,” said Gadariya, adding that cops acted on a tip-off and asked the driver of the bus to stop at a hotel in Sabarkantha. “Our police team nabbed the accused from a highway hotel in Khedbhrama in Sabarkantha early on Friday morning,” Gadariya said, adding that the accused was presented before the court which sent him to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-kills-his-wife-puts-body-in-sack-and-flees-to-abad-on-foot/articleshow/79698413.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||22 join Army from Gaya Officers’ Training Academy||GAYA: Chief of Army Staff banner was awarded to Gurez company for excellent performance during the one-year basic military training. Gaya Officers’ Training Academy (OTA) commandant Lt General Sunil Srivastava, who reviewed the 18th passing out parade on Saturday, presented the awards to the cadets. Altogether 22 cadets under special commission officer category were commissioned as officers in the Indian army. Among the 22 cadets, 15 would go to Assam Rifles and others will join infantry armed corps, Magnized infantry, Army Ordinance Company, signals and air defence. This time, parents and the guardians of the cadets were not invited due to Covid-19 pandemic. They used to put badge of rank on the uniform of the newly-inducted Army officers. In their absence, Army officials put the badge on the uniform of new officers. Deputy commandant Brigadier Sandeep Mohla received the commandant at the parade ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-join-army-from-gaya-ota/articleshow/79699192.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Man collapses on way to booth, dies||GOA: Uday Shirodkar, 65, collapsed while on his way to cast his vote in Pilerne. The Marra resident died on his way to the hospital. “The incident occurred at 8.30am. He died while being rushed to the hospital in 108 ambulance,” said Pilerne sarpanch Sandeep Bandodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-collapses-on-way-to-booth-dies/articleshow/79700793.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur Covid bed occupancy reduces to half in 13 days||JAIPUR: Occupancy of beds in dedicated Covid hospitals has reduced to half in the last 13 days as active cases have been continuously dipping after hitting a record high on November 29 with 28,758. As of Saturday, there are just 16,821 active cases in the state. The number of patients requiring oxygen therapy has also taken a dip. Occupancy of oxygen beds was 895 on November 29, which has gone down to 371. Occupancy of beds on November 29, when active cases were at record high, was 2,080 in dedicated Covid hospitals in Jaipur. In the last 13 days, it has reduced to 1,043 beds. Even occupancy of beds in ICUs and beds with ventilator support has gone done significantly. On November 29, the occupancy of ICU beds was 588, which is now 345, while patients on ventilators on November 29 was 224, which has reduced to 134. “Over the last few days, the number of persons infected with Covid has been decreasing. This has helped in bringing down the number of active cases. The impact of all this is seen on the occupancy of beds as it has reduced significantly. But, people should continue taking all the precautions to contain the spread of the virus,” said a health department official. The state’s Covid toll on Saturday touched 2,528 riding on 14 deaths while 1,307 new infections took the tally to 2,89,999. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (280), Jodhpur (119), Kota (96), Rajsamand (75), Ajmer (65), Bhilwara (65), Dungarpur (61), Alwar (55), Udaipur (51), Nagaur (41), Bharatpur (39), Bundi (36), Chittorgarh (34), Pali (31), Dholpur (27), Tonk (25), Jalore (23), Baran (18), Jaisalmer (18), Bikaner (18), Churu (16), Karauli (15), Sikar (14), Sirohi (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Sriganaganar (10), Jhalawar (9), Pratapgarh (9), Barmer (9), Dausa (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Banswara (4) and Hanumangarh (4). Two persons each died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 471 Jodhpur’s (267) and Sikar (89). Ajmer recorded its 207th death, Kota 157th, Pali 101st, Jalore 47th, Churu 37th, Baran 31st, Banswara 28th and Bundi 13th.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-covid-bed-occupancy-reduces-to-half-in-13-days/articleshow/79700121.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Melaulim locals cynosure of polls||In Melauli, Sattari, where villagers have been protesting against the IIT project, locals said they had turned up to cast their votes at the ZP polls to defeat BJP candidates to register their protest. In the vicinity of Vasco, general secretary of Goenchea Ramponkaracho Ekvott, Olencio Simoes, said that voters are angry with the government for supporting the double tracking project and claimed that this was the reason for a lower turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melaulim-locals-cynosure-of-polls/articleshow/79700794.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Water demand for areas near Hadapsar, Mohammadwadi||PUNE: The BJP’s corporator from the Wanowrie area, Kalinda Punde, has approached the civic chief demanding water from Bhama Askhed for the areas adjacent to Hadapsar and Mohammadwadi. She said supply of Bhama Askhed water to Hadapsar and adjacent areas would reduce burden of Cantonment water works. “Water can be supplied from Bhama Askhed to the Ramtekdi water tanks, and further to eastern areas of Hadapsar and Mohammadwadi,” Punde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-demand-for-areas-near-hadapsar-mohammadwadi/articleshow/79700120.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Terai farmers shut toll plaza on NH-74 in protest||Rudrapur/Roorkee: To protest against the recently-enacted farm laws, farmers of the Terai region in Uttarakhand shut the toll plaza on National Highway-74 near Kichha on Saturday noon, letting the vehicles cross without paying the duty. The farmers also held a rally on the stretch and demanded the rolling back of the three contentious laws. In a public meeting held at the toll plaza, farmers’ leader Ganesh Upadhyay said that the unnecessary laws are being imposed by the Modi government to benefit a handful of industrialists. The closure led to a huge loss for the toll plaza operators as thousands of vehicles cross the Kichha Toll Plaza on this route everyday. Meanwhile, the farmers were adamant that the protests would continue in a similar way until the government fulfills their demands. Meanwhile, local farmers, under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), on Saturday hindered traffic movements at a toll plaza in Bhagwanpur near Roorkee on NH-73 (Roorkee-Saharanpur) to protest against the farm laws. The traffic remained disrupted for an hour until the police pacified the situation. Later, the agitating farmers gave a memorandum, addressed to the Prime Minister, to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-shut-toll-plaza-on-nh-74-in-protest/articleshow/79698908.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||State’s revised treatment protocol gives more clarity on remdesivir use||JAIPUR: Doctors treating Covid patients are administering remdesivir injections carefully. In Covid management among adults, an algorithmic approach prepared by Covid treatment protocol team of SMS Medical College and issued by the health department, it has been instructed to doctors that injection remdesivir is contraindicated in patients with liver -related illnesses. The health department directed all private and government hospital doctors to follow the revised Covid management protocol. “If hepatic transaminases are raised which is more than five times the upper limit of normal (ULN) or eGFR (estimated glomerular filtration rate) is less than 30ml/min, in such cases remdesivir is contraindicated. The liver functions of the patients should be monitored daily,” said the revised management protocol. Certain liver enzymes called transaminases helps in removing toxins from the body by breaking down the substances. When too many enzymes are found in liver, they start to move into the blood stream, causing problems to a patient. Dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital officials said they were keeping an eye on the condition of liver if they receive remdesivir injections. “Remdesivir might affect liver functioning. We are administering the injections to Covid patients carefully. Among those patients, use of remdesivir injection is contraindicated, we are giving them other drugs and therapies such as convalescent plasma and tocilizumab injections,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital. Since day one of Covid treatment, SMS Medical College doctors and health department is giving hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to Covid patients. In certain patients, the use of HCQ is contraindicated. “Doxycycline with ivermectin can be used along in mild cases where hydroxychloroquine is contraindicated or not tolerated,” says the revised treatment protocol. Another injectable drug which is most commonly being used by the doctors in Covid treatment is dexamethasone, which is a type of corticosteroid medication. The revised treatment protocol, clarified that its use is associated with worse outcomes in patients not requiring oxygen therapy and hence its use should be avoided. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid used in a wide range of conditions for its anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. The protocol says injection dexamethasone or plasma therapy should be given to early moderate patients with increasing oxygen requirement as inpatients only. Anti-retroviral drugs (ARV), Ulinastatin, mycobacterium w (sepsivac), nitazoxanide, niklosamide, umifenovir, TKI inhibitors, IVIG, monoclonal antibodies (Bamlanivimab) currently do not have strong evidence and are not recommended, says the treatment protocol. Favipiravir may be beneficial in mild cases. However, has a low-quality evidence in Covid-19. Currently not recommended by the treatment group or by national treatment guidelines group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-revised-treatment-protocol-gives-more-clarity-on-remdesivir-use/articleshow/79700123.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Is Yamuna cleaner in 5 years? not quite||NEW DELHI: No significant improvement in the water quality of the Yamuna has been seen with respect to dissolved oxygen (DO), pH, biochemical oxygen demand and faecal contamination between 2015 and 2020, reveals an analysis by Central Pollution Control Board. The National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee had asked CPCB and Delhi Pollution Control Committee to conduct a trend analysis of the water quality during this period to understand whether numerous efforts at setting up and upgrading sewage treatment plants are having any effect on it. The committee, in its latest report to NGT, said “the analysis by both CPCB and DPCC clearly does not point to a trend towards improvement in water quality”. As per CPCB, “Based on the data, it can be interpreted that the water quality of Yamuna in Delhi stretch continues in poor state with respect to BOD during 2015-2020. High faecal values contribute to the deteriorated water quality, indicating high faecal contamination.” It added that DO in the river was found satisfactory only at Palla before entering Delhi. “Downstream Palla, the quality degenerates. This stretch remains non-complying... Depletion of DO level in Yamuna till Okhla was due to the demand for DO from organic matter or discharge of untreated sewage or other effluents into water. Few instances of algal bloom or eutrophication are also observed, indicating high organic load.” In its report to the committee after analysing the water quality at five stations in 2020, CPCB stated, “Sudden drop in BOD values from 57 mg/litre in March this year to 5.6mg/litre in April at Nizamuddin are attributed to the lockdown due to Covid-19, which led to shutdown of industrial activities.” CPCB also observed that the period of June-August was critical during which the spike was seen, while November and December recorded higher faecal contamination values. The maximum faecal contamination was observed at Nizamuddin, indicating discharge of high quantity of untreated sewage. After checking both reports, the committee told NGT that the analysis by “CPCB and DPCC clearly does not point to a trend towards improvement in the water quality. This concern needs to be conveyed to the important stakeholders, namely, National Mission for Clean Ganga, Delhi government for their information and to critically examine the issues involved and take remedial steps”. The two-member committee comprises B S Sajwan and Shailaja Chandra. “No improvement has been observed in the water quality due to discharge of untreated sewage and improper functioning of effluent treatment plants,” said an official. On December 6, CPCB asked DJB to submit an action plan to ensure that STPs follow norms and no untreated sewage is discharged into drains. CPCB also directed DPCC to take action against non-complying effluent treatment plants and industrial units. A DPCC official, however, claimed, “As no change in water quality has been observed in the Yamuna in the past five years, it means that the river pollution has not deteriorated. Joint efforts taken by several agencies have ensured that the water quality has not worsened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/is-yamuna-cleaner-in-5-yrs-not-quite/articleshow/79699505.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||BJP scored points over Congress in rural polls: Poonia||Jaipur: The war of words over whether BJP or Congress performed better in the panchayati raj elections continues even several days after the results were announced. Hitting out at CM Ashok Gehlot who claimed that Congress had increased its vote share in the recently concluded polls in 21 districts, BJP on Saturday said that in all winning parameters their party has scored points over the ruling party. BJP state president Satish Poonia said that it is unfortunate that Gehlot is not able see the simple maths which says that BJP performed better than the Congress. "How can he forget that the result has gone against the ruling party. Congress is trying to manipulate the result as BJP has exposed their false claim over the farm bills. By spinning the figures, you cannot change the verdict which is in our favour," said Poonia. "Can we claim that Congress doesn’t have the right to rule since the vote share difference was less than 1.5 lakh in the state assembly polls. He (Gehlot) must accept the defeat as he accepts victory. It is just an attempt to confuse the people by spinning the facts," said Poonia. Gehlot had said that Congress had got more votes than the BJP in the elections held in 222 panchayat samities in 21 districts. While the figures say that Congress got 40.87% votes, BJP got 40.58% votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-scored-points-over-congress-in-rural-polls-poonia/articleshow/79700127.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Lack of party organisation hit performance: PCC chief||Jaipur: The Congress could not propagate the policies and programmes of the government to the masses due to Covid and the absence of the party organisation at the grassroots level had impacted the performance of the party in the panchayat samiti elections, PCC president Govid Singh Dotasra said on Saturday.Dotasra said the party would soon reconstitute the state, district and block committees and put up a strong performance in the remaining 12 zila parishad elections. He, however, said the claim of the BJP state leadership of a sweep in the election and a big loss for the Congress is misleading and false.He said the BJP performed worse than the previous panchayat samiti, zila pramukh and Lok Sabha elections. He said the saffron party had won 393 zila parishad members in 2015 which had been now reduced to 353, while on the other hand Congress improved its number to 253 from 233. He claimed that around 70% of the sarpanches elected were that of the Congress, but said the less-than expected results in the panchayat samiti polls was due to voting held separately from gram panchayat elections resulting in a large number independent jumping to thefray and winning the elections at the expense of Congress. He said the party was expecting a better performance as the party was now in power and due to the pro-people polices of the government. Dotasra attacked Poonia over his comment that there was no need for big face for the party in the state. He asked, “Who the party chief means by big face. PM Modi, Amit Shah or former chief minister Raje.” On return of Ghanshyam Tiwari to the BJP, he said, “It will make no difference if some leaders without any popular base join the BJP.” On the allegation of the BJP that the BTP, an ally of the Congress, had Naxal connection, he said the tribals had nothing to do with Naxalism in the state. On BJP and Congress joining hands in Dungarpur ditching BTP, he said the in the panchayat level, local combination works. He claimed that the BTP was with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lack-of-party-organisation-hit-performance-pcc-chief/articleshow/79700131.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC seeks details on Covid safeguards for Magh Mela visitors||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed the state government to apprise the court regarding all the safeguards, especially with regard to bathing of devotees, which would be taken by it for holding the Magh Mela-2021 during the Covid-19 pandemic. The court also directed all the district administrations of Uttar Pradesh to inspect regularly all the private and government schools and see that Covid-19 guidelines vis-a-vis sanitization and wearing of masks are followed in schools. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “It has been informed that schools and colleges in the state of Uttar Pradesh have been opened ever since December 7, 2020. It is a matter of concern whether the teachers and the students would follow the Covid-19 guidelines. There is always a possibility that young children might violate the guidelines.” The court reiterated that to curb the spread of Covid-19, cent percent face masking and tracking of infected people must be done effectively. During the course of hearing, top cops of Lucknow, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut had filed their respective affidavits before the court stating that the police personnel have been deployed in every stretch of 2 kms of every road in their districts to ensure cent percent face masking. On this the court directed the top cops to file affidavits bringing on record details of police personnel who were deployed for this purpose by the next date of hearing which is fixed as December 17, 2020. To recall, earlier on December 3, 2020, the court, while taking a serious note of the definite rise in the active cases of Covid-19 in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Kanpur Nagar, had directed the heads of administration and police forces of these districts to file their respective affidavits mentioning therein the steps they were taking to restrain the hike in such cases. The court passed these directives on December 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-seeks-details-on-covid-safeguards-for-magh-mela-visitors/articleshow/79699128.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar made IAS association president, move sparks row||HYDERABAD: The installation of chief secretary Somesh Kumar as the new ex-officio president of Telangana IAS Officers’ Institution, popularly known as Telangana IAS Officers’ Association, has caused disquiet among a handful of senior IAS officers in the state. The officers TOI spoke to questioned the installation saying the CS technically belongs to the Andhra Pradesh cadre. Other officers, however, saw nothing wrong in the move and said associations in other states including Haryana, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Odisha and Manipur are doing just fine with CS as head. Vikas Raj, honorary secretary of Telangana IAS officers Institute told TOI that of the 37 officers present in the AGM, only two were not in consensus with chief secretary being made the ex-officio president. The remaining 35 members felt that the association needs to be taken to another level and the decorum of the institution would also be enhanced if the CS heads it. “It is not Somesh Kumar, but it is the chief secretary who will head the body. There will be another officer as CS in future and he or she shall head the institution,” Vikas Raj said and added the retired officers are not part of this association and they have another association. The annual general body meeting of the association convened on December 10 installed Somesh Kumar, a 1989 batch officer, as the new president. Senior IAS officer Suresh Chanda of 1985 batch, however, expressed displeasure, saying that the entire process of convening the meeting and installing the CS was against the rules of the association. Retired IAS officer RV Chandravadan said: “Being the CS, Somesh Kumar is like a father figure to all the IAS officers.” He further said: “But, there are apprehensions if there is any hidden agenda of the government to have more control over IAS officers, some of whom are not on the same page with the state government. Somesh Kumar should show maturity on such issues and give clarity.” Expressing disquiet over the by-laws of the association being amended to install Somesh Kumar as the president, Suresh Chanda posted his comments in the IAS officers’ WhatsApp group. He said: “God save TS IAS fraternity. The annual general body meeting (AGM) has to be called with the consent of the president. As per the by-laws (before amendment on Dec 10), senior most IAS officer working in Hyderabad other than the CS should be the president of the institution.” He said: “There is no provision of nomination or election for the post of president. So, after the retirement of senior IAS officer BP Acharya in October 2020, I (Suresh Chanda) became the president automatically. But, no one approached me for calling this AGM.” Further, according to the AGM notice (dated Dec 3), the meeting would be chaired by the vice-president. “As per the by-laws, the AGM should be chaired by the president. Only in the absence of the president, the meeting should be chaired by the vice-president. I was present in the meeting but they did not recognise me as the president. Also, in the absence of the vice-president, the meeting was chaired by the secretary,” Suresh Chanda said. A message was sent to Somesh Kumar by TOI for his reaction on the issue. A reply from him is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/somesh-made-ias-assn-prez-senior-officers-miffed/articleshow/79700128.cms||Roushan Ali
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||2 dead, 3 hurt as car rams into tree||Dehradun: A speeding car, moving from Dehradun city towards Vikasnagar, rammed into a tree in Herbertpur area of the district on Saturday. Subsequently, the police along with locals rushed the five persons on board the car to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared two of them dead. The condition of the other three passengers of the car is said to be critical. The two victims — Surendra Rawat and Janak Singh Tomar — and those injured — Manoj Singh, Jawahar Singh and Dalbir Singh Chauhan — are all residents of Dehradun district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-dead-3-hurt-as-car-rams-into-tree/articleshow/79698924.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP plans counter-stir in row with corporations||NEW DELHI: Even as the mayors of the BJP-run corporations continue their dharna for “pending dues”, AAP has planned a counter-protest with its MLAs and councillors “visiting” the residences of Union home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Sunday to demand a CBI inquiry into the alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore by North Delhi Municipal Corporation. They have decided not to leave the sites until an inquiry is ordered. Raghav Chadha and three other MLAs will protest outside Shah’s residence while Atishi, also an MLA, with three other functionaries will station themselves outside the LG’s house. Both Chadha and Atishi have written to Delhi Police seeking permission for carrying out the peaceful protests. “The BJP-run north corporation constantly claims that they do not have money and are incapable of paying salaries to doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and other staff, but they can waive off Rs 2,500 crore that is payable by the south corporation,” Atishi said in a press conference. While the accounts of South Delhi Municipal Corporation for the last many years stated that Rs 2,500 crore was the payable rent for its office at Civic Centre, “in this year’s budget, the rent payable is shown as 0,” Atishi claimed. “Where did Rs 2,500 crore go? Where has this money been appropriated?” she asked, adding that Delhi government has ordered an inquiry into this loss to the public exchequer. She also sought stringent action against those responsible for the alleged misappropriation. “AAP councillors and MLAs will visit the LG House at 11am on Sunday to demand a CBI inquiry. We will also visit Amit Shah’s residence... Our MLAs and councillors will protest in front of the LG’s and HM’s residences” until they order a CBI inquiry, Atishi said. “The way Delhi Police has allowed the BJP councillors to sit outside the chief minister’s residence, I am sure they will allow us to sit outside the LG’s and home minister’s residences, too, providing us full protection,” she added. A group of BJP councillors led by the three mayors are protesting outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence for the past six days for payment of Rs 13,000 crore, which, they claim, is Delhi government’s dues to the civic bodies. The mayors have decided not to move from the site until their demands are met. “Everyone knows that the protest is baseless. Delhi government does not owe anything to the corporations,” the Kalkaji MLA claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-plans-counter-stir-in-row-with-corpns/articleshow/79699513.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Kamdhenu Chair’ in varsities mooted||Ahmedabad: Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA), constituted for conservation, protection and development of indigenous cows and their progeny, has written to all central, state private and deemed universities, mooting the idea of setting up ‘Kamdhenu Chairs’ in institutions of higher learning. Among other objectives of setting up the chairs, RKA has proposed introducing of short and long term certificate and diploma courses on cow-based entrepreneurship and sensitising students about the scientific, economic, environmental and spiritual importance and impact of cow. RKA has organised a webinar with top universities of the country on Monday, December 14, to promote the proposal of setting up ‘Kamdhenu Chairs’ in varsities. RKA chairman Vallabh Kathiria wrote a letter to chancellors and vice-chancellors of all universities in the country on December 10, proposing the concept of setting up chairs in universities. Sanjay Dhotre, union minister of state for education, communication, electronics and IT will be chief guest at the webinar. “It is important to sensitise, develop creativity and innovate ideas in college/university youths about the scientific, economic, environmental, spiritual importance of indigenous cow and to create entrepreneurship, livelihood and employment opportunities in this sector,” the letter to universities said. RKA has proposed that universities establish a chair with experts in the field as its members. The aayog will form committees at the national and state level to facilitate formation of the chairs. The letter said that the Kamdhenu chair in a university can also be named after a person, trust, society or company funding or supporting it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kamdhenu-chair-in-varsities-mooted/articleshow/79699515.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Schools in Pune & Pimpri Chinchwad shut till January 3||PUNE: The schools in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits will remain shut till January 3 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision on reopening the schools after January 3 would be taken after reviewing the Covid-19 situation, said the latest orders of the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations issued on Saturday. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The schools, both aided and unaided, were earlier slated to reopen on December 14. But when we took consent forms from parents, we realised that very few of them gave positive response to the proposal to reopen schools. Besides, we did not want to risk the health of children. Hence, we decided to postpone the reopening of the schools.” The Maharashtra government had given permission to reopen schools from November 23, but many local government bodies are yet to give a green signal to the institutions because of the Covid-19 cases in their jurisdiction. The schools in Pune rural areas, under the Zilla Parishad, reopened on November 23, but the Pune Municpal Corporation (PMC) had decided to keep them shut till December 13 until further orders. There is no clarity yet on if the schools in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits would reopen on January 4. “Even if the Covid-19 spread is under control at the moment, we do not want to take any risks. Before January 4, we shall once again review the parents’ consent and the pandemic situation as health of students is of utmost importance. We shall decide on reopening or not reopening the schools only after assessing these aspects,” added Mohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-civic-limits-to-remain-shut-till-january-3/articleshow/79700138.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Won’t impose coercive steps to control population, govt tells SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre has told the Supreme Court that India is on the verge of achieving a replacement level of fertility rate of 2.1 through various voluntary birth control measures and rejected suggestions to adopt the coercive China population control model, saying such methods cause demographic distortions. The health & family welfare ministry’s submissions came in response to PIL petitioner Ashwini Upadhyay, who had pleaded that “to have good health; social, economic and political justice; liberty of thoughts, expression and belief, faith and worship; and equality of status and opportunity, a population control law, based on the model of China, is urgently required”. Advocating strict implementation of the almost-half-a century-old family planning slogan “hum do, hamare do”, Upadhyay had termed population explosion in India as a major cause of poverty, criminal activity and distorted development. He had sought a direction from the SC to the government to frame a law on population control and family planning. The ministry said, “India is unequivocally against coercion in family planning”. Taking a dig at the China model, which was suggested by the petitioner, it said, “In fact, international experience shows that any coercion to have a certain number of children is counter-productive and leads to demographic distortion.” ‘India on the verge of achieving a total fertility rate of 2.1 by 2025’This is indeed the case, with China’s population graph showing an imbalance between younger, working-age people and older ones needing societal benefits such as pension and healthcare, it said. The ministry said India is on the verge of achieving a total fertility rate (average number of children that would be born to a woman over her lifetime) of 2.1 by 2025, as set out in the the National Population Policy of 2000 and through the guidance provided in the National Health Policy of 2017. “India is witnessing a constant decline in the TFR, which was 3.2 in the year 2000 as against 2.2 in 2018. The wanted fertility rate is only 1.8, indicating thereby that couples on an average do not want more than two children.” “As many as 25 out of 36 states/UTs have already achieved the replacement level fertility of 2.1or less. As per the Census, 2001-11is the first decade is the last 100 years which has not only added lesser population as compared to the previous one, but also registered the sharpest decline in the decadal growth rate, from 21.5% in 1991-2000 to 17.6% in 2001-11,” it said. However, 146 districts in seven states — UP (57), Bihar (37), Rajasthan(14), Madhya Pradesh (25), Chhattisgarh (2) Jharkhand (9) and Assam (2) — have shown TFR of 3 and above. These seven states account for 44% of the country’s population. The Centre listed a dozen schemes being implemented to achieve a replacement fertility rate of 2.1 by 2025 and, interestingly, the government gave credit to five schemes announced by UPA-II led by Manomhan Singh. “At present India is knocking at the door of achieving replacement level of fertility, and has made remarkable improvement in reducing maternal and child mortality,” the government said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-impose-coercive-steps-to-control-population-govt-tells-sc/articleshow/79701652.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 13, 2020||Surat||Fake ad: Surat school principal arrested||AHMEDABAD: Cyber crime cell of city police on Thursday arrested one Satyendra Rathod, 55, of Jehangirpura in Surat, for making viral a fake message about recruitment of male and female nurses of Christian community for Covid-19 duty at Institute of Kidney Disease and Research Centre (IKDRC). Rathod is serving as principal in a Surat school. DCP, cyber cell, Amit Vasava, said that they had received a complaint from doctor Vineet Mishra that on November 25 a fake advertisement was made viral on WhatsApp that “the kidney hospital needs urgent recruitment of male and female nurses on a contract of 11 months and fixed pay of Rs 30,000 a month. Only Christian brothers and sisters should contact Melvinbhai (with his mobile number) between 8pm, November 25 and 8pm, November 26”. Vasava added that they probed the complaint by going through a chain of messages which were forwarded and ended up at a mobile number which was possessed by accused Rathod. Through technical analysis police found that the message had originated on the same phone. “During interrogation, Rathod confessed before us that he being a Christian wanted Christians to gain maximum advantage in the recruitment of nurses in IKDRC and hence typed such an advertisement and made it viral on WhatsApp. We have seized his phone,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fake-ad-surat-school-principal-arrested/articleshow/79699525.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kanpur||Tragedy averted after LPG fire in Unnao: 8 kids among 15 hurt||KANPUR: At least 15 people including eight children suffered burn injuries when an LPG cylinder caught fire at a house in Salempur Karowan village under the limits of Kotwali police station in Unnao district on Saturday. “The incident took place at the house of one Manoj Sonker. Several fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the blaze. The injured were immediately rushed to the District Hospital, where doctors stated condition of two to be critical,” said SP Unnao Sureshrao A Kulkarni. The family members of Manoj and several others from the neighbourhood, who tried to rescue them, were among the injured. The police said that a major disaster in the area was averted as the house inmates were timely evacuated. The police identified the injured as Manoj (20), Surendra (28), Rekha (25), Agnu (35), Asha (34), Shiva (8), Shubham (7), Shubhi (6), Karan (6), Saumya (3), Sunaina (2), Pallavi (5), Sarla (32), Kalpana (4) and Suresh (45). DM Unnao Ravindra Kumar rushed to the district hospital to take stock of the situation. “All the injured persons were rushed to the district hospital, from where two were referred to Kanpur after primary treatment considering their critical condition. We are ensuring quality medical treatment to all the burn victims,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/tragedy-averted-after-lpg-fire-in-unnao-8-kids-among-15-hurt/articleshow/79700133.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bareilly||BJP MLA ‘snatches ‘miracle baby’ from shelter, brings her back after photo op||Bareilly: A year ago, a two-day-old baby was rescued from being buried alive in an earthen pot at a cremation ground in Bareilly. She was given the medical attention she needed, got better and was moved to the Warne Baby Fold, a shelter in Bareilly. On Sunday, BJP legislator Rajesh Kumar Mishra took her with him without any paperwork or permission, went to his son's wedding, took photos with her without any Covid-19 precautions and returned her to the centre a day later. And while he appears to have created the impression that he had adopted her, he had, in fact, not. “No one is allowed to take the baby away. Only parents registered with the Central Adoption Resource Authority can adopt and it is then that she can leave the centre,” superintendent Primrose Edmond told TOI on Saturday. “But I was not in a position to say no when he took her because of his political influence.” The controversial MLA, also known as Pappu Bhartaul, with 22 cases registered against him had hit the news last year when his daughter had posted a video saying he was threatening her for marrying a Dalit man. On Saturday, he said he only meant to take care of the baby. “I have always been concerned about her. She was sick that day. I got a call that she was getting seizures. So I went to the hospital with 20-25 men straight from my son’s wedding. I got her medicines and then came back to the wedding,” he told TOI. This was last Sunday. On Monday, he had brought her back to the centre. By then, he had taken photos holding her at at least two events — she didn’t have a mask on and neither did he — which he posted on Wednesday. His son also posted two photos of the one-year-old — one in which he was holding her up, and another in which his father was. Those at the wedding said he had introduced the baby as his “adopted daughter.” Local media, too, wrote that he had adopted her. In fact, Bhartaul has shared a news article on Facebook which says he had taken her home and was bringing her up as her own. He calls her ‘Sita’ and, he had earlier said, he is her ‘Janak’, in a Hindu mythology reference. Primrose, meanwhile, said he had taken her away from the shelter and not the hospital. “We always take her to Dr Ravi Khanna, who has been treating her for a year, when she is sick,” she added. Chairperson of the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights Dr Vishesh Gupta told TOI that action would be initiated. “By the law, a baby cannot just be handed over to anyone. The responsibility lies with the care centre. Here, the Warne Baby Fold staff are at fault. They should have informed the district administration or the central working committee members if someone was pressuring them,” he said. “The baby was clearly put at risk of infection. I will take appropriate action and write to the NCPCR (National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bjp-mla-snatches-miracle-baby-from-shelter-brings-her-back-after-photo-op/articleshow/79698568.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Fulfil farmers’ demands in 7 days: Hanuman Beniwal to Centre||ALWAR/JAIPUR: Nagaur MP and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader Hanuman Beniwal, who was stopped at the Haryana border along with his supporters while he was heading towards Delhi on Saturday, said that “Had he been in Lok Sabha when the three farm bills were passed, he would have opposed it like Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), despite being an National Democratic Alliance (NDA) ally, and would have torn it into pieces”. “I am happy that till now the farmers' agitation has been very peaceful. There is no place for violence in a democracy. Even on Delhi-Jaipur Highway, the farmers should place their demands democratically in front of the Centre and maintain peace. The central government should accept the demands of the farmers without further delay,” tweeted Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Beniwal, who sat at the border and protested, even threatened to leave the NDA and tender his resignation as a Lok Sabha member if farmers’ demands are not accepted (repealing of the three farm laws) by the central government within seven days. “I have spoken to the home minister (Amit Shah) and gave the Centre an ultimatum of seven days. If the farmers’ demands are not accepted within seven days, we will march towards Delhi with two lakh farmers from Rajasthan,” said Beniwal while briefing the mediapersons at the Haryana border. “I wasn’t present in Parliament when the farm bills were passed. False Covid positive reports were produced to deny me the chance to be a part of the proceedings (passage of the bills in Lok Sabha),” said Beniwal during a mahapanchayat at Kotputli in Jaipur. “RLP is the second NDA ally after SAD to oppose the farm bills and stand in support of farmers’ agitation,” he said. He also reiterated that the central government should implement the Swaminathan Commission report in toto. Meanwhile, the Delhi-Jaipur national highway (NH-8) was sealed at the Haryana border as thousands of farmers from Rajasthan headed towards Delhi. Meanwhile, the Alwar administration and police diverted the route for the vehicles travelling to Delhi via Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal. Haryana police had sealed the border for one-and-a-half hours leading to a huge jam on the national highway. Beniwal, who was stopped at the border by Haryana police, sat at the border with his supporters for at least 1.5 hours. After he left the spot, the border was reopened for the movement of vehicles by Haryana police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fulfil-farmers-demands-in-7-days-beniwal-to-centre/articleshow/79700148.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Allahabad||Elderly couple looted at gunpoint in Uttar Pradesh||PRAYAGRAJ: A group of three unidentified men barged into an elderly couple’s home and made off with cash and jewellery worth lakhs of rupees in Mumfordganj area on Saturday. Police have detained the couple’s domestic help among others for interrogation. SP (city) Dinesh Singh said that an FIR against unidentified persons has been registered. Police said that Krishna Chandra Srivastava (80) and his wife Jyoti lived at their home alone. Three different maids used to work for the couple. The couple told the police that around 6.30am, Jyoti heard a knock on the main door. “When she opened the door, three men in the verandah surrounded her and dragged her inside. They then assaulted the couple and robbed them at gunpoint,” police said. The accused stole gold chains, rings, earrings, two bangles, a silver glass, three debit cards, Rs 31,000 and two mobile phones among other items before fleeing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/elderly-couple-looted-at-gunpoint/articleshow/79699148.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Saturday warmest December day in Delhi since 2015||NEW DELHI: If you thought Saturday wasn’t chilly, you weren’t wrong. It was the warmest December day since 2015 in Delhi. The minimum temperature on Saturday was 14.4 degrees Celsius, six degrees above normal, and just below the 15 degrees recorded in the city five years ago. Met officials said the elevated temperature was due to a western disturbance and cloud cover. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted dense to very dense fog for Sunday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said western disturbances cause an increase in temperature. Unlike October and November, December is turning out much warmer than usual. On December 9, Delhi logged a maximum temperature of 29 degrees Celsius, the third hottest December day in the last 14 years. “The temperature, however, is likely to fall in the next two days by at least three or four degrees Celsius when the influence of the western disturbance minimizes,” assured Srivastava. “The minimum temperature is predicted to hover around 9 degrees Celsius on December 15-16. Also, the wind direction changing to north-westerly to bring cold wind from the western Himalayan region could cause a sharp fall in temperature.” Saturday saw moderate fog in the city, with visibility at a mere 600 metres at Safdarjung weather station and 700 metres at Palam. IMD issued an ‘orange’ alert for NCR for dense to very dense fog in the mornings over the next two days. The light rains in some parts of the capital led to an increase in moisture, which met officials said would cause dense fog formation in the early hours on Sunday and Monday. Fog is classified as ‘dense’ when visibility drops below 200 metres, while it is ‘very dense’ when visibility is less than 50 metres. The IMD cautioned, “The fog may affect airports, highways and railway routes in the areas of the Met-sub division and also cause tripping of power lines.” On December 7, visibility had dropped to zero in the morning hours at Palam, the first very dense fog day of the season. Some areas in Delhi received very light rain on Saturday morning. The Met department recorded 1.6 mm rainfall at Safdarjung and 0.4 mm at Lodhi Road. There was trace rainfall at the Ridge. The air quality deteriorated on Saturday due to the rain and low wind speed. The AQI read 356 in the ‘very poor’ category. The rain hampered the dispersal of pollutants, explained Met officials. Watch Delhi: Despite rains, December 12 ends up as warmest day of the month in 5 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/highest-min-temp-in-december-in-5-years/articleshow/79700149.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Mayors stay put, hold ‘thali bajao’ protest on Day 6||NEW DELHI: Despite light rain, the three mayors of the BJP-run municipal corporations continued their dharna for the “pending funds” outside the chief minister’s residence for the sixth day on Saturday. The mayors have said they will run their offices from the protest site from Monday and more unions have expressed their solidarity with the dharna. The mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Jai Prakash, said they had held a thali bajao protest during the lunchtime between 1pm and 2pm to highlight the empty utensils in the houses of doctors, teachers, sanitation workers and other municipal employees as they were not getting their salaries. “We are demanding our pending dues of Rs 13,000 crore for the frontline Covid warriors. We are not sitting here on the road in bitter cold for personal gains. Twenty women councillors are also sitting here and at night, we brave drops of water falling from trees,” Jai Prakash said. “Four councillors are already ill. Why cannot the CM meet and hear us? The sound of thalis should open his hearing capabilities,” he added. Jai Prakash claimed 23 employees’ unions had sent their solidarity letters. The mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Anamika, said they wanted to “wake up” the CM by beating empty utensils. “AAP is alleging that work of corporations is being affected due to our dharna. On the contrary, they are holding our rightful share of funds, which has been affecting our work for several years,” she alleged. The work continues in the corporation and the budget has been presented by the additional commissioner, Anamika said. “The budgetary proposals are being debated by various sub-committees. We will also start mayors’ offices from this site from Monday,” she added. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should meet the mayors and resolve the deadlock. AAP has maintained from the beginning that the mayors are protesting to harass Kejriwal and distract Delhiites’ attention from the farmers’ protests. “Delhi government has given all due and it is because of their corruption and inefficiency that the corporations are facing financial ruin,” it has claimed repeatedly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayors-stay-put-hold-thali-bajao-protest-on-day-6/articleshow/79699519.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Varanasi||Ansari’s aide booked under Gangster Act||Varanasi: Meraj Ahmed alias Bhai Meraj, the close associate of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari and member of killed mafia don Munna Bajrangi, and his one accomplice were booked under Gangster Act by the district police on Saturday. Meraj had surrendered before Jaitpura police on October 3 in a case of fraud to procure arms license and since then he is in jail. SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi said that Meraj and his one accomplice were booked in a case of Gangster Act on Saturday and now further action would be initiated against them accordingly. Police had lodged an FIR against Meraj in September for committing fraud and conspiracy to get an arms license sanctioned in his name. During investigation of Jaitpura police it came to light that Meraj had not only attached police report with fake signatures of Jaitpura police station officer and a sub-inspector apart from submitting fake treasury challan. After registration of case Meraj had tried to seek interim bail to avoid his arrest but court rejected his plea. Tripathi said that due to increased pressure of police, Meraj reached Saraiyya police outpost on October 3 morning and started requesting its in-charge to arrest him by disclosing his identity. Meraj also requested the cops to stop initiating action of confiscating his property, said Tripathi. As per his criminal history Meraj is active in crime world since 2002, when first criminal case was registered against him. So far, 20 cases are lodged against him, have come to light, he added. Meraj had come to limelight when he was booked under section 3 (4) of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) with Mukhtar, Bajrangi and Iftekhar Ahmed for being a member of an organised crime syndicate by the Special Cell of Delhi Police in 2009 for threatening a South Delhi businessman to extort money. However, they were acquitted in 2016 due to lack of evidence against them. In November Varanasi Development Authority had also demolished illegally constructed garage, a store room and a three-storied building at Meraj’s flat in Ashok Vihar area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ansaris-aide-booked-under-gangster-act/articleshow/79699186.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||AAP has no idea of how local bodies function: North Corporation||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Saturday dismissed AAP’s allegation on the Rs 2,457-crore rent waiver to the south corporation as a “concocted story rooted in the absence of an understanding of how local bodies function” in the capital. C B Goswami, the corporation’s standing committee chairman, said the committee was a statutory body dealing with financial issues and vetting proposals made by the executive wing. “There is no question that the rent that is due will not remain in books... Every year after the commissioner presents the budgetary proposal, they are either approved or rejected by the committee. We will add the rent dues when it comes before the committee,” Goswami pointed out. “AAP is lying to create misinformation,” he alleged. The pending rent was not mentioned as an income source even last time and was added by the committee, the chairman claimed. “It is unfortunate that Delhi government didn’t understand the basics of administration in municipal corporations,” he alleged. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said AAP should first make up its mind on the issue. “AAP is saying the rent has been waived off, Satyendar Jain is calling it a scam. While the reality is the budget process is still on and the standing committee will add the rent in books,” he said. “Delhi government should also tell us why the south corporation wasn’t provided an office space after trifurcation,” he added. Goswami also refuted the charges of misappropriation of funds made by minister Jain for the alleged waiver. “The committee has all the authority to make all the changes in the proposals in income and expenditure,” he pointed out. “The commissioner’s budgetary proposals have just been tabled and no deliberation has taken place but AAP, with lack of basic understanding about the process, has started making a fake issue out of it. It is alarming that the minister is repeating these baseless stories,” Goswami said. Since the trifurcation in 2012, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has been sharing office space at Civic Centre with the north civic body. The north corporation has always claimed that since the building comes under its jurisdiction, it is the rightful owner, while SDMC has argued that it was constructed using the erstwhile unified corporation’s funds and, hence, no rent should be paid. The north corporation has continued to add the rent every year and the spat took an ugly turn in 2016 when it had sealed the office of Mangal Singh, the secretary of the then SDMC commissioner Puneet Goyal. The seal was later broken but the tussle continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-has-no-idea-of-how-local-bodies-function-north-corpn/articleshow/79699526.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Allahabad||Union minister launches 5-Star Villages scheme||Prayagraj: Union minister of state for communications Sanjay Dhotre launched the Five-Star Villages scheme in Prayagraj at an event at head post office on Friday evening and announced the list of villages in the state covered under it. Five-Star Villages scheme aims to ensure universal coverage of flagship postal schemes in rural areas of the country. The department of posts has divided UP into seven regions. In phase-one, 151 villages have been selected, including 41 in Agra region, 26 in Lucknow region, 35 in Bareilly region, two in Ghaziabad, 15 in Varanasi, 25 in Kanpur and seven villages from Allahabad region. Among these five villages are from Pratapgrah and two from Sultanpur district. Sarai Nahar Rai, Tiwaripur, Hanuman Misir, Parsa Dadwa, Pure Tikai kaa pura, Fakir ka purva and Kanaura villages of Pratapgarh and Sultanpur figure in the list. The districts in Allahabad region include Prayagraj, Pratapgrah, Kaushambi, Sultanpur and Mirzapur. “Besides, 50 villages from Prayagraj and Kaushambi district have been selected in the second phase under the scheme,” said senior superintendent of post offices, Allahabad division, Sanjay D Akhade. The department of Posts launched the Five-Star Villages scheme in September to bridge the gaps in public awareness and reach of postal products and services in villages. Now, all postal services and products will be available and publicized at village level. Branch offices will function as one-stop shops to cater all post office-related needs of villagers. It will include savings bank account, recurring deposit account, National Saving Scheme, Kisan Vikas Patra, Sukanya Samridhi account, PPF account, funded post office savings account linked to India Post payments bank account, postal life insurance policy and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana. If a village gets all the aforementioned services it gets Five Star rating, said officials. The Union minister also shared the achievements of UP Postal Circle and highlighted the role played by post offices during lockdown. “Department of posts played a crucial role during lockdown by delivering cash to citizens at the door step with the help of Aadhar Enabled Payment System (AePS). More than Rs 608 crore cash was disbursed, 38.1 lakh transactions were done and 9.9 lakh accounts opened through AePS till June 20,” the minister said. Besides, between June and October 2020, over Rs 659 crore cash was disbursed, 29 lakh transactions were done and 12.36 lakh accounts opened through AePS, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/union-minister-launches-5-star-villages-scheme/articleshow/79699166.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Surat’s weavers chant automation mantra||With market dynamics changing in the new normal post Covid-19 pandemic, investing in modern weaving technology has become a new buzzword for powerloom weavers in Surat, a hub for man-made fabrics (MMF). To increase productivity, quality, and most importantly reduce dependence on migrant workforce, some weavers have begun replacing their conventional looms with imported state-of-the-art machines. About 300 modern looms are imported every month to Surat from Japan and China. The number was just 50 in pre-Covid period. These modern machines also include air jet, water jet and rapier looms. Majority of the looms are imported from China due to their low cost. When compared with conventional looms which cost Rs 1.50 lakh, the automated looms’ price ranges from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. "Compared to pre-Covid times, the sales of water jet machines have doubled in Surat. If this pace continues, then conventional looms will be replaced by modern machines in the next three years", said Mayur Golwala, chairman, MMTech Machines, which is Surat’s largest importer of water jet weaving machines from China. Industry players opine that the switch from fly shuttle or shuttle looms to shuttle-free looms involves both new technology and a shift from labour intensive to capital intensive mode of production. For exports, quality requirements have become more stringent after the pandemic. The demand is also for long lengths of fault-free cloth, which is possible only with shuttle-free weaving machines. "The coronavirus pandemic has taught powerloom weavers that modernization is the key to success. If you have to ease dependence on workers, investing in modern machines is the only option," said Ashish Gujarati, president, Pandesara Weavers Association. He also pointed out that there is huge capital investment coming into Surat’s powerloom sector, which will change the face of the industry in the coming years. During the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Western Railway (WR) operated the highest 448 Shramik trains in Mumbai division from Surat. They carried about 6.8 lakh migrant workers from the textile industry to Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Till December, only 60% of the migrant workers had returned. Post lockdown, the daily fabric production in the city has declined from 4 crore metres to 3 crore metres due to labour shortage. Dharmesh Patel, director of Eagle Silk Mills Private Ltd, told TOI, "In current times, the labour issue is at the forefront, but the biggest challenge is the manufacture of quality fabrics. I have imported 28 air jet machines from Japan with each one costing Rs 50 lakhs. I require only five skilled workers to operate them. Capital investment may be higher than the conventional machines, but it is viable as we get more production and need very few workers". Vimal Rakhadiwala, exporter-cum-powerloom unit owner in Vadod near Kim sold 250 of his conventional machines and imported 96 water jet looms in July. "I took the decision of switching to water jet machines due to labour issues and need to deliver quality fabrics to my clients in Dubai. Earlier, I required 80 workers to operate 280 conventional looms, now 30 workers operate 96 water jet machines," said Rakhadiwala. In terms of fabric production, around 25% production of fabrics in Surat comes from modern looms. At present, the industry has about 6.5 lakh conventional looms and about 50,000 modern automated weaving machines. Rajesh Modi, a textile professional told TOI, "Surat’s powerloom industry is gearing up with modernization of looms and poised to convert the current adversity into an opportunity. With the mantra of Aatmanirbhar, Surat’s fabrics will be able to compete globally on the fronts of quality, quantity and cost".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surats-weavers-chant-automation-mantra/articleshow/79700172.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Villager hunts wild boar in R’bore, sent to legal custody||Jaipur: Hunting of prey animals continues unabated in Ranthambore National Park (RNP). Another incident came to fore on Saturday when the forest department produced a local villager in court for hunting a wild boar in the tiger reserve. The accused, identified as Meetha Lal Meena, is a resident of Daulada village and killed a wild boar near Devpura post of Phalodi Range on Thursday. After getting a tip-off from informers, the forest department raided the accused’s house and recovered the remains of the dead animal. An official source said, “The accused will be in 15-day legal custody. After the incident, monitoring in the area has been increased.” The case has surfaced at a time when forest department has issued a red alert in all tiger reserves, sanctuaries and parks in Rajasthan. A week ago, a camera trap picture with a wire snare around the neck of tiger T-108 in RNP exposed the monitoring of forest department. Although, Shruti Sharma, head of the forest force (HOFF) cancelled the leaves of all the field officers till February on Saturday, and issued directions for effective patrolling in all the protected areas to curb illegal activities, little can be done with limited resources. The forest official source at RNP highlighted shortage of staff at the reserve, which is major hindrance in effective ground monitoring. “Ranthambore is facing acute shortage of forest guards as only 70 are deployed as against the minimum 150 required posts. This month, few guards will be promoted and number will touch 61,” said a source. Sources also said, poaching incidents in RNP have increased this year in absence of foot patrolling. In April, forest department with the help of local police, arrested three accused who were cooking meat in a guava orchard near the Baler range of Ranthambore. These people were allegedly poachers and killed a wild animal inside the national park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villager-hunts-wild-boar-in-rbore-sent-to-legal-custody/articleshow/79700150.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||CBI raids: Accused gave statement in match-fixing scam||Ahmedabad: The places which CBI Mumbai raided in Ahmedabad on Friday belong to Paresh Patel, who gave a statement to the CBI in a case stemming from the alleged cricket match-fixing scam of 2015. The CBI sources said that in a separate case of duping of two banks — the erstwhile State Bank of Patiala and State Bank of Mysore — of Rs 71 crore, they raided Patel’s Ahmedabad-based companies Sayona Colors Pvt Ltd and Shamrock Chemie Pvt Ltd.Patel is said to have turned a prosecution witness for the CBI to testify against the ED officers who were booked by the CBI in the match-fixing scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cbi-raids-accused-gave-statement-in-match-fixing-scam/articleshow/79699527.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CM Chandrasekhar Rao meets PM after 14 months amidst TRS-BJP joust in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and discussed various issues concerning the state, including release of funds. Apart from urging Modi to release Rs 1,350 crore as first instalment towards flood relief, the CM stressed on the need to increase the FRBM limit, sorting out pending bifurcation issues, release of GST funds and granting national project status to Kaleshwaram along with approval for lifting of an additional one tmc of water. The chief minister said the state government has already submitted a detailed report to the Centre on the damages and loss caused by the unprecedented rains in Greater Hyderabad and on the loss of crops in rural Telangana. The CM also sought central assistance to Dindi and Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation schemes on Krishna river. The meeting between KCR and PM Modi comes after a gap of more than 14 months – the last time they met was on October 4, 2019. The nearly 30-minute one-on-one meeting was politically significant as the CM was meeting the Prime Minister in the aftermath of the TRS taking a belligerent stand against Modi-led NDA government at the Centre in the recent GHMC elections. The party had also supported the recent Bharat Bandh of farmers. A senior TRS leader said the CM explained to the Prime Minister about the flood havoc in Hyderabad and how Telangana’s economy took a beating in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. After meeting Modi, KCR stayed back in Delhi. He will return to Hyderabad on Sunday evening but it is not clear yet whether he would meet finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other Union ministers before returning to city. KCR will visit the site allocated by the central government for construction of the party office in Delhi on Sunday. Meanwhile, analysts are not ruling out the possibility of the two leaders discussing political developments in the country. It may be recalled KCR had made known his intentions to form a non-BJP, non-Congress front at the national level to take on the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-calls-on-pm-seeks-release-of-central-funds/articleshow/79700146.cms||Roushan Ali
December 13, 2020||Goa||Goa govt reworking labour rules in line with central laws||PANAJI: The state government has begun the process to tweak the labour rules based on the three new labour laws enacted by Parliament, said labour and employment secretary Sanjay Kumar. He said the state government plans to digitise the entire labour department by integrating the Goa labour department platform with the central department. Kumar, who was speaking at the day-long webinar organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry – Goa, said that the Goa IT department is already working on the back-end systems for the state portal. “We were prepared for the new rules and the IT backbone was ready,” Kumar said. “The question is to bring the new rules as early as possible. We have to reframe them considering the central legislation and we are working on that.” Kumar said that the Goa government had already amended the labour laws and extended benefits to local industries well before the Centre introduced the new laws. Parliament had passed three labour code bills – the Occupational Safety, Health And Working Conditions Code, 2020; the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; and the Code on Social Security, 2020 – as part of much-needed labour reforms. The NDA government has merged a total of 29 Central laws into four codes, with the first labour code being passed in August 2019. “A lot of clarity will come once the rules are put in place. Labour laws have not been been looked at for many years. This is a step in the right direction of amalgamating the labour laws into four labour codes,” said director human resources for India and SAARC at Commscope India, Ravi Rebello. “My take on these new rules is that it will be good if we have a common central IT platform because in the government, the way the machinery functions is more important, and for that to converge it all at one place is good,”he said. CII – Goa chairman Blaise Costabir said that the new labour codes have a lot of benefits for the private sector as the labour norms are expected to be uniform across states. “What we have to look for and ensure is that states do not run away with their own rules. The IT platform will not only keep things online but will also keep everybody in line,” Costabir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-reworking-labour-rules-in-line-with-central-laws/articleshow/79700979.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||US citizen booked for triple talaq on complaint of Hyderabad woman||HYDERABAD: A case has been booked against a Somalia-born US citizen, Abdi Wali Ahmed, in a triple talaq case based on a complaint of Saba Fatima, a resident of Gazi-e-Millat Colony, Chandrayangutta. In the FIR (Number 231/2020) booked at the Women police station, Charminar, Ahmed was charged Section 498-A of the IPC (subjecting a woman to cruelty), which carries a punishment of three years, and under Section 4 of the Muslim Women Protection Act, which prohibits pronouncement of talaq. The punishment under Muslim Women Protection Act also carries three-year imprisonment and the woman is eligible to get subsistence allowance. Apart from Ahmed, a resident of Massachusetts, Boston, the US, Saba had also named two of his family members, who also live in the US. In her complaint, 22-year-old Saba Fatima said her marriage was performed with Ahmed, who had visited Hyderabad four years ago. He stayed with her for about five months and promised to take her to the US or UAE, where he also used to live. Thereafter, he visited India seven times, including once last year. She said on October 5 this year, her husband called her over the phone and pronounced talaq thrice. She urged police to take action against him as per law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-citizen-booked-for-triple-talaq/articleshow/79699534.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bail term of blasts accused extended||Ahmedabad: The special court hearing the 2008 serial blasts case has once again extended the bail period for six months for one of the accused, Naved Kadri (34), who has schizophrenia.A resident of Vejalpur, Kadri is the only suspect in the case who has been granted bail over the past 12 years. There are nearly 78 persons from several states facing trial in this case. In the blasts, 56 persons lost their lives in Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008. Kadri was released on temporary bail first in July 2018 for treatment of his acute schizophrenia. Since then, the court has been extending his bail term. Last week, special judge A R Patel granted six more months to Kadri for treatment after a psychiatrist certified that Kadri required further treatment. The court, however, has imposed certain bail conditions. His parents have been asked to provide him proper treatment during the bail period. They will have to give details to the court in advance if Kadri has to visit any other city and intends to stay there. If Kadri is in Ahmedabad, his parents will have to produce him in court for observation every Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-term-of-blasts-accused-extended/articleshow/79699538.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Voters’ list: Names of 3k disabled people added||Jaipur: The state  department on Saturday organised a cluster registration camp at the government-run and private educational institutions for specially-abled persons across 33 districts in order to add the names of left-out eligible voters to the electoral roll. Names of nearly 3,000 Persons With Disability (PwDs) were added on Saturday. Around 2.07 persons with disabilities (PwDS) are yet to be added to the voters’ list.  The camp was being organised as a part of the summary revision programme in the state from November 20 to December 21.  Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Praveen Gupta said that till date, out of 6.62 lakh, names of 4.55 lakh specially-abled voters have been been added to the voters’ list. “It is our aim to add as many names as possible to the voters’ list on a campaign mode. Nearly. We have already added 72% PwDs and are hopeful of adding 20-28% more. The campaign will continue over the next few days,” said Gupta.  Meanwhile, the counting of votes for the election to the posts of municipal body members will be held on Sunday. In all, 79.90% voters exercised their franchise as the polls to elect 1,775 ward members in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts were held on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/voters-list-names-of-3k-disabled-people-added/articleshow/79700152.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Woman held for trying to kidnap infant by posing as a cop in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police arrested a 38-year-old woman for allegedly trying to kidnap a four-month-old infant by posing as a woman police officer. The accused told the police officers that she had attempted kidnapping the toddler, as her own son had committed suicide a few years ago. The woman, identified as Rajesh Rana, had also paid Rs 2.5 lakh to two men to get the job done. One of the men, who were Rana’s accomplice in the crime, has also been arrested. The accused, who had worn a civil defence volunteer’s uniform to pose as a police officer, was caught by the toddler’s mother red-handed. “The men, who had been hired by Rana, had called up the child’s mother stating that they were from a police station and that her husband had committed a rape. They asked the woman to come to a place to get her husband rid of the police case. When she reached the designated place with her child, Rana met her wearing the uniform,” said a senior police officer. In the meantime, Rana tried to snatch the woman’s child, but she raised an alarm and called for help. Passersby came to the scene and caught hold of the accused, while also calling the police. “Rana was arrested from the spot, along with the man who had accompanied her. During interrogation, she disclosed that she had planned to kidnap the toddler as her 21-year-old son had died by suicide a few months back. She claimed to be depressed and wanted to raise a child, which is why she planned the kidnapping,” the officer added. Cops are on the lookout for the other accomplice hired by the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-held-for-trying-to-kidnap-infant-by-posing-as-a-cop/articleshow/79699537.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid symptom? Don’t ignore other illnesses||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 is widespread but that shouldn’t become a reason to not explore the possibility of other infections in a patient with similar symptoms, emphasise AIIMS doctors. They are stressing on this because there have been instances of people coming with symptoms of the viral infection but getting diagnosed with other illnesses after a considerable delay due to the focus on Covid-19. For example, a 25-year-old man came to AIIMS after having fever and dry cough for two days. According to a case study published recently in Journal of Clinical Rheumatology (JCR) by hospital doctors, his Covid-19 test had come negative and, therefore, the patient was discharged with anti-fever medications. He again came six days later with difficulty in standing and pain in legs. It was associated with shortness of breath, which was worse in supine position. He was in respiratory distress with room air oxygen saturation of 73%, the doctors have mentioned in the JCR study. They have added that the patient was initiated on broad spectrum antibiotics and mechanical ventilation even as investigations, including a muscle biopsy and repeat tests to confirm Covid-19 continued. Dr Uma Kumar, professor and head of rheumatology, one of the doctors involved in the treatment, said the patient had tested negative for Covid-19 multiple times but was finally found positive for Legionellosis, pneumonia caused by Legionella bacteria known to spread through mist, such as airconditioning units of large buildings. “As the world is currently dealing with Covid-19 pandemic, it is not uncommon to miss a diagnosis because of a high suspicion of Covid-19. The existing standard protocols for patients’ evaluation and management should continue to be implemented in the Covid era as it helps in reaching the correct diagnosis,” the team of doctors has concluded in the study. Dengue, chikungunya and a host of other infections caused by both bacteria and viruses cause symptoms that are similar to infection caused by the novel coronavirus, said Dr Kumar. “Therefore, it is important to rule out other potential if Covid-19 test is repeatedly coming negative,” the rheumatologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-symptom-dont-ignore-other-illnesses-aiims-doctors-flag-delays-in-treatment/articleshow/79700156.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Three arrested for gangrape of minor girl in Sriganganagar||JAIPUR: The police on Saturday arrested three persons who gangraped a 17-year-old girl in Sriganganagar on Saturday. The incident happened when the girl was out with her friend and the accused waylaid them following which they took turns to rape her in a field. All the accused are in their 20s. The case was lodged at the Mahila Thana. An official said, “The girl along with her friend had gone out on Friday afternoon when the three accused stopped the duo and forced the girl into nearby field where they took turns to sexually assault her.” Following the assault, they forced the girl’s friend to transfer Rs 5,000 through e-wallet into their account and threatened dire consequences if they reported the matter to anyone. After the girl reached home, she informed her father about the incident who immediately registered a case with police. Seeing the gravity of the situation, a team was constituted to arrest the accused who were detained within hours of the assault. The girl’s medical examination was done and her statement will be recorded in front of the magistrate soon. The accused will also be questioned to find if the rape was pre-planned or opportunity of crime. Last month a 19-year-old was abducted and held captive for nine days during which she was raped at various locations in Hanumangarh. According to the complainant, the girl had gone out to relieve herself around 11pm on November 15 when the main accused stopped his SUV near her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-arrested-for-gangrape-of-minor-girl-in-sriganganagar/articleshow/79700154.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||BSF felicitates 1971 war veterans||Jaisalmer: BSF Bikaner sector on Saturday felicitated jawans and officers who took part in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. On December 16, India is completing 50 years of victory in the war. Total 19 BSF personnel were felicitated who had played an important role in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. The main attraction was Nayak Bhairon Singh who had played an important role in the historic war at Longewala and killed more than 10 Pakistani soldiers. Notably, his character was portrayed by Sunil Shetty in the multi-starrer Bollywood movie 'Border'. The guests at the function addressed the jawans and officers and said they were an inspiration for each personnel in the force. BSF retired IG Raghunath Singh, BSF Rajasthan Frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari and BSF Bikaner sector DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore, representatives from local administration and retired Army officers and other officers were present on the occasion. As part of the Vijay Diwas celebrations, a 176-km baton relay race will be organised along the Indo-Pakistan border at midnight on December 13. BSF jawans and officers will carry torch in their hands and set a new record. DIG Pushpendra Singh will flag off the race at the international border adjoining Bikaner. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will be the chief guest in the programme. Around 500 jawans and officers will take part and pay tribute to the martyrs and send across the message of high morale to Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-felicitates-1971-war-veterans/articleshow/79700161.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Former MP flays Cong-BJP alliance||Udaipur: Veteran Congress leader and ex-MP from Dungarpur Tarachand Baghora condemned the Congress-BJP alliance for Dungarpur zila parishad elections and demanded the party high command to expel state youth Congress president and legislator Ganesh Ghogra and Dungarpur district Congress president Dinesh Khodaniya. “Congress party is like a mother to us and these men have abused her by selling it into the hands of those people who killed Mahatma Gandhi,” Bhagora said on Saturday. He said since decades, the Congress and the BJP had been always poles apart in ideologies and practices. “While the Congress has always strived to uplift the downtrodden and had a secular approach towards all sections of society, the BJP forced the youth to become jobless and the poor even poorer through its policies,” he added. “BJP has always levelled allegations on the state government. Khodaniya and Ghogra connived with the local saffron party leaders for electing their candidates in the zila parishad,” Bhagora said. The ex-MP said Khodaniya’s activities have always been objectionable as he attempted to create factions in the tribal communities here. He said the Congress leaders did not seek advice or permission from any of the senior leaders or the party heads before entering such an alliance which is condemnable. The act of these leaders has infuriated hundreds of party workers and loyalists who have always adhered to the Congress ideology and therefore both of them should be expelled immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/former-mp-flays-cong-bjp-alliance/articleshow/79700155.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM: Central agencies ‘working overtime for political bosses’||Thiruvananthapuram: Continuing his tirade against central agencies, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the agencies were “working overtime for their political bosses”. The CM said he would soon write a detailed letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. Addressing a virtual news conference from Kannur, Pinarayi said the agencies were hell bent on putting the state government’s prestigious projects under the cloud of suspicion. “In that effort, they don’t bother even if the real culprits behind the gold smuggling case escape,” the CM said. “Did the government ever try to save anybody connected to the gold smuggling case? Immediately after the incident came to light, the government had asked the Centre to ensure a comprehensive and coordinated probe into the case. A letter specifying this was sent by the state government to the Centre on July 8. At that point, the government had no prejudice against the central agencies. The state had promised them all help,” the CM said. “The agencies’ target has become obvious now. It doesn’t call for a detailed analysis to ascertain their aim,” Pinarayi said. “Just look what happened to former Union minister P Chidambaram and present Karnataka Congress president D K Sivakumar... Late Congress veteran Ahmed Patel was another person who was hounded by the Enforcement Directorate and now his son and son-in-law are also on their radar. The Punjab chief minister's son is another one. The others in the Congress who have come under the agencies’ scanner include Priyanka Gandhi, Robert Vadra, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ashok Gehlot and others,” Pinarayi said, adding that the central agencies were overstepping and abusing their mandate to muzzle or cut to size political opponents of the BJP government at the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-central-agencies-working-overtime-for-political-bosses/articleshow/79699542.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Ammonia levels rise in Yamuna, water supply in Delhi may be hit||NEW DELHI: After a brief respite for a few weeks, ammonia levels in the Yamuna once again started rising on Saturday. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) has issued an advisory stating that water supply may be affected in many parts of Delhi from Sunday. DJB has advised residents to store water and use it judiciously, however, water tankers will be available on the helplines of the water utility. In a statement issued on Saturday, DJB stated that operation at many plants might be impacted due to high level of ammonia in the Yamuna at Wazirabad Pond and due to low level in the river, which was decreasing continuously as a result of less inflow into the river from Haryana. “The production from various plants of DJB may get affected due to which water is likely to be available at low pressure from Sunday morning to Monday morning. The areas likely to be affected are part of West Delhi, North Delhi, Central Delhi, South Delhi and New Delhi Municipal Council,” DJB has said. A senior DJB official said that ammonia levels of 2.2ppm were recorded on Saturday night, which was more than double the safe upper limit of 0.9ppm. This is the third occasion in the last two months when ammonia levels have spiked. In a separate advisory, DJB has advised residents of several south Delhi localities to store additional water as interconnection work of pipelines will be carried out in South Delhi main line at Krishna Park, Keshopur STP. “The water supply in some colonies will not be available or available at low pressure in the evening of Monday and morning of Tuesday. Some of the areas to be affected are D-Block Janakpuri, Sagarpur, RK Puram, Katwaria Sarai, Green Park, Safdarjung Enclave, Hauz Khas, Munirka Village, DDA Flats, IIT and JNU,” the advisory states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ammonia-levels-rise-in-yamuna-water-supply-in-city-may-be-hit/articleshow/79699549.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Police plan more forensic tests for Salt Lake murder||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar police probing into the grisly death of a 25-year-old businessman whose mother and younger brother have been arrested on charges of murdering and allegedly attempting to burn his body at their Salt Lake home, has sought a second round of requisition to allow forensic officials to visit the AJ Block house — sealed by the cops last Thursday following the discovery of a skeleton — and dig in more evidence. “After the inquest, the skeleton was sent to RG Kar Hospital for post-mortem. The requisition has been sent for further help of forensic experts to collect more evidences from the house,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate on Saturday. Based on the complaint lodged by the father of Arjun Mahensaria, cops had raided their Salt Lake home — under lock and key for more than two months — and found a skeleton which they suspected to be that of Arjun. Following the discovery, cops arrested Arjun’s mother Geeta (47) and younger brother Vidur (22). Both are now in police custody. Cops have already found a grinding stone with blood stains from the house and several burn marks at the house’s first-floor prayer room and suspect the deceased was killed before an attempt was made to set his body on fire. Although the father claimed the motive could be a tantrik ritual that the woman used to practise, cops are yet to confirm the real motive behind the murder. Police said, during interrogation the mother-son duo had allegedly confessed of attempting to cremate the body but are refusing to admit to have killed him. They have been claiming that the young and sick businessman had met with an accidental death and they tried to burn him out of fear and panic, the officer said. “Prima facie, it looks like a case of murder as there is a clear dent on the skull of the recovered skeleton and there are bloodstains on the grindstone, too. We are still trying to figure out if the injuries on the skull of the skeleton are ante mortem or post mortem in nature,” the officer said. Meanwhile, cops said they are trying to trace the woman’s daughter Vaidehi who was named in the FIR by the father and was apparently with the woman and her two brothers at the Salt Lake home when the crime was committed possibly in the month of October this year. “We are trying to trace and arrest the sister of the deceased,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-plan-more-forensic-tests-for-salt-lake-murder/articleshow/79699551.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Traders seek extension of sealing relief, amnesty||NEW DELHI: Apprehending sealing drives, several traders and market associations in Delhi are demanding an amnesty scheme and extension of deadline for filing of conversion charges. Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said that they had approached the central government for the extension of December deadline. They were demanding a final resolution of sealing issue in the city, he added. “Sealing of shops has been wreaking havoc for traders of Delhi for the last 14 years, while on the other hand, 351 roads have not been notified by the government. A campaign has been started across Delhi under which local trade organisations will mobilise support for granting of an amnesty scheme,” Khandelwal said. As part of the campaign, 100 camps were held on Friday for obtaining signatures of traders and the general public on a petition addressed to the Prime Minister. Some of the markets where the camp was held included Karol Bagh, Sadar Bazar, Kamla Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Amar Colony, Greater Kailash, South Extension and Lajpat Nagar. In its petition, the CAIT has also demanded that after desealing the shops, which have remained sealed since last many years, the status quo as on December 31, 2020 should be maintained and all shops should be regularised against reasonable charges. During the last few weeks, traders at several prominent local shopping centres in South Delhi areas have received notices by South Delhi Municipal Corporation to pay conversion charges, one-time parking charges and additional FAR charges. Local Shopping Centre Federation of Delhi rues that their businesses have been badly hit due to the pandemic but they are still being harassed in the name of revenue generation. Rajesh Goyal, president of the association, said that these charges were being sought from properties that were bought at commercial rates. “The traders are not at fault but they are being harassed in the name of revenue generation during the pandemic,” he added. There are more than 106 local shopping centres in the city. The notices have been received in major markets like GK1 N block, Green Park, Hauz Khas, GK2 M block among others, said the federation. The notices issued by the assistant engineer-level officials state that “the property has not been regularised as per the policy notified in June 2018.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-seek-extension-of-sealing-relief-amnesty/articleshow/79700175.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Murder convict rapes daughter of prison inmate, gets 20 yrs RI||JAISALMER: A Pocso court in Balotara has awarded 20 years of rigorous imprisonment to a murder convict for raping the 15-year-old daughter of another prisoner in an open jail in Barmer a year ago. The father of the survivor had on January 30, 2019 gave a report in writing at women police station that he is a prisoner at the district open jail in Barmer and lives there with his 15-year-old daughter. During the day, he works in Barmer city and returns to his room at night. On January 2, 2019, he had left for work at 11am and his daughter was alone. Prisoner Sunil, a resident of Ratanpur (Gujarat), who was also in the jail, knew about this and taking advantage he entered his room and misbehaved with his daughter. The girl got scared and screamed following which he covered her mouth and threatened her with a knife and later raped her. While leaving, Sunil took the mobile phone of the girl and threatened her that the jailer was his friend and that he would get her father caught and his parole will get cancelled. The survivor got so scared that she did not say anything. Later, on January 27 when the girl was alone, Sunil came again and raped her. On the same day, in the evening the complainant’s wife and son came to Barmer and the survivor went with them to Pali. The survivor informed about it to her sister-in-law, after which his wife, son and the survivor came back to Barmer and informed him about the incident. On this, a report was given at women police station. The women police investigating the case, presented a chargesheet in the court against the culprit. On behalf of the accused, advocate Rugharam Kadvasara pleaded the case while senior public prosecutor Manaram Vishnoi advocated for the survivor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-convict-rapes-daughter-of-prison-inmate-gets-20-yrs-ri/articleshow/79700173.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Probe panels rue deplorable condition at Kota JK Lon hosp||Kota: The three-member probe committee formed by the state government to look into the deaths of 12 infants within two days at JK Lon Hospital in Kota, the Rajasthan Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson and the BJP panel have expressed displeasure over the dirt, disarrangement and lack of medical staff and facilities in the hospital during separate visits. The state BJP panel demanded resignation of health minister Raghu Sharma alleging that the largest referral hospital in Kota division, which saw the deaths of 110 infants in December 2019, was still in the same pitiful condition. The panel also pointed out that the recommendations made by the committees formed last year to improve the hospital conditions have not yet been complied with. Even the 100 ventilators given by Centre last year lie unused, the panel claimed. However, no abnormal death was reported at the hospital on Saturday. The state government’s probe panel led by health education commissioner Shivangi Swarnkar reached the hospital around 11.30pm on Friday. After seeing broken pipes and the false ceiling outside the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of the hospital, Swarnkar got very angry and chided the medical officials. Factual report on the equipment and apparatus functional in the hospital would be sought as the officials could not give a satisfactory reply. Rajasthan child rights panel chairperson Sangeeta Beniwal after visiting the hospital on Saturday told the media that reply will be sought on why the officials attempted to cover up the status of equipment and apparatus. On complaints of patients’ attendants pleading for help and rude response of the medical staff, Beniwal said that it had come to her knowledge and she has sought a written reply on it. Beniwal added that she was surprised on the HOD’s response who said that he was very proud of his medical staff. Meanwhile, the BJP panel comprising Dausa MP Jaskaur Meena, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore, MLA Madan Dilawar and Sandeep Sharma also visited the hospital. They held health minister Raghu Sharma responsible for the constant infants deaths and failure in handling the situation and demanded his resignation from the post. Rajendra Singh Rathore said that there is no change in conditions since last year. The infants are still dying for lack of timely medical care. He added that the hospital authorities informed them that 13 infants died on December 10 and five more on December 11 taking the toll to 18 in two days. The state government is responsible for the deaths and the health minister should immediately resign from his post, Rathore said. "I found a baby crying for reportedly around four hours on bed no. 14 . Similarly, on bed no. 3, no medical staff attended the mother and infant for hours," said MP Jaskaur Meena. He added that the walls of the hospital are damp and dirty, "I could not stand in the toilet, the condition is the same as it was a year ago. The state government must open its eyes now".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/probe-panels-rue-deplorable-condition-at-kota-jk-lon-hosp/articleshow/79700204.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight injured in reactor blast at pharma company in Telangana's Sangareddy district||HYDERABAD: At least eight people were injured — one of them critically — after a major fire broke out at a chemical factory in Sangareddy district’s IDA Bollaram area, on Saturday afternoon. The incident, sources said, took place around 12.55 pm in block I of Vindhya Organics Private Ltd when a chemical reactor on the premises exploded. This block (of three blocks) has 16 reactors. Following a complaint by one of the injured, the IDA Bollaram police registered a FIR under Sections 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) of the IPC against the firm. In his complaint, 38-year-old factory worker, M Venkatesh, said he suffered injuries and broke his right leg, due to the blast. While his condition, along with six of his other co-workers is stable, one person — Krishna Malik — is said to be critical after suffering a head injury. The victims are undergoing treatment at Mamatha Hospital, police said. While the fire left the entire block damaged, fire department officials said a major tragedy was averted as the blast occurred when most workers had gone for lunch. “As per initial investigation, the fire seems to have been caused due to static electricity in the reactor. Static electricity is generated due to reaction of the material while chemicals are being processed, causing certain damage to the equipment and, subsequently, such fires,” said V Srinivas, Sangareddy district fire officer. He added: “About 90% of the fire was under control by 5pm. Small fires were under control by 8.45pm.” When asked if there were any lapses, officials of Telangana State Pollution Control Board said the investigation is still on. “It will take a day or two for us to come to a conclusion about what chemicals were used and to say if there were lapses,” said Ravi Kumar, deputy chief inspector of factories, TSPCB. Officials of Vindhya Organics Private Ltd, that began operations at Bollaram in 2008, could not be reached for a comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-injured-in-reactor-blast-at-pharma-company/articleshow/79699559.cms||Moulika.KV
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Govt taking measures to help hotel industry: CS||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya said that tourism is an important component of the economy and serious efforts are being made by the state government to address the crisis faced by the state tourism industry due to the pandemic. Arya said that the state government is sensitive and will take quick decisions to provide financial assistance to tour operators and hotel entrepreneurs who are hit by pandemic. The CS said this during a meeting with the Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators and representatives of the Hotel Association of Rajasthan on Saturday. Arya said that such provisions have been made in the new tourism policy which will give new impetus to tourism in the state. During the meeting, the Association of Tour Operators and Hotel Association representatives demanded a concession in various types of taxes from the state government for not doing business in the Corona times as well as a part of the heritage hotels to function as independent restaurants. On operating them, they also requested to give heritage certificate and bar license under Heritage Hotel Policy itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-taking-measures-to-help-hotel-industry-cs/articleshow/79700176.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mental illness plea rejected, man guilty of killing wife||NEW DELHI: A man who took a plea of being mentally ill in the case of the murder of his wife has been found guilty by a Delhi court, which observed that despite opportunity, he couldn’t show any evidence to prove his innocence. The body of Kalicharan’s wife was found with a cloth tied around her neck on October 30, 2014. Police had said that the convict had disclosed killing his wife to them as he had suspected her of infidelity. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav, however, found Kalicharan guilty of the murder. In his judgment, Yadav said, “Accused has failed to furnish a cogent and plausible explanation with regard to the unnatural, untimely and unexpected death of the deceased.” The conviction judgment further held that the accused’s defense of sleeping when the crime occurred and having no knowledge about it for his “mental condition had not been good since the year 2012” appeared to be a “mere fig leaf without any substantiation at all”. The trial, which went on for five years, saw the testimony of 19 prosecution witnesses opposed to only the statement of Kalicharan, who did not bring any witnesses to support his case. The postmortem examination had found the cause of death to be asphyxiation while ruling it to be a natural death. “Ligature marks present around the neck corresponded with the ligature material found around the neck of the deceased,” it stated. Stressing that the police’s investigation was conducted in a “mechanical manner”, Kalicharan’s defense counsel argued no investigation, over the “criminal conspiracy” angle with respect to his client’s property, was ever carried out. It was further argued that some of the witnesses, who were accused’s kin, had turned hostile, punching holes in the prosecution’s case. “It would be highly unsafe to convict the accused on the basis of such a shaky material,” the counsel submitted. The court pointed out that if that was the case why the witnesses, who were his family members, would turn hostile. The wife, it came on record, was found dead within the precincts of her “secured” house and there was no sign of any house break-in or burglary to prove otherwise. “It is clearly evident from the record that just prior to the woman’s unnatural, untimely and unexpected death, the deceased had been residing within the secured boundary walls of the house, and only the accused and the woman were present prior to and on the date of the incident,” the court said. On finding on “cogent and plausible explanation” to elaborate on his wife’s unnatural, untimely and unexpected death, the court convicted Kalicharan for murder under Section 302 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mental-illness-plea-rejected-man-guilty-of-killing-wife/articleshow/79700203.cms||Aamir Khan
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 50-year-old labourer booked for sexual assault on 4-year-old girl||HYDERABAD: A 5-year-old man was booked for allegedly sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl at a slum near Film Nagar. The accused is a labourer. The victim lives in his neighbourhood. On Friday, the victim’s mother, who is a domestic help, went to work early in the morning. When she returned home, the four-year-old girl complained about the man taking her into his house and misbehaving with her.  Based on the complaint lodged by the girl’s family, police registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act. The girl was sent to Bharosa Centre for counselling and medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-yr-old-labourer-booked-for-sexual-assault-on-4-yr-old-girl/articleshow/79699563.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Newly wed couple hurt in Sikar firing, two detained||JAIPUR: A newly wed couple, who were returning after the ceremony, were fired at in Sikar on Saturday. Both of them were injured, however, they are said to be out of danger. Cops have detained two persons, including the main accused, who was in relationship with the bride’s elder sister who was also travelling with the couple and he wanted to kill her. The injured were identified as Sanju Saini and his wife Komal while the actual targets were his brother Bablu Saini and his wife Nisha. Elaborating on the incident, an official of Neem ka Thana where the incident occurred said, “The couple (Nisha and Bablu) along with the injured party were travelling in separate cars on Saturday morning after their weddings on Friday night. The accused had information that Nisha was travelling in one of the vehicles, but three of them stopped the wrong car and started firing at it. While Sanju received some head injuries, Komal received bullet wounds due to which she was referred to Jaipur for further treatment.” According to officials, three bike-borne persons followed the wedding car and suddenly braked in front of them due to which the vehicle also had to stop following which the main accused Indraj Gurjar stopped the bike in order to kill Nisha. However, they got the wrong vehicle and fired at the younger couple following which they absconded. In order to trace Gurjar, they formed a team and a few hours later when they did get to him, he fired at the cops due to which they fired back at him thus injuring his femur in the process. The accused has been placed under custody with heavy guards in presence. The accused was arrested with one more person identified as Kalu Saini though the third person is yet to be found. According to officials, the couples got married in Patan in Sikar and were returning to Jhunjhunu’s Hemrajpura when the incident happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/newly-wed-couple-hurt-in-sikar-firing-two-detained/articleshow/79700207.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body gets 2 additional months to prepare for Swachhta Survekshan 2021||LUDHIANA: Giving civic authorities more hope to get placed in top 10 cities in the Swachhta Survkeshan 2021, the Union government has extended date of physical verification of survekshan by two months. Earlier, teams from the Union government visit cities for field inspection in January, but this time it will take place in March. Now, the officials are hoping that it will give more time for them to complete remaining works. In the Swachhta Survekshan 2020, Ludhiana was ranked at 34th position and city had also won an award for best big city for innovation and best practices. But in almost every survekshan, the civic body has lacked in making arrangement for the solid waste management and settlement of garbage at its dumps. Though this year officials are hopeful that some of the garbage dumps will get static compactors through Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) but still there are remote locations where heaps of garbage can be seen lying in the open that are left unchecked by the officials. Although, the civic officials have claimed that in a month, more static compactors under smart city mission will be installed, they may take more time to be functional, said sources. Moreover, the officials could not streamline the source segregation in the city — in some areas, people are still not segregating waste into dry and wet. The officials, in an attempt to involve the general public in their attempts, are stressing on the need to organise various competitions on the issues like solid waste management, source segregation, plastic ban and home composting. The nodal officer of Swachhta Survekshan, Ashwani Sahota said, “Some of the works are going on, including digging of pits in public parks for turning horticulture waste into manure and installation of static compactors. With two months’ extension, we will get enough time for completion of these pending works.” Meanwhile, a resident of Model Town, Sumit Sharma said, “The civic body is organising competitions among the public for awareness, which is good but along with this, they should pay attention towards cleanliness on ground.” A resident of Dugri Phase 3, Apinder Sodhi, who also got appreciation certificate from the municipal corporation (MC) for her efforts, said, “Though it is a good recognition for people like me to get appreciation, but I feel that the MC should first of all concentrate on door-to-door collection of segregated garbage if it really wants to make a difference.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civic-body-gets-2-additional-months-to-prepare-for-swachhta-survekshan-2021/articleshow/79698955.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s condition improves||KOLKATA: Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s condition has considerably improved, according to doctors at Woodlands Hospital. Admitted with severe breathing distress on Wednesday, the 76-year-old is now “conscious, alert and has been communicating verbally”. On Saturday, Bhattacharjee had a cup of tea in the afternoon and soup for dinner. On Friday, he was taken off invasive ventilation and has since been on BiPAP support. His vital parameters — blood pressure, oxygen saturation rate and pulse rate — are normal. The CPM veteran is on antibiotics and steroids. He is still being fed through a Ryle’s tube, though, since he is not yet in a state to orally consume enough for his nutrition requirement, said doctors. He is being treated by a five-member medical team comprising pulmonologist Kaushik Chakraborty, critical care expert Soutik Panda, cardiologist Saroj Mondal, pulmonologist Ankan Bandopadhyay and anaesthesiologist Asis Patra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buddhadebs-condition-improves/articleshow/79699562.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Surendran demands probe by central agencies||Kozhikode: BJP state president K Surendran demanded that central agencies should investigate the complaint raised by Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case. A few days ago, Swapna had claimed that she was facing threat to her life inside the women’s prison in Attakulangara. Addressing the media on Saturday, Surendran alleged that a top prison department official — who had visited Swapna without the permission of Customs department — was behind the threat. Surendran claimed that there was an organized attempt to scuttle the gold smuggling case and make the accused change certain statements she had given in relation to the case. He also alleged that there is suspicion that the chief minister and other ministers are trying to misuse the prison department. He also alleged that the stand taken by DIG (prisons) on the threat complaint raised by Swapna was suspicious and claimed that the prisons department was trying to scuttle the investigation into the complaint. Surendran asked why the department didn’t conduct an investigation into the audio clip of Swapna that surfaced on Nov 18. Surendran asked whether Pinarayi Vijayan is in political exile this elections as he has not provided answers to the serious allegations against his government. He said that the CM was violating model code of conduct during elections by visiting project sites and giving promises to voters during elections while staying at Dharmadom. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/surendran-demands-probe-by-central-agencies/articleshow/79699556.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||English language labs in 25 govt primary schools||LUDHIANA: For the first time ever, listening labs will be established in the government primary schools in the district. Director-general, school education office has issued a grant worth Rs 2,17,500 and instructions to 25 shortlisted primary schools with regard to the establishment of language listening labs, as part of smart school development project. Each school has to amplifier, 32GB pendrive and 20 headphones, worth Rs 8,700. It has been told that earphones should be avoided as they can cause infection and a two feet distance between two headphones is required. The data will be stored in pen drive that can be further connected with blue tooth or aux cable and the teachers can record and play in their own voice and students can listen to the audio and narrate the same to teachers. The schools where the labs will be established are Government Primary School (GPS) Ghawadi, GPS Ramgarhsarda, GPS Ghudhani Kala, GPS Agwar Gujjaran Boys,GPS Faizgarh, GPS Khanna II, GPS Manakwal, GPS , Dhandhari Kalan, GPS Dhaka , GPS Alamgeer, GPS Machhiwara-I , GPS Raiyan, GPS Gobindnagar, GPS Jawahar Nagar, GPS Gonsgarh, GPS Mundian Kalan, GPS Koom Kalan, GPS Mansooran, GPS Chappar, GPS Shehbazpur, GPS Utala, GPS Galib Kalan, GPS Issewal, GPS Burmi and GPS Dhatt. GPS Dhandhari Kalan head Manjit Singh said enrollment has increased by 50% and English labs will further help them get more students. “I am glad that we will be receiving the funds as the establishment of the listening lab will be a boon for the students. We never had the facility of audiovisual aids for improvement in English and the only way they are being taught is through books and teaching-learning material. But now through this lab, we would be able to add more facilities in school for students and they will be encouraged to develop their interest in the English language, which would automatically boost their morale and confidence. Generally, in primary classes, there is more focus on learning the mother tongue as compared to English.” Chander Shekhar, resource person from the state, said, “Listening in English is something which is missing in our government schools. This will improve the accent and pronunciation of students and they will be able to communicate well. This will be totally different from English boosters clubs as more of the audios and videos will be provided to students in the language lab so that they can remove hesitation and pronounce correctly from their initial classes.” English Booster clubs in all schools District education officer Rajinder Kaur said, “In Ludhiana district, all middle, high, secondary schools and primary wing have formed English booster clubs at the cluster level. In these groups, teachers and students share the videos of their speaking English skills and related posters too. These videos are also shared on social media, which is liked by parents too.” Rajwinder Kaur, principal DIET Jagraon said, “The participating teachers are trying to bring a change in the speaking skills of the students and various teaching techniques to be adopted inside the classroom according to the demand of the time. This meeting continued for three hours approximately and each teacher was given a time off 45 to 90 seconds to offer their observations. The teachers proved that they do not lack in caliber by speaking in English.” According to Davinder Singh Chhina, principal of GSS Smart School Shahpur, the booster clubs are revolutionising government schools by providing proper environ for the students and teachers. Subodh Verma, district mentor for English, said teachers are motivated to speak in Englis has the students do not get the English-speaking environment at homes, which is also one of the causes of their hesitation. “They are taking full advantage through the discussion sessions of English booster clubs. Parents are overjoyed that their wards are able to speak in English in secondary schools these days thanks to the establishment of EBCs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/english-language-labs-in-25-govt-primary-schools/articleshow/79698960.cms||Mehak Jain
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||PAU authorities question presidentship of Kingra, PAUTA pooh poohs claims||Ludhiana: The Punjab Agricultural University Teachers Association (PAUTA) protest, led by its president Harmeet Singh Kingra, who has been sitting on ‘fast till death’, took a curious turn on Saturday with the PAU administration claiming that Kingra was not the constitutional president of the association. The claims were denied by the PAUTA representatives. The PAU administration has sent a mail to all the officials stating, “The PAUTA executive was elected on November 16, 2018, for one year, and its term ended on November 15, 2019. Therefore, Kingra is no longer the constitutional president of PAUTA and other eecutive members are no longer executive members. Kingra is misguiding and misleading the faculty by posing as PAUTA president. We feel he is doing so to gain sympathy and leverage in the upcoming PAUTA elections. Moreover, Kingra is not holding the PAUTA elections deliberately and adopting delaying tactics.” On Saturday, Kingra has entered fourth day of fast unto death. Letter also stated that the authorities have met him and appealed to him to end his fast. “Kingra sat on fast unto death abruptly without following the normal process of redressal of grievances if any. A team of three senior officers met him and appealed him to end his fast, as there is no valid reason for this action. Therefore, we feel duty-bound to inform the faculty about the situation. Kingra is unnecessarily raising these issues in spite of the fact that he has not any such constitutional mandate. We request Kingra to end his fast and refrain from indulging in such undesirable and illegal activities and should not vitiate the working environment of the university.” Former president of PAUTA, Kamaldeep Sangha said, “Until the elections are held, Kingra continues to be president. PAUTA is never headless. Elections have been held after three years, one and half years on earlier occasions also. It is not at the convenience of the authorities to consider someone president or not. According to PAUTA, elections will be held on December 20.” Kingra said, “It is a wrong claim, as the university has no role in PAUTA elections. The elections are held by returning officers appointed from among the faculty. The administration has been arbitrarily deciding when to accept me as president, when not to. They have accepted my presidentship up to June 19, well past the one-year term. If the administration of PAU is denying the fact that I am not the constitutional president then why was I called to the meeting by the board of management till June this year as president of PAUTA?” added Kingra. On the demands, PAU administration further adds, “ So far as the demands raised by Kingra are concerned, the faculty is informed that all these demands have already been taken up with the quarters concerned more than three years ago and are regularly pursued of which Kingra is well aware of.” Meanwhile, the demands highlighted by the teachers association include full pay and allowances for teachers recruited according to January 1, 2015 notification, counting of service of these teachers for promotion, implementation of old pension scheme July 7, 2012, transfer policy for outstation as state personnel department suggested, uniform implementation of the career advancement scheme (CAS) as notified by UGC and approved by the board of management, immediate assessment under CAS of library and sports teachers, counting of refresher courses attended abroad and online for promotion under CAS, counting of study leave for promotion to associate professor and professor level. 6 teachers transferred in 2 weeks Secretary of PAUTA, D K Sharma said, “No demands have been met and no meeting has been held so far with authorities. The administration should resolve the issues immediately so that the health of Kingra does not deteriorate further. However, the president would continue the fast unto death until demands are met and presently the main demand is the withdrawal of six vindictive transfers of teachers within almost two weeks during the protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-authorities-question-presidentship-of-kingra-pauta-pooh-poohs-claims/articleshow/79698964.cms||Mehak Jain
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata green NGO bags honour from US-based company||KOLKATA: A city-based action group that works on clean energy and promotes solar power has secured a grant of Rs 18 lakh from Goldman Sachs to help farmers in Bengal switch from polluting diesel pumps to solar technology to meet the irrigation needs. The grant will help bring 200 farmers on board the solar revolution. The Goldman Sachs Gives Analyst Impact Fund is a global competition in which its analysts from across the firm collaborate with their peers for a chance to win grants from Goldman Sachs Gives to support non-profit organisations of their choice. This year’s competition attracted hundreds of innovative proposals from junior employees to fund non-profit organizations tackling some of the world’s most pressing problems — from Covid-19 relief and advancing racial equity to biodiversity conservation and supporting refugee communities. Two teams with Goldman Sachs India employees were among six finalists, representing NGOs SwitchOn and Khushi Baby, and were able to secure a grant of $25,000 each for their represented NGOs. The teams were judged by David Solomon, chairman and chief executive officer, and partnership committee based on the impact, scalability and uniqueness of the proposed project; the team’s analysis of the project goals and financials; and the strength of the organization’s leadership and partnerships. . The grant to SwitchOn will help in change farming practices, environment and lives of farmers. “Around 80% farmers are marginal and are unable to access formal financing for adopting sustainable technology for farming, due to lack of collateral and credit history. This leads the farmers to depend on polluting and expensive energy options, like diesel pumps. SwitchOn aims to address the challenge of ‘access to credit’ for farmers by setting a default guarantee fund and helping finance a switch to solar technology for irrigation,” explained SwitchOn founder Vinay Jaju. “I am proud to have made a meaningful positive impact for the farming community with my colleagues,” said Goldman Sachs employee Ashray Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-green-ngo-bags-honour-from-us-based-company/articleshow/79699565.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Amid row, Jamia’s online proctored exams on hold||NEW DELHI: After facing backlash from students and on social media, Jamia Millia Islamia has taken back its guidelines for an online proctored exam. In a notice issued on December 12, Jamia’s Controller of Exam office said that vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar has kept the plans on hold. Students had objected to this mode of exam, calling it exclusionary. Guidelines for the conduct of the odd semester and year-end examinations through online proctored mode have been put on hold, the notice stated. “The university has received several representations from the students regarding the problems and issues with the online proctored examination and the direction and guidelines from UGC on the matter are awaited.” The university stated that it would take a decision regarding the mode of conduct of examination in consonance with the direction and guidelines received from UGC. Jamia, however, asked students to relax and continue with their online classes and preparation for examinations. It also advised them to frequently visit the university website for any further update. This notice comes a day after Akhtar told TOI that she had written to UGC and that she would forward to them the concerns and the suggestions raised by the students regarding the online proctored exam wherein students were to appear only through laptops or PCs. The notice has brought relief for many students. “We have heaved a sigh of relief. We hope that UGC agrees to a new mode of exam as this online proctored exam was not feasible. UGC can always ask Jamia to conduct an online open book exam like the one done at Delhi University,” said second-year BSc student Mohammad Yasir. However, many students are unhappy with the notice as well. Arbab Ali, an MA history student, stated that “the guideline has been put on hold and not ended completely. It is an internal matter of the university and it can cancel the exam on its own, without asking UGC for suggestions. The university should make it clear that the students are totally against the ‘only laptop or PC’ norm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amid-row-jamias-online-proctored-exams-on-hold/articleshow/79700230.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Traders burn Jio sim in support of kisan andolan||LUDHIANA: Heeding call by the farmers, a large number of people gathered near the BSNL office at Bharat Nagar Chowk to burn Jio sims in protest against the pro-corporate and anti-people policies of the Modi government. Arun Mitra, who was also present at the protest, said, “These laws are not for the betterment of farmers but a way to hand over the agri business to corporate house. The government should address the issue by accepting the demands of the farmers so that the issue does not escalate further.” Among others who addressed the gathering were Prof Jaipal Singh, Sukhminder Singh Lotey, D P Maur, Ramesh Ratan, Vinod Tiwari, Ghanshyam, Vijay Kumar, M.S. Bhatia and Chamkaur Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traders-burn-jio-sim-in-support-of-kisan-andolan/articleshow/79698970.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Raveendran will appear before ED: CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that his additional private secretary CM Raveendran will appear before enforcement directorate (ED) and cooperate with the inquiry. "He contracted Covid-19 and is recuperating now. I am confident that he would come out clean as ED can’t do anything based on evidence against him," he told reporters during an online news conference on Saturday. According to Vijayan, the complaints about Raveendran were sent by a group which had severed ties with CPM in Onchiyam area. "They have political animosity against us. They have cooked up several allegations. Raveendran is one among their targets," he said. Without naming RMP, Vijayan said they used to allege each big building in the area was owned by Raveendran and sent complaints to ED. "The agency had enquired about all these matters. Let them say what all evidence they have gathered. Raveendran is not bothered about these allegations. Unfortunately, he was hit by Covid-19. Now, he is suffering from post-Covid-19 syndrome. Doesn’t he need to take treatment for that? He couldn’t appear for interrogation only because of that. He will go and provide all evidence," said Vijayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/raveendran-will-appear-before-ed-cm/articleshow/79699564.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Basketball state level tournament being held at Guru Nanak Stadium||LUDHIANA: The three-day 3-by-3 Basketball Format State level tournament started on Saturday at Guru Nanak Stadium at Ludhiana with 90 teams from all over Punjab. On Saturday, under 17 and under 19, both boys and girls played. Teja Singh Dhaliwal, the general secretary of Punjab Basketball Association, said, “The matches will be played in U-17, U-19 and seniors categories. For U-17 category, 29 boys teams and 12 girls teams and for U-19 category 12 boys teams and five girls teams have arrived. In the seniors category, there are 11 men’s teams for men and five women’s teams participating from all over Punjab.” According to him, 3x3 basketball is a form of game that is played three on a side on half-court with one basket single hoop and has also been given official consent in Olympics. “Ludhiana thus presents a real basketball thrill in this winter chill for Punjab once again,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/basketball-state-level-tournament-being-held-at-guru-nanak-stadium/articleshow/79698994.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Lone, slow server hampering property registrations across the state||Nagpur: Even as the realty market is witnessing a revival, buyers are facing a harrowing time registering their properties as the documentation process moves at a snail’s pace. The problem is across the state, as there is only one server for the purpose at Inspector General of Registration (IGR) office in Pune. Not only the buyers and sellers, but also lawyers, builders, valuers working in the property market are frustrated due to long time it takes for registration of sale deeds, agreement to sale, mortgage, gift deeds, power of attorney, lease deeds and other documents. According to them, transactions that should finish within 10-15 minutes take hours and sometimes days to complete. Those arriving from outstation at the city's ten sub-registrar offices are the worst sufferers, as they are forced to prolong their stay in the city and incur additional expenses on hotel or re-booking journey tickets. According to lawyers and property valuers, the online property system registration was introduced in Maharashtra way back in 2001. However, the situation has deteriorated in the last five years due to exponential growth in registration of properties in cities like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. It further worsened in the last couple of months as the government slashed stamp duty and interest on housing loan resulting in a spurt in transactions. When TOI met with sub-district registrar Ashok Ughade on Wednesday, he admitted there was tremendous load on the single server as it caters to property transactions of the entire state. “The server is provided by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), which requires huge expenditure. It also remains shut many times for maintenance,” Ughade said. On Thursday, he issued a circular on keeping open all property registration offices on Saturday, which is a holiday. While admitting the problems in the server, Ughade said all ten city offices would remain open on December 12, 19 and 26 in view of a request made by Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India’s (CREDAI). CREDAI city chief Anil Nair said not only the citizens but also everyone related to realty market was facing harassment due to the slow server. “We gave a representation to the officials requesting them to keep registration offices open on Saturday and Sunday as in Mumbai to deal with the rush. Now everyone wants to take benefit of reduction in stamp duty and low loan rates. Even those who had kept their property transactions pending now want to avail benefits.” Leading lawyer in the property sector Sandip Shastri slammed the authorities for not upgrading the infrastructure, terming it “deliberate”. “Installing a server is not a big task and incurs very little expenditure. In fact, it would provide more revenue to the government and save the stakeholders from harassment of waiting endlessly for property transactions. It is indeed shocking that they have been operating on a single server all these years, ignoring the fact that transactions are bound to increase with time. They should take lessons from the passport offices that have kept up with times,” he told TOI. Transactions affected: * Sale deeds * Agreement to sale * Mortgage * Gift deeds * Power of attorney * Lease deeds * Intimation of mortgages * Other registrations Offices affected in Nagpur: No 1 — Collectorate No 2 & 5 — Sakkardara No 4 — Rana Pratap Nagar No 3 & 6 — Mahal No 7 — Nagpur Rural No 8 — Hudkeshwar No 9 — Bhiwapur No 10 — Behind Sadar Police Station* (*For rural areas)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lone-slow-server-hampering-property-registrations-across-the-state/articleshow/79699575.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 13, 2020||Goa||Incomplete Benaulim-Sinquetim bridge turns haunt for couples, youth||COLVA: The incomplete structure of the Benaulim-Sinquetim bridge has turned out to be regular haunt for couples as well as youth. Work on the bridge had stopped in 2012, and officials have informed that tenders are set to be floated soon for completion of the project. Overgrown shrubs, miniscule movement of people and cool breeze have made the incomplete bridge site an ideal location for youth to hang out in groups for smoking and drinking. As a result, alcohol bottles, glasses, empty beer cartons, cigarettes butts and packets are found strewn all across the area. Colva PI Melson Colaco said that patrolling is carried out in the area, and it will be intensified. Construction work on the bridge began in 2009, when Churchill Alemao was serving as the public works department (PWD) minister. In 2012, work was stopped during the tenure of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, purportedly due to opposition from then minister Avertano Furtado, who was the Navelim MLA, and then Benaulim legislator Caetano Silva. The total cost of the bridge was estimated at Rs 8.4 crore in 2009, of which Rs 3.8 crore was paid to the contractor M V Rao for the work that was undertaken. Alemao, who is now the Benaulim MLA and has extended support to the current BJP government, told TOI that the work on completing the bridge will start soon as the file is with the finance ministry for approval. Sources in the PWD said that though the government has given its sanction at an estimated cost of Rs 5-6 crore for completion of the bridge, the process of floating a tender has been held back for technical reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/incomplete-benaulim-sinquetim-bridge-turns-haunt-for-couples-youth/articleshow/79701041.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Almora to host second Marchula Adventure Meet 2021||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) and Almora district administration is all set to hold the second Marchula Adventure Meet in the first week of January, next year. The five-day-long festival — to promote the offbeat tourist destinations in Almora — will also include a special Marchula Haat with food stalls, local product shops for the visitors. Elaborating more about the festival, District Tourism Development Officer (DTDO) Rahul Chaubey said, “We are organising the second Marchula Adventure meet in the first week of January, 2021. A series of events like paragliding, trail run, mountain biking, river crossing, zorbing, water rolling, off-roading, hiking, and safari will be the main attraction of the event.” “Other activities such as air balloon ride, rock climbing, zumaring, water roller, zorbing, cliff jumping, zip line, kayaking, water mediation, and angling demonstration will also be organised for the adventure lovers throughout the event,” he said. The official added that a bike rally will also be organised in the meet followed by marathon and mountain bike cycling. This will be the third adventure festival in the state to be organised amidst the pandemic. Earlier, the Pauri administration had organized a four-day-long adventure festival in November. Also, Nainital is going to organise an adventure festival in the last week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/almora-to-host-second-marchula-adventure-meet-2021/articleshow/79699006.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman kills self in Hisar; husband, 2 booked||HISAR: A woman from Rajasthan, who was residing in Hisar’s Vikas Nagar, committed suicide by hanging on Friday after reportedly being harassed by her husband. The deceased has been identified as 30-year-old Vidya Devi. City police station has registered a case on the complaint of deceased’s brother Ajay Kumar, a resident of Gandheli village in Hanumangarh district of Rajasthan, against woman’s husband Kanhaiya Lal, Bibral and Shankar Lal, all resident of Loha village in Churu district of Rajasthan, under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). In his complaint to the police, Ajay has said his elder sister Vidya Devi was married to Kanhaiya Lal in 2006 and after marriage, Kanhaiya used to often quarrel and beat his sister under the influence of alcohol. For the last two years Kanhaiya Lal, his sister and children were living in Hisar’s Vikas Nagar and used to work here, Ajay added. He said on Friday he came to know that his sister had committed suicide. On the information of Rajasthan cops, Hisar police went to Rajasthan and registered the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-kills-self-husband-2-booked/articleshow/79700286.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Shimla||A first, Himalayan serow spotted in Spiti valley||MANALI: For the first time, Himalayan serow (capricornis thar), a threatened species, has been sighted and photographed in the cold deserts of Spiti valley. A number of residents of Hurling village spotted the animal on Saturday. Later, a wildlife department team reached the spot for rescue operations and took pictures. Officials have been instructed to keep an eye on it and protect it from potential threats. They feel the serow may have deviated from its habitat. Chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Anil Thakur said the Himalayan serow has been spotted in the Great Himalayan National Park, Kullu and upper regions of Chamba district in the past. “It was captured by camera trap. Possibly, the animal has come from Rupi Bhawa wildlife sanctuary. This is the first photographic record of Himalayan serow in the cold deserts of Spiti valley. Divisional forest officer Hardev Negi and his team are monitoring the animal,” he said. Spiti valley is known for its thriving population of endangered snow leopards. Watch Watch: Rare Himalayan Serow takes stroll in Himachal Pradesh's Spiti village||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/a-1st-himalayan-serow-spotted-in-spiti-valley/articleshow/79700289.cms||Suresh Sharma
December 13, 2020||Goa||Maulinguem boycotts polls over land issue||BICHOLIM: Officials posted on polling duty were left twiddling their thumbs at booth number 18 and 19 of Karapur-Sarvan area of Bicholim for the zilla panchayats as villagers of Maulinguem boycotted the polls. Miffed with the state authorities for not resolving their land rights issue for over three decades now, none of the locals cast their votes. Villagers have decided to boycott all future polls so long as the government does not pay heed to their demand. Of the around 1,163 voters in the two booths, no one cast their votes, except two, seemingly obliged being posted in their own wards on election duty as BLOs. Karapur-Sarvan comprises of three wards, of which two have seen close to nil turnout. The villagers began actively seeking resolution of the ‘mokashe’ land issue in Maulinguem around a decade ago. Locals said they are forced to watch their houses fall apart as they cannot get permissions to repair them due to the ‘mokashe’ system. “The Portuguese colonial rulers had granted the land ownership rights here to a local landlord on a lease basis for a particular period of time. Over the years, the lease has expired and the landlord has also long passed away. But the government has failed to act on our requests that a special law be brought in to end the ‘mokashe’ system so we can get the land ownership,” said Ramnath Maulingkar, a resident of Harijanwada, Maulinguem. Locals said the issue has been further complicated as a distant relative of the erstwhile landlord is trying to claim rights to the property, yet the government has not bothered to intervene. “There is no development in the village for the last 30 to 35 years because the government itself needs NOC from the landlord to repair our village roads. We cannot repair our houses at our will. We have to struggle to get electricity or water supply connections because we need the NOC of the landlord, who is no more. Now a distant relative of the landlord is creating hurdles for us. We have petitioned every politician, every authority over the years, but our pleas have fallen on deaf ears,” said Uday Mayekar from Mayekarwada in Maulinguem. “It is ridiculous that the state government too is demanding a no-objection certificate from this non-existent landlord to get their own local panchayat building repaired. The panchayat, due to this, has shifted to the neighbouring Kudchirem village. But still the government remains unmoved by this state of affairs” said Uttam Gaonkar, a resident of Saterkarwada. “Efforts are being made to resolve the issue,” said Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye, speaking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/maulinguem-locals-boycott-polls-over-land-rights-issue/articleshow/79700290.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Couple rescued from drowning off Arambol||SALIGAO: A Mumbai-based couple was rescued from drowning off Arambol beach on Friday. The incident occurred at around 4.40pm, after the young couple entered into the waters wearing their own life jackets. After a while, however, they felt comfortable and took off their life jackets and continued to swim. Drishti lifeguard Manoj Parab noticed the couple gesturing for help as they seemed to have got caught in a rip current. Two lifeguards rushed to their rescue and brought them both safely to the shore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/couple-rescued-from-drowning-off-arambol/articleshow/79701094.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ASI demoted for seeking bribe from rape survivor||PATNA: Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish has demoted an assistant sub-inspector to constable rank for demanding a bribe from a rape survivor. The SP said the ASI K D Prasad was demoted with immediate effect after the charges of corruption and dereliction of duty were found true against him. He has been posted as a constable at the same police station after his demotion. The cop in question was posted at the Gandharv Danga police station of the district close to India-Nepal border. A rape victim complained to the SP that ASI Prasad had demanded money to file an FIR. The SP, in turn, asked the DSP (headquarters), Ajay Kumar Jha, to inquire into the allegation against the ASI. The DSP, in his report submitted to the SP, found the allegation against the ASI to be true. “Disciplinary action was initiated against the ASI based on a report submitted by the DSP. The ASI has been demoted to a constable and posted at the same police station,” Kumar Ashish told this newspaper over the phone on Saturday. Also, the SP directed the district women’s police station SHO to register the victim’s complaint and arrest the perpetrators of crime. The survivor was later sent to the Sadar hospital for medical examination. Authoritative sources said three other police personnel, including a sub-inspector of police, are likely to be dismissed from service within 15 days for their links with entry mafia, liquor smugglers and involvement in other corrupt practices. Those facing punitive action include sub-inspector Shashi Bhushan and two ASIs, Luv Kumar Singh and Nagendra Singh. The three cops have been served show-cause notices asking them to respond within 15 days. The SP has set up a special cell under the leadership of DSP (headquarters) Ajay Kumar Jha to look into the complaints related to corruption and other unlawful activities against the men in uniform. “Corruption and dereliction of duty will not be tolerated,” the SP added. Last week, the state police headquarters released the list of the 84 police personnel who were dismissed from service for their failure to implement prohibition laws and also having connections with liquor smuggles and land grabbers. The disciplinary action against over 600 other police personnel has also been initiated for dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/asi-demoted-for-seeking-bribe-from-rape-survivor/articleshow/79699301.cms||Ramashankar
December 13, 2020||Goa||Govt may give more power, funds to ZPs: Goa CM||SAKHALI: BJP will win the elections to the zilla panchayats and the government may devolve additional power and funds to ZPs to strengthen them, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday. Agitation over issues like coal, double tracking, Tamnar power transmission line and national highway widening will have no impact on the outcome of the ZP elections, he said. “My position in the party is already strong and I was declared as chief minister by the party,” Sawant said when asked whether his position would become stronger if BJP wins handsomely in the ZP polls. “There is no plan for a cabinet reshuffle and it is the chief minister’s right to decide on a party ticket for the assembly elections,” he told TOI after casting his vote in Sakhali constituency “The state government will get additional Rs 15 crore from the 15th Finance Commission and that will be given to both the ZPs to take up development in rural areas,” he said. He was asked about allocating more funds to the ZPs. Asked about the impact of the agitation against the three linear projects, he said, “People will come to know what was the impact of the agitation. People have realised that I speak the truth and work for the state.” “A section of the people and politicians are opposing these infrastructure projects. Coal is being handled in Goa for the last 75 years. Railways started in 1810 and that is the reason one can visit Dudhsagar, otherwise it would have been declared as tiger forest and been out of bounds for the public. Tamnar project is the need of the hour and it must come. If the Tamnar project does not kick off, then in the next two years we will not get 24X7 power supply and people have realised that,” he said. The chief minister said that people have appreciated the state government’s Covid management and that it will convert into votes in the ZP elections. He also said that this election is not a challenge for him as he already fought parliamentary elections. Asked how much this election is important to prove your leadership, Sawant said, “I have full faith in my ability and leadership. People of the state will prove that they are behind me and on result day, people will prove about my leadership.” Due to Covid, people have not come out in large numbers, he said. “People will stand by BJP because of our administration and rural development. Because BJP is winning, Congress’s Digambar Kamat and Goa Forward’s Vijai Sardesai are in a state of panic,” he said. New MLAs had an apprehension that people may be hesitant to vote for BJP in Salcete and they felt that they should be allowed to get independent candidates elected, Sawant said after he was asked why BJP had not fielded many candidates in South Goa despite having MLAs. “MLAs have to get ZP candidates elected and we have allowed them to support independent candidates,” he said. Sawant said that people will make us win in ZP polls to work for them. He said that people in the mining belt have voted in favour of BJP as they have full faith in me regarding resumption of mining activities in the state. The chief minister said that ZP elections are important in three-tier systems. Responding to a query that some consider the ZP polls as semi-final before the next assembly polls which are 13 months away, Sawant said that there is no final and semi final in elections as BJP takes all elections seriously and our supporters work tirelessly to make the party win.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-may-give-more-power-funds-to-zps-cm/articleshow/79700287.cms||Murari Shetye
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||2 booked for using phones in SSC exam||Vadodara: Over three months after two students of Class X allegedly used and exchanged mobile phones during supplementary exams, an FIR was registered against them at Makarpura police station. The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) found the two students exchanging their mobile phones while checking the footage of CCTV cameras placed at the exam centre in Baroda High School, ONGC. The duo is from different schools located in Sama and Gotri aras. In the footage, it is seen that the two students, who had appeared for the paper of science and technology on August 28, took out mobile phones from their pockets and exchanged them. The exam supervisor did not notice that. GSHSEB directed the district education officer to file a police complaint against the two students following which the principal of BHS, ONGC approached police on December 7. Police then sought direction from the court of a judicial magistrate as the complaint was related to section 188 (violation of public notification) of IPC. The police commissioner had issued a special public notification on August 23 for the supplementary exams prohibiting the use of mobile phones, walkie talkie, any wireless devices or electronic equipment inside the exam centre. On Friday after the court allowed action, police booked the two students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-booked-for-using-phones-in-ssc-exam/articleshow/79699318.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Meerut||Man arrested under anti-conversion ordinance||Bijnor: A man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly trying to marry a 19-year-old girl without disclosing his religion under UP’s ordinance against “forced” religious conversion, IPC section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and SC/ST Act. According to the complainant, the accused, a painter by profession worked in Chandigarh where he befriended a man hailing from Samiwala village under Mandawali police station area of Bijnor. He introduced himself as Sonu alias Bhure from Bijnor. Both returned to their native place on December 4 to attend a wedding. Sonu called on his friend on December 7 on the pretext of knowing his well-being. While members of the family were busy with the wedding, he lured their daughter and eloped with her. When girl’s family reached Sonu’s house, they learnt about his false identity. The girl’s father filed a complaint against Sonu for eloping with his daughter by hiding his real name in order to convert her. Dharamveer Singh, SP, Bijnor, said the accused was arrested from Samiwala village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-arrested-under-anti-conversion-ordinance/articleshow/79699034.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 13, 2020||Patna||3rd review meet: CM Nitish Kumar orders crackdown on crime in Bihar||PATNA: Worried over no significant decline in incidents of crime in the recent weeks, CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday convened yet another review meeting with senior police officials. It was the CM’s third review meeting on crime control in the past 15 days. Earlier, he held two similar review meetings with top officials of the state government and the police headquarters on November 28 and December 9. However, unlike the two previous review meetings, where only top bureaucrats were in attendance, the Saturday’s meeting saw all senior administrative officers in the field such as divisional commissioners, range IGs/ DIGs, DMs and SPs in attendance through video conferencing. “Our (state government’s) main aim is to serve people. Maintaining law and order is the first responsibility of the state government,” Nitish told officials at the meeting. He said people would get the benefit of the ongoing development work across the state only if the law and order scenario is under control. Referring to the reports of frequent recoveries of smuggled liquor at places across the state, the CM asked officials to strictly enforce prohibition across the state and take deterrent action against people involved in smuggling of alcohol from other states. “People from outside the state who are involved in smuggling and illegal trade of liquor must be identified and brought under the ambit of investigation,” CM said and asked the police and excise officials to ensure deterring punishment to such people through judicial processes. The CM further asked DMs and SPs to increase the rate of conviction by ensuring speedy trial of cases in the courts. “The DM and SP will hold a regular meeting to review the status of cases with the prosecution officers and lawyers concerned and work to take the case to a logical conclusion,” he said. Nitish added that the DMs and SPs should also take steps to check overloading on the trucks and traffic jam in their jurisdiction. The CM asked the police officers to maintain a special vigil on the security of women and take stringent action against people involved in crimes against women. Nitish reiterated that DM and SPs should hold a joint meeting once in a month at the district level to solve cases related to any land dispute. “The SDM and the SDPO will hold similar joint meetings at the sub-division level once in a fortnight, while the circle officer and the SHO of police station once in a week at the circle level to end mutual disputes related to land,” Nitish said. While summing up the meeting, Nitish told police officers that incidents of crime must be brought under control across the state, and any negligence would not be tolerated. Besides the state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar, additional chief secretary (home) Amir Subhani, DGP S K Singhal, additional DGP (Special Branch) Jitendra Singh Gangwar and additional DGP (HQ) Jitendra Kumar, all senior officers of home (police) department were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3rd-review-meet-cm-orders-crackdown-on-crime-in-bihar/articleshow/79699293.cms||Madan Kumar
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP assembles databases, logistics for efficient vaccine administration||Visakhapatnam: The state health department has augmented its cold chain and inventory management for mass delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, during a recent discussion in the state assembly, announced that the Union government has promised to provide Andhra Pradesh with one crore Covid-19 vaccines in the first phase. With several vaccine candidates reaching an advanced stage of trials, the government has nearly concluded establishing priority groups, beneficiary database, and vaccine delivery platforms for a quick and efficient roll-out once the vaccine becomes available. The health department has identified seven lakh frontline staff, 3.6 lakh healthcare workers and 90 lakh senior citizens as priority groups for administering the vaccine in the first phase. The state has also constituted task force committees at various levels to monitor and coordinate activities related to the vaccination programmes. As part of the exercise, 19,000 auxilary nurse midwives (ANM) will be deployed while Asha workers will be trained for additional support. The state already has an optimal cold chain capacity for regular immunisation programmes. However, it has scaled it up for Covid-19 vaccine storage and distribution by utilising the spare capacity. There are currently 1,677 cold chain points with temperature loggers in the state, mapped under the electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (e-VIN). The state identified 4,762 vaccine session sites for the Covid-19 vaccine programme. Meanwhile, the Union government would provide six walk-in-coolers, two walk-in-freezers, 36 large ice-lined refrigerators, 532 small ice-lined refrigerators and other cold chain equipment for the vaccination programme. State nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr K Rambabu, told STOI that the health department furnished the database pertaining to the healthcare workers to the Union government. “As sterile refrigeration is crucial for the vaccination programme, the state already enhanced its cold chain facilities and other logistical requirements. The department is waiting for the arrival of the vaccine,” said Dr Rambabu. The nodal officer added that key components of the implementation process would be storage and distribution network, tracking of beneficiaries and monitoring mechanism. Dr R Ramana Rao, nodal officer for Covid-19 at Gitam institute of Medical Sciences, said that hope has soared among the public over the end of the pandemic with the recent vaccine announcements. “Special planning is also needed to address any medical or practical issues that may arise during the process of vaccine administration,” said Dr Ramana Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-assembles-databases-logistics-for-efficient-vaccine-administration/articleshow/79699041.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Lalit Batra is BJP’s mayoral candidate for Sonipat||CHANDIGARH: Haryana BJP on Saturday announced Kulbhushan Goyal as its mayoral candidate for Panchkula muncipal corporation elections and Lalit Batra as the candidate for Sonipat municipal corporation (MC) elections. The names were finalised during a meeting of the party’s state election commitee (SEC) in Panchkula. Voting in both is elections is scheduled for December 27 and the nomination process is going on in all civic bodies. According to the party, Goyal is an entrepreneur and social worker turned. He contested the 2014 assembly elections from Panchkula on an INLD ticket, but lost. He joined BJP ahead of 2019 assembly elections and was among the frontrunners of the BJP ticket for mayoral post. Batra too is one of the appointees. BJP also left four seats for Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) candidates in Panchkula and five in Sonipat. No decision has been taken on the mayoral candidate for Ambala MC elections. “We were hopeful of completing the process. But, since our alliance partner has announced to contest civic polls on the party symbol, we have schedule a discussion on certain seats. Candidates of wards will be finalised on Sunday,” said Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar. Referring to Sampla , Dhankar said Naveen Balmiki will be the candidate for president post of Sampla municipal committee. The Congress is yet to announce candidates for Panchkula, Ambala and Sonipat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/batra-is-bjps-mayoral-candidate-for-sonipat/articleshow/79700291.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers ‘free’ Haryana toll plazas for day, stage sit-ins||CHANDIGARH: Stepping up their protest, members of farm organisations took over the operations of key toll plazas in Haryana and made these toll-free on Saturday. Agitating farmers had earlier said they would picket toll plazas to press their demand for a repeal of the three new laws. In Rohtak district, members of Kisan Sabha, farm unions and residents first reached Makdoli toll plaza on the Panipat-Rohtak-Delhi highway. Toll plazas on Rohtak-Hisar highway at Madina village, Rohad toll plaza at Rohtak-Delhi highway, and Rohtak-Jhajjar-Delhi highway toll plaza at Dighal village were also made toll-free for the day. Police were deployed at toll plazas to keep law and order under control. In Karnal and Panipat, farm bodies took over Bastara and Panipat toll plazas on Delhi-Chandigarh highway and Peont toll plaza on Assandh-Karnal highway and stopped toll collection for the day. In the afternoon, protesters gheraoed the cavalcade of BJP MLA from Gharaunda, Harvinder Kalyan, at Bastara. Farmers from Punjab closed Bastara and Panipat toll plazas from midnight and allowed commuters to pass through without paying toll, while local farmers took over in the morning.  A farmer from Punjab celebrated his birthday at the dharna site. With 40,000 vehicles crossing the two toll plazas in 24 hours, toll-free movement has caused considerable revenue loss. Farmers also “shut down” Reliance petrol pumps in Fatehabad and Sirsa districts. Farmers gathered at four toll plazas – two at Chaudharywas and Badopatti on Rajgarh-Chandigarh highway and those at Ramayana and Landhari on Delhi-Sirsa highway -- in Hisar district in the morning and made these toll-free. Bharatiya Kisan Sabha spokesman Sube Singh Boora said a peaceful protest was held at the toll plazas from 9 am to 4 pm. Apart from ensuring toll-free passage at Bhavdeen and Khuiyan Malkana toll plaza in Sirsa district through the day, farmers staged a dharna at a corporate owned petrol pump on Sirsa road in Ellenabad and shut down the pump. Similarly, farmers made passage at four toll plazas in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar districts toll-free. Heavy police force was deputed by Ambala police at the Shambhu border on NH-44 on Saturday. Ambala superintendent of police Rajesh Kalia said, “We had intelligence inputs that there is an organized plan to march them (farmers) today.” Devi Nagar toll plaza in-charge Ravi Tiwari said, “The toll has been free since 12 am last night…farmers are saying that this will remain free till 12 am tonight.” Farmers made two toll points at Baddowal village on Hisar-Chandigarh highway and Khatkar toll plaza on Jind-Patiala national highway free for commuters in Jind and staged a dharna from 9am to 3pm. Several khaps representatives, including Sarvajtiya Daran, Khera khaps, and villagers converged on the plazas in the morning and made them free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-free-haryana-toll-plazas-for-day-stage-sit-ins/articleshow/79700296.cms||Sat Singh
December 13, 2020||Pune||State stays policy to convert leased govt plots to freehold||Nagpur/Pune: The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has imposed a stay on rules framed for giving freehold status to what is called collector’s land in Mumbai and MLR lands in other parts of Maharashtra.A few months before the state elections last year, the Devendra Fadnavis-led government had decided to free such land claiming that it has been the demand of people.Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI in Pune the stay was given to the earlier government’s decision on converting collector’s land into freehold land because a review revealed that it was not benefitting the people in need.“A few people were taking advantage of the clauses of the earlier gazette. Several clauses in it had anomalies,” he said.Thorat said the state government would study the order and the stay was “temporary” in nature. He added that the previous order had in a way affected the state government's exchequer.Joint secretary Ramesh Chavan, of revenue and forest department, issued a circular on December 10 to all divisional commissioners and collectors for implementation of stay with immediate effect. “The government had issued notification for conversion of its leasehold or occupied lands from occupancy class-II to class-I under The Maharashtra Land Revenue (Conversion of occupancy class-II and leasehold lands into occupancy class-I land) Rules 2019. Stay is being given for conversion from occupancy class-II to class-I till further orders of the government,” it reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-stays-policy-to-convert-leased-govt-plots-to-freehold/articleshow/79700295.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Talk of the town: With solar panels atop tractors, farmers stay mobile||NEW DELHI: It is 17 days since the farmers left their families behind and congregated at the Singhu border. The only way they can stay connected with home is through mobile phones. So, farmers have found creative ways to charge their mobile phones, some installing solar plates on their tractors, others using their tractor engine power to fuel their phones. Hardeep Singh of Karnal put up two solar panels behind his tractor. Singh, who as a member of Nirmal Kutiya Karnal, has engaged in langar service at the protest site, said, “At night, we require light to be able to distribute food. The 10 of us in the team need our phones to stay in touch with our family and to coordinate with the people who bring the food,” said Singh. The two panels are sufficient for these two objectives. Since Singh has installed solar panels back home, putting them up at Singhu was too difficult for him. On Saturday, there was no sun and people worried about the availability of solar power. Not Amandeep Sandhu of Bathinda, though. He has three sockets in the tractor to draw power from the engine. “Thankfully, some kind person has set up this system. I did not come in this tractor, so I cannot charge people who want to charge their phones any money,” said Sandhu. “My family members get worried if I don’t call them up, so I have to keep my phone charged.” Another protester was also using the arrangement made by the tractor owner. “We are far away from home and the phone is the only way to keep ourselves updated with news from back home,” he said. He was also thankful that someone had thoughtfully ensured a way for protestors to charge their phones. Many also go to Kessel Grand Mall, where some groups have acquired permission from the building owners to use the electricity connection for the washing machines they have installed and for people to charge their phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/talk-of-the-town-with-solar-panels-atop-tractors-farmers-stay-mobile/articleshow/79699641.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records 510 new Covid cases, three deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 510 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,75,025. The toll increased to 7,052 as three more people succumbed to the disease. Guntur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each. As many as 665 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 5,078 active cases with 8,62,895 cumulative recoveries and 7,052 fatalities. Chittoor reported 89 new infections on Saturday, followed by Krishna (82), Guntur (74) and West Godavari (60). The remaining nine districts recorded less than 50 cases. Active cases are less than 200 in four districts. All districts achieved at least 95% recovery rate, while three districts, Vizianagaram, Kurnool and West Godavari, crossed the 99% recovery rate mark. The state tested 67,495 Covid-19 samples and detected 510 new cases on Saturday, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.8%. AP’s mortality rate is 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-records-510-new-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/79699058.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Govt school students shine in RGUKT-CET||VIJAYAWADA: Students from government schools have performed well in the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledgeable and Technology (RGUKT)-CET examination. Education minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday released the results of the CET examination-2020. Gurram Vamshi Krishna, a student of AP Model School, Dachepalli of Guntur district and Pothuganti Jakeer Hussain from YSR Kadapa achieved top ranks in the examination with 99 marks. Admission in RGUKT is carried out every year based on the percentage of marks obtained by students in the SSC examinations. While the government did not conduct the examination this year on account of the Covid-19 outbreak and declared all students to have passed, it conducted for the first time an entrance examination for admission into RGUKT. Altogether 85,755 students appeared for the examination held on November 28. Counselling will start from January 4. The education minister congratulated the students who qualified in the examination. He also appreciated the efforts of RGUKT and the education department in conducting the CET exam. Suresh said the online admission system in Intermediate courses was introduced to control and monitor the colleges that are charging high fees from students. He warned of stringent action against colleges found ignoring standards and basic infrastructure. Later, the minister conducted a review meeting with directors and higher authorities of RGUKTs across the state. Suresh said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had focused on setting specific standards in education, which every institution should follow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-school-students-shine-in-rgukt-cet/articleshow/79699066.cms||Venu Lanka
December 13, 2020||Trichy||Treat legal profession as service, not money spinner: CJ to students||Trichy: Stating that legal profession should not be treated as an instant money earning machine, Chief Justice of the Madras high court Amreshwar Pratap Sahi exhorted graduating students of the Tamil Nadu National Law University (TNNLU) in Trichy to make the profession a service to mankind.The CJ, who took part in the convocation in his capacity as chancellor of the university, also appealed to the new graduates not to misuse the tool of litigation to foster their profession. CJ Sahi also pointed out the high expectations by the society from the legal profession, and particularly in the current trying times. He said that legal professionals cannot proceed on mere hypothesis because law requires perfection. CJ Sahi insisted legal professionals to acquire necessary skills and knowledge, and capacity for hard work. The chief justice said professional ethics not only governs the legal profession but also its future, and therefore advised the outgoing students that whenever they grapple with a problem they should handle it primarily on human considerations, and then only should apply the law.A total of 109 students received BA LL.B. (Hons.) degrees, 78 received B.Com. LL.B. (Hons.) degrees and six received LL.M. degrees while 17 meritorious students got gold medals/ endowment awards and prizes. A Sanjana won three medals, R Kirubakar and E Nandhinee two medals each and S Royal Raj one medal. Sanjana and Nandhinee were the women toppers in the UG programme for the batches of 2014-2019 and 2015-2020 respectively.Vice-chancellor, TNNLU, Prof VS Elizabeth presented a brief annual report of the university listing the new initiatives like establishing two new centres - legal centre for women’s welfare and legal centre for legal history of south India. The convocation, which was pre-recorded, was streamed on the TNNLU’s official YouTube channel on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/treat-legal-profession-as-service-not-money-spinner-cj-to-students/articleshow/79700299.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Trichy||No bungling in poll roll: Trichy collector||Trichy: Stating that the electoral roll of Trichy district remained free of any bungling, district collector S Sivarasu on Saturday appealed to the people to make use of the special summary revision to ensure a reliable electoral roll. He said the district should have 72% of voters on its electoral roll going by projection, but it had about 74% as of now. “If the electoral voters list has 72 % of voters in Trichy district, the electoral roll will be 100% reliable,” he said after inspecting the revision camps. Civil supplies commissioner and roll observer for the district, Sajjansingh R Chavan, accompanied him. Besides encouraging voters all age group to use the special summary revision camps for addition, deletion and correction, additional focus has been given for roping in young voters. The collector said the rate of voters in the 18 to 19 years group was low by 1.12% compared to the projected population. The available voters list showed 48,374 voters in the young voters category against the expected 85,000, he said. The revision camps held on November 21, 22 and continuous process till December 10 helped the election department receive 65,452 applications from all age groups. Election tahsildar K Muthusamy said the camps brought in around 23,000 young voters. Awareness programme were organised for college students online even during the Covid-19 pandemic. The collector said that new electoral photo identity card will be issued to voters from National Voters Day on January 25 after the release of the final voters list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-bungling-in-poll-roll-trichy-collector/articleshow/79700298.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Amritsar||What if your mother was out in cold: Sukhbir Singh Badal to PM Narendra Modi||AMRITSAR: How would have you felt if your family had been sitting out on roads on such freezing nights, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. “If your mother or other relatives had been sitting out in the cold, how would have you felt? All these people who are braving the cold are your family. All the farmers who are protesting in cold are your family members. Please understand their feelings, they are ‘annadata’. They made you the Prime Minister and if the ‘annadata’ is not happy how can you keep quiet,” Sukhbir asked Modi. He was talking to mediapersons here on Saturday. He was in Amritsar to begin an ‘akhand path’ on the completion of 100 years of SAD on December 14. He claimed that the party’s senior leadership deliberately chose not to go to Delhi to support the farmers agitation since it would have given a reason to the Centre to call it a “political struggle”. He said the party’s senior leadership may not be physically with the farmers on the borders of Delhi but their hearts and sentiments were with them. “We don’t want to enact any kind of drama as the Congress is doing,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/what-if-your-mother-was-out-in-cold-sukhbir-to-pm/articleshow/79700300.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Farmer unions on indefinite protest to back Delhi strike||Thiruvananthapuram: In solidarity with the protesting farmers at Singhu border of Delhi, an indefinite dharna was launched by joint council of farmers’ unions here. The protest was inaugurated in front of Martyr’s column by CPM PB member S Ramachandran Pillai on Saturday. “This is the fight for the right of life by farmers. Union government will have to concede defeat before the determination of hardworking farmers of the country,” said Pillai, who is also the national vice-president of all India Kisan Sabha, a feeder organization of CPM. “The protest by farmers has spread across the country. Within the last few weeks, two all-India hartals were organized in support of the protest. Lakhs of farmers have surrounded Delhi. Hundreds are joining them every day. Such movements have taken place twice or thrice after independence,” he said. CPI assistant secretary K Prakash Babu said mandi system in north India helped farmers against exploitation of middlemen. “In villages there were no mandis, farmers are still forced to sell their produce at cheap prices. That is why they have been insisting for continuation of APMCs,” he said. “Around 600 farmers’ unions have now joined the protest. That itself shows how deep-rooted the strike is and how genuine their demands are,” he said. Every day, a group of volunteers will stage a dharna from 10am to 7pm at the venue. There are plans to organize protest gatherings in each district in the coming days. Council secretary and CPM state secretariat member K N Balagopal urged all farmers in the state to come out in support of the protesting farmers. “The unilateral imposition of new farm laws would only lead to farmers being treated as slaves. The BJP leadership is only concerned about the welfare of corporate giants like Ambani and Adani,” said Balagopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/farmer-unions-on-indefinite-protest-to-back-delhi-strike/articleshow/79699702.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Wild things: Horses keep the spirits up||NEW DELHI: Apart from the sea of tractors and farmers at the protest at Singhu border, one cannot miss the horses near the main dais. Not only do they stand and form a barricade there, but once in a while they exhibit skills to entertain the crowd. Around 150 of them have come with the Nihang Sikhs and have been there for the last 17 days. On Saturday, Bhapala Wala got admiring looks when he stood on two hooves. Perhaps the oldest of the lot at 30 years, he was the subject of a many of the cameramen around. He also seemed to be annoyed as the people pressed in and neighed and jumped, but as Jarnail Singh, a Nihang Sikh, laughed and disclosed, “Bhapala is quite a naughty one.” His young caretaker, Sagar, 18, who prodded Bhapala to stand on his hooves, explained the horse’s behaviour as “excitement at seeing his friend Toofan Singh” and “a way for him to express his happiness”. Toofan Singh, however, is no proud Sikh but a shiny black horse. Both these horses have been with the Nihang Sikhs from the time they were 2-3 years old. Sagar added, “Right now, they are tethered at different places and that is why they were happy at seeing each other. The youngest of the equines is two-year-old Raja, while Jung, a brown spotted 14-year-old, is, with Toofan and Bhapala, the active ones of the team. Jung kept catching the visitors' attention on Saturday with his constant neighing. Asked how they were managing the feed for the horses, Nihang Sikh Sonu Singh responded, “There is no dearth of food here. Along with food for us, we also brought enough for the horses. Moreover, people who arrive here daily get something or the other for these animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wild-things-horses-keep-the-spirits-up/articleshow/79699686.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 13, 2020||Trichy||DVAC raids net Rs 5.4L from RTOs, sub-registrar offices||Trichy/Coimbatore: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted cash during surprise checks at sub registrar offices and RTOs in Trichy, Nagappattinam and Coimbatore on Friday and Saturday. During the surprise check at the office of the sub-registrars at Manapparai and Uppiliyapuram in Trichy, DVAC sleuths seized over Rs 2.3 lakh. One of the senior officials was in possession of more than Rs 1 lakh. In Manapparai, DVAC officials said that they found unaccounted cash of Rs 23,500 from a senior government officer and his private assistant who is not a government employee in the office. The cash was seized. The team also moved to a hotel room where the officer was staying and seized Rs 1.3 lakh from the room. The officials seized a total of Rs 1.5 lakh from both the premises of the officer. The officer and his assistant could not show the source for the cash. Sources said that DVAC, Trichy, was in the process of registering a first information report (FIR) against the officer and his assistant. Another team comprising inspectors Sakthivel, Xavier Rani and few others carried out the surprise check at the office of the sub-registrar at Uppiliyapuram. During the search, the team seized Rs 81,000 in total from inside and outside the office. DVAC officials suspect that the unaccounted cash was left abandoned by those in the office on getting tip-off about the surprise check. The FIR is likely to be registered over seizure of abandoned cash. In Nagappattinam, the DVAC team comprising Ramesh and Arul Priya seized Rs 1.8 lakh unaccounted cash at the RTO office in Nagappattinam. The cash was recovered from a senior officer and two more staff in the surprise checks late on Friday night. In Coimbatore, DVAC sleuths seized Rs 87,000 from officials at the regional transport office (RTO) check post at KG Chavadi. Motor vehicle inspector Saroja, assistant motor vehicle inspector Arul and office assistant Jayakumar were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act. At Gopalpuram, Rs 50,200 from officials at the RTO check post on Saturday morning. DVAC sleuths led by DSP T H Ganesh registered an FIR against motor vehicle inspector Senthilkumar, office assistant Srikanth and a tout Nazar under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dvac-raids-net-rs-5-4l-from-rtos-sub-registrar-offices/articleshow/79700301.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Trichy||250 held for blocking train in support of farmers’ protest||THANJAVUR: Police arrested 250 protesters including five women after they carried out a rail blockade on Saturday and attempted to besiege the central excise office in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi. Members of All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) also staged a demonstration near head post office demanding withdrawal of the recently passed three agriculture laws. CPI members conducted a signature campaign explaining about a sit-in protest planned from December 14 at the collector’s office. Headed by P Maniarasan, coordinator of Cauvery Rights Retrieval (CRR) Committee, around 200 people tried to lay siege to the office of the assistant commissioner of GST and Central Excise. However, police posted there intercepted them and asked them to disperse. When the protesters blocked the medical college road preventing vehicular traffic, police removed 150 of them including four women. A group of members of CRR Committee blocked the Trichy-Chennai Cholan Express at Budalur. Government Railway Police rushed to the spot and arrested 100 protesters. The AIDWA members raised slogans against the farm laws terming them destructive to farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/250-held-for-blocking-train-in-support-of-farmers-protest/articleshow/79700313.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Trichy||Rs 1.1 crore worth gold seized from 3 at Trichy airport||TRICHY: Sleuths from Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 2.17 kg of gold bars worth Rs 1.09 crore from three air passengers who arrived at the Trichy international airport from Singapore and Dubai, on Friday night. Based on a tip-off, officials from DRI conducted a surprise check with the passengers, who arrived from various destinations, at the airport. One passenger Suresh, a native of Cuddalore, who arrived from Singapore by Scoot Air was checked and 152 grams of gold bars were seized from him. The officials inquired two other passengers based on suspicion, who arrived from Dubai by Air India Express. They have been identified as Mohammed Sadique from Pazhayaru in Nagapattinam district and Mohammed Jiyavudeen from Thanjavur. On checking the duo, the officials seized 1.13 kg and 896 grams of gold bars. Further inquiries were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-1-1cr-worth-gold-seized-from-3-at-trichy-airport/articleshow/79700311.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Meerut||5 years on, tantrik gets lifefor raping & killing woman||Bijnor: Five years after luring and raping a woman inside his ashram and killing her with a trident, a local court in Amroha has served life sentence to a tantrik on Saturday. A fine of Rs 30,000 has also been slapped on him.The incident had occurred in Daurara village under Adampur police station in Amroha where the man, identified as Ramphool, had a small ashram on the outskirts.The woman, who was unwell, had approached Ramphool for treatment. The man called her to his ashram on October 30, 2015, and started raping her. When she resisted, the man killed her with a trident, and dumped her body in the nearby field.The police, after probing the case thoroughly, arrested the man and sent him to jail. He has been lodged in Moradabad prison, since.Amroha's assistant district government counsel, Sanjeev Kumar, confirmed the sentence passed by the additional district and sessions judge, Swapandeep Singhal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/5-years-on-tantrik-gets-lifefor-raping-killing-woman/articleshow/79699074.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Finish all construction works by Jan ahead of Kumbh: U’khand CM||Dehradun: With Kumbh Mela 2021 barely a few months away, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat reviewed the ongoing preparations in Haridwar on Saturday. He directed authorities to appoint a special Covid officer to ensure all medical facilities are made available during the key event. January 2021 has been set as the deadline for completion of all ongoing construction works. Rawat gave the right of financial approval of Rs 2 crore to the ‘mela adhikari’ (fair officer) and Rs 5 crore to the commissioner of Garhwal Mandal for other related works of the Kumbh Mela. He also constituted a committee of experienced engineers and senior finance officers to help the commissioner issue approval for related projects to the event. The CM told officials that attention should be given to the documentation, along with issuing SOP of the arrangements, which is to be done at the departmental level. He instructed to expedite the disposal of forest land transfer cases. He asked Haridwar district magistrate to ensure completion of all preparations beforehand. Health Secretary Amit Negi said that apart from the presence of Covid hospital, Covid centres have been established. He added that database management of Covid Control Room as well as documentation of its entire activities will be taken care of. He also asked the ‘mela adhikari’ to decide the outline for the vaccinations of the personnel working for the event. Inspector General of Police, Kumbh Mela, Sanjay Gunjyal, said that adequate security arrangements have been made. The state and Central police forces will be deployed in six zones, 24 sectors, 21 police stations, nine police lines, 23 police posts and 25 check posts in the area. Urban Development Secretary Shailesh Bagauli pointed out that a total of 124 construction works costing Rs 473 crore are being done at the various departmental levels at the moment. According to the instructions of chief secretary, Om Prakash, Kumbh Mela review meetings will now be held every Saturday in Haridwar and every Monday in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/finish-all-construction-works-by-jan-ahead-of-kumbh-ukhand-cm/articleshow/79699076.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 13, 2020||Amritsar||‘Apologise for Khalistan allegations’||AMRITSAR: The Centre was trying to defame the farmers’ struggle by linking it with separatists, anti-nationals and Khalistanis, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal alleged on Saturday. “It appears that whosoever disagrees with the central government is dubbed as separatist and anti-national. This is very unfortunate,” he added. The SAD president demanded an apology from the Union government and its ministers for “trying to defame the farmers”. “Those struggling for their rights are ‘annadata’, they have served the nation all their lives and their children are also serving the the nation,” he said. If farmers were separatists, then why was the Centre inviting them for meetings, he said, and at the same time cautioning against the forces and agencies that could be making attempts to create communal disharmony to divert attention. “As SAD president, I want to announce that party would make any sacrifice to maintain the peace and communal harmony of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/apologise-for-khalistan-allegations/articleshow/79700310.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 13, 2020||Trichy||Tender floated for completing Chennai arm of Trichy Jn RoB||Trichy: The state highways department has floated a tender to complete the pending civil work on the Trichy junction road over bridge (RoB) near Mannarpuram, even as the defence land required for completing it, has not been acquired. The development comes four years after the RoB work was stalled awaiting defence land acquisition. Authorities said that they are confident of securing the ‘enter upon’ permission from the defence ministry within this month.In its tender, the state highways department (projects) is expected to identify a suitable contractor by January 2021. The department has identified equivalent value land in the campus of the Tamil Nadu special police battalion in Mannarpuram adjacent to the defence land to compensate for the acquisition.According to an official source, the tender was launched on December 11 after the police and revenue departments and state government gave the no objection certificate for trading the police land.Once the enter upon permission is availed, the highways department will have to take up work on the 150m-long Chennai arm. Similarly, a service road for 7m wide and 180m in length is to be laid parallel to it. Sources said the department will send a team to Delhi in the next two weeks for meeting senior defence ministry and defence estate personnel to avail the permission. Welcoming the development, locals has sought the authorities to launch the work before the model code of conduct is implemented for next year’s assembly election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tender-floated-for-completing-chennai-arm-of-trichy-jn-rob/articleshow/79700302.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 13, 2020||Goa||Cash stolen from Mapusa church||SALIGAO: Mapusa police on Friday registered a case of theft against unidentified accused for stealing Rs 40,000 in cash from the office of St Jerome Church in the arterial North Goa town. Police said the thieves entered the church by cutting the iron grilles of a window. According to the complainant Emmanuel Fernandes, some unidentified persons entered the church premises at around 10.30am and committed the theft. Going by the scene of the crime, the accused appear to have sifted through the cupboards and desk drawers before laying their hands on the cash, police sources said. Police also said they have examined the CCTV footage of the church premises in a bid to obtain clues to solve the case. Two unidentified youth were observed to be in the premises in the footage. Further investigation is on under the supervision of sub-inspector Kiran Naik. Early last month, in a similar incident, Old Goa police had registered an FIR against an unidentified person for stealing Rs 55,000 and some recording equipment from the office of the Se Cathedral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cash-stolen-from-mapusa-church/articleshow/79701158.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: They’re all fired up to beat the cold||NEW DELHI: On a cold Saturday morning that saw some rain, the protesting farmers at Singhu border had to find different ways to keep themselves warm. So, while the younger ones played cricket, the older farmers lit fires or bundled themselves up in blankets. “How long can one sit doing nothing? Without activities, you only tend to feel colder,” said one of the cricket players, taking a break from the plastic ball-and-stump pastime. Jarnail Singh and some friends had lit a small fire to warm themselves. “The weather turned all of a sudden, and this is the best way to ward off the chill,” the Nihang Sikh said brightly. The group had also covered their horses with sheets. With the cold setting in unexpectedly, the protest organisers ordered mattresses, and two truckloads arrived on Saturday. Truck driver Sonu said, “We are delivering the consignment from Seemapuri. They are all newly made to meet the order we go.” Each truck had around 360 mattresses loaded on them. Most farmers were finding warmth in the confines of their tractor trolleys. Jaswinder, an elderly farmer, said, “It rained a bit in the morning, so it is fairly cold now and we are huddled up in our blankets.” Asked whether the weather wasn’t too harsh for them, his prompt response was, “Our tractor’s hood has double plastic layers to stop water from seeping in and we have plenty of blankets and mattresses.” For visitors to the protest site, the cold weather was not a deterrent. Satbir Singh, who stood near the Khalsa Aid tent watching the proceedings, said, “I live in Delhi and wanted to see the protest as I believe this is the largest ever of its sort ever in the country.” Like Satbir, many others had also arrived with their families to view the protest. Few children even took an opportunity to climb on empty tractors and pose for the cameras. Even a lawyers group marched to the Singhu border shouting slogans in support for the farmers and demanding the repeal of the three farm bills. Actor Zeeshan Ayyub also arrived at the protest site and urged others to do so, saying it was “an experience of its own”. On the dais, the coldness towards the central government was evident. SP Singh Oberoi of Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust announced he would return the Rashtrapati Award he had received, expressing his solidarity with the farmers and their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/theyre-all-fired-up-to-beat-the-cold/articleshow/79699719.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 13, 2020||Business||Trump admin’s fall agenda revisits plans to tighten H-1B rules||With just six weeks left for President-elect Joe Biden to step into the White House, the Trump administration continues to move ahead with its immigration plans which, if implemented, would make it challenging to hire H-1B workers owing to significant hikes in wages and narrower eligibility norms. Despite courts setting aside the earlier rules covering these issues (earlier introduced via a fast-track mode), the Trump administration proposes to re-introduce them. “The agendas that were released suggest that the federal agencies plan to try and finalise and implement a number of Trump’s longstanding immigration priorities, before the Biden administration is installed on January 20, 2021. It is unclear whether they would be able to do so,” Mitch Wexler, a California-based partner at Fragomen, a global immigration law firm, told TOI. The department of homeland security has on its agenda a proposal to revise the definition of specialty occupation to increase focus on obtaining the best and the brightest foreign nationals via the H-1B programme. It also proposes to revise the definition of the employer and employer-employee relationship, along with other changes to improve the integrity of the H-1B non-immigrant programme, and to better protect American worker’s wages. It may be recalled that this proposal was earlier introduced on October 8 as an interim final rule and was to be effective from December 7. As the process of considering public comments prior to implementation was not followed, the rule was set aside by a US district court. “The DHS is likely to seek to remedy this defect by considering the public comments received after October 8 and then issuing the rule as ‘final’ in the coming weeks,” Wexler said. Wexler added that the department of labour’s interim final rule that significantly hiked wages, with effect from October 8, is also on the regulatory agenda, despite being set aside by a federal district court. As reported by TOI, based on the court decisions, a few days ago, DOL had rescinded its interim final rule. Both the rules are expected to be published as final rules shortly, but it is unclear whether they would come into effect before the Biden administration is in place. Litigation would once again follow, once these rules are issued, say immigration experts. If the Trump government manages to reintroduce and implement these two rules, it would significantly impact Indians who constitute the largest chunk of beneficiaries of H-1B visas. The fall agenda also continues with the plan to rescind the programme that permits certain categories of spouses of H-1B visa holders to apply for employment authorisation. This is expected to be published as a ‘proposed regulation’ by December end and it is likely that the Biden government may not take the new proposal forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/trump-admins-fall-agenda-revisits-plans-to-tighten-h-1b-rules/articleshow/79701785.cms||Lubna Kably
December 13, 2020||Amritsar||Farm front: Centre trying to defame stir||BATHINDA: The working group of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) on Saturday hit out at the central government, saying it had been continuously trying to defame the movement of farmers because it did not wish to repeal the three recent farm acts and Electricity Bill 2020. In order to hide its adamant attitude, the Centre is resorting to these tactics, AIKSCC has said. In a statement issued on Saturday, AIKSCC said first the central government claimed that the entire movement of farmers was sponsored by political parties. “Then it said it is sponsored by foreign forces. Then it said it is a Punjab-specific movement which has pro-Khalistani forces or naxalites. Then they said famer unions have walked away from talks, even though unions participate in all talks explaining their position to the government asking it for a clear-cut stand on the laws. Fact is the government has no issue to talk about farmers,” said the statement. The statement read: “Having faced repression in Punjab initially, Punjab farmers had to brave through a merciless assault on them, barricades, excavated roads, water cannons in the cold, teargas shelling, to reach their own capital and talk to their government, and now it is (govt) blaming farmers first for intensifying their movement, then for speaking out against repression and illegal arrests. It is not clear what it wants to achieve by defaming its own farmers and its own citizens. Farmers want to know from the government as to whether this is part of its plan to promote foreign and Indian corporates.” It said farmers had exhaustively explained that the promotion of corporates in Indian agriculture markets, giving them the right to establish private mandis and engage farmers in contract agriculture will ruin existing securities of government mandis and raise input costs, indebt farmers and force their uprooting from land. “These laws will attack all existing rights which farmers have, including MSP. The government proposal has no formulation which can guarantee that farmers will not be indebted further, cost of inputs will be lowered, MSP at C2+50% will be guaranteed for all crops to all farmers, PDS (public distribution scheme) will continue, and there will be no hoarding and black marketing of food,” it said. AIKSCC stated that the government has released a new document ‘Putting Farmers First’, which stated that the new laws will put corporate agri business first. It said the only solution was to repeal the three farm acts and the Electricity Bill 2020 as the only solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farm-front-centre-trying-to-defame-stir/articleshow/79700317.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Hospital refuses to release baby’s body, family protests in Guntur||Vijayawada: Following the death of a new-born, family members staged a protest outside Blossoms Children’s Hospital in Guntur on Friday after the hospital allegedly refused to hand over the baby’s dead body before the family settled pending bills to the tune of Rs 3 lakh. According to police sources, a woman, identified as Mounika, gave birth to a baby boy on September 19. The new-born accidentally swallowed the amniotic fluid. This resulted in the baby being treated for three months at the children’s hospital. Subsequently, the child passed away. Doctors said they tried their level best but the child was in a critical condition to begin with. On the other hand, family members said they have already shelled out Rs 11 lakh for the child’s treatment. When the hospital demanded they settle the remaining Rs 3 lakh bill, family members said that they did not have a penny to spare. The hospital management allegedly remained adamant. Family members staged a protest outside the hospital demanding action against the management. Police reached the spot and tried to calm the situation. After negotiations, the hospital handed over the baby’s body to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hospital-refuses-to-release-babys-body-family-protests/articleshow/79699082.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Many quitting ‘Covid jobs’ to go back to old normal||Nagpur: Desperate times call for desperate measures. The Covid jobs bloodbath across all fields saw many people fending for themselves during the initial stages of the lockdown. With small businesses registering low revenues, many took to temporary jobs to make ends meet. From first-time vegetable vendors to drivers, the lockdown witnessed many ‘freshers’ sweating it out in unknown territories. Though the pandemic is not over yet, many of them are slowly crawling back to their original jobs and are getting the hang of things. A case in point is Milind Kushwah, a wedding caterer, who put the tempo he uses for his business to good effect and sold vegetables for six months. “Being a caterer, I knew from whom to buy veggies at wholesale rates. I had my contacts and I just put it to use. It helped me a lot during the lockdown. With weddings and parties happening now, I no longer need to sell vegetables. Whatever I earned was sufficient to sail through,” says the 38-year-old. Neeraj Bobde, a 32-year-old photographer, also had all his projects cancelled during the lockdown. Four months of working as a food delivery guy helped him stay afloat and now he’s back doing what he loves. “There are so many weddings happening these days. My hands are full. Even other than that, there as many projects in the pipeline that made me quit the food delivery job. Though I didn’t even get half of what I earn today, that job kept me going,” he says. A painter, Virendra sold fruits on the footpath near Ram Nagar Square till two months ago. “Diwali got me a few projects but since I was earning decent money by selling fruits, my wife decided to take over that job while I got back to my old job,” says Virendra. Another painter, Yashwant Dabharde worked as a helper with a vendor. “From July onwards, I have been getting work for almost 20 days a month. It feels good to be back,” he says. While some are opting to go back to their original jobs, there are a few others like Raju Moghe who have found their true calling during lockdown. Raju, who was a chef at a restaurant in Indore, was sacked and had to return to Nagpur. “I started a tarri poha joint near Katol Road square. Though the initial response was so-so, now I’m getting customers regularly. My profit is as much as the salary I used to get in Indore, but I’m my own boss here. Though my boss asked me to rejoin, I didn’t go. I plan to carry on with this,” says Raju. With paan shops selling cigarettes not being allowed to operate, Yogesh Thakur started selling daily needs items from his kiosk in Trimurti Nagar when lockdown was relaxed. “I got decent response, and though I continue to sell paan now, I've not stopped selling daily needs items as I have regular customers now,” says Yogesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-quitting-covid-jobs-to-go-back-to-old-normal/articleshow/79710436.cms||Sudhanshu Bisen
December 13, 2020||Trichy||Three dead, one injured as car overturns on NH near Viralimalai||Pudukottai: Three people were killed on the spot while another suffered injuries after a car in which the victims were travelling overturned on the Madurai-Trichy national highway and fell in a 20-foot deep gorge during on Saturday. They were heading towards Trichy.According to Viralimalai police, the deceased have been identified ad K Faisal Khani, 45, K Mohammed Rishad, 38 a native of Siddu Street, Aathikulam in Madurai, and A Abubakar, 49, Kodangi Naikanpatti in Dindigul. The car was driven by N Abuthahir alias Mohammed Safiyullah, 44, who sustained grievous injuries and has been admitted to a private hospital in Manapparai in Trichy. While they approached Pudukudipatti village near Kodumbalur Road on the highway, the driver lost control over the vehicle and subsequently, it overturned and fell a 20-foot deep roadside gorge, leaving three died on the spot. Bodies of the deceased were sent to Manapparai government hospital for post mortem. Based on the information, Viralimalai inspector M Velmurugan rushed to the spot with his team. While he was inquiring about the incident, a car heading towards Chennai from Madurai hit the police jeep, which was parked on the roadside, from behind leaving four in the car injured. No police personnel were injured in this incident. Police sent them to Viralimalai government hospital for treatment and arrested the driver G Azhagurajan, 49, a native of Chennai, and further inquiries are on, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-dead-one-injured-as-car-overturns-on-nh-near-viralimalai/articleshow/79700316.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Combine operators to head for Delhi’||PATIALA: A large number of combine operators from Punjab might move towards Delhi borders and join the farmers’ protest against the three central farm laws, said one such operator who is coordinating the movement. Though there is no union or organisation of combine harvesters in Punjab, nearly all of them are farmers and attached to farm unions. On Friday, a number of combine operators gathered at Moonak grain market in Sangrur district to move towards Delhi, but they postponed their plan to take along many other combine operators in one go. “We have decided to join the protest on Delhi borders and planned to move with more than 250 combines. These combines will reach borders of Delhi, including Tikri and Singhu. On Friday, we could not move as some combine operators could not reach. Later, we decided to take along other operators too and, thus, we contacted many of them. It will cost each combine operator Rs 8,000 to reach Delhi and return from there. Many operators are also farmers. Where would we use these combines if farming comes under corporate houses?” said Ranveer Singh, a combine operator from a village in Sangrur who is among the people who are coordinating the movement. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) leaders hailed the initiative. “This will be a boost go the farmers protest,” BKU (Ekta Ugrahan} general secretary Sukhdev Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/combine-operators-to-head-for-delhi/articleshow/79700315.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 13, 2020||Meerut||Man dies at wedding, family allegesmurder, cops say celebratory firing||MEERUT: A man was allegedly shot dead during a wedding function in the Sardhana area of Meerut district on Thursday night. Police claimed the deceased was killed during celebratory fire at the wedding, while the man's family in their complaint have alleged it to be a case of premeditated murder. Family of the deceased Monu, resident of Sakauti village within Daurala police station limits in Meerut, was informed about the incident on Friday, almost 12 hours later, after cops traced the whereabouts of the deceased. Based on complaint of Monu's brother, an FIR under section of murder has been registered against the bride's father and other unidentified suspects late on Friday. "We learnt that Monu went to attend a wedding in Ahmedabad village where Samarpal and other unidentified suspects shot him dead in a premeditated murder," Sonu, brother of the deceased, said. Later on Saturday, locals led by the family staged a protest demanding action against the accused and compensation for the man's immediate family. Police maintain Monu died due to gunshot injury in the celebratory fire at the wedding. But, the cops are yet to trace the suspects behind the firing incident. "We have registered an FIR based on the complaint of family of the deceased," SP (Rural) Keshav Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-dies-at-wedding-family-allegesmurder-cops-say-celebratory-firing/articleshow/79699089.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Protests at barriers in Punjab too||BATHINDA: Farm organisations staged demonstrations at toll plazas in Punjab as part of a nationwide protest against the three recent agricultural laws on Saturday. In Punjab, farm groups have already shut down fee collection operations at all toll plazas for 73 days, so farmers only protested at toll plazas as part of the nationwide call given by farm unions to shut down operations at the plazas. Farm organisations announced to intensify protests till the central government did not agree to their demands. Apart from plazas, farm activists also renewed protests at shopping malls and company-owned petrol pumps of Reliance Group. “Though toll plazas are virtually under the command of farm organisations in Punjab for nearly two and half months, we renewed our protest at these places to tell the government about our opposition to the laws. Farmers will continue to shut operations at toll plazas,” said farm organisation BKU Ejta Ugrahan’s Bathinda secretary, Mothu Singh Kotda. Toll plazas at Lehra Bega and Jeeda in Bathinda attracted a large number of protesters. On October 1, farmers had shut down the operations oftoll plazas in Punjab, causing a loss of hundreds of crores in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protests-at-barriers-in-punjab-too/articleshow/79700319.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Toll losses in Haryana suffer loss of about Rs 80 lakh-Rs 1.2 crore||CHANDIGARH: Toll plazas in Haryana suffered loss of around Rs 80 lakh to Rs 1.20 crore on account of seizure of tolls by farmers across the state. Worst affected tolls were those in Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar districts where National Highways connect with New Delhi. Sources said around 40,000 vehicles pass through Karnal and Panipat toll plazas every day while Rohtak toll plazas on Panipat-Gohana-Rohtak roads also have heavy traffic flow on Jaipur-Ajmer route. The situation in Panchkula’s Chandimandir toll plaza is similar. Toll employees will compile the data on Sunday, said sources in government offices. They also said no untoward incidents were reported during the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/toll-losses-in-state-between-rs-80l-rs-1-2cr/articleshow/79700322.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fear of Covid and disdain for turncoats keep voters away||PANAJI: The fear of Covid, party-hopping politicians and lack of powers given to zilla panchayat members kept many people away from polling stations on Saturday. A family in Raia decided not to cast their vote stating that the election wouldn’t impact them in any way. “I don’t even know who the candidates are and which parties they represent. It’s an unimportant election,” one of the members said. Another, scarred by the en masse defection of MLAs, said there was no point casting her vote. In Corlim, a senior citizen and her daughter, who never miss an election, decided to skip it this year. “My mother was keen to vote, but she has been indoors all these months,” the daughter told TOI. “I told her it was not worth risking it for this election. We were told that it’s not a significant election, and only a prestige issue for the candidates. My mother was upset because we never waste our vote. I promised her we will definitely vote for change in the next election.” In Pale, a voter was disappointed to find the None Of The Above (NOTA) option missing. “I expected NOTA to be there. It’s the only opportunity we have to express our displeasure of candidates and parties. I was looking for change. Our elections are in a sense a farce.” “MLAs shouldn’t be permitted to switch parties without going back to the people,” he added. “It’s like giving them an irrevocable power of attorney to do what they want. We voted for them because they contested from a particular party, because of the ideology, and what they promised. The electorate should have the power to call them back. If they want to jump to another party, they should resign and contest again.” A voter said that he wants to see a change in law to prevent defections. “The anti-defection law hasn’t helped,” he said. “There’s no sense in voting. Before the election they criticise a particular party, and after the election they’re supporting the party. After voting for them, a voter is just helpless watching them jump from one party to another. They should be answerable to the people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fear-of-covid-and-disdain-for-turncoats-keep-voters-away/articleshow/79701233.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: February deadline for putting all citizen services online||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has set February 2021 as the deadline for making all remaining citizen services related to transport, revenue, labour, social welfare, and food and supplies departments online. Many citizen services, which were available at physical counters, have started going online since 2015. Of the 439 government-to-citizen services, 365 are already online. The move will ensure ease of use, speed, security, convenience and flexibility, said a source. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Friday reviewed the status of the digital delivery of services in Delhi along with chief secretary Vijay Dev, the secretary-IT and heads of various departments. “Stressed on the need to facilitate access and use of online services by the general public through various modes and on adherence to timelines for delivery of services,” Baijal tweeted. The LG also stressed on the periodic audit of the security systems and technology platforms for making digital options stronger and more efficient. Baijal directed the officials to stick to the deadline of February 2021 for achieving total compliance, said a source who attended the meeting. “Of the 253 services that will be integrated with the e-SLA (service-level agreement), 156 have already been done,” said an official. E-SLA is an e-governance initiative of Delhi government. Some basic services like issuance of caste certificate went online in May 2015, issuance of land status report in September 2016, mutation in 2017 and Delhi pension scheme for women in distress in 2018. In the wake of Covid-19, many services, such as transfer of ration card within Delhi, conductor licence, renewal of trade licence, issuance of duplicate learner’s licence and transfer of permit, went online in November and December this year. Among the online services, 100 are also available under Delhi government’s the doorstep delivery of services scheme, which resumed in September after being suspended for five months due to the pandemic. Besides people’s convenience, the introduction of these facilities has resulted in reduction of crowd at various government offices such as those of subdivisional magistrates and transport department, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/feb-deadline-for-putting-all-citizen-services-online/articleshow/79699766.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AU invites applications for integrated MBA prog||Visakhapatnam: Andhra University (AU) is inviting applications to its five-year integrated BBA-MBA programme. Speaking to the media here in the varsity on Saturday, AU registrar Professor V Krishna Mohan said the programme will be offered to both domestic and international students in line with the National Educational Policy-2020 envisaged by the Union government. “The course is meticulously designed to equip students with the knowledge, skills and expertise needed for the ever-changing business world. It would promise a rich career potential in the context of emerging global opportunities,” said Prof Krishna Mohan. Students will be selected based on a group discussion and personal interview, while following the rule of reservation. “The course would have multiple entry-exit options. Eligibility is 10+2 from a recognised university/board with 50% marks or equivalent CGPA. The application process commenced on December 9,” said Prof Krishna Mohan. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-invites-applications-for-integrated-mba-prog/articleshow/79699101.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Online registration starts for MBBS mop-up counselling||Thiruvananthapuram: Mop-up counselling options for admission to MBBS course for the 2020-21 academic year can be submitted online from December 12 to 16. Seats that remain vacant post second allotment are filled through mop-up counselling. Options can be submitted till 10am on December 16, an official statement from the office of the commissioner for entrance examinations said. Those who have already got admission to MBBS/BDS seats through all India counselling will not be considered during this mop-up exercise. The set of instructions regarding mop-up counselling would be published later on CEE’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/online-registration-starts-for-mbbs-mop-up-counselling/articleshow/79699778.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Amid Covid, 57% of rural Goa votes, keeps parties guessing||PANAJI/ MARGAO: Amidst the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic, a groundswell of emotions over anti-coal protests, and a marked absence of election fever, nearly 4.5 lakh out of a total 8 lakh registered voters on Saturday turned up at the polling booths across the state to elect their representatives for the state’s two zilla panchayats. A voter turnout of 56.8% was recorded for the polls—58.4% in North Goa and 55% in South Goa—compared to 66.4% in 2015. A TOI survey conducted to gauge the pulse of the people ahead of ZP polls had revealed that the voter turnout for the ZP elections would be lesser compared to 2015 ZP elections owing to the pandemic. Fears about the coronavirus apart, poll watchers attributed the cause of low voter turnout to lack of motivation among the electorate, as the zilla pachayat bodies have been relegated to obscurity in so far as their role in the development of the state is concerned. But there were many who, given a choice, would have preferred NOTA. “I didn’t want to vote for any of the candidates, but with no NOTA option provided on the ballot paper, I was denied my right to reject all the contesting candidates,” said Suhas Dessai, a voter from Valkini, Sanguem. Lawyer Amar Naik from Sanguem said that non-provision of NOTA option was a violation of the Supreme Court order. Political observers said there was no incentive for the voter at all in the ZP polls. “As the ZP members have neither the powers nor the funds at their disposal for development, there is no incentive for the voter to vote,” they said. Secondly, they said the state election commission “miserably failed” in creating an effective voter awareness campaign. “As there was an over eight-month gap between the end of the campaign period and the day of polling, the election euphoria had died down.” With various agitations plaguing the state including over the three Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects, besides issues of unemployment, non-resumption of mining activities, tourism activities taking a hit due to Covid-19, etc. the opposition parties tried to make political capital of the protests with a view to keep the issues burning till the 2022 assembly elections. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, however, discounted these issues and exuded confidence of winning both the ZP bodies. Significantly, the highest voter turnout of 77.4 % was recorded at Pale in North Goa, a part of Sawant’s home constituency. Political observers view this development as a reflection of Sawant’s growing popularity among his voters. In South Goa, while most of the traditional Congress stronghold constituencies in Salcete taluka registered a relatively low polling percentage, a larger turnout was witnessed in Quepem and Sanguem talukas, which are traditional bastions of the saffron party. Despite being the epicentre of anti-coal protests, Salcete, which has eight ZP constituencies, recorded a low turnout of roughly 47% leading poll observers to believe that the protests may have had not much impact on the polls. The large turnout in traditional BJP bastions of hinterland South Goa, on the other hand, political observers feel, is likely to give BJP the decisive edge in the polls. The counting of votes is scheduled to be held on December 14 from 8am onwards at 15 notified counting centres, six in North Goa and nine in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-covid-57-of-rural-goa-votes-keeps-parties-guessing/articleshow/79700323.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Virus-hit Xmas hits a key note with virtual concert||NEW DELHI: Usually every year, after the last Sunday of November, colleagues and friends would start bringing homemade cakes to office or proffer invites to carol-singing sessions. This year though, thanks to the Covid pandemic, is unlike any other year. While the Advent season began a fortnight ago without the usual celebrations due to the ban on mass gatherings, Norris Pritam and his friends at YMCA ensured that listening to organ music in the Christmas season didn't become a pipe dream. In what turned out to be a unique online activity, New Delhi YMCA organised a pipe-organ concert on Sunday with artists from across the world playing Yuletide music. Commodore Champion started the celebrations by playing O little town of Bethlehem, followed by the equally melodious Joy to the world rendition by Rajdeep Singh from Jharkhand. Manish Ecka, also from Jharkhand, set the tone for the rest of the evening which was then taken a few notches higher by Kim’s performance at Seoul Church, South Korea, Joshua Virender’s O come all ye faithful from Secunderabad, Lydia Joan’s mesmerising performance of Angels from the realms of glory and Amarjeet’s very own touch to Shepherds in the field abiding played on a unique pipe organ at La Martiniere Chapel, Lucknow. As each of the nine performers showcased their prowess on the organ with the perfect usage of pedalboards and stops, not many believed this was first such performance of its kind, for most of the listeners were mistaken into believing that like, in the past 30 years, they were enjoying the Festival of Choirs that New Delhi YMCA organises in December prior to Christmas. Apart from ushering in the festivities, there were also prayers for the recovery of the many who are ailing, particularly from Covid, for strength to those who lost their dear ones and a desire to bring cheer to people in a gloomy year. Pritam hoped the coming year would be disease-free and one when people could enjoy outdoor choir performances. Markus Kraus’ Beethoven performance from Germany, Andrew Bhagyanathan’s participation from St Andrew’s Church, Bengaluru, and Lydia’s O come, O come, Emmanuel were what one sorely missed this year. Most viewers expressed happiness that the online concert managed to get them into the Christmas mood after some difficult months and thanked the performers for injecting hope into a gloomy season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virus-hit-xmas-hits-a-key-note-with-virtual-concert/articleshow/79699783.cms||Amin Ali
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Hours-long traffic jam at Vizag’s NAD Jn||Visakhapatnam: The Port City saw an unusual hours-long traffic jam at NAD Kotha Road Junction on Saturday. Traffic came to a standstill at the five-km stretch surrounding NAD Junction. Traffic police have attributed the rush to the holiday season. The number of vehicles on National Highway (NH)-16 increased quite suddenly as commuters from the outskirts came out on roads, a police official said. People on their way to the airport stood stuck in traffic just one kilometre away from their destination. The traffic jam was so thick that even two-wheelers struggled to manoeuvre. Flyover construction works currently underway have significantly reduced the width of the NAD Junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hours-long-traffic-jam-at-vizags-nad-jn/articleshow/79699117.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Meerut||Thundershowers, hailstorm lash west UP dists, dropping mercury by a few notches||Muzaffarnagar/Bareilly/Agra: Thundershowers and hailstorm lashed several districts of western Uttar Pradesh in early hours of Saturday bringing mercury a few notches down and making people shiver. A thick sheet of hails enveloped parts of Muzaffarnagar and an earthmover had to be called in to clear the roads. Farmers in both Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar districts, however, feared the loss of crops. Sisauli, the native village of several Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders in Muzaffarnagar district, saw hailstorm damaging crops and covering several streets with thick white sheets of hails. “Hail damaged sugarcane and mustard crops. We had to call an earthmover to remove hails from the roads,” said Sachin Kumar, a village resident. Meanwhile, demanding compensation, BKU national president Naresh Tikait said, “Mustard crop was damaged badly, and thus, the administration should provide compensation to the farmers.” District additional magistrate (finance) Alok Kumar, meanwhile, said, “We have instructed tehsildar to survey the damaged crops for awarding compensation.” Pan Singh Tomar, an assistant scientist with the meteorological department in Muzaffarnagar, said the thundershowers and hailstorm brought the temperature down by a few degrees. The temperature dipped in Moradabad district after heavy rains and hailstorm at several places on Saturday. The minimum was recorded at 11 degrees Celsius and the maximum at 23 degrees as against 29 degrees Celsius on Friday. Meanwhile, the fog hung over Agra region early Saturday morning, but cold winds blowing at a speed of 10 km per hour dispersed it as the day progressed. However, the chill remained the whole day. The city recorded a maximum of 24 degrees Celsius while the minimum dropped to 14 degrees. Chilly winds swept through neighbouring districts of Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degrees Celsius while the maximum remained at 22 degrees. According to the metrological department, Agra region is likely to witness moderate fog in the morning and evening for the next five days, while mercury — both minimum and maximum — is likely to dip by two degrees. Dense fog is likely on December 15 and 16. (With inputs from Deepak Lavania in Agra and Kanwardeep Singh in Bareilly)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/thundershowers-hailstorm-lash-west-updists-dropping-mercury-by-a-few-notches/articleshow/79699116.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Dumping yard at Ajith Singh Nagar to turn theme park||Vijayawada: The dumping yard at Ajith Singh Nagar, a cause for concern among residents, is now being turned into a theme park. Nearly 40 per cent of the work to turn the 13.75-acre dumping yard is done and work is on to complete the project by November 2021. For years, residents of Vambey Colony, Devi Nagar, Kandrika and Payakapuram areas have been complaining of fumes from the piles of garbage at the dumping yard causing breathing troubles. People living in the area, along with Left parties, have been demanding the relocation of the dumping yard for nearly a decade. Responding to complaints, the dumping yard was moved to Pathapadu and a transfer station continued at Ajith Singh Nagar. Subsequently, the erstwhile TDP government started bio-mining of garbage and cleared 3.5 lakh tonnes of garbage spending Rs 13crore. Following the elections, the YSRC government laid the foundation for the park at the dumping yard at a cost of Rs 15 crore. Speaking to TOI, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said, “The first phase of works is going on at a fast pace as works are going on round-the-clock. Plantation works are going on along ground levelling and landscaping.” The first phase of the works will include: the main entrance, performance area, central park, playing area, food vending zones and nurseries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dumping-yard-at-ajith-singh-nagar-to-turn-theme-park/articleshow/79699153.cms||Venu Lanka
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||After tractors, bikes face of movement in Punjab||JIND: After tractors trolleys, Punjabi youth and farmers have now started heading toward Delhi borders on bikes, travelling over 300 kilometres in the winter. Students, farmers and people involved in agricultural activities are among those joining the protest. The youths said they were moved by the sight of senior citizens camping at Delhi borders to protest against the three agricultural laws of the Centre. They also have Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) flags on their bikes. On Saturday, people from Barnala, Patiala, Sangrur, Khanna, Bhatinda and other parts of Punjab were seen heading toward Tikri border in Delhi. Lovepreet Singh, a Class XII student of Kalyan Sukh village, Bathinda, who joined the protest with a friend, said, “We didn’t get a vehicle to go to the protest in so we decided to march on bikes. This is the first time in our lives that we are forced to travel 350 kilometres due to the PM’s egoistic attitude towards farmers. Our elderly people are staging dharna at Delhi borders, so we could not stop ourselves from coming out to join the protest. We take a short rest every 100 kilometres and start the journey again.” Avtar Singh, a resident of Sangrur district in Punjab, who was carrying goods on a bike, said, “I have parked my tractor and trolley at Tikri border for fellow farmers and am now making rounds on bike to ferry necessary articles. I have been travelling 250 kilometres on one side for the past few days. Our protest is peaceful but the Centre is trying to break and defame it using unfair means. Farmers in tractor trolleys, cars, jeeps, trucks, buses and bikes are marching towards Delhi. Every section of society has come together in support of farmers and we will win.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-tractors-bikes-face-of-movement/articleshow/79700330.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||PhD scholar arrested for illegally manufacturing mephedrone||Hyderabad: Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths busted major interstate a mephedrone manufacturing racket and arrested a PhD holder in Chemistry for manufacturing the narcotic substance. The accused has been working for a Mumbai-based cartel for the past year and he has already supplied them with 100 kilos of contraband. The arrested accused are Srinivasa Rao, 45, a Phd holder in Chemistry and Mohammed Ashraf, an associate of Mumbai-based drug supply gang. Srinivasa Rao has been operating a small drug manufacturing unit independently for the past year based on the directions of the Mumbai-based gang. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of DRI’s Hyderabad Zonal Unit raided at the manufacturing unit in Jeedimetla industrial area and arrested both Srinivasa Rao and Mohammed Ashraf on Friday. The DRI team seized 3.1 kilograms of mephedrone worth Rs 63.1 lakh from their possession. During the subsequent searches conducted at Srinivasa Rao’s house, DRI sleuths seized Rs 12.4 lakh cash and 112 grams of mephedrone samples of different purities. Apart from mephedrone, the law enforcement agency also seized 210.5 kilos of raw materials procured by Rao from the Mumbai gang to manufacture more mephedrone at Jeedimetla lab. “From the raw material seized, the accused could have manufactured 15-20 kilos of mephedrone,” said a DRI official. During interrogation, Srinivasa Rao confessed that he has a PhD in Chemistry and worked in the pharma sector before ‘breaking bad’. Rao also told the DRI team that he supplied over 100 kilos of mephedrone in the past year. The DRI believes the gang is exporting the drug, apart from selling some of it in Mumbai, Goa and Delhi. The accused were produced before the court and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/phd-scholar-arrested-for-illegally-manufacturing-mephedrone/articleshow/79699787.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Meerut||Day after FIR lodged in gang-rape case, survivor marries an accused||BIJNOR: A day after an FIR was lodged against six men based on allegations of gang-rape in a moving car, the survivor married one of the accused on Friday evening. Police learnt about the wedding after the nikahnama was circulated on social media. The FIR was lodged on Friday at Didaoli station in Amroha. The complaint was lodged a week earlier. All the six men are at large. Amroha’s additional superintendent of police Ajay Pratap Singh on Saturday said the wedding was solemnized in Moradabad as indicated by the nikahnama. Police had already filed a case. Now, they would summon the survivor to come and record her statement, on the basis of which further action would be initiated, he added. In her complaint to police, the survivor had claimed to be 17 years old. However, in the nikahnama, her age was shown as 20. The girl had said, during her school days in Delhi, she met a neighbourhood youth, Mujeeb Ahmed, and fell in love with him. He allegedly raped her on the pretext of marriage. When she insisted on marriage, he filmed her in a compromising position. Thereafter, he raped her repeatedly by threatening to upload the video on social media. On October 21, Ahmed allegedly called the survivor in Amroha’s Joya bus stand by promising to delete the video. When girl reached there, he and a friend arrived in a car and allegedly abducted her. They took turns to rape her in the car while driving around and filmed the act, the girl had claimed. Later, the duo handed her over to their friends. They also gang-raped her in another moving car on way to Ghaziabad, the survivor had alleged in her complaint. Then, they threw her out on the road, threatening her with dire consequences if she told anyone what had happened. An autorickshaw driver helped her to return home. On November 28, she narrated her ordeal to her parents. And only a week ago, they took her to the police station to lodge a complaint. Based on the complaint, an FIR under relevant sections was registered at Didauli police station on Friday against Mujeeb Ahmed and his friends, Zaki Pasha from Turq colony of Amroha, Waseem of Tikiya colony, Anas Pasha of Sinora, Jamshed of Jiwai and Haseeb from Joya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/day-after-fir-lodged-in-gang-rape-case-survivor-marries-an-accused/articleshow/79699149.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 13, 2020||Madurai||HC recalls order after advocate alleges injustice in open court||MADURAI: Expressing discontent over allegations made against the court, Madras high court on Friday recalled an order minutes after it was pronounced following a woman counsel’s outcry of injustice in open court claiming that it was passed without hearing her. The incident happened during a virtual hearing when a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi pronounced an order in a writ appeal which was the first item in the cause list before the court on Friday morning. Since the respondent counsel claimed there was injustice, Justice Pugalendhi read out the entire order in which the submissions of the respondent counsel were also recorded. The judges observed that the counsel appearing for the respondent, on knowing that the matter had gone against her, started making allegations against the court saying injustice had been done. The counsel further submitted that it was very unfortunate that the court had passed the judgment without hearing her arguments and she was under the impression that the writ appeal would be dismissed. "Whatever may be the proceedings or the result of the proceedings, a senior member of the Bar ought not have stooped down to the level of making allegations against this court. We are pained by the representation made by the counsel appearing for the respondent, who was a leader of the Bar for some time and also a senior member. If this kind of attitude is going to be encouraged, it will send a wrong message to the juniors, who are all watching the court proceedings," observed the judges. The court said the counsel’s outcry for the respondent amounts to contempt of court and also needs a reference to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for disciplinary proceedings. However, taking into consideration that she has a grievance and needs to be heard further in detail, the court will provide one more opportunity to the counsel to put forth her further arguments. Hence the judges recalled the order and posted the writ appeal for hearing on December 14. The case refers to the Pandi Muneeswarar temple in Madurai whose hereditary trustee-cum-pujari was placed under suspension for having committed irregularities. His wife P Kumudha filed a petition seeking permission to do puja at the temple in 2018. The single judge had allowed the petitioner to perform puja as an interim arrangement and directed to deposit the plate collection in a separate account. Subsequently, Kumudha filed a miscellaneous petition seeking a modification of the earlier order on which the single judge directed the authorities to disperse half the share of collection. The present writ appeal was filed by the HR&CE challenging the release of money in favour of Kumudha and the division bench pronounced an order allowing the appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-recalls-order-after-advocate-alleges-injustice-in-open-court/articleshow/79700332.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM using DGP to sabotage probe: KPCC chief||Thiruvananthapuram: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said that DGP Loknath Behera had a secret meeting with Customs House commissioner in Kochi recently. He alleged that the meeting that lasted for 90 minutes was part of a conspiracy to sabotage the ongoing customs probe into the gold smuggling case. “The chief minister made an unexpected move using the DGP as the probe has reached the final phase and names of more CPM leaders got involved in the case. The Kerala DGP is working as an aide of the chief minister. The DGP has stooped to the level of a broker of the CPM,” Ramachandran said in a statement. Reiterating his allegation that there was an understanding between the CPM and BJP on the investigation by central agencies, Ramachandran said an astrologer from north Kerala, who is connected to BJP central leaders, is the mediator of the deal between both parties. “The BJP central leadership is monitoring the probe daily. There is a criminal laxity in interrogating CM’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran. Investigating agencies are providing ample time for the suspects to destroy evidence,” he said. The KPCC chief also alleged that Pinarayi Vijayan, who is now in his native village, has converted the convention centre at Pinarayi into a centre for secret operations and meetings. “It has been revealed that secret statements by gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh and Sarith name a few ministers, CPM leaders and their family members. The absence of the CM from the campaign scene and his involvement in the secret operations are mysterious,” Ramachandran said. Asked about the KPCC president’s remarks, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said somebody would have to seek the service of another astrologer to find who the astrologer he was referring to. “My request to him is to be a little more serious in politics,” the CM said, dismissing the allegations. “Also, my decision to keep away from physical campaign is for ensuring the adherence to Covid-19 protocol. At present, only 100 people can attend a public function,” Vijayan told reporters during an online news conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-using-dgp-to-sabotage-probe-kpcc-chief/articleshow/79699792.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||KGH-AMC buildings set for Rs 500cr revamp||Visakhapatnam: New buildings and blocks will be constructed at King George Hospital (KGH) and Andhra Medical College (AMC) under the government’s Nadu-Nedu scheme from 2021 at a cost of over Rs 500 crore. Of the Rs 500 crore, Rs 180 crore will be spent on re-construction of the medical college building and bringing all departments under one roof. Another Rs 380 crore has been earmarked for revamping KGH by constructing four blocks and demolishing the old ones. Till the new blocks come up, some departments including gynaecology, cardiology, orthopaedics and cardiothoracic surgery will be shifted for nearly three years to Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). Director of medical education (DME) Dr K Venkatesh conducted a meeting recently in the office of the principal, AMC, to finalise the proposal for new buildings. He held discussions with principal Dr P V Sudhakar and KGH superintendent Dr P Mythili, executive engineer of AP Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) Umesh Kumar and architects from New Delhi. Speaking to STOI about the upcoming changes for modernisation of the hospital and medical college, Dr P V Sudhakar said, “For AMC, Rs 120 crore will be spent to modernise the medical college building and bring all departments, library, examination and seminar halls in one building with multiple floors. Existing physiology and anatomy blocks would be demolished and these departments would be shifted to this new building.” As for the Rs 380-crore KGH project, current blocks of orthopaedics, gynaecology and obstetrics, cardiology and cardiothoracic surgery will be demolished and function from VIMS once the government order and funding arrive and construction begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kgh-amc-buildings-set-for-rs-500cr-revamp/articleshow/79699170.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Dowry harassment case lodged against SDM posted in Balrampur||Rudrapur: After an order from the district and sessions court, the city police registered a case against a PCS officer posted as sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Balrampur district of Uttar Pradesh under the charges of dowry harassment. A probe has also been initiated in the case and six other family members of the SDM have also been booked. The official, Arun Kumar Gaud, and his family have been accused of harassment for dowry by his wife Rinky, a resident of Danpur locality under Keeratpur village, located at Kashipur road. It has been learnt that besides the PCS, the police have also booked his father, sister, mother, and three others belonging to the Gaud family. Rinky, in her complaint, has stated that she got married to Arun — a resident of Deoria district of Uttar Pradesh — on December 15, 2018. Subsequently, she shifted to Ukraini tehsil with her husband where he was posted as SDM. She alleges that Arun would physically assault her and demand a dowry amount of Rs 30 lakh. When she apprised her in-laws of the matter, they allegedly favored their son. Later on April 7, 2020, they allegedly snatched all gold jewelry in Rinky’s possession and expelled her from home. Following this, she approached the police but her complaint was not filed after which she moved the court. NN Pant, SHO of the Rudrapur police station, said, “A case has been registered and we have initiated the probe. We will record statements of the victim and the accused soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dowry-harassment-case-lodged-against-sdm-posted-in-balrampur/articleshow/79699139.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Accused attacks cop during arrest bid||Tenkasi: A policeman suffered a cut injury on his head when an accused in a theft case attacked him with a machete while the cop was trying to nab him at his house in Tenkasi in the wee hours of Saturday. Sakthivel, 35, attached to Ilathur station suffered a cut near the left ear that needed 17 stitches and also suffered a minor injury on his skull. “The constable is out of danger and has been shifted to the general ward of Tenkasi government hospital,” SP G Suguna Singh told TOI. Four special teams have been formed to nab the accused Paul Dinakaran, 30, who was holed up in his house at Urmeni Alagiyanpuram village near Sambavarvadakarai. A serial offender, he has more than 20 theft cases against him in various districts. Around 11 pm on Friday, he broke into a car accessories shop and fled with a mobile phone and cash. Based on witnesses accounts, three policemen led by an SI went to his house around 1 am and even recovered the stolen phone and cash. When they tried to nab the man who was inebriated, he swung his machete which landed on constable Sakthivel’s head. Special teams surrounded his house and continued to keep vigil without directly arresting him to avoid causing any harm to him or police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accused-attacks-cop-during-arrest-bid/articleshow/79700336.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Man falls from hotel window, dies||Mussoorie: A 29-year-old man died after falling from the window of a hotel room on Saturday morning. The man was staying in a room on the third floor of the hotel, located on the Mall road. Later, the body was handed over to the bereaved family after post mortem. According to police, the deceased Amit Verma, a resident of Landour area in Mussoorie, had reached the hotel late on Friday evening to meet his friends who had come from Dehradun. The victim was in the room with two of his friends when the accident took place. Circle officer, Narendra Pant, who reached the spot, told TOI that the deceased was in an inebriated state when he fell from the hotel window and died due to grave injuries on his head. The initial probe reveals that the victim fell from the window somewhere between Friday night and Saturday morning. He said that the police are looking at the CCTV footage of the hotel and also questioning the friends of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-falls-from-hotel-window-dies/articleshow/79699147.cms||Anmol Jain
December 13, 2020||Goa||Polls take a feverish pitch at Chimbel voting stations||PANAJI: While the zilla panchayat elections in most parts of the state bore a subdued tone, in Chimbel, where Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate and Rudolf Fernandes are vying for control, the election attained a feverish pitch. Monserrate and Fernandes have rekindled their rivalry ever since Fernandes stepped into the Congress a few months earlier. Polling stations in most parts of the state saw sporadic voting and no long queues were seen. Booths and tables of the political parties also sported skeletal staff. Polling booths 13 and 14 in Indira Nagar area of Chimbel saw people flocking in droves to vote while supporters of Monserrate and Fernandes were seen milling around. The locality, with close quarter dwellings, has emerged as a vote bank that is vital for any party that looks to control the St Cruz assembly constituency and Chimbel ZP constituency. Long queues were seen outside the polling stations from morning with people continuing to arrive to cast their vote even after polling came to an end and the polling booths were closed. Despite the long queues, Chimbel recorded a voter turnout of just 50%. Eight candidates are in the fray for the Chimbel ZP seat with Guirish Uscoicar and Sudesh Kalangutkar representing the BJP and the Congress respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/polls-take-a-feverish-pitch-at-chimbel-voting-stations/articleshow/79701318.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI CAP round II: 65% seats in colleges still vacant||NAGPUR: At the end of second round of Centralized Admission Process (CAP) for Std XI, around 65% seats in city colleges were vacant. List for third round will be declared on Wednesday, but it seems unlikely that the deficit can be covered by then. While it’s a fact that almost every year Std XI seat in Nagpur remains vacant, this time the percentage is higher. On an average, 30% seats in city junior colleges remain vacant. A member of the local CAP committee said it might be “too early” to compare. “Third round list will be declared next week and I am sure the numbers will reflect what you are used to seeing in previous years. The low response in second round is due to multiple factors which were not in our control,” the member said. He was referring to an almost three-month gap in restarting the admission process. “Due to the Supreme Court’s order on SEBC quota (popularly known as Maratha quota), the entire process was put on hold. Now, the state has decided to proceed without the quota, hence students took time to adjust to new applications etc,” said the member. Another junior college principal blamed the coaching institutes for this. “They are tying up with junior colleges just outside city limits. This way they do not have to be part of CAP and can get mass admissions done for their students. I am sure that the numbers in city are dipping because more and more students are shifting there,” said the principal. Already, a group of junior colleges from Nagpur has approached the high court related to this issue. One of their prayers in the petition is that CAP should be applicable to entire district, and not just city. The matter is currently under hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-cap-round-ii-65-seats-in-colleges-still-vacant/articleshow/79700339.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Drive begins to rescue children forced into begging in Madurai||Madurai: Police have launched a drive to rescue children forced into begging, following a recent directive from the director general of police (DGP).Members from the anti-human trafficking unit, child friendly welfare police, district child protection unit, social welfare department and district child welfare committee are jointly conducting the drive from December 10 to 24. Sources from the police department said that they caught hold of nine children on Thursday and Friday. Of these, six were left off after severe warning to their parents, while the remaining three were shifted to a reception unit (a temporary shelter home for rescued children run by the government) after producing them before the CWC. The three - all girls - were aged two-and-a-half-years, nine years and six years. A few women, who were found begging at the city junction with infants, were warned and left off, police sources said.While women begging with children at various traffic signals including Teppakulam, Suguna Stores, KK Nagar and Periyar are common sight, they were conspicuously missing when the team made rounds on Thursday and Friday, said a police officer adding that teams will continue to watch the junctions till December 24 and rescue children.Meanwhile, social activists have urged the police to take action on beggars regularly, instead of focusing on the issue only during special drives. Due to lack of enforcement by the police and social welfare department, begging is turning into an organized profession in the city, they charged.V P Manikandan, a social activist said that elderly people from villages reach the city by buses and beg throughout the day. Family members of elderly people, who beg on the city roads, should be made accountable by taking stringent action against them, he urged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/drive-begins-to-rescue-children-forced-into-begging-in-madurai/articleshow/79700341.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Kochi||Though much is taken, much abides: Art makes a return from Covid exile||KOCHI: The season of online-only art exhibitions seems to have ended with Invictus, a show by a group of artists that pays tribute to resilience of art which began at David Hall in Fort Kochi on Saturday. The two-day show, organized by architect and artist Vivi Jojo has works by 13 artists on display and will conclude on Sunday. “It does not have a common theme but features work by established artists and upcoming talents. There are landscapes, murals, and abstract works. Everyone has pursued diverse and vivid themes for the show,” said Jojo, an architect by profession. Invictus is the first ever physical exhibition to be held in the gallery space after a hiatus of nine months, he said. “Though much is taken, much abides. The works pay tribute to those of us who strive to live by an old Tennysonian paradigm in this post-pandemic world,” said Jojo. According to him, the name of the show Invictus, which means unconquerable, is inspired by the poetry of William Earnest Henley. In a year that tested everyone around the world, it was oftentimes easy to lose sight of the almost poetic beauty of the indomitable human spirit around us. “It is a trying time for all and it was very difficult to have a show and for people to get out. Art must live on in any condition. That’s the reason why we chose the title,” said Jojo. The show has works by Dhwany Jojo, Asha Nair, Prasanth K P, N V Sreejith, Renuka Acharya, Sunija K C, Nakshatra K R, Rahul Prasanna, Doyil Joy T, Vaishnavi Thankam, Saira Netto and Ganga Suresh, besides Jojo. Except Jojo, who is from Kottayam, all artists are based in Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/though-much-is-taken-much-abides-art-makes-a-return-from-covid-exile/articleshow/79699198.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Heed pleas of villagers: Jana Sena||Visakhapatnam: Jana Sena general secretaries T Sivasankar and Bolisetti Satyanarayana alias Satya demanded the government heed the calls of Tondangi villagers who have been protesting against a unit being set up by Divis Laboratories near Kakinada in East Godavari district, alleging it will pollute the region. The party said the proposed industry at Tondangi would discharge 55 lakh litres of polluted water into the sea and pose a danger to marine species and the livelihood of persons dependent on the sea. A group of 10 farmers from the villages of Kottapakala, Pampadipeta and Ontimamidi under Tondangi mandal visited the Jana Sena party’s regional office in Visakhapatnam on Saturday and expressed their concern and grief over the commencement of construction work on the company’s unit. The farmers informed media persons that the residents of Tondangi mandal had started hunger strikes in protest against the industry and a farmer Polineti Pamparaju had died while participating in a hunger strike. Jana Sena functionaries and leaders said while assigned lands can be taken over by the government for public purpose, in the case of Tondangi, the government is favouring private industry and the Jana Sena would support agitating farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heed-pleas-of-villagers-jana-sena/articleshow/79699191.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Rekha Arya tests positive for Covid-19; 728 infections surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s women and child development minister, Rekha Arya, tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The news of Arya testing positive for the virus was shared by her office in a tweet around 11 am. The tweet said that the minister is asymptomatic and is not suffering any kind of physical issues. In the tweet, she also requested everyone who came in contact with her in the past few days to get themselves tested. Speaking with TOI, Rekha Arya said, “I am doing absolutely fine so far. I have isolated myself. I urge everyone who came in my contact recently to get themselves tested.” Arya’s children, her husband, and her house aide have also been found infected. “The minister’s three children, husband, cook, and her personal assistant have been tested Covid-19 positive. The test results came on Saturday morning and all of them are asymptomatic,” said one of the minister’s staff members requesting anonymity. To recall, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, forest minister Harak Singh Rawat, and higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat have also tested positive for Covid-19 in the past. On Saturday, a total of 728 fresh Covid-19 infections surfaced in Uttarakhand, taking the total number of cases to 81,939 in the state. The state also recorded 10 more coronavirus-related fatalities, pushing the toll of the virus to 1,351 in the state. Among the 10 victims, nine were men. The youngest person who died due to virus-related issues on the day was a 37-year-old man and the eldest was an 85-year-old woman. For the eleventh consecutive day, the Himalayan state on Saturday recorded more fresh infections than recoveries. The state, till Saturday, had 6,207 active cases. On the day, 435 people recovered from Covid-19 infection, taking the total number of cured cases to 73,422. Among the new cases found on Saturday, the maximum of 246 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by Nainital (132), Haridwar (72), Almora (41), Pauri Garhwal (37), Udham Singh Nagar (32), Pithoragarh (32), Chamoli (28), Tehri (26), Uttarkashi (26), Rudraprayag (25), Bageshwar (21), and Champawat (10). Meanwhile, Sileth village in Pauri was sealed as 39 of its locals — including one dozen senior citizens — are currently Covid-19 positive. The entire village has been declared as a containment zone. According to the health authorities, the virus spread in the village as several locals attended Ramleela that ran from November 24 to December 1. After a few people displayed Covid-19 symptoms, the health department collected samples of several locals as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rekha-arya-tests-positive-for-covid-19-728-infections-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79699163.cms||Shivani Azad
December 13, 2020||Madurai||163 fresh Covid-19 cases in south TN, 97 in central districts, 2 each die in both regions||Madurai: A total of 163 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the southern districts on Saturday registering a marginal dip from the 181 cases on Friday. The central region registered 97 cases, continuing to be below 100 for the third consecutive day while the regional tally touched 72,043. Both the regions saw two deaths each according to the state bulletin. In Madurai, a 65-year-old man who tested positive on December 2 and was admitted in a private hospital died on Friday night after suffering from fever for four days and difficulty in breathing. In Kanyakumari, a 78-year-old woman admitted to the medical collage hospital on Wednesday and tested positive died on Thursday morning.  A 57-year-old woman from Nagappattinam died at a private hospital on December 12 while an 80-year-old woman, also from the district, died at government Periyar hospital in Mayiladuthurai on December 11. Fresh cases in Madurai marginally dipped but with 41 cases the district recorded the highest in the region followed by Dindigul (28) while Ramanathapuram (1) saw the lowest, followed by Tenkasi (4), Sivaganga (11), Theni (13), Tirunelveli (14), Tuticorin (15) and Virudhunagar (17). Active cases climbed from 216 on Tuesday to 261 cases on Saturday, totalling 1,185 in the region. Active cases in the central region continued to drop with 769 as of Saturday. While Perambalur maintained its fresh cases at zero for the past few days, things turned different on Saturday with two fresh cases emerging even as Ariyalur recorded nil. Active cases in Perambalur were five while Ariyalur had the second lowest active cases of 25 as of Saturday. Tiruvaur recorded the highest fresh cases of 21 while the rest of the districts got cases below 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/163-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-south-tn-97-in-central-districts-2-each-die-in-both-regions/articleshow/79700345.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Where thousands of job aspirants learn to crack tests, shun bribe||MADURAI: The tamarind trees on a piece of land adjacent to the Palani-Oddanchatram Road in Ayakudi, a non-descript village in Dindigul district, look an unlikely place for thousands of job aspirants to congregate. But not less than 2,000 of them gather under the trees every Sunday to attend the free coaching classes offered by a group of government employees here. Welcome to Ayakudi Marathadi Coaching Centre, where candidates from not just Madurai, Karur, Dindigul and Tirupur but some from even Chennai and Kanyakumari turn up to learn the tricks of cracking competitive exams. The aspirants have only one obligation to fulfil -- give a written declaration not to seek bribe after joining service. Ever since it was launched in 2004, thousands have benefited from the coaching and now work in departments like revenue, police and education. Hundreds have got into group I and group II services conducted by Tamil Public Service Commission. The seven teachers who take classes -- R Ramamoorthi, G Murugesan, K Periyadurai, P Selvaraj, M Poovaragavan, K Selvaraj and A Vikraman -- hold different positions in government service in various departments. S Muthusamy, another member of the team, died of health issues two weeks ago. "What sets our centre apart is the depth with which subjects are handled and selection of topics with the help of our long experience," said Ramamoorthi. Those who have passed out of the centre remain not just corruption-free, but many have put up boards in their offices against bribery. C M R Manimozhiyan, a deputy superintendent of police (trainee) posted in Dindigul, said, "The coaching centre opened my eyes and instilled confidence in me to crack exams. For me, the tamarind trees are bodhi trees. I had completed a diploma in nursing and was earning a paltry Rs 3,000 a month. The free coaching changed my life and I went on to crack several exams including group I twice," he said. N Senthilkumar, VAO of 16, Pudur village near Oddanchatram, who got the job with the help of free coaching, has erected a board in his office against bribery. “I not only learned how to crack exams, but also how important it is to be honest,” he said. Ramamoorthi said there was hardly any guidance available when they appeared for government exams back in 2000. Hence they decided to start free coaching to help rural students. They tasted the first success when 27 candidates got selected for VAO post from Ayakudi village alone in 2007. Recently, M S Muthusamy, DIG, Dindigul range, organized an event to honour the people behind the coaching class for making a silent revolution in government services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/where-thousands-of-job-aspirants-learn-to-crack-tests-shun-bribe/articleshow/79700343.cms||V Devanathan
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Snowfall in higher reaches, rainfall lashes plains of Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: While overnight rainfall continued in most districts of Uttarakhand on Saturday, a good spell of snow was witnessed in the higher reaches of Uttarakhand. Weather experts have predicted a dip in the mercury in the next few days. The districts — including Dehradun Haridwar, Nainital, and Udham Singh Nagar — witnessed rainfall in the morning hours. Meanwhile, the Char Dham shrines — Badrinath, Kedarnath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri – along with parts of Chamoli, Pithoragarh, and parts of Chakrata region witnessed snowfall on the day. Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, said that the temperature levels may remain below normal for the next few days. Weather experts have asked people, especially those in the hills, to remain cautious and alert. After predictions of inclement weather conditions, state chief secretary Om Prakash held a meeting with state and district officials to review their preparations for the winter season. The district officials have been asked to hand over the list of requirements and have been assured that all resources would soon be provided to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/snowfall-in-higher-reaches-rainfall-lashes-plains-of-ukhand/articleshow/79699180.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 13, 2020||Meerut||Man elopes with lover, found dead days after cops 'recover' couple in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: A 28-year-old man was mysteriously found dead days after cops in Bulandshahr "recovered" him and the woman he had eloped with. As police fended off grave charges, it later transpired that no CCTV in the premises of the thana was in working condition. Adding to the mysterious death was the fact that police failed to do the post mortem of the youth, identified on Saturday as Somdutt. As news spread, police acted swiftly and Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar suspended SHO of Khurja police station Mithilesh Kumar Upadhyay for "dereliction of duty". A magisterial probe, on the request of the family, too has been ordered. Somdutt, a resident of Shahjadpur Kanaini in Khurja, had run away with a local woman on December 6. Based on a complaint by the woman's brother, an FIR under section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) was soon registered. Police traced the couple on December 9 and handed over the woman to her family after recording her statement in front of a magistrate. She did not press any charges. Police, however, kept Somdutt in their custody. On Saturday morning, his family alleged that a posse of police personnel from Khurja arrived at their house and announced that Somdutt had "killed himself" in custody. The family also alleged that police, with the help of some locals, cremated the body in their absence. "My brother was in police custody. The police arrived in the morning of Saturday and told us that he had died by hanging himself with the drawstring of his pajamas. The local administration then put pressure on us to cremate the body. When we refused, the body was cremated in our absence," said Sunil Kumar, brother of the dead man. Later in the evening, Somdutt's mother gave a completely different version and said her son had killed himself in their house. This came after the Bulandshahr SSP and the district magistrate, Ravindra Kumar, had spoken to the family in the afternoon. Based on the mother's complaint, an FIR has now been lodged against five persons belonging to the family of the woman with whom Somdutta had eloped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-elopes-with-lover-found-dead-days-after-cops-recover-couple/articleshow/79699202.cms||Piyush Rai
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||X-Ray safe and affordable in deciding treatment line for Covid: GMCH Study||Nagpur: Chest Imaging is in demand during Covid-19 pandemic, especially since last few months as people are not willing to wait 24 hours to get their RT-PCR test results. High resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) is highly recommended option and many people prefer to go for it before deciding treatment line of Covid-19. CT is more sensitive and specific than chest radiograph (X-Ray). However, performing CAT scan has its setbacks like excessive radiation exposure and mandatory disinfection of entire equipment and room. A recent study held in the Radiology department of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur has concluded that even a simple X-Ray can be a safe, handy, affordable and good option to diagnose the severity of the Covid-19 in asymptomatic patients or those having low symptoms. This retrospective study of 1,000 Covid-19 patients from the two GMCs in Nagpur was published in Indian Journal of Applied Radiology this week. Clinico-epidemiological data of these patients was recorded and chest radiograph was performed. The study concluded that X-rays showed alveolar opacities very accurately. The Covid score through X-Ray can be used to decide the next treatment line. According to Dr Ramesh Parate, Professor in department of Radio Diagnosis at GMCH, the study has made it clear that the new fad of HRCT is not necessary every time. “X-ray can tell whether changes are because of Covid or any other cause. Out of 1,000 patients under our survey, 423 were asymptomatic. Otherwise, they would have been advised home isolation without specific medication. But, the X-ray showed the level of infection in their lungs and they were given specific treatment,” said Dr Parate. Dr Arti Anand, HOD, Radiology in GMCH and Dr Tilottama Parate from IGGMCH have co-authored the study that focused on role of chest radiography for evaluation and severity scoring in Covid-19 pneumonia. Corresponding author of the study Dr Shreeya Tiwari said that there are several other benefits of X-ray. “X-ray is a bedside investigation, it’s cheap and has very less radiation exposure compared to CT. Also it does not need repeated fumigation like CT,” she said. However, she mentioned that HRCT is must in some cases where the infection is more severe. Pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnakar, who is also a secretary of Indian Chest Society said, “You can’t do severity assessment in X-ray. It has less sensitivity than CT to pick up interstitial lung diseases like Covid pneumonia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/x-ray-safe-and-affordable-in-deciding-treatment-line-for-covid-gmch-study/articleshow/79699213.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||NFHS-5 data point to improved sex ratio in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh witnessed a marginal improvement on several indicators such as infant mortality, sex ratio and child immunisation, according to phase-1 of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), the report of which was released on Saturday. According to NFHS 2019-20, the sex ratio at birth for children born in the last five years stands at 934 females per 1,000 males, which is two per cent more than that reported in NFHS-4 (2015-16). The overall sex ratio in the state stands at 1,045 females per 1,000 males. The official registration of childbirths saw a 10 per cent increase in AP, which is among the highest compared to other states. The infant mortality rate (IMR) which currently stands at 30.3 saw an almost four per cent decrease in AP compared to NFHS-4. The neo-natal and under five mortality rate to dropped close to six and four per cent respectively. On the downside, in terms of use of family planning methods such as condoms, oral contraceptives and other sterilisation methods, the state is yet to touch one per cent. Female sterilisation, however, stands at 69.6 per cent in the state. Antenatal check-ups and care visits for pregnant women too dropped compared to NFHS -4. When it comes to literacy rate, more than 34 per cent of females aged six years and above have never attended any form of schooling. The overall literacy rate of women stands at 68.6 per cent, over 10 per cent below the literacy rate for men. Women with 10 or more years of schooling stand close to 40 per cent whereas men in the same category are above 48%. Overall internet penetration in the state, too, is low with only 21 per cent of women reported to having ever used the internet while this proportion for men is significantly higher, close to 50 per cent. The fertility rate (number of children per woman) stands at 1.7. Child immunisation saw a significant improvement by eight per cent compared to NFHS-4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nfhs-5-data-point-to-improved-sex-ratio-in-ap/articleshow/79699204.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Tigress killed in suspected hit & run case||CHANDRAPUR: A full grown tigress was killed in a suspected hit and run case in Sindewahi forest range. The semi-decomposed carcass was seen in compartment No. 45 on Saturday morning by the patrolling guard in Ratnapur forest. The carcass, around two days old, was infected with maggots. As all the body parts of the tigress were intact, officials ruled out poaching. “It could be a case of territorial fight because initially, there were a few marks. However, severe internal injuries and haemorrhage detected during the post-mortem suggest that it could be a hit and run case. There were no fractures,” said RFO, Sindewai, Arun Gaud. The beast sustained a severe impact on one side of the body. There was massive internal haemorrhage leading to death. As the carcass was 100 metres into the forest from Ratnapur-Khandla road, the hit and run angle is being investigated. A team of veterinary doctors, including transit treatment centre in-charge Dr Kundan Podchalwar, livestock development officer Parag Khobragade and Dr SS Gawade carried out the autopsy on the dead tigress in the presence of NTCA representative and state wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre and PCCF representative Vivek Karambdekar. The remains were incinerated after the post mortem. A primary offence was registered. Senior officials, including DCF, Bramhapuri forest division, Dipendra Malhotra, divisional manager, FDCM Bramhapuri, Aditi Bhardwaj, ACF, Bramhapuri, Rameshwari Bhongale and in-charge RFO Ashutosh Mendhe were present at the spot. This is the ninth tiger death in the district this year. The state toll is 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigress-killed-in-suspected-hit-run-case/articleshow/79700349.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 13, 2020||Goa||Election panel turned blind eye to violations: Congress||PANAJI: With the fate of the zilla panchayats sealed in ballot boxes on Saturday, Congress said that it is confident that it will have control over the North and South Goa zilla panchayat bodies. State Congress president Girish Chodankar also accused the State  Commission (SEC) of being biased and turning a blind eye to violations of the model code of conduct by BJP. “BJP used government machinery for campaigning and all its illegally gained power, to garner votes,” Chodankar said. “Despite the model code of conduct being in force, chief minister Pramod Sawant along with his cabinet ministers treated the model code of conduct with contempt and campaigned openly for their candidates by holding meetings. On the other hand our party was not even allowed to go for door-to-door campaigns or hold indoor meetings.” Chodankar said that initial feedback received from voters, party office bearers and candidates, indicates that the vote is in favour of Congress. “From the feedback we are hopeful of getting victory in majority of the constituencies as people have expressed full confidence in Congress candidates,” Chodankar said. He also said that candidates propped by the BJP to split the votes will get defeated. “The wrath of the people against this government was clearly visible on this voting day as many people boycotted voting,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/election-panel-turned-blind-eye-to-violations-cong/articleshow/79701325.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Horse-mounted cops for city soon, says HM||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh, while inaugurating the self-balancing electrical scooters at Walkers’ Street on Saturday, said he would take every possible step to ensure the city police force was modernized with the latest equipment. He said the scooters would help increase visibility of cops during patrolling at different places like the promenades. Deshmukh, who braved a shaky start while driving the scooter, said that horse-mounted cops would be the next addition, on the lines of Mumbai. “The practice of cops on horse backs existed in Kolkata 80 years ago during the British era. We have introduced the same in Mumbai and would do so for the city soon,” said Deshmukh. “We are introducing 10 scooters in the first phase in Nagpur. The number will be increased in the coming days,” added Deshmukh. In his speech, Deshmukh also underlined the benefits of drones for policing. “We have introduced high capacity drones in Mumbai which can carry a load of up to 15kg. Some companies also supported Mumbai police by extending sponsorship for the drones through their corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds,” said the state home minister. He is keen to ensure that the drone technology is put to use in Nagpur too for better surveillance and vigilance activities. City police chief Amitesh Kumar, who was briefing Deshmukh, said scooter-mounted patrolling would be deployed at the promenades at Futala Lake, Ambazari Lake and Gandhi Sagar. He also said that scooter patrolling would be also deployed at other places too in the coming days. Earlier in the day, Deshmukh had stated that the Maharashtra cyber cell would keep a watch on the farmers’ stir on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/horse-mounted-cops-for-city-soon-says-hm/articleshow/79699233.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 13, 2020||Kochi||More cops testing Covid +ve a concern||Kochi: Covid situation among police in the district is getting worse and the situation is likely to worsen further once the election concludes, sources within the district police said. Sources said that Aluva East police are now only doing routine police work as 28 of the 72-member staff have tested positive for Covid-19. Those tested positive included the sub-inspector and the circle inspector. Sources said that posting more officials from other stations to Aluva station has also become risky as many have already tested positive. Those who have tested negative are now manning the station, which is in the rural police headquarters. Sources said that many of these officials were even scared to go home in fear of passing on the disease to their family members. In total, 42 policemen are presently positive in the rural limits, making the job of the policemen in the district even more tough. Officials say that if health workers are worried about getting infected from treatment centres, police have an array of sources from where they could get infected. “Cops are prone to infection while investigating a complaint or even while receiving one. If a dead body is found, people are not touching it like before. Policemen have to move it themselves and take it for inquest. On top of this, officials are now travelling to other districts for election duty and this could increase the chances of getting infected,” said a police officer. An official said that over 400 policemen were deployed to other districts for election duty and apart from this, the entire force was on duty relating to the elections. “A policeman who had gone to vote in Idukki on December 8, had come back for election duty here on 10th and has now gone to Kannur for election duty. Such personnel can get infected from anywhere,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/more-cops-testing-covid-ve-a-concern/articleshow/79699223.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Twists and turns promise a gripping contest in Malabar||Kozhikode: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran wanted a Congressman to contest with the hand symbol at Kallamala block panchayat division, his home turf in Vadakara. But, pressure from allies and the local unit of his own party forced him to withdraw the candidate in favour of RMPI (Revolutionary Marxist Party of India). Kallamala block panchayat division in Vadakara is among the constituencies that hogged the limelight during the local body poll campaign in the district. At one point, MP K Muraleedharan declared that he will not campaign in Vadakara protesting Ramachandran’s decision to ditch RMPI, which had seat-sharing pact with UDF in many panchayats in Vadakara. Now, RMPI’s V Sugathan is the official UDF candidate, though the name of KP Jayakumar will be on the ballot because the understanding came after the last date of withdrawal of the nomination had passed. Whatever be the outcome of the election in Kallamala, it will open up another round of battle between Ramachandran and Muraleedharan. Valiyangadi division in the city corporation became the centre of attraction with the candidature of Muhammad Shuhaib, the father of Allan who was arrested under UAPA for his alleged links with the Maoists. RMPI fielded the former CPM branch secretary ‘as a protest against Pinarayi Vijayan’s police raj.’ The party expected UDF to support Shuhaib as state leaders had expressed solidarity with him when Allan was arrested. But to the dismay of RMPI, the UDF decided to field its own candidate. RMPI’s plan of making LDF police policy a big issue in the campaign didn’t materialise, though some cultural leaders supported Shuhaib. LDF had declared that the controversial figure and the sitting member Karat Faisal will be the candidate in Chundapuram ward in the Koduvally municipality. The announcement was made by MLA PTA Rahim at an election convention. But CPM was quick to realize the danger. Faisal was questioned by the agencies that are probing the gold smuggling case. The party understood that Faisal’s candidature will give opponents a chance to rake up the gold smuggling issue during the campaign, not merely in Koduvally but the state. After the CPM decided to field another candidate, Faisal jumped into the fray as an independent candidate, but UDF alleged that Faisal is the real LDF candidate and CPM had played a drama to hoodwink the people. Chekkiad panchayat near Nadapuram witnessed unprecedented rebel menace, forcing IUML to issue warning against such candidates. The party was so desperate that it said Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema president Syed Muhammad Jifri Muthukoya Thangal had exhorted people to defeat rebels. Thangal later issued a rejoinder that he had not made such remarks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/twists-and-turns-promise-a-gripping-contest-in-malabar/articleshow/79699811.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray credits work he did from home for launch of four projects||AURANGABAD: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray — in a response to BJP critics who had mocked him for “working from home” — on Saturday said the foundation stone laying for four development projects in Aurangabad was possible only because of the work he did while at home. “They had said that I was staying at home. Yes, I did stay at home. I also appealed to people to stay at home and stay safe,” the CM said. The chief minister also thanked industries minister Subhas Desai, urban development minister Eknath Kadam and water supply and sanitation minister Gulabrao Patil for recounting the work done by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the past year. In a public event organised at the Garware Stadium, Thackeray virtually inaugurated works worth Rs 2,031 crore in Aurangabad that will be completed in one to three years. The development projects include an ambitious water supply scheme of Rs 1,680 crore, the Balasaheb Thackeray memorial worth Rs 25 crore, a safari park worth Rs 174 crore and construction of 23 roads worth Rs 152 crore. He assured the citizens that all the promises related to water supply, road works would be fulfilled. For several years, people have been assured that the water woes of Aurangabad will be resolved, he said. “I don’t know how and why it took so long to commence this project. But I feel fortunate that I am not only laying the foundation stone of this work, but also addressing my first public gathering from Aurangabad, which has always been close to my father’s and my heart,” he said. He said all efforts are being made to generate employment. The chief minister also said the proposal to rename the Aurangabad airport has been sent to the Centre and approval is expected soon. Speaking on the occasion, CM said, “The situation has been really bad when it comes to roads. In the previous years, pits on the roads have increased and we have to fill them. Some people have caused pits and we have to join hands to fill them up.” He also appealed to the citizens to not to get complacent and take utmost precaution as the infection may again increase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cm-credits-work-he-did-from-home-for-launch-of-4-projects/articleshow/79698688.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 13, 2020||Madurai||DVAC seizes unaccounted cash from MVI’s car||Madurai: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) seized Rs 20 lakh cash and gold jewellery weighing around 100 sovereigns from the car belonging to a woman motor vehicle inspector (MVI) in Virudhunagar district. The same team seized Rs 5 lakh cash from the car belonging to a MVI from Madurai North RTO office. Police sources said that the DVAC unit received a tip-off that motor vehicle inspectors Kalaiselvi and Shanmuga Anand, were leaving the Virudhunagar RTO with unaccounted cash in the former’s vehicle on Saturday. A team led by deputy superintendent of police Karupaiah intercepted the car at Chatrareddipatti checkpost and recovered the unaccounted cash and money. The duo were taken to the RTO office, where an inquiry was conducted. They were asked to submit documents showing source of income for the cash and jewellery, but they could not produce any. Police sources said that Kalaiselvi’s husband Raja and an employee of two-wheeler sales centres in Virudhunagar Arul Prasad were also travelling in the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dvac-seizes-unaccounted-cash-from-mvis-car/articleshow/79700352.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna police arrest murder accused in two-year-old blind case||AURANGABAD: Jalna police have nabbed a 35-year-old criminal on police record in a two-year-old blind murder case of a hardened criminal hailing from Andhra Pradesh. The arrested accused has been identified as Mohammed Khalil of Chanchalguda of Hyderabad while the deceased man has been identified as Shiva, an infamous criminal with dozens of cases against him. After being produced before a court on Saturday, the accused has been remanded to four-day police custody. Chandanzira police station’s inspector Shyamsundar Kauthale told TOI, “The accused and deceased are criminals on police record. A few years back while being behind bars at Central prison in Hyderabad, they became friends and started committing thefts.” After being released, together they committed over 80 house break-ins and thefts. To avoid getting nabbed while selling off the stolen booty, the accused duo reached Jalna sometime in May 2018. At the time, a heated argument broke out between the two over sharing of the stolen articles. Later, the accused decided to eliminate his partner and, accordingly, when the duo was consuming liquor and while Shiva was in an inebriated form, the accused bludgeoned him to death using a boulder. Later, he dumped his partner’s body in the shrubs of Gundewadi village on Jalna Rajur road and fled from the spot. The considerably decomposed body was found by villagers, following which an autopsy was performed on it and based on the findings, a case of murder was registered against an unidentified suspect. It took several weeks for the police to establish the deceased’s identity, connect the dots and trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-police-arrest-murder-accused-in-2-yr-old-blind-case/articleshow/79698691.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Fanfare at Poes Garden as Rajinikanth turns 70||Madurai/Chennai: Fanfare at Poes Garden on December 12 was not new, but this year the celebration of the diehard fans of actor Rajinikanth added an element of excitement. The reason, the icon, who turned 70 on Saturday, is all set to take on a new avatar as politician and set in motion the process to register his political party with the Election Commission of India. Three years after announcing that he would take the political plunge, Rajinikanth plans to announce the launch of his political party on the eve of the new year. He is expected to make a slew of announcements on his party flag, agenda, and revamping of the Rajini Makkal Mandram. Birthday wishes poured in from various quarters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, his deputy O Panneerselvam, DMK leader M K Stalin, actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan and several Union ministers and politicians cutting across parties took to social media to extend their birthday wishes to Rajinikanth. Meanwhile, film fraternities from across the country have also extended their birthday wishes. Twitteraties thanked the actor and expressed birthday wishes to their icon with hashtag 'Rajinism'. Rajinikanth, in response, tweeted thanking the PM, “Respected dear @narendramodi Ji, thank you very much for your kind wishes.” He also thanked CM EPS, deputy CM OPS, opposition leader M K Stalin and friends in political parties in central, state and film industries and fans across the world, who were celebrating his birthday and said, “my heartfelt thanks for wishing me happy birthday.” In Madurai, his fans celebrated by distributing welfare measures and sweets to the public and offering worships in shrines in Madurai. Special pujas were performed in temples, and prayers offered in mosques and churches in Madurai by the Madurai Urban District Rajini Makkal Mandram .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fanfare-at-poes-garden-as-rajinikanth-turns-70/articleshow/79700353.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Behala horror: Dad killed, child critical after 40-ft fall||KOLKATA: A 41-year-old man had a fatal fall from the terrace of a four-storey building in the Behala-Pathakpara area on Saturday morning when he was playing with his 15-month-old daughter near the parapet of the terrace. According to some witnesses, in a fraction of a second, Subhas Chandra Panda, a railway employee, shoved his daughter towards a tree adjoining their building’s boundary wall to save her, but his lunge forward went against him. Even though he tried to cling onto the edges, he fell to the ground, smashed his head and died instantly. The child is admitted to SSKM Hospital in a critical condition. “She has serious injuries on her hand and other parts of the body,” said an officer from the Parnasree police station. According to Subhas’s wife, Upasana, and other neighbours, the father and daughter had gone up to the terrace to play with a plastic ball. “Their 12-year-old son is also usually around. The father and daughter used to spend a lot of time together on the terrace, especially during the lockdown. Like usual, as Subhas had a holiday on Saturday, he went up to the terrace with the daughter, his pet, around 11.30am. At that time, Upasana had gone to a neighbour’s place,” said Kanchana Hazra, a neighbour. Shortly, around 11.35am, neighbours heard a loud thud and rushed out to see Subhas lying bloodspattered in the narrow common passage adjoining the wall. The child could not be found anywhere, either beside him nor on the terrace. After a search, the neighbours found the child in the adjoining premises. “It looked like her fall was broken by a tree on the other side of the wall,” said a police officer, adding she fell from a height of no less than 40 feet. “In all likelihood, the child had slipped after stepping on the football close to the parapet.” “”The male victim was found lying on his back on the concrete ground, with serious head injuries and with no sign of life. The child, who was found on the adjacent premises, about 3 ft from her father, has serious injuries on her hand. The child was sent to Vidyasagar hospital and then, shifted to SSKM. The father, too, was taken to Vidyasagar hospital,” said DC (Behala) Syed Waquar Reza. “A plastic ball was found on the terrace. No foul play has been detected and no complaint received.” Terraces have become a favourite spot for socializing during the pandemic, especially for those who are not stepping out unless absolutely necessary. However, there are certain safety issues that need to be addressed, especially if small children are using them. Locals said they had warned Subhas earlier about playing with the child on the terrace, given the low height of the parapet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-horror-dad-killed-child-critical-after-40-ft-fall/articleshow/79699803.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpurians segregate only 9% of 1000MT garbage trashed every day||Nagpur: Even after appointing two separate firms and revising door-to-door garbage collection charges by almost Rs2 lakh per day, the city has not even achieved 10% of segregation of dry and wet waste. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had ousted Kanak Resources and Management Limited and appointed BVG India and AG Environ to improve garbage collection in the city. It used to pay Rs1,436 per metric tonne for lifting door-to-door garbage. Rs1,800 per metric tonne is being paid to BVG India and Rs1,950 to AG Environ. Among the several conditions, one is to lift only segregated garbage. More than 13 months after the two agencies were given the contract, NMC’s solid waste management department’s four-month data states that both BVG India and AG Environ are not only collecting mixed garbage but also dumping almost 1000MT at the Bhandewadi dumping yard. This defeats the purpose of appointing two agencies to improve segregated garbage collection at source. As per the data, in August, both the firms had collected and transported 28495.56MT garbage to the dumping yard. They dumped 26838.19MT of mixed garbage. Similarly, in November, they transported and dumped 31,837.30 MT of waste of which only 2934.38MT was segregated, which comes to around 9.22% of the total waste collected from the city, the data revealed. Environmentalist and director of Centre For Sustainable Development Leena Buddhe said, “We have to understand why both the contractors are not lifting segregated waste at source itself. This is one of their key conditions mentioned in the contract. Possibly the two firms are doing so because they are getting paid as per garbage weightage.” In Bengaluru, the civic body gives incentives to the firm for lifting segregated garbage at source itself. “I had suggested a similar formula to the NMC when they were finalizing both the new agencies,” she said and added, “but NMC had ignored my proposal. So, both the firms earn more money by lifting and transporting mixed garbage from source to the dumping yard.” She urged the NMC to implement the three ‘R’s — reduce, reuse and recycle. “No reduce is happening. The NMC has also failed to provide designated dry and wet waste spaces at the dumping yard so that rag pickers will automatically lift waste that can be reused,” she said. Deputy municipal commissioner (SWM) Dr Pradip Dasarwar admitted that the quantum of segregated garbage being transported to the dumping yard is very less and said special squads have been formed at every zone. “Led by sanitary inspectors, the squads will ensure only segregated garbage is being transported from source to the end destination,” he said. Poor treatment The NMC has a facility to treat at least 200MT of wet waste at the Hanjer Plant on the Bhandewadi dumping yard premises to generate compost but it is not even running at half its capacity, confirmed an official from the project department. The official said the firm is finding it difficult to sell the compost and so, it is treating it as per the order. TRASH MATTERS Month—Mixed garbage —Garbage Aug—26,838—28,495.56 Sept—27,596.31—28,086.61 Oct—28,039.21—30,266.46 Nov—28,903—31,837.38 (Garbage in metric tonne dumped at Bhandewadi dumping yard)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurians-segregate-only-9-of-1000mt-garbage-trashed-every-day/articleshow/79699807.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||DIT holds its fourth convocation, governor addresses students||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Institute of Technology (DIT) University in Dehradun held its fourth Convocation on Saturday to confer degrees to successful candidates of the academic year 2019-2020. Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya, gave the convocation address to the graduating students in online mode. The convocation was organized with restricted attendance on campus and was also broadcasted online. A total of 1,434 degrees were awarded in different programs at the undergraduate, post graduate, and PhD levels. A total of 10 students received PhD degrees on the occasion. Shivangi Sharma was conferred with the Shri Naveen Agarwal Memorial Gold Medal for standing first in the overall merit of the university's undergraduate program. Sachin Gaur of 1999-2003 BTech (Information Technology) batch, was awarded the “Distinguished Alumni Award” for his exemplary contribution in the international forum. It is worth mentioning that adequate precautions were taken to adhere to the government regulations regarding Covid-19 prevention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dit-holds-its-fourth-convocation-governor-addresses-students/articleshow/79699237.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man kills wife for not being able to bear child, arrested||VIJAYAWADA: Police on Saturday arrested a man and his parents at Kothgudem village in Krishna district for allegedly killing his wife for not being able to get pregnant. The incident took place on December 1 but came to light only after the post mortem report revealed it as a case of murder. According to Chatrai SI Sivanarayana, the deceased Vijayashanthi hails from Nuzvid town. She got married to Sudhakar, the accused, in 2016 and settled down in Hyderabad. Sudhakar works in the HR department of a private firm. Police said that the couple was trying to have a child for the last four years. Owing to the lockdown, Sudhakar and his wife Vijayashanthi returned to Kothagudem. At Kothagudem, Vijayashanthi was allegedly pressurised by her in-laws to have a child and family fights became regular. Police further said that the accused Sudhakar tried to get a divorce after Vijayashanti fell sick and was unable to conceive a child despite several treatments. A resilient Vijayashanti was keen on making the relationship work. On December 1, Sudhakar laced Vijayashanti’s drink with sleeping pills and suffocated her with a pillow while she was asleep. “Based on the complaint by Vijayashanti’s family, a post-mortem was conducted. The report indicated that she was strangulated. When the doctor said that that there were no indications of her hanging herself, we grew suspicious. After interrogation, the entire family confessed,” the SI told STOI, while adding that a case was registered for murder and the accused have been sent to judicial remand by a local court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-kills-wife-for-not-being-able-to-bear-child-arrested/articleshow/79698875.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu briefed on Eluru health situation||VISAKHAPATNAM: Secretary to the Union ministry of health and family welfare Rajesh Bhushan and joint secretary Lav Agarwal on Saturday briefed Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu to apprise him on the health situation in Eluru where close to 600 people have been hospitalised with epilepsy-like symptoms since December 6.  The Centre had rushed in a team of medical experts to Eluru on December 8 after the vice-president spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. The officials brief Venkaiah Naidu on the preliminary findings of the central committee which had visited the affected areas in Eluru. The secretary said that a detailed report will be prepared once the central team returns to New Delhi. A necessary advisory will be issued accordingly, the vice-president was told.  Officials informed the vice-president that number of new cases in Eluru had come down drastically with only two new cases being reported on December 11 while no new case reported on Saturday. As per an official statement, the vice-president asked the health secretary to keep a watch on the situation and take all necessary measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/venkaiah-briefed-on-eluru-health-situation/articleshow/79698866.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Unaware, smugglers moving spurious liquor||VIJAYAWADA: With non-duty paid liquor being smuggled into the state, a new problem of spurious liquor is becoming a concern for authorities. Taking advantage of the demand for liquor, especially for those brands which are not available in the state, smugglers are starting to pump in spurious liquor to cater to these demands. While only a few cases of spurious liquor have been reported in the state so far, it could turn into a widespread problem given the high demand. The special enforcement bureau (SEB) has recently busted three such cases — in Guntur, Anantapur, and Visakhapatnam. In all three cases, the liquor was smuggled in from neighbouring states. Interestingly, the smugglers themselves were not aware that they were bringing in spurious liquor. In one of the cases, reported at Guntur’s Macherla, the smugglers had brought in a truck-load of liquor bottles from the Karnataka and Goa border area. They were under the impression that they had brought original liquor. The smugglers had buried their stash in the ground to sell them in batches. However, the SEB received a tip-off and conducted raids unearthing 16,000 bottles. After confiscating the contraband, officials started investigation to find out the supplier by tracking back the labels on the bottles. To their surprise, they found out that the labels on the bottles are not of the original manufacturer but it was indeed the person supplying the smugglers who had printed them. Further investigation revealed that the supplier had collected empty bottles from bars, filled them with spurious liquor made of rectified spirit, and affixed labels similar to those issued by the Karnataka government. In the Visakhapatnam case, the liquor was brought from Odisha with original labels but the bottles were refilled. Speaking to STOI, SEB director PHD Ramakrishna said that the suppliers from other states were taking advantage of the demand from smugglers who wanted to make quick money. He advised the public to buy liquor from authorised stores only. “Besides, it is illegal to purchase liquor from other states, there is no guarantee that they (smugglers) are buying the original product,” Ramakrishna said and cautioned that consumption of spurious liquor can have life-threatening consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/unaware-smugglers-moving-spurious-liquor/articleshow/79698819.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Kin of SI who died of Covid build outpost||Tirunelveli: The family of sub inspector R Murugan, 57, who died of Covid-19, has built a police outpost-cum-library in his memory to fulfil his dream and pay a fitting tribute to him. On Saturday, it was dedicated at Karaiyiruppu on the highway in Tirunelveli city by police commissioner Deepak M Damoor. The outpost has come up at a place where he was on Covid-19 duty when he contracted the virus three months ago. Murugan joined the police department as constable in 1987 and served at various stations before being transferred to Thatchanallur station in Tirunelveli city on April 5. “Our native village Karaiyiruppu comes under its jurisdiction, so he did not want to work there fearing villagers would misuse his name,” the eldest of his three daughters, K Sornaselvi, told TOI. Due for retirement in May 2021 he had leave for more than 400 days. Though the family advised him to spend time with them, he said it was impossible for him to spend a day without the khaki uniform. Murugan was involved in Covid-19 awareness and checking at Chidambraranagar Vilakku (Karaiyiruppu), Thatchanallur and Subburaj Mill temporary check posts. The one at Karaiyiruppu had two barricades and two chairs under a tree and it was there that Murugan wanted to build an outpost. He even laid a foundation stone for it in July. Though he tested negative for Covid-19 twice, he was diagnosed with mild lung damage in a CT scan. He was hospitalised till he breathed his last on September 12. As wished by Murugan, his wife Shanthi, 52, and daughters K Sornaselvi, 32, M Vanitha, 29, and M Amritha, 23, coordinated with the city police and fully bore expenses of constructing the outpost for more than Rs 1 lakh. “We have kept 400 books to help youth to prepare for competitive exams as well as books on agriculture as it is an agrarian region,” said deputy commissioner of police (law and order). People of the locality who find it difficult to go all the way to Thatchanallur police station can also petition their grievances at the outpost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kin-of-si-who-died-of-covid-build-outpost/articleshow/79700379.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||As winter sets in, Andhra’s tourism sector gets a boost||Visakhapatnam: Temperatures across the state have dropped to lower than average over the last few days. Some places in Rayalaseema have seen temperatures drop to nearly 15°C. Mercury has dropped even in the agency areas. According to observations of AP State Development Planning Society (APSDPS) and India Meteorological Department (IMD), in parts of agency areas, including tourist attractions like Araku and Lammasingi, temperatures range within 5C to 15°C. IMD director for Andhra Pradesh, S Stella, said that till the end of this month, minimum temperatures will go around 1-2°C below normal. Maximum temperatures are likely to be slightly above average, Stella said. Rayalaseema plains have registered lowest temperatures of around 14°C till Saturday morning, added Stella. The fall in temperatures is expected to indirectly help the tourism department, said M Krishna Mohan, central reservation manager of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), Visakhapatnam. Mohan added that tourists from West Bengal and Telangana usually visit at this time. “Lammasingi may see temperature drop below 5°C over next few days. Temperatures in the area sometimes drops to 0°C in December and January,” he added. When STOI checked APTDC hotel bookings, there was no vacancy over the weekend. Officials expect this trend to continue until Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-winter-sets-in-andhras-tourism-sector-gets-a-boost/articleshow/79698856.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||‘Liver, kidney ailments may have led to Arya Banerjee’s stroke’||KOLKATA: Actor and model Arya Banerjee died of a stroke linked to multiple ailments of liver and kidneys, revealed an initial post-mortem report. The 40-year-old, who acted in films, like ‘Love, Sex Aur Dhoka’ and ‘Dirty Picture’, died “due to diseased conditions of organs, like heart, kidney and liver cirrhosis”, the report said. The autopsy surgeons found more than two litres of alcohol in her stomach. The post-mortem also indicated that the actor—originally called Devdutta Banerjee, the younger daughter of the late sitarist Pt Nikhil Banerjee—had received injuries after she fell from her bed. “There were injuries on her head, lips and nose due to the fall,” the report suggested. Police have officially ruled out homicide but stated that it was too early to say whether her mental state had contributed to her physical ailments or not. A forensic expert pointed out there were several tissue papers with blood in them, suggesting she might have bled even in the past but had deliberately chosen to ignore it. “We believe she had suffered a stroke on Thursday night or on Friday morning in her room at her Jodhour Park home and was in severe pain. In an effort to get help, she tried to move out of the bed but fell down, leading to much blood loss,” the expert said. The post-mortem report prima facie corroborated forensic findings. “Both reports ruled out any foul play. The actor suffered from various kidney and liver ailments, including Hepatitis B, but had apparently stopped treatment some time ago. We have found prescriptions that advised her to stay off fatty and spicy food. We also have evidence that she was taking some sleeping pills. Yet, she continued ordering food from restaurants through app services despite her domestic help offering to cook for her,” an investigating officer said. “Hours before her death, she had stopped eating.” Police found a bottle of honey and gutka packets beside bottles of alcohol and cigarette packets. “We are trying to find whether she had consumed all four in a short span of time without having food or not. The fact that she could not pay her maid her November salary is also on our mind. We are asking her family, friends and elder sister to help us learn about her mental condition in the past few days,” said the officer from the Lake police station. Police suspect she was facing financial problems. “Her domestic help is yet to get her November salary, which is usually settled by the first week of the month. The house, too, needed some urgent repairs but she had locked two floors,” the source said. “Someone had rented a floor for an office but that shut a few months ago.” The police said her Rottweiler has been taken away by a pet organization at the request of Lake police but later, handed it to an individual who convinced cops he would take good care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/liver-kidney-ailments-may-have-led-to-aryas-stroke/articleshow/79699805.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man dies of CO poisoning two days after wedding||KOLKATA: A 26-year-old groom died of carbon monoxide poisoning on Saturday morning, two days after his wedding. The victim has been identified as Niladri Chakraborty, a resident of Vidyasagar in Bagha Jatin and son of a local Trinamool leader, Nishith Chakraborty. Police said the post-mortem indicated that Chakraborty choked to his death as the unfinished cigarette in his hand set his pillow and bedsheet on fire and the fume could not escape the locked room. “Niladri got married to his girlfriend on December 10 and on Friday, after bringing the new bride home, they had a party. Niladri was a heavy smoker. He and his friends drank till late in his first-floor room of Vidyasagar residence. Later, he probably fell asleep with a lit cigarette still in his hand and the pillow caught fire. The fumes could not escape as all the doors and windows were shut. Around 6.30am on Saturday, Nishith opened the door to find his son lying unconscious,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. Niladri was initially taken to Peerless Hospital and from there, to Baghajatin Hospital, where he was declared as brought dead at 12.30pm. An inquest was conducted. “A post-mortem was conducted. The autopsy surgeon said the deceased suffered from gastric ulcer and acute liver problem and the death was due to inhalation of carbon monoxide. No foul play was detected,” Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-dies-of-co-poisoning-two-days-after-wedding/articleshow/79699809.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 13, 2020||Bareilly||Cane cultivation near forests reason for tigers straying out of reserves, says top official||PILIBHIT: Expansion of sugarcane cultivation in areas near forests is the key reason for tigers straying out of reserves, said Kamlesh Kumar, additional principal chief conservator of forest (Project Tiger), UP, on Saturday. Kumar was here to review the situation after four tigers strayed out of Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) in a span of one month. They were spotted lurking amid the cane fields and the shrubs in the area around Kharja and Sharda river’s feeder canal, barely 1 km from Madhotanda village. Farmers had to stop harvesting due to the big cats’ presence. Three of these tigers have now retreated into PTR’s Barahi range, over 2 km from the spot. Kumar directed foresters to install more camera traps in the affected stretch for constant monitoring of stray big cats. Elaborating, Kumar said during the past 10 years, big cats have been straying out of forests during the cane harvesting season not only from PTR but also Dudhwa and Amangarh tiger reserves. “The area of sugarcane cultivation has gone up. Now, farmers are sowing in fields adjacent to the periphery of the core forest areas. Tigers look upon the tall cane stalks as an extension of the forest. More so, due to the abundance of prey like wild boar and nilgai. They prefer to stay there due to lesser possibilities of infighting for territorial dominance,” Kumar said. But cane harvesting compels the tigers to move out of the agricultural fields and stray near human habitats, he added. In such a situation, the only option for foresters is to monitor big cat movement and wait for their safe retreat into the forests, he pointed out. The forest department had already installed 20 camera traps around the two canals. Now, a dozen additional camera traps would be installed to cover a wider area to keep track of the remaining stray tiger, Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-cultivation-near-forests-reason-for-tigers-straying-out-of-reserves-says-top-official/articleshow/79698702.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Man murdered by ex-GF’s ‘brother’||Nagpur: Kishor Nandanvar, 31, a fruit dealer, was stabbed to death by Shaikh Siraj at Wanjra layout on Saturday following a dispute over the victim’s relationship with his former girlfriend who stayed in the same neighbourhood. Siraj had crime records in the past, including a case of assault last year. A day ago, they had a verbal duel. It’s learnt that Nandanvar was close to a woman who considered Siraj as her ‘brother’. Nandanvar was compelled to marry another woman as his former girlfriend’s family was against the love marriage. The former girlfriend would often call up Nandanvar. Sources from the locality said Nandanvar and his family had gone to his former girlfriend’s residence to request her not call him any more. This had led to a heated argument. Siraj and Nandanvar had exchanged threats too. Police said Siraj, now rounded up by police, had summoned Nandanvar near the railway bridge to settle the matter. During a heated argument, Siraj stabbed Nandanvar before fleeing. An offence was registered at Yashodharanagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-murdered-by-ex-gfs-brother/articleshow/79699248.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||Arrested PSI caught with phone inside Dahod jail||Vadodara: A police sub-inspector (PSI) earlier posted with the Vadodara traffic police was caught with a mobile phone inside Dahod sub-jail. The PSI has been kept in judicial custody after an offence accusing of harassing his former wife was registered against him. PSI Umeshkumar Nalvaya was accused of abduction and harassment by his former wife. The woman had approached the Gujarat high court with her plea following which the offence was registered against Nalvaya. He was arrested and placed under judicial custody as an undertrial prisoner. Nalvaya allegedly got a phone sneaked into the prison with the help of his friend Pradeep Pithaya. He then started making calls to his estranged wife allegedly threatening her. An offence registered against him states that Nalvaya also sent selfies and messages to the woman. He also used the phone to call his friends asking them to bring food and snacks for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/arrested-psi-caught-with-phone-inside-dahod-jail/articleshow/79699329.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker dies in Halishahar violence||Barrackpore: A BJP booth committee president, Saikat Bhawal, was killed and at least seven others were injured in an alleged Trinamool-BJP clash during the latter’s Griha Samparka Abhiyan on Saturday. Three of the injured, including Khokon Das, are in a critical state.On the last day of the programme, BJP workers were in Dompara Lane, Barendra Palli, when nearly 20 youths, allegedly carrying weapons, chased them. “ Saikat tried to stop them and initiate a dialogue but they dragged him to a field and beat him up mercilessly. When others intervened, they were assaulted, too. By the time police came, Saikat had fallen unconscious,” claimed Tanmay Aich, a BJP worker. Bhawal, Ward 42 booth committee president, died while being taken to hospital. “They were beaten up with bamboo, iron rods and sharp weapons. Bhawal was getting threats for the past few days,” said Uma Shankar Singh, president of BJP’s Barrackpore unit. Bengal BJP vice-president and Barrackpore MP Arjun Singh claimed, “Trinamool goons attacked our workers when the Griha Samparka Abhiyan was on at Ward 6 at Halisahar. They killed Saikat and condition of Khokon is critical,” he said. Trinamool, however, claimed it was a personal rivalry between two groups. “If police find this to be a political murder, the guilty should be arrested immediately,” said Naihati Trinamool MLA Partha Bhaumik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-worker-dies-in-halishahar-violence/articleshow/79699808.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Two minors behind woman’s murder in Kadapa village||TIRUPATI: Police on Saturday solved the mystery behind the murder of a woman in Kadapa district. The woman’s abandoned body was found near Peddakudala village in Lingala mandal on December 7. Kadapa police, who took up investigation in the case, arrested two minors in connection with the woman’s murder on Saturday. Addressing the media, Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan said that following a complaint lodged by the victim’s mother, a case was registered and an investigation was launched. “During investigation, we found out that Nagamma, who had separated after two distrubed marriages, in a lighter vein had put forward a marriage proposal before the two minors...But when the boys took her proposal seriously and tried to misbehave with her, she threatened them with consequences,” SP Anburajan said. The SP said the two minors did not take this well and in retaliation killed Nagamma by smashing her head with boulders. Fearing arrest, the two boys ran away from their homes on December 8. However, they were located by their parents and handed over to the police. The minors have been sent to a juvenile home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-minors-behind-womans-murder-in-kadapa-village/articleshow/79698826.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Kanipakam temple chariot to be gold-plated at old rates||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) trust board has resolved to undertake gold plating of the Kanipakam temple chariot at old gold rates. The trust board will consider the prevailing gold rates at the Chennai Bullion market on the respective dates of realisation of Rs 1 crore and Rs 5 crore deposited by the Kanikapakam temple to TTD’s accounts. Responding to a request from Sri Varasidhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakam in Chittoor district, the then TTD trust board had resolved to execute gold plating of a wooden chariot in November 2008. Subsequently, Kanipakam temple authorities made an initial deposit of Rs 1 crore on February 12, 2010 and another of Rs 5 crore on October 10, 2019. Considering the gold rates prevailing on November 9, 2019, which stood at Rs 3,793 per gram, the work was estimated at Rs 7.19 crore. Around 15 kilograms of gold was estimated to be required for the work. Following a trust board resolution in December last year, TTD obtained the state government’s consent to draw 15 kilos of surplus gold in its treasury for the work. But when TTD sent a communication to Kanipakam temple to deposit the balance of Rs 1.19 crore, the Kanipakam temple EO requested the TTD to consider gold rates prevailing on the date of earlier deposits.As per the request of the Kanipakam temple EO, the trust board decided to execute the works at a cost of Rs 5.47crore. The decision is expected to place an additional burden of Rs 1.72 crore on the temple’s finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kanipakam-temple-chariot-to-be-gold-plated-at-old-rates/articleshow/79698845.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Rs 4,707cr credit plan forecast for Ramnad||Ramanathapuram: The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) potential linked credit plan (PLP) has envisaged a credit flow of Rs 4,706.78 crore to Ramanathapuram district for the financial year 2021-22. District collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver released the PLP with the theme “Collectivization of Agriculture Produce for enhancing Farmer’s Income” on Saturday. The PLP also highlighted the need to enhance agricultural term loans and micro credit through collateral free self-help group and joint liability group loans and the need for greater credit flow for the off farm sector as well to march towards sustainable local employment generation. The collector asked officials to expedite the process of overall development of agriculture and allied activities by exploiting the identified potential. He highlighted the role of farmers producer organizations (FPOs) in enhancing income of farmers through aggregation of farm produce, value addition and collective efforts to market linkages. The collector also said that efforts will be made to promote more FPOs with the support of Nabard to exclusively support goat and indigenous cow rearing and the fisheries sector to enhance the additional income of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-4707cr-credit-plan-forecast-for-ramnad/articleshow/79700412.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid positivity rate at 3%, lowest since June||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 positivity rate dropped to 3 % on Saturday, the lowest since June. The state reported 70 new cases, 144 recoveries and two Covid deaths, taking the tally of active cases to 1,110. During the first 10 days of December, the daily average of Covid cases has been 117. Earlier this month, the positivity rate fell below 10 % and hovered between 5 to 8 % on most days. Saturday’s decline in cases is almost half of the average positivity rate reported over the last few days. With two Covid-linked deaths, the mortality count rose to 706. Two men – a 70-year-old from Pilerne and a 65-year-old from Mapusa – died in Goa Medical College (GMC). GMC dean and in-charge of Covid-19 hospitals Dr S M Bandekar said both patients testing positive for coronavirus was an incidental finding, and that their underlying health conditions were the primary cause of their deaths. One patient had cancer with metastasis and other had decompensated advanced liver disease. On Saturday, 40 patients had to be hospitalised while 23 opted for home isolation. Panaji saw its caseload dropping below 50. Porvorim, with 89 cases, registered a marginal decline. In South Goa, the Margao Urban Health Centre continued to have a comparatively higher caseload and its tally stood at 118 while that of Ponda fell below 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-positivity-rate-at-3-lowest-since-june/articleshow/79701345.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Robotic scavenger to clean sewers in Virudhunagar||Madurai: A robot that can be used to clear blockages in underground drains was introduced in Virudhunagar by district collector R Kannan on Saturday. The machine is being launched by Virudhunagar municipality in collaboration with NGO Hand in Hand and ONGC. After inspecting the device, the collector said that the robot would help in abolishing manual scavenging, which is one of the most inhuman social evils. This robot, named Bandicoot, has been designed and developed by a firm in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala and costs Rs 45 lakh. It will help clear underground drainages in 12,000 places in the municipality. The robotic scavenger can identify poisonous gases when they are emitted from septic tanks, is lightweight and easy to operate and comes fitted with a camera for monitoring. It can enter manholes and clear blocks immediately The Abolition of Manual Scavenging Act was enacted in 2013, but the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis, has stated that a manual scavenger dies once every five days. Those who were indulging in manual scavenging will be trained to the operate the machine. It is planned to introduce the robot in all the local bodies in the country in the future. Virudhunagar municipal commissioner Parthasarathy and municipal engineer Gurusamy among others were present at the launch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/robotic-scavenger-to-clean-sewers-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/79700428.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Goa||Task force in place to introduce Covid-19 vaccine in Goa||PANAJI: Goa government has constituted a block task force headed by a sub-divisional magistrate for the introduction of Covid-19 vaccine. The nineteen-member task force will monitor progress of a database of beneficiaries in the preparatory phase to be shared with the district authorities for upload on Co-win software. Other tasks under this phase will involve ensuring training of human resources on Co-win software, monitoring progress of key activities such as micro planning, communication planning, cold chain and vaccine logistic planning as well fixing accountability for each task. It will undertake planning and mapping of vaccination sessions wherein healthcare workers will be vaccinated during the 1st phase of Covid-19 vaccine roll out. Besides, it will identify vaccinators across government and private sectors to minimise disruption of routine immunisation services while introducing the vaccine. The task force’s responsibilities will also include mapping human resources across departments that could be deployed for vaccination sessions for verification of beneficiaries, crowd management and overall co-ordination at the session site. The implementation phase will begin upon the availability of the vaccine. It will have to monitor the roll-out of vaccine in the block for progress made and resolve bottlenecks. It will also have to arrange manpower as well as infrastructure including vehicles, if needed, from the district and other departments for implementation and monitoring while seeing that there is a minimal disruption of other routine health services during the roll-out. The task force will have to ensure that every session of vaccination is supervised. Implementing communication plan while addressing the local context will be part of its job. It will have to deal with rumour mongering, if any, by using local influencers including religious leaders to counter misinformation. It will have to keep information, education and communication (IEC) material pertaining to covid-19 vaccination is displayed at prominent places and at sessions sites as also to ensure that incentives to people engaged in covid-19 vaccination drive are disbursed on time. The government has also formed a state steering committee headed by the chief secretary. Its first meeting was held on December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/task-force-in-place-to-introduce-covid-19-vax/articleshow/79701346.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana MC staff goes to sleep after digging up road to lay pipes||LUDHIANA: The careless attitude of the municipal corporation can lead to some major accident in Model Town Gole market (one of the most visited markets of the city), where the MC officials have left a trench open after digging was undertaken for laying of new water supply lines in the past few days. The residents and shopkeepers in the market rued that after rainfall on Friday night, now the trench is filled with water and it can turn riskier for commuters. A 10-year-old boy had narrow escape on Friday as he fell in the trench when his bicycle slipped from there but luckily did not get hurt. A shopkeeper in the market, Arvind Sharma, said, “We were facing water scarcity in the market so we were continuously complaining about it to the officials of the operation and maintenance cell. The officials finally acted and work on the laying of a new water supply line was started. We were told that work will be completed in a day or two, but now over 10 days have passed and it is still in a similar condition.” He said he had submitted a complaint against the ‘lethargic’ attitude of the civic body officials to the principal secretary, local bodies department, Chandigarh. He said it seemed that the officials were waiting for some tragedy to happen. A resident of Model Town, Gurpal Grewal, who’s son fell into the trench said, “We were not at home and my 10-year-old younger son Jaanveer Grewal was riding his bicycle on that road. Since it is slippery, he lost his balance on the bicycle and fell into the trench.” He said by God’s grace he did not get hurt and some nearby shopkeepers helped him to get up. He said it was quite risky to leave such trenches open and at some locations due to leakage in the pipeline the road had also become slippery and in future could become dangerous for people. Meanwhile, area councillor Parvinder Lapran said, “It is quite unfortunate if any child has met with any accident at that place. It is the duty of the civic body officials to look into the safety of people. Next time, it can lead to some major tragedy.” He said in the area there was a major problem of water supply as the existing water supply line was in dire need of replacement and it had leakages at various locations. He said now almost 200-foot-long water supply line was being laid down so that residents should not face problem getting water supply properly. The sub divisional officer of O&M cell, Anshul Garcha, said, “The matter is in the knowledge of senior officials and it has been conveyed to the contractor to complete the work as soon as possible. But after rainfall on Friday night the trench got filled with water. So, first we will check that and then work will be completed.” Later, when the matter was highlighted by the shopkeepers and residents the MC officials came into action and work was started again at the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/careless-mc-men-leave-trench-to-lay-water-pipe-open-bpassing-safety-of-people/articleshow/79699255.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Staggered class timings not easy to implement: Schools||Nagpur: The state education department has suggested staggered class timings to ensure that students of different classes don’t mingle on campus, thus reducing possible spread of infection. But school principals say this suggestion looks good on paper whereas it’s almost impossible to implement. A school principal said education officials were adamant that these guidelines must be followed. “On Thursday, education officials interacted with us via video conferencing. They insisted that we must have staggered timings from our classes. So, the ideal gap is half an hour between say Std IX, X, XI and XII,” said the principal. She added that the first problem is about the diktat meeting its purpose. “You can’t avoid students mingling with each other regardless of what the timing gap is. When school gets over at 11am for Std IX, they will wait for their friends of Std X till 11.30am. If they want to meet or catch up with their buddies after such a long gap, they will find a way,” said the principal. Another principal said they can’t do anything about students gathering outside their gates. “For the first week, we will see a trend of students gathering and chatting with their friends. The gap has been too long and their friendships are not limited to just the same class,” said the principal. One principal said she has no choice but to ply buses as parents won’t be able to come ‘so far’. “How can we ply buses in half an hour gap for just a dozen students? My bus cannot keep shuttling 20km to 30 km every hour just to adhere with the staggered classes,” said the principal. TOI spoke to two schools who said they will bring all kids together in the bus. “If we do reopen, then students will come together. Even if we keep them on the ground and start classes as advised at different timings, we will have to take them back together only. So, these guidelines may have been made with the best of intentions, but not very practical,” said the principal. Schools in rural Nagpur are set to reopen from Monday. District collector Ravindra Thakre has already issued orders for the same and education department officials have been in touch with schools to gauge their preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/staggered-class-timings-not-easy-to-implement-schools/articleshow/79699261.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Task Force arrests seven land grabbers||Hyderabad: Task force sleuths arrested seven members of a land grabbing gang and seized forged documents from their possession. Police said that the gang has duped several people and extorted money from several others using the forged documents. The accused are, Ali Bin Mohammed Jabri (32), Md Wasi (37) of Chandrayangutta; Mir Shaker Ali (43) of Bhavani Nagar; Syed Karmath Hussain (48) of Santosh Nagar; Wahed Ali (29) of Kalapathar; Md Fazal Shareef (29) of Jahanuma and Md Khan (20) of Kishanbagh in Bahadurpura. Police seized 92 forged land documents, 13 rubber stamps, five ink remover chemical bottles, nine cell phones and Rs 2.1 lakh cash. According to Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar, the accused used forged documents they are encroaching the vacant plots. The main accused, Mohammed Habri and Md Wasi, collect information about vacant plots and pass on the details to Shaker Ali. Shaker Ali contacts Md Mujeeb Khan who collects old stamp papers from different scrap vendors. “Mujeeb uses ink erasing chemicals remove subject matter on the stamp papers and hands them over to Wahed Ali. On Shaker’s advise, Wahed Ali prepares series of link documents pertaining to ownership of the targeted plot with fake names and addresses,” Task Force police said. After the link documents have been prepared, Md Fazal Shareef stamps the papers with fake seal of notary to project them as original sale deeds. Once the forged documents are prepared, Karamath Hussain, Fareed Khan and Azher Ahmed pose as land owners and sell the plot to innocent clients. Whenever it is possible, the gang also threatens the original land owners using forged documents and occupies the plots, Task Force Inspector S Raghavendra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-force-arrests-seven-land-grabbers/articleshow/79699813.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Advocates’ group reach dharna site to back farmers||Ludhiana: A group of advocates on behalf of the District Bar Association (DBA) on Saturday went to the dharna site near Delhi to support their ‘farmer brothers’. DBA president advocate Gurkirpal Singh Gill said that majority of the advocates had demanded that the DBA should send advocates to the dharna site to support farmers protesting against the recently passed farming laws. He added that keeping this in view that they had decided to send a group of advocates there. The DBA president said that on Saturday a group of around 150 advocates, including 10 female advocates, had left for the dharna site in two buses and private cars. He added that after participating in the dharna they would return late in the night. He further said that they would continue to support farmers in their fight and had already submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner in support of farmers’ demands. Advocates who had gone to the dharna site near Delhi had earlier said that they were happy to be part of the protest by the farmers. Advocate Harjot Singh, who also left for the dharna site, before leaving said that they were happy to be with the protesting farmers and demanded that the government should repeal the recently passed three farming laws. Meanwhile, in the memorandum to the deputy commissioner on December 3, the DBA had said, “We condemn the black laws which were passed without taking into confidence the members of farmers’ union/community and we support the farmers for recalling the same.” It further said, “We strongly condemn the police action of Haryana government for using brutal force in an undemocratic manner to stop the peaceful protest of farmers, while they were going to Delhi.” It added that they strongly condemn the attitude of the Modi government for adopting the adamant behaviour towards the demand of the farmers regarding withdrawal of the three black laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/advocates-group-reach-dharna-site-to-back-farmers/articleshow/79699260.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Police fire in air to control mob in Kelgaon, 58 arrested||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad rural police had to fire tear gas shells and rounds in the air after a mob turned violent in Kelgaon of Sillod rural and attacked the house of the man accused of harassing the village’s woman police patil. Police said certain elements in the village had made it an upper caste versus lower caste issue. Sillod rural police have registered two cases — one under sections of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, in which eight people have been arrested; and another in which several villagers have been booked on the charges of attempt to murder of policemen on duty and for using criminal force to deter a public servant from performing his duty. In the second offence, 50 accused have been arrested. On learning about the incident, Aurangabad rural SP Mokshada Patil rushed to the village on Friday night and camped there till Saturday morning. Assistant inspector Kiran Bidve, who is amongst the three policemen to sustain injuries, said: “Certain elements had provoked other villagers to target Ramdas Wagh’s house. There were attempts to burn down the huts that belonged to Ramdas and his sister. There were children inside the huts. Also, stones were pelted at the riot control police. We had to fire in the air.” Three houses, a four-wheeler, a stall that belonged to Wagh, a police RCP and a jeep were damaged in the incident. Police said Ramdas Wagh and his mother were arrested on Thursday night for allegedly harassing the woman police patil, who recorded a video message blaming the duo before consuming a poisonous substance to end her life. However, the court granted them bail on Friday evening. Shocked, the residents of the village went to the Sillod rural police demanding that Ramdas and his mother be booked afresh for an attempt to murder or under other stringent sections. When the police refused, the villagers got angrier. The village sarpanch then called a meeting in the night. He even played a recorded audio call — in which Ramdas could be heard hurling abuses at the woman police patil — on a public speaker, thus provoking the mob that headed straight for Ramdas’ house. Senior inspector Rajendra Bokde told TOI, “To bring the situation under control, the police had to fire two hand grenades, three tear gas shells, two plastic bullets and four rounds from a revolver.” Following the incident, district guardian minister Subhash Desai said: “An inquiry will be conducted and if it is found that the police are guilty, they will face action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-fire-in-air-to-control-mob-in-kelgaon-58-arrested/articleshow/79698707.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Prahar Janshakti members booked for unlawful assembly, attempt to suicide||Aurangabad: Hours after the Prahar Janshakti Party members called off their agitation on Friday, the Aurangabad city police registered a case against 17 of them on the charges of unlawful assembly, attempt to commit suicide and disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant. In addition, they have also been slapped with sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The cases have been booked at the Jawaharnagar police station. Santosh Patil, the Jawaharnagar police, said: “The protest was in violation of the preventive orders issued by the commissioner of police. Moreover, the protestors resorted to unlawful assembly.” Of the 17 PJP members booked, five have been identified. City police and the district administration had a tough time convincing the protestors to get off the Shivajinagar-based overhead water tank, which the protestors had climbed on Thursday afternoon. The PJP workers only called off their agitation, temporarily, after district guardian minister Subhash Desai held a video conference with them. The agitators were demanding an apology from Union minister Raosaheb Danve for his remarks alleging Chinese and Pakistani involvement in the farmers’ protest outside Delhi. The protest at the water tank was phase-II of the agitation. A day before, the protestors had held a demonstration in front of Danve’s bungalow in Shivajinagar. Later, they even tried holding a blood donation camp there. After the police prevented them from doing so, the agitators went to Sutgirni Chowk, and held a symbolic blood donation camp. Prahar’s district president Sudhakar Shinde said: “We have temporarily called off the agitation for 8 days. “If Danve fails to apologise, we will aggravate our agitation and will not back down till he apologises to the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prahar-janshakti-members-booked-for-unlawful-assembly-attempt-to-suicide/articleshow/79698709.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Chennai||Amid protest, Centre reaches out to Sikhs by email through IRCTC||CHENNAI: While Punjab farmers continue their protest against the new farm laws, IRCTC (Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation) has started sending out emails with a 47-page attachment titled ‘PM Modi and his government’s special relationship with Sikhs’. IRCTC chief public relations officer Sidharth Singh said the booklet was released a few days ago and all government departments are mailing it to people. It has been sent to those with the surname ‘Singh’ and those who are from the Punjab region,” he said. A senior railways official said the mails were part of a public outreach by the government and nothing more should be read to it. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on farmers protestThe people who received the mail, sent from cim@irctc.co.in, had given their email IDs while registering with IRCTC to book train tickets. Although meant primarily for the Sikh community, a few others with the surname ‘Singh’ have also received the mail. Read AlsoFarmers march to block Delhi-Jaipur highway on Sunday: Latest developmentsNEW DELHI: A day after the proposed blockade of the Delhi-Jaipur highway (NH-48) failed, farmers from Delhi's neighbouring states are set to march again on Sunday attempting a second blockade of the crucial interstate highway. Farmers have been protesting for 18 days now demanding the Centre toThe mail with PDF attachments in Hindi, Punjabi and English starts with a citation from the Quami Seva Award presented to the PM and goes on to give measures taken by the government under 13 heads including: ‘FCRA registration granted to Sri Harmandir Sahib’; ‘Allowing global sangat participation’; ‘For the first time ever, no taxes of any kind on langar’; ‘Sri Kartarpur Corridor: Seamless access’; ‘Wiping tears of riot victims: justice delivered after denial of three decades’; ‘Jallianwala Bagh Memorial - saluting sacrifices honouring memories’; ‘Slashing the blacklist, reaching out with a shoulder of support.” The booklet published by the ministry of information and broadcasting contains several photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some people took to Twitter about IRCTC using their IDs to send out mailers. A tweet by J P Singh with the handle @thejusticeprime said: ‘Does #irctc allowed (sic) to use our data for party campaigns? Also targeted campaign by the government to cool down the anti-government sentiments among Sikhs. Nice strategy.’ Rajinder Singh Bhasin, president of Guru Nanak Educational Society, Chennai, said the government is taking advantage of social media and technology to convey its feelings to the people. “I wonder why the government is not listening to the demands of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-reaches-out-to-sikhs-by-email-through-irctc/articleshow/79700466.cms||V Ayyappan
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Shiv Sena holds protest against price hike, Ambadas Danve||AURANGABAD: Shiv Sena workers led by MLC Ambadas Danve on Saturday held a mega agitation against the hike in prices of different articles, including fuel, along with lodging their protest against Union minister Raosaheb Danve’s statement regarding the farmers’ protest in Delhi. The protests were held at the busy Kranti Chowk cross road on a day when Sena’s party chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders were in the town. “Inflation is sky-rocketing. The prices of all commodities are rising with each passing day and the BJP-led Union government is leaving no stone unturned to add to the suffering of the people,” Anbadas Danve said. Issuing an ultimatum, he said that if the demands of the farmers’ agitating in Delhi were not addressed, they would agitate at the village and taluka level. Sena has also demanded an apology from Raosaheb Danve. Even in Nashik, Sena leader Sanjay Raut came down heavily on news reports alleging that the farmers’ strike was being hijacked by the Leftists and Khalistan supporters from Pakistan. “It is misleading propaganda,” he said. In Aurangabad, the Sena workers, while raising slogans against the BJP leadership, and said that their silence on the hike in petrol, diesel and LPG prices, is deafening. “Our demand is that the price hike should be reduced. Similarly, we are protesting against the statement made by minister Raosaheb Danve that Pakistan and China have a hand in the farmers’ movement. Also, the Modi government should immediately resign,” a press release issued by the Sena stated. Former mayor Nandkumar Ghodele and Santosh Jejurkar were leading the protest and carrying placards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shiv-sena-holds-protest-against-price-hike-danve/articleshow/79698716.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Road near garbage dump caves in after rodents eat into base||LUDHIANA: After it became clear that rodents had dug up the base of a road near a garbage dump resulting in caving in of a portion of it, the district administration has asked an agency to check the growth of rodents at such places along the highway. Meanwhile, the district administration has asked the road construction agency concerned to complete the repair of the affected road stretch by this month end. A stretch of the road from Ludhiana towards Delhi had caved in after which the Khanna police had released the traffic diversion plan. For more than 10 days as the vehicles were being diverted on service lanes, it was causing traffic chaos on the narrow roads, resulting in suffering to the commuters coming from Amritsar, Jammu, Jalandhar and Ludhiana on way to Delhi and those going towards these cities. Initially, the civil administration had indicated that the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had asked for one and half months to get the repair work completed. However, in a meeting of the deputy commissioner (DC) with the project director, which was also attended by other civil administration officers, police, etc. on Friday evening, the deadline was advanced by the DC. Ludhiana DC Varinder Sharma said that the rodents had caused the caving in of the road and they had asked the NHAI for management of rodents and reptiles through agencies concerned at such spots. He added that they had also asked the NHAI to get the road repair work done by December 28. Meanwhile, a social activist who had highlighted the issue of garbage dumps under the highway, said that rodent management was a must. “Rodents will obviously go to a place where they get food, so they go to these garbage dumps and they also reproduce in the soil there. Rodent management is a must to ensure that road doesn’t cave in at other places as they pose a risk to people’s health as they go to residential areas as well,” said Harsh Kumar Bhalla, the social activist. He added that along the Ludhiana-Delhi national highway there were such dumps near Samrala road, Lalheri road and Amloh road, where rodent management was a must. Some Khanna residents said that not only the commuters from other cities were facing traffic problems while travelling through Khanna, but local residents were also suffering. “We acknowledge the fact that commuters travelling from various parts of J&K, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab are facing problems due to diversions because of the road cave in. But we too are suffering due to the road related issue. Normally, it takes us five to ten minutes to take a round of Khanna city, but now it is taking around an hour during peak times,” said Kulwinder Singh, a Khanna resident. Khanna SSP Gursharandeep Singh admitted that there were traffic related problems due to road cave in, especially during morning and evening hours. He added that they had deployed cops to manage traffic as part of the diversion plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/road-near-garbage-dump-caves-in-after-rodents-eat-into-base/articleshow/79699269.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Don’ killed as he scuppers peace talks||AHMEDABAD: A Sola man with a long criminal record, which had earned him the moniker of ‘Don’, was hacked to death after talks he had organized with his rivals failed due his violent outburst. Pradeep Yadav (who also had the sobriquet of ‘Maya’) was killed by eight persons early on Saturday morning. The attackers were armed with swords, knives, irons rods, and baseball bats. According to inspector J P Jadeja of the Sola police station, two of the eight accused have been held: Amosh Dravid of Sola and Rahul Sharma of Chandlodia. “Among the absconders are the main accused Anish Pandey of Chandlodia, who is a relative of the deceased,” Jadeja said. “The others include Anil Kori and Rahul Kori; and two men identified as of now only as Nitin and Pritam. We are hunting for them.” The FIR was lodged by Yadav’s friend Vishwajeet Goswami of Gota, who was injured in the attack. Goswami said that he, Yadav, a man called Akshay Bharwad, and a woman were at Yadav’s house when the events unfolded. To settle an old feud, Yadav had called Pandey, Sharma, and the others for talks to his house. “Yadav told Goswami to record the proceedings of the meeting on his mobile phone,” Jadeja said. “During the talks, Yadav abused and slapped Pandey and the others. Thereafter, Yadav’s rivals went away.” At about 5.30am on Saturday, Pandey and his aides arrived outside Yadav’s house and started banging the door. “Though Goswami warned Yadav against letting Pandey and the others in, Yadav opened the door and his enemies barged in,” said a police official. According to police sources, the accused started beating Yadav and Bharwad. Later the accused told Goswami, Bharwad, and the woman that they had no role in the quarrel and should stay away. One of the accused struck Goswami on his head and locked him, Bharwad, and the woman inside the kitchen. Police sources said the accused then resumed their assault on Yadav and left after some time. “When Bharwad, Goswami, and the woman forced themselves out of the kitchen, they saw blood,” a police source said. “They thought that the accused had taken Yadav with them. However, at about 6am, they saw Yadav’s body lying about 60 feet from the house. He had been stabbed on his forehead, chest, stomach, neck, and the left leg.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/don-killed-as-he-scuppers-peace-talks/articleshow/79699822.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Min: Stop sale of paddy from other states in Maha||Chandrapur: Guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Friday directed officials to file criminal cases against farmers and traders trying to illegally sell paddy harvest from neighbouring states in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts. The directives came in the wake of multiple complaints cropping up about farmers and traders bringing the harvest from neighbouring states to procurement centres in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli districts to earn hefty bonus of Rs700 announced for paddy farmers in the state. Wadettiwar held a meeting with senior administrative officials and those involved in paddy and cotton procurement and issued the directives on Friday. “Maharashtra government has announced bonus of Rs700 per quintal for paddy farmers in the state. The decision was taken following heavy losses suffered by the farmers in eastern Vidarbha due to heavy rainfall and subsequent floods during the last monsoon. Because of this, farmers are getting the Rs700 bonus in addition to minimum support price (MSP) of Rs1,800 per quintal,” he said. Wadettiwar claimed that some farmers, in connivance with growers and traders from neighbouring states, are bringing their inferior quality paddy harvest illegally too procurement centres in the bordering districts of Chandrapur and Gadchiroli to get the extra earning. The minister told the officials not to tolerate such illegal practice and file offences against such people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/min-stop-sale-of-paddy-from-other-states-in-maha/articleshow/79699268.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Over 10,000 pending cases settled in e-Lok Adalats||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat State Legal Service Authority (GSLSA) organized e-Lok Adalats on Saturday and successfully settled over 10,000 pending cases involving disputes worth Rs 167.99 crore. The authority held the Lok Adalats in subordinate courts across the state. According to GSLSA, total 10,803 pending cases and 1,580 pre-litigation cases were settled amicably in different courts. The metropolitan courts in Ahmedabad topped the list of disposals with 1,469 cases settled at its Gheekanta campus. The district court at Surat disposed of 999 cases in the Lok Adalat. Ahmedabad’s rural courts selected 2,043 cases for settlement and attempts were made to settle 749 cases. Of them, 511 cases were amicably settled and total amount to be disbursed to parties after these settlements was Rs 22.21 crore. There were 18 pre-litigation cases resolved in Ahmedabad’s rural court and the settled amount was Rs 56.31 lakh, according to a statement from Ahmedabad District Legal Aid Society. The GSLSA is organizing Lok Adalat under the aegis of the National Legal Service Authority. The Lok Adalats are held through video-conferencing during the time of Covid-19 pandemic. The high court has issued guidelines to hold such programme online and cases are identified in advance. The parties are intimated and they are kept prepared to address the courts online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-10000-pending-cases-settled-in-e-lok-adalats/articleshow/79699833.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to start boating at Sector 42 lake||CHANDIGARH: Boating will be started at the new lake in Sector 42 in a bid to provide another tourist destination in the city. Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (Citco) has floated a tender for operating and managing pedal boats (two and four seaters) on revenue sharing basis. A senior Citco official said they will hold discussions with senior officials after receiving bids from interested parties. However, it will not be a smooth sailing. Sources said the UT administration and Citco will have to develop more facilities, like food outlets to make it a real tourist destination. The authorities will also have to check the water storage capacity of the lake and find out how deep the lake is, as pedal boats require sufficient space at the bottom as well to operate properly. The UT will have to justify use of tubewell water to fill the lake for operating boats, sources added. At the same time, the administration is making efforts to fasten the process to introduce city’s first 80-seater battery/solar operated party boat at Sukhna Lake. Recently, a tender was floated to engage an agency to run the boat. The agency, if finalised, will provide a brand new party boat with terrace. The boat will be eco-friendly and have lighting arrangement for night operations. It will be the responsibility of the agency to keep the boat in running condition all the times, an official said. The tender document reads, “During the tenure of the contract, the agency should ensure it does not pollute Sukhna and noise is maintained within the permissible limit as prescribed in the notification of department of environment, UT administration dated January 19, 2015.” The boat can be used for conducting small party or for other occasions, for which a lump sum amount can be fixed by the agency for one/two hours. The decoration, if any, will be borne by the guest. However, arrangements will be made through officials authorised by Citco from amongst the firms on the panel. Eatables will be supplied by Citco only. However, cleaning of boat will be the responsibility of the agency. The timings for ferrying party boat will be as fixed by Lakeview authorities. IT WILL NOT BE SMOOTH SAILING UT administration and Citco will have to develop more facilities like food outlets to make it a real tourist destination. With an average depth of 8ft and a maximum of 16ft, Sukhna Lake gives opportunity to residents and tourists of boating. But the new lake at Sector 42 has an average depth of 4ft. Pedal boats require sufficient space at the bottom to properly operate The UT will have to justify use of tubewell water to fill the lake for operating boats LAW AND ORDER WORRY Snatchings, vehicle thefts and brawls are common near the new lake in Sector 42. The main reason is criminals can easily flee to boundaries of Mohali after commiting crimes owing to the locating of the sectors. Many drug addicts and criminals operate from colonies in sectors 37, 38, 40 and 41 and villages near the lake, police sources said. People have also many times lodged complaints of nuisance being created by college students at the lake. Three colleges are situated in Sector 42, while many students live on rent or PG in the sector||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-start-boating-at-sector-42-lake/articleshow/79699824.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Auto firm ex-GM falls for UK job con, loses Rs 42 lakh||CHANDIGARH: A retired general manager of an automobile company was duped of Rs 42 lakh on the pretext of a marketing job in a UK shopping mall, the cyber cell said on Saturday. Deepak Kumar Raina (58), a resident of Sector 49, said he was looking for a job since his retirement and uploaded his resume and filled an application in a website on July 3. The next day, he got an email from one Umesh Prabhu. Raina was asked to provide his professional details and proof. Later, he was told he was shortlisted for an interview. Raina said he got a job offer letter from the marketing section of a mall in the UK. Later, the accused told him to make some payment for getting certificates from the UK and provided him bank accounts. Raina transferred money for visa and embassy fee. Raina said he had talked to five to six different persons during the process and all of them spoke English fluently. The accused also sent him various government forms. Raina transferred Rs 42 lakh through multiple transactions. He said the cheaters kept on asking for money and when he refused to transfer anymore, the cheaters stopped talking to him, making him realise he was duped. He lodged a complaint at the SSP public window. After verifying the facts and taking legal opinion, the cyber cell registered a case under Sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and IT Act against unknown persons. The cyber cell is scrutinising bank account details, phone numbers and email IDs of the cheaters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-gm-duped-of-rs-42l-in-uk-job-fraud/articleshow/79699830.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Protesters try to block chartered NMR train, at least 100 arrested||Coimbatore: As many as 300 members of various political parties turned up at the Mettupalayam railway station on Saturday morning to protest against the operation of the Nilgiri Mountain Rail by private operator Homemade Group TN 43, which has chartered the train.Members of DMK, MDMK, Congress and Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TDPK) swarmed the station’s entrance and platforms at 7.30am, just as the train was departing. Railway police personnel lined up along the tracks to stop the protesters and arrested 100 people.TDPK president K Ramakrishnan said allowing the firm to charter the train for four weekends is not good for NMR. “The Nilgiri Mountain Railway, which completes 100 years, was declared a world heritage site by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco). While the train has so much support, why would authorities allow a private firm to operate the train for money? Also, when the regular services were cancelled because of the pandemic, how can you allow a private operator to carry passengers in it?” The protesters also flayed the private firm for selling the tickets at higher rates. “When a private party rents a train, he can travel in it. How can he resell the tickets at a premium price? That is like us buying up train tickets in bulk and reselling them in the black market,” said Ramakrishnan.“How did the firm paint the train in another colour and cover the government advertisements, even the NMR logo?” asked a protester.Meanwhile, animal activists objected to the orange paint, which they said, would disturb wild animals in the Western Ghats the train passes through.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/protesters-try-to-block-chartered-nmr-train-at-least-100-arrested/articleshow/79699831.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chennai||Swedish tech to study interface between atmosphere in Venus & space||CHENNAI: After a Swedish instrument onboard Chandrayaan-1 discovered small regions on the moon that can protect robots from solar winds in future landings, a similar payload will be in the Indian spacecraft on its journey to Venus planned for 2025. The instrument from the Swedish Institute of Space Physics (IRF), which will be ready by January 2023, will study the interaction between the atmosphere in Venus and space. Associate professor and principal investigator Yoshifumi Futaana, IRF said they are developing Venusian Neutral Analyser (VNA) instrument, which will be part of a larger plasma instrument, to study the interface between the atmosphere in Venus and the space which includes the interaction between solar wind or plasma (charged particles) from the Sun and the planet. “With the VNA instrument, we will measure the fast atoms, energetic neutral atoms created in the near-Venus space. VNA is based partially on the SARA instrument which was carried to the Moon by Chandrayaan-1 and more closely on the recent instrument ASAN on the Change’E-4 lunar lander,” he said in an email interview. Isro short-listed 20 space-based experiment proposals for its proposed Venus orbiter mission to study the planet for more than four years. This includes collaborations with Russia, France, Sweden and Germany. According to Isro, the broad research areas of interest in the mission include surface-subsurface features and resurfacing processes, atmospheric chemistry, dynamics and compositional variations and interaction with solar radiation/solar wind. The VNA developed in collaboration with the Space Physics Laboratory, Trivandrum will be deployed as a part of the plasma instrument VISWAS (Venus Ionospheric and Solar Wind Particle Analyser). SARA onboard Chandrayaan-1 made some discoveries and changed some long-held predictions. It includes the moon being a strong source of hydrogen atoms, which forms when a proton from solar wind bounces off the lunar surface and joins an electron, and that there are mini-magnetospheres on the Moon where there is an increase of magnetic field that are void of solar winds making them safe for robots to land. While SARA was a first generation instrument, VNA onboard Isro’s spacecraft to Venus will be the ninth generation instrument. For Sweden, this will be their second trip to Venus. In 2005, IRF’s Aspera-4 was part of Venus Express mission by European Space Agency where it helped researchers confirm that the more the Sun is active, the lower the amount of water contents escape to space from the planet; a finding that was opposite to what scientists predicted earlier. VNA too will investigate escaping of water-related material in the form of fast neutral atoms and researchers believe the results from VNA will be complementary to ongoing studies by Aspera-4. “The data from Venus can be compared to similar studies of Mars and Earth. The comparisons between the three sibling planets give a comprehensive picture of the solar wind effects on planetary atmospheres. For example Earth, even though it has a strong magnetic field, has a larger loss of atmosphere to space than both Venus and Mars,” said Olle Norberg, former director general of the Swedish National Space Agency. Cecilia Hertz, Founder and CEO Umbilical Design, which is involved in space technology transfer representing Sweden as part of ESA Space Solutions Network said Sweden is now eager to contribute to India’s future space missions including the first human spaceflight mission, Gaganyaan. She said the two countries have had an MoU since 1986 for collaboration in the area of space. “India is one of the fastest growing space industries and I admire that India has a clear vision to explore the universe, other planets and to send humans to space,” she said. “Besides the opportunities I see within the fields of space for sustainable development and space start-ups, with my background in Space Architecture, it would be exciting to contribute to India’s first human spaceflight mission, Gaganyaan,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/swedish-tech-to-study-interface-between-atmosphere-in-venus-space/articleshow/79700488.cms||U Tejonmayam
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad woman loses Rs 2.9 lakh in online fraud||Aurangabad: A city-based woman was cheated of Rs 2.9 lakh after she tried to sell a wooden table through an online trading website. Taking cognizance of her complaint, a case of cheating along with sections of Information Technology Act has been registered against an unidentified person with Pundaliknagar police station. Police said that the 32-year old woman of the Bharatnagar area was cheated on December 6, following which she reached out to cyber police station, but later the application was referred to area police station of Pundaliknagar. As per the complaint, a man claiming to be Madan Sharma contacted on the phone number she had given on the website. After negotiating the table for a few thousand rupees, the suspect, on the pretext of verifying the bank account number to which the amount against the table was to be transferred, carried out a transaction of Rs 10. While carrying out this transaction, the suspect obtained all the bank account details of the woman and before she could understand anything, the suspect carried out multiple transactions from her account, leaving her poorer by Rs 2.95 lakh. Inspector Ghanshaym Sonawne said, “This is one of the latest modus operandi by professional racketeers involved in cheating people by impersonating as customers interested in purchasing articles posted on websites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-woman-loses-rs-2-9-lakh-in-online-fraud/articleshow/79698722.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kochi||‘Will consider taking Kappan into UDF’||Thrissur: The UDF convener M M Hassan on Saturday said the front will consider the possibility of taking in NCP leader and MLA Mani C Kappan into its fold, if the latter is interested. Hassan was replying to questions from the media personnel on the reported discontent expressed by Kappan against the alleged neglect of his party by the LDF leadership in seat sharing in the local body polls. “The UDF will discuss and take a collective decision, if Kappan shows any interest. Some more LDF MLAs are also known to be discontent with the front leadership,” Hassan said. The UDF convener criticized the assembly speaker for taking decisions in a partisan manner. He alleged that the speaker had given sanction to conduct a vigilance probe against the leader of opposition by toeing the lines of the government. No other speaker has faced such allegations as the present incumbent, Hassan alleged. The speaker must correct the mistakes committed by him and apologise, he said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/will-consider-taking-kappan-into-udf/articleshow/79699818.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||New mail threat to school, prelim exams cancelled||AHMEDABAD: Prelims exams of students of class X, XI, and XII at Anand Niketan School, Satellite, have been cancelled following the new threat email received on Friday morning. The parents of all 98 students have been informed in this regard. After a lot of deliberations and taking all stakeholders into confidence, the school management finally decided to cancel the exams as the police are still investigating the matter. School authorities said that as the threat specifically mention releasing morphed pictures of girl students in cyber space, they took the decision to cancel the exams currently so as not to cause any mental distress to any school student. Director of Anand Niketan Group of Schools Nashy Chauhan said, “We have worked on a special tutorial plan for the students where each student will be given personal coaching by the educators for one month starting from December 14 till Uttarayan.” She said, “The winter break has also been cancelled and teachers will take tutorials during this period as well to ensure that each child is well prepared for the exams.” School principal Binu Thomas said, “All 23 educators have been apprised of the scenario and they are all charged up to assist students.” However, most of the parents are upset by the sequence of events and the failure of cybercrime department of city police in nabbing the culprit who is holding the school exams to ransom. They expressed shock over one person practically paralyzing functioning of the school. A delegation of parents had also met the CM who assured of immediate action. Acting on his words, a senior police officer has been assigned sole responsibility of resolving the case, parents said. The controversy erupted on September 9 when the school declared the schedule of first term exams for class VIII to XII. The school received a threat mail in which the culprit had warned that he would upload morphed pictures of six school girls if the school dared to take the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-mail-threat-to-school-prelim-exams-cancelled/articleshow/79699828.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: U A Khader passes away||KOZHIKODE: U A Khader, acclaimed storyteller and Kendra Sahitya Academy award winner, died at a private hospital here on Saturday evening. He was 85. Khader had been undergoing treatment for lung cancer for some time. Born to Moideenkutty Haji and Mamaidi, a Burma citizen in 1935 in Myanmar, Khader came to Kerala during the World War II at the age of seven. He had his education at Koyilandi government high school and Madras College of Arts. Khader joined All India Radio and later worked at Institute of Maternity and Child Health and Government General Hospital in Kozhikode in the administrative department. He retired from service in 1990. Khader’s first story was published in the Chandrika daily in 1954, which was based on a real-life incident. It was the IUML leader C H Muhammad Koya who initiated him into the world of letters and encouraged him to write. Soon he found a place in Malayalam literature. Khader leaves behind around 70 literary works including novels, short-stories, children’s literature and travelogue. Khader’s masterpieces ‘Thrikkottoor Peruma’ and Thrikkottoor Novellas have bagged numerous awards, including the Kendra Sahitya Academy and Kerala Sahitya Academy. Thrikkottoor Peruma is a magnificent work where myths, local legends and the ordinary life coalesce to create a rare reading experience. Khader was associated with Kerala Sahitya Academy, Lalitha Kala Academy and Kerala Language Institute. He was the state president of the Purogamana Sahithya Sangam and was a member of the Kerala state film awards judging committee for four times. People from different walks of life condoled the death of their favourite writer. In a message, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Khader was a person who maintained a secular and progressive attitude throughout his life and reflected the philosophy in his works. “He reached the helms of Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangam as a logical conclusion,” he said. “He had grown to the level of a national writer breaking the limits of Malayalam literature through works like Thrikkottor Peruma. He brought local history as an integral part of literature,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/u-a-khader-passes-away/articleshow/79699862.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||FTII to fund fellows to write film education books in Hindi||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) will fund up to three eligible candidates from a fellowship that will start next year. The fellowship will help them to write books in Hindi about the craft of Indian cinema and television. “While there are dozens of authentic and credible English books, mostly authored by foreign writers, on the practice and craft of cinema and television, there has always been a crying need for such books in Hindi. Students from non-English speaking backgrounds in FTII and outside always hit the wall when it comes to learning from books in a language most of them are not familiar with,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, the FTII director. Announced on account of the FTII’s diamond jubilee being celebrated across 2020 and 2021, the fellowship is worth Rs 50,000 per month, and will run for one year. The application details have been uploaded on the FTII website. Candidates will have to present their proposals before a screening committee. The fellowship is open to scholars, professionals in the world of film and television, as well as journalists, according to an FTII release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-to-fund-fellows-to-write-film-education-books-in-hindi/articleshow/79699842.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Raids unearth Rs 1.4L from 2 checkposts||Coimbatore: Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized Rs 87,000 from officials at the regional transport office (RTO) checkpost on the Tamil Nadu – Kerala border at KG Chavadi and Rs 50,200 from the Gopalapuram checkpost after surprise raids on Saturday.A team led by deputy superintendent of police T H Ganesh raided the RTO checkpost at Gopalapuram around 4am to seize the unaccounted money from officials on duty. The raid lasted till 10am. The sleuths registered an FIR against motor vehicle inspector Senthilkumar, office assistant Srikanth and tout Nazar. Another DVAC team raided the KG Chavadi checkpost to retrieve Rs 87,000 and registered an FIR against motor vehicle inspector Saroja, assistant motor vehicle inspector Arul and office assistant Jayakumar.The officials have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.DVAC had registered cases against Saroja and Arul after recovering Rs 91,230 unaccounted money from them after a raid at the KG Chavadi checkpost on October 23. The sleuths had also booked office assistant Kannan and tout Saravanan. Sources said Saravanan used to collect money from truck drivers and tourist vehicle drivers for permit to enter Kerala on behalf of the officials. He was paid Rs 2,000 per day. The four were booked under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Section 102 (power of police officer to seize certain property) of Criminal Procedure Code. Meanwhile, a DVAC officer requested RTO officials to transfer officials caught with unaccounted money. “Because the RTO took no action, Saroja and Arul continued to accept bribes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/raids-unearth-rs-1-4l-from-2-checkposts/articleshow/79699832.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Serial nos. written behind ballots: AAP||Panaji: AAP and the Congress on Saturday complained to the State Election Commission over irregularities in election process. AAP, in its complaint, stated that the serial numbers of the voters were being written behind their ballot paper and that the practice raises a serious question about the conduct of the election in a free and fair manner.  Congress said that in Aldona, recording of the last three digits of the voter slips was being done in pencil. “This is violation of election procedure. It risks the identity of the voters and their votes,” states the complaint filed by Congress. Former advocate general of Goa Carlos Alvares Ferreira expressed unhappiness at the attitude of the state election commission in not taking calls when their contact numbers are in public domain. He told TOI he tried repeatedly to complain about the serial numbers being recorded on the ballot papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/serial-nos-written-behind-ballots-aap/articleshow/79701349.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||After three-day meeting, Panchkula BJP announces candidates||PANCHKULA: The BJP on Saturday announced its candidates for mayor and councillor. The party’s media cell said Kulbhushan Goyal will run for mayor. While for the posts of councillor, it fielded Narender Lubaria from Ward 1, Suresh Verma from Ward 2, Ritu Goel from Ward 3, Sonia Sood from Ward 4, Jai Kaushik from Ward 5, Swati Nalik from Ward 7, Harinder Malik from Ward 8, and Dimple Loomba from Ward 10. For Ward 11, Vaishali Kansal is the contender. Sonu Bidla will contest from Ward 12, Suneet Singla from Ward 13, Sanjay Kumar from Ward 15, Rakesh Balmiki from Ward 16, Jagjeet Soi from Ward 17, and Vijay Rani Buddhiraja from Ward 19. Satbir Chaudhary is also in the race. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president O P Dhankar and local Gian Chand Gupta, who is also Haryana assembly speaker, called Kulbhushan Goyal and the other candidates, sent them flowers, and wished them luck for the MC elections . The local unit finalised the candidates after a three-day meeting with the high command. The candidates will file their nominations on Monday. Mayoral candidate Goyal joined the BJP recently. In the 2014 Vidhan Sabha elections, he constested the Panchkula assembly seat for the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-three-day-meeting-pkl-bjp-announces-candidates/articleshow/79699840.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 75-yr-old man killed by wild elephant||COIMBATORE: A 75-year-old man was attacked and killed by a wild elephant in front of his house at Vanjiamman Nagar near Thondamuthur on the outskirts of the city in the early hours of Saturday. Two youths were injured while trying to escape from the tusker, which charged towards them. A forest officer identified the deceased as P Arumugam. He said the elderly man was standing in front of his house around 6.20am when the tusker pushed him down with its trunk, killing him on the spot. “Meanwhile, the youths, K Arusamy and M Muthu, both aged 19, raised an alarm to divert the attention of the tusker, which then charged towards them. They ran and fell down on the road, injuring themselves,” the officer said. Vanjiamman Nagar is located just 3.5km away from the reserve forest that fall under Kembanur beat. Pointing out that a team of anti-depredation watchers (ADWs) was engaged in chasing away a wild elephant out of Ichikuzhi area, which is around 5km away from Vanjiamman Nagar, the officer said the team, along with another ADWs team that was patrolling Dhaliyur area, reached the spot and chased the tusker away into the Attukkal reserve forest area. They also took the injured youths to a nearby private hospital, where they were treated as outpatients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/75-yr-old-man-killed-by-wild-elephant/articleshow/79699834.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Flight services, passenger traffic go up||Coimbatore: The city airport has seen a 4% increase in flight services in November compared to October. However, according to airport authorities, the domestic flight services are still 60% down from the pre-Covid times, while only a fraction of international flights are in operation. It is to be noted that international flights to Singapore and Colombo are yet to resume operations. In a tweet on Saturday, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) said the city airport had seen 936 flights in November, up 4% from 899 flights in October. It was a 62% jump from 576 flights in August. Coimbatore is currently connected to six cities, including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, New Delhi and Mumbai.R Mahalingam, airport director, says, “We also have a direct flight to Ahmedabad and one from Madurai, which was recently added. Airlines are adding a flight every month. In fact, the airport has been seeing increase in services since it reopened in May-end.”There is also a rise in passenger traffic. As per the data available, the passenger traffic had increased by 70.7% between August and October. In October alone, the airport had handled 76,470 passengers, up 70% from 44,786 in August.P Ganesh, who runs city-based Express Holidays, says the travel agencies have seen a 25% increase in flight bookings since July. “We have seen more companies sending executives on flights and families flying in large groups for weddings. The fear of flying is definitely reducing among the people.”R Ramamurthy, former president, Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said the psychological fear associated with flying during the pandemic had weaned. “And since the business is picking up, we are flying in consultants and employees, who don’t have an option to take trains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flight-services-passenger-traffic-go-up/articleshow/79699835.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana residents want curfew timings to start at 11pm||LUDHIANA: Punjab government’s decision for extension of night curfew in all cities and towns till January 1 has not gone down well with the residents and businessmen. Most of them are of the view that already night curfew timings are causing problems to them and the government should consider extending the start time of the curfew, which presently is 10pm, to 11pm at least. Speaking to TOI on the issue, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “Rather than extending the night curfew till January 1, the state government should have tightened the checking of masks and social distancing in the markets, public offices and other crowded areas. This extension of night curfew will badly hamper the businesses, which have already taken a hit due to lockdown and coronavirus. Already, there are huge problems due to the night curfew, which starts from 10pm, as everyday it is very difficult to wind up all the work before that time and reach one’s home in the stipulated time. I think the state government should consider extending the start timing of curfew to 11pm at least.” According to Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association, “The extension of night curfew till January 1, 2021, will prove to be huge setback for the wedding industry, which has already been hit by it as several cancellations of our bookings have taken place. We are finding it very difficult to manage our remaining bookings by sticking to the deadline of 10pm as in order to wind up a function by 9.30pm, we have to start it very early in the evening. On several occasions the situation has resulted in arguments with our customers. If the government has to continue with the night curfew till January 1, then it should consider extending the deadline of 10pm to 11pm at least.” Sukhwinder Singh, executive member of Ludhiana business forums, said, “There are huge problems in complying with the 10pm deadline. Sometimes, when we go out of city for collections we have to hurry up to get back within the stipulated time limit and every time it is not possible to return by 10pm as there can be breakdown of our vehicle or we can get stuck in a traffic jam, etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-want-curfew-timings-to-start-at-11pm/articleshow/79699291.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old auto driver stabbed to death in Hyderabad's Jagadgirigutta||HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old auto driver was stabbed to death by his rival at PJR Colony in Jagadgirigutta on Saturday. Police said that an altercation over a suspected extra-marital affair was the reason for the murder. The deceased, Ansari Ahmed, 25, was an auto driver from PJR Nagar in Yellammabanda, Jagadgirigutta. According to Jagadgirigutta inspector P Saidulu, Ansari Ahmed suspected that his wife was having an affair with a neighbour, Imran. About 10 days ago, Ansari Ahmed confronted Imran suspecting that the latter had an affair with his wife and warned him to mend his ways. “Imran was upset with Ansari’s warning and decided to kill him. Imran waited for Ansari Ahmed near his house on Friday night and when Ansari returned home late in the night, Imran intercepted him and stabbed him 14 times,” the inspector said. Ansari died on the spot and Imran fled the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-auto-driver-stabbed/articleshow/79699841.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||Gorakhpur zoo, UP’s third, to open in January||LUCKNOW: UP’s third zoological garden coming up at Gorakhpur is set to open from January. State minister for forest and environment Dara Singh on Saturday said: “The zoo, which is scheduled to open early next year would boost eco-tourism in the region.” He was speaking on the concluding day of the three-day seminar to chalk out a development roadmap for Purvanchal. “The Yogi government has a clear vision to promote rural tourism in the region to raise income of forest dwellers,” he said. Listing out steps undertaken by the government to develop the region, Singh said, “While there has been a considerable effort to revive and conserve the Ramgarh Tal, the state government has also invested energy and resources on sites in neighbouring districts which had huge potential, but did not get their due till now. Bakhira Tal of Sant Kabirnagar, Sohgibarva of Maharajganj, Mussorie-like Kempti falls of Sonbhadra are a few examples,” the minister stated. “Also, the government established a tiger rescue centre and vulture conservation centre in Maharajganj,” he added. “Our efforts have created a new spectrum of options which can be used under broad heads like eco-tourism and rural-tourism. The government has also launched a stay-home scheme in forest areas to promote rural tourism and raise income of forest dwellers,” he said. He also informed that tourist footfall in the region has gone up 20 times at eco-tourism sites in the state. Referring to record plantation of the environment, the minister said, a new record will be created next year. In the key note address, principal secretary, forests, Sudhir Garg, said: “By giving the status of revenue village to forested villages, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has brought forest dwellers in the mainstream of society. Also, a new door has opened for income generation by developing stay-home facility in the Vantangia villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpur-zoo-ups-third-to-open-in-jan/articleshow/79700515.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man held for duping sr citizens at ATMs||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch on Friday held Rajveer Bhatt alias Chintu alias Rizwan Syed from Astodia for cheating senior citizens on the pretext of helping them withdraw money from ATMs in the city as well as in Nadiad, Vapi, Bardoli, Ajmer and Mumbai. According to police, the accused has committed nine such crimes. ACP, crime branch, D P Chudasma, said that Bhatt had committed thefts in his house too. “Bhatt then left home when reprimanded by his father and started selling socks and perfumes. He soon started cheating senior citizens,” said Chudasma. A case of cheating against Bhatt was lodged at Sabarmati police station in October. He had allegedly cheated Bhikanrao Yevle, a senior citizen at an ATM in Chandkheda. “He had swapped a card with Yevle’s and then withdrew money from different ATM centres and also did shopping at CG Road and Maninagar. The total cheating amount was Rs 1.70 lakh,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-duping-sr-citizens-at-atms/articleshow/79699838.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: ‘Sharad Pawar can form RVA, like MVA’||NASHIK: Sharad Pawar was one of the tallest names in political circles across the country and an acceptable leader for all the political parties. He could even form Rashtriya Vikas Aghadi (RVA) at the Cntre on the lines of Mahavikas Aghadi (MVA) in state, said senior NCP leader and state minister Chhagan Bhujbal. “Sharad Pawar is acceptable name even outside the UPA for his knowledge, all-inclusive policies, skills, vision and working style, besides a farmers’ leader. He is the one who can bring together leaders from various political parties and give them a common programme for the development of nation,” said Bhujbal, while addressing a programme organized to celebrate Pawar’s 80th birthday. Blood donation camp was also organized on Saturday. During the event, Bhujbal also noted Pawar’s contributions in the past including Rs 70 lakh crore loan waiver for farmers when he was union agriculture minister, Mandal Ayog, women reservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pawar-can-form-rva-like-mva/articleshow/79698729.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee & Sadar see most overspeeding cases in city||Nagpur: Speed thrills but also kills was aptly reflected in a recent study conducted by the Nagpur traffic police. From January 1, 2020 to December 10, 2020, the Nagpur city traffic police caught 4,818 motorists for overspeeding. Of these, 1,570 motorists were caught for driving beyond speed limits under Kamptee jurisdiction. It was followed by Sadar zone, especially due to the wide roads in Civil Lines, where 1,238 motorists were booked. The MIDC zone traffic police nabbed 722 motorists for over speeding on Amravati Road, while 521 were caught under Sakkardara zone. Roads in Cotton Market zone (1), Lakadganj (1) and Sitabuldi (3) have seen fewer offenders primarily due to heavy traffic flow on the roads under these zones. Equipped with some state-of-the-art equipment, the interceptor vehicles are either mobile or stationed at various spots across the 10 zones of the traffic police at short intervals to catch maximum violators. The traffic police got these interceptor vehicles a couple of years ago and the objective was to reduce the number of accidents due to overspeeding. Initially, these vehicles remained idle for several months but from 2020, the department started putting them to use. And the result is visible, said a senior cop from the traffic police department. In this calendar year, the number of road accidents too have witnessed a steep decline of over 27%. In 2019, the city roads had witnessed 932 accidents killing 226 people, while this year till November 30, the traffic police have recorded 680 accidents which claimed 176 lives. Traffic experts stressed the need to intensify the drive across the city. Though number of cases in Lakadganj and Sitabuldi zones are very less, but in reality the number of speed violators are more. One could easily see how youngsters indulge in driving at breakneck speed, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-sadar-see-most-overspeeding-cases-in-city/articleshow/79699289.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon police arrest man, seize two country-made firearms||Nashik: The Malegaon police have arrested one person and seized two country-made firearms from him in the wee hours of Saturday. The police have stepped up intelligence gathering about anti-social elements, who are carrying weapons with them. As part of the same, the police received a tipped-off about a person carrying two country-made firearms. The firearms were seized in an operation carried out at around 2.30 am on Saturday. Additional superintendent of police Chandrakant Khandvi said that the suspect has been identified as Shaikh Habib Shaikh Shabbir, 35, a resident of Mhalde village in Malegaon. The firearms worth Rs 55,000 have been seized from him. The action was taken on the guidance of SP Sachin Patil.The police suspect that the firearms and weapons are used by anti-social elements to give effect to crimes like murders, robberies, dacoities. Khandvi said that a few days back they found three persons who were carrying 40 swords with them. While the trio was nabbed on the spot, the main culprit who had brought the swords managed to escape from the scene. After the recovery of the swords, the Malegaon police have stepped up intelligence gathering to check if there are more people who are in illegal possession of firearms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-police-arrest-man-seize-two-country-made-firearms/articleshow/79698733.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||3 temples get ready to earn food safety certificate||Coimbatore: To ensure safety and quality of food including prasadam distributed to devotees, the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has got in touch with the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department to help Eachanari, Koniamman and Marudhamalai temples to get the Blissful Hygiene Offering to God (Bhog) certificate.Designated food safety officer K Tamilselvan said the department will assess temple kitchens, ensure use of properly labelled raw material like ghee, milk, jaggery and oil, and educate the workers about personal hygiene and the right cooking methods.Once the temples are ready, the state government will send a third party to audit the kitchens and preparation practices of prasadam and annadanam. If found perfect, they will be certified. If not, they will be given pointers on steps to be taken and once fulfilled, will be given the certificate.At an advisory committee meeting on Friday evening, FSSAI officials said they are connecting with aggregators to buy used cooking oil from restaurants and bakeries to convert it to biofuel or sell it to people who can do so.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-temples-get-ready-to-earn-food-safety-certificate/articleshow/79699839.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Online police verification of tenants picks up since August||PUNE: More than 70,000 tenants who registered their leave and licence documents with the property registration department were exempt from visiting police stations after the verification process went online in September 2019. According to official data nearly 73,463 documents, registered in Pune city in between August and November, were verified by the police online. This step is a part of the integration of services offered by the property registration department and the Pune city police commissionerate. State Inspector General of Registration and Stamps Omprakash Deshmukh said the Pune commissionerate has access to their database for this purpose. “The ‘resident-centric’ process helps citizens, government and the police machinery,” he said. There was a dip in the registrations for a large part of the year because of the pandemic. “This picked up in the last four-five months of the year as the city gradually reopened,” Deshmukh said. As a part of this resident-centric initiative, “Integration of ISARITA and Tenant Information System”, the new software gives all 30 police stations in the jurisdiction of the Pune commissionerate “instant access to tenants’ data for police verification and security checks”. Earlier, the owner of the house was required to submit their tenant’s details online on the Pune police portal or at the nearest police station. However, officials said many preferred to simply not register to avoid visiting police stations. “The new facility is a perfect example o how departments can work together to ensure due checks and the safety of the citizens,” Mitesh Ghatte, deputy police commissioner (special branch), who is in charge of this process, said. “This is a unique and effective initiative that would benefit a large number of residents. Tenants no longer need to visit a police station for verification,” Ghatte added IGR Deshmukh said this facility will be rolled in police commissionerates across the state. Police added that this was a perfect use of advanced technology. “This is a simple way to ensure that citizens give all information to the government,” DCP Ghatte said. One addition to the information that needs to be provided is residential addresses in the past five years and a permanent address. Tenants said this system has made things more convenient for them. “The registration department adds that it would ensure that all agreements are registered with the government,” a tenant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-police-verification-of-tenants-picks-up-since-aug/articleshow/79699837.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid growth rate in 10 districts outstrips Gujarat’s||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of the weekly growth trends for the Covid-19 cases in Gujarat from December 5 to 11 reveals that the daily growth rate for Ahmedabad district rose from 0.68% in the previous week to 1.09%, the third-highest in the state. Kheda with 1.32% was the highest, followed by 1.21% by Dang. While Dang recorded a rise from 0.22%, it was a dip for Kheda which had recorded an average daily growth rate of 1.9% the previous week. Experts said that the rate indicates the hotspots and how they perform over the period. The weekly analysis reveals that 10 districts including Ahmedabad recorded higher rates than Gujarat. The average daily growth rate for Covid-19 cases was 0.75% from November 28 to December 4, which rose to 0.81% from December 5 to 11. Surat district, second in terms of the overall positive cases of the viral infection, was at 15th spot with 0.71%. Analyzing the change after Diwali, the experts said that daily cases have reduced significantly – from the peak of 1,607 on November 27 to 1,204 on December 12, the dip of 25% in a fortnight. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that the patient age profile has not changed much since Diwali. “About 60% of the admitted patients are above 50 years of age and have co-morbidities. However, the dependence on oxygen and requirement for ventilators has reduced significantly,” he said. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said that as of Saturday morning, the share of occupied beds was 47% out of 3,747 beds available - the lowest in more than a month. “The occupancy of ICUs and ventilators on non-requisited beds was 52% and 56%, showing a definite dip in the severe cases in the city,” he said. The indicators for the health administrators are to focus on the districts with higher urban population, even as some smaller districts have also recorded a spike in the recent past, said, city-based experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-growth-rate-in-10-districts-outstrips-states/articleshow/79699885.cms||Parth Shastri
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Corp n commissioner inspects lake project||Coimbatore: Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel inspected the lake beautification and rejuvenation work at Ukkadam Periyakulam on Saturday. Under the smart cities mission, the corporation has been implementing beautification and rejuvenation work at Periyakulam by spending Rs 101.74 crore. The bunds around the lake were strengthened. Parks, floating pathways, cycling track, pedestrian pathway and canteens are being set up.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corp-n-commissioner-inspects-lake-project/articleshow/79699843.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP to seek remand of PFI man held in Kerala||LUCKNOW: A team of UP Police will go to Kerala to seek remand of Rauf Sharif, general secretary of Campus Front of India, a student wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), who was detained at Trivandrum airport while trying to escape to Muscat on Saturday. Sharif, accused of providing financial support to incite communal disharmony in Uttar Pradesh after alleged ganga rape and murder in Hathras, was detained by ED while trying to flee to Muscat as a look out circular was issued against him on November 18. ADG, law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “Four PFI members, Atiq-ur-Rahman, Siddiqui, Masud Ahmad and Alam, were arrested from Mathura on October 5. During questioning, the four revealed that Sharif, general secretary of Campus Front of India, a student wing of PFI, had provided financial assistance and resources to incite riots in the state.” On the basis of their revelation, UP Police got a look out circular issued against Sharif. “During probe, it also surfaced that Sharif received crores of rupees from abroad and used it to incite social disharmony and communal riots,” said police officials privy to the probe. “A UP Police team will be sent to Kerala to seek remand of Sharif and probe his role and links in funding for creating disharmony after Hathras murder case,” said Kumar. ED is also probing role of PFI in triggering violent agitation after Hathras case. Sources in the ED said Sharif was booked under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, and added that he illegally received money in his account from Oman and Qatar. The money is suspected to be used for subversive activities. Sharif also did not appear before ED even though several summons were sent to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-seek-remand-of-pfi-man-held-in-kerala/articleshow/79700537.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Cadet from Punjab bags coveted Sword of Honour at IMA POP||Dehradun: The coveted ‘Sword of Honour’ for the best cadet was presented to Watandeep S Sidhu from Ludhiana on the occasion of the Passing Out Parade (POP) on Saturday. Sidhu’s father is an engineer and his mother is a school principal. He completed his schooling from Rashtriya Indian Military College, Dehradun, and will be commissioned in the special forces of the Indian Army. Speaking to TOI, Sidhu, who was accompanied by his parents — Baljindar Singh Sidhu and Harbans Kaur — said that becoming an Army officer was his childhood dream and he never thought of pursuing any other vocation. The only child of his parents, Sidhu will now be completing six months’ training for special forces. He was in the National Defence Academy (NDA) before coming to IMA. “I believe that the Army is the finest profession in any country. I gave my 100% to the training but did not imagine that I would get the coveted Sword of Honour,” said Sidhu, who is the first one in his family to join the Army. The gold medal for the Gentleman Cadet (GC) standing first in the Order of Merit was presented to Majji Giridhar, who is also the first in his family to get into the Army. His father, Majji Lakshman Rao, works in Coal India Limited in Andhra Pradesh while his mother is a homemaker. Commissioned into Garhwal Rifles, Giridhar was a student of Sainik School. The silver medal was presented to Nidesh Singh Yadav, son of a farmer from Haryana, who, too, got commissioned in special forces. Shikhar Thapa from Dehradun, son of a Naik Subedar, got the bronze medal, which is awarded to the GC standing third in the Order of Merit. Thapa’s elder sister is also pursuing defence studies. Chief of Army Staff Banner was awarded to Cassino Company for standing Overall first amongst 16 companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cadet-from-punjab-bags-coveted-sword-of-honour-at-ima-pop/articleshow/79698741.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Pune||Exam counselling units to be set up at technical colleges||Pune: The directorate of technical education has decided to set up a competitive exam centre at all technical undergraduate and postgraduate colleges. The move aims to ensure awareness about various competitive examinations conducted by the Union and Maharashtra Public Service Commissions among students of technical courses.An assistant professor from the college will be appointed as a counsellor/coordinator at the centre. The counsellor will guide students about various examinations, help fill forms and in the study process, guide them about various schemes by the state government for competitive exam preparation, among others. The centres are expected to start at Industrial Training Institutes and Polytechnics across the state during the 2020-21 academic year.The state had opened six centres that coach students for competitive Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams to increase the number of local students appearing for the examination. Every year, about 540 students are given free training for UPSC examinations through the centres. Apart from free training, students are also given scholarships for monthly expenses they may incur. “Looking at the last few years, we have seen that the number of students appearing for the entrance examination to be admitted to the coaching centre is increasing. However, many of the students are unable to get the minimum score required in the entrance exam. There is a lack of guidance, which is leading to the gap,” the notification stated.“The aim of the competitive exam centre is to increase the number of students from the state clearing the MPSC and UPSC examinations. Hence, no special pay or honorarium would be given for this post,” said Abhay Wagh, director of the Directorate of Technical Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/exam-counselling-units-to-be-set-up-at-technical-colleges/articleshow/79699847.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 13, 2020||Gurgaon||Ambala MC elections: JCP declares 14 candidates||AMBALA: Former Union minister Venod Sharma’s Jan Chetna Party fielded candidates for 14 of 20 municipal corporation seats here on Saturday. The JCP will use own symbol—the LPG cylinder. Sharma announced himself among the JCP candidates. It makes the contest tough for the ruling party, as he has a good support in this city that elected him as legislator in 2005. Sharma told the media: “We will fight the elections to serve Ambala and improve its condition. We will declare our mayoral candidate and the other contenders next. We will contest all 20 seats.” About his major concerns for Ambala, he said: “For the past about six years, Ambala’s administrative system benefits a small section of society instead of the general public. Sanitation is in a poor condition and the youth don’t have jobs. If people give us a chance, we can create a better and beneficial system with public support and the cooperation of the councillors.” Sharma said: “The people of Ambala are fed up with the cluttered streets. I am confident that they are with me. If they give me the mandate, together we will develop Ambala, repair its street lights, and simplify the process of securing various no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the MC.” He said the door-to-door garbage collection system had collapsed despite the MC’s spending crores of rupees.” Asked whom he blamed, Sharma refrained from targeting any specific politician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ambala-mc-elections-jcp-declares-14-candidates/articleshow/79699844.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Kharar flyover back on track||MOHALI: The second phase of the Kharar flyover, Ludhiana section, was thrown open for public on Saturday. The 5.6-km long stretch was opened for vehicular movement by Manish Tiwari, MP, Anandpur Sahib. The flyover portion starting from Desu Majra will descend at Khanpur on the Kharar-Ludhiana highway. “The third phase of the flyover i.e. Kurali section will be thrown open for vehicular movement by January 15,” said sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain. While inaugurating the flyover for the public, Manish Tewari appealed the Union government to withdraw the new agriculture laws as soon as possible in the interest of the farmers. He said Congress had been opposing these laws from the beginning when they were in the form of an ordinance. He said when these were passed by the Parliament and sent for the President approval, they were still against the laws. Tewari said Congress believes that these laws are against farmers and they have strongly opposed the same. Regarding the Kharar flyover, he said the 5.6-km stretch of the 10.63-km long flyover has been opened for the public. The rest will be opened by January 15. He said the total cost of the project is around Rs 368 crore. After missing six deadlines in a row from the past two years, the first phase of the Kharar flyover was opened for vehicular movement on October 4. The 1.6-km stretch of the flyover starting from Balongi is called as the Balongi flyover. Kharar sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Himanshu Jain, who is supervising the project said, “We have now been able to open two portions of the flyover, which are 80% of the total project. The complete project will be opened for public movement by January 15, 2021.” The work on the flyover started in November 2015 and was expected to be completed by December 2018. But, the company has not been able to meet the construction deadline due to various reasons like delay in acquisition of land. The flyover is a vital link to Punjab and Himachal Pradesh from Chandigarh. Completion of its construction will facilitate movement of thousands of people every day. Long traffic jams have become a norm on the Chandigarh-Kharar road and this flyover will ease the chaos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharar-flyover-back-on-track/articleshow/79699848.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Erode||3 BU constituent colleges converted to govt colleges||COIMBATORE: The state government has converted three constituent colleges of Bharathiar University into government arts and science colleges. While two of them are in the district (at Thondamuthur and Pollachi), the remaining one is at Modakurichi in Erode district. The move is part of converting 27 constituent colleges of state universities into government colleges. About a year ago, the state had converted 14 constituent colleges into government colleges. According to a source with the higher education department, the government has directed the universities to take care of the salaries for the teaching and non-teaching staff of the colleges for the current academic year. Teachers, meanwhile, welcomed the move, which they said would be beneficial for the students and the universities. Veeramani, president, Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association, said, “The fee structure of state universities is higher than that of the government colleges. The move will make higher education more affordable for students and they could pursue the same at their locality. Over a period of time, with better infrastructure, the college would get autonomous status. Students could also avail scholarships and other government benefits easily.” The government might also add more seats and courses to these colleges from next academic year, said Thirunavukkarasu, zonal president, Association of University Teachers. Pointing out that the colleges were functioning out of government school buildings until last year, he said the state had already allocated funds for separate buildings, which were being constructed. “The move will also reduce the financial burden on the Bharathiar University, which was paying the salary for the teaching and non-teaching staff from its fund.” Thirunavukkarasu, however, said they were not sure what would happen to the teachers and other staff of the constituent colleges, as government staff would be appointed there. Veeramani, meanwhile, urged the government to take necessary steps to create teaching and non-teaching posts in the colleges and appoint eligible government faculties at the earliest. “The university should take back its faculties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/3-bu-constituent-colleges-converted-to-govt-colleges/articleshow/79704332.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Telangana man flees in car taken on rent||Ahmedabad: A car rental company located in Satellite lodged a complaint at Satellite police station on Friday against one Gautam Bai of Telangana for fleeing with their car worth Rs 8 lakh after taking it on rent. Police inspector J B Agravat of Satellite police station said they have sought permission from to go to Telangana for investigation. According to the complainant, Prartikkumar Mishra, 37, of Meghaninagar the chief executive of the company, the accused had booked the car online on June 21, 2020 paying a deposit of Rs 1,000. The FIR mentions that on completing all formalities, the accused took the car the next day afternoon for 24 hours. “The car had a GPS fitted in it. However, when the accused did not turn up on time, the company checked the GPS location of the car. The GPS was disconnected near Kansari Village of Banaskantha,” said Agravat. Police sources said that the complainant had submitted an application at that time. “After primary investigation, we have lodged an FIR, based on the application on Friday,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/telangana-man-flees-in-car-taken-on-rent/articleshow/79699846.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Raut: MVA to contest civic polls together||Nashik: Shiv Sena leader and MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the constituents of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) would contest all the local civic body elections together to defeat the BJP and like-minded parties.In Nashik for a day’s tour to conduct an organisational review of the Shiv Sena, Raut said, “People are vexed with the BJP and its policies. The recently held MLC elections have shown the same. We have, therefore, decided to be together in all the local self-governing body elections to stop the BJP.”Raut said the party has already started work for the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) polls. “They are working in the right direction. This makes me believe that the next mayor would be from the Shiv Sena,” he said.On claims by Sanjay Nirupam that ‘reports’ of Sharad Pawar becoming the UPA chairman were planted to weaken the Congress, Sanjay Raut pointed out that the Shiv Sena was not even a party to the alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/raut-mva-to-contest-civic-polls-together/articleshow/79698739.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 13, 2020||Pune||Ornithology course from January 4||Pune: The Ela Foundation and the Maharashtra Education Society (MES) have announced the 17th edition of their certificate course on ornithology, set to begin from January 4, 2021. The course, which covers topics such as bird flight and migration patterns, their habitats and their feeding behaviour, will be delivered through a set of 22 audio-visual lectures to be streamed online for all those who register. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ornithology-course-from-january-4/articleshow/79699852.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Caste-based slur: 1 booked in Ranip||Ahmedabad: A resident of Ranip on Friday lodged a complaint with Ranip police against one Kamlesh Patel of Ambapur village, Gandhinagar, for using objectionable language against his caste. Police registered a case under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. According to the complainant, Patel told him that his son stays in Canada and he is sending people abroad. “At this, the complainant expressed desire to go to Canada. When the complainant told his name, the accused used objectionable words about his caste and declined to do anything for him,” said a police official. Police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/caste-based-slur-1-booked-in-ranip/articleshow/79699850.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Spurned lover ends life by slitting throat in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A 27-year-old jilted lover killed himself by slitting his throat at Kamatchipuram in the city on Saturday morning. Police identified the deceased as R Karthikeyan, a native of Ramanathapuram district. He was residing in a rental house at Kamatchipuram with his parents. While Karthikeyan was employed with a private firm at Othakkalmandapam, a police officer said, he had not reported for work for the past one month. Preliminary inquiries revealed Karthikeyan was in depression after the girl with whom he was in love with ended the affair because of differences of opinion. “He met the girl while pursuing BE computer science in a private college in the city six years ago. She left him four months ago. He was dispersed since then and used to take sleeping pills,” the officer said. On Friday night, he said, Karthikeyan fought with his father and elder brother and assaulted them. “So, his father went to a relative’s house. Karthikeyan also left the house and he was found dead in a pool of blood on road around 5.45am on Saturday.” It was a neighbour who spotted the body first. “Karthikeyan had inflicted injuries to his throat with a razor before slitting it with a knife,” the officer said. When alerted, the Singanallur police sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The body was handed over to the family members after the autopsy later in the day. The Singanallur police have registered a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spurned-lover-ends-life-by-slitting-throat/articleshow/79699845.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||3 BU constituent colleges converted to govt colleges||COIMBATORE: The state government has converted three constituent colleges of Bharathiar University into government arts and science colleges. While two of them are in the district (at Thondamuthur and Pollachi), the remaining one is at Modakurichi in Erode district. The move is part of converting 27 constituent colleges of state universities into government colleges. About a year ago, the state had converted 14 constituent colleges into government colleges. According to a source with the higher education department, the government has directed the universities to take care of the salaries for the teaching and non-teaching staff of the colleges for the current academic year. Teachers, meanwhile, welcomed the move, which they said would be beneficial for the students and the universities. Veeramani, president, Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association, said, “The fee structure of state universities is higher than that of the government colleges. The move will make higher education more affordable for students and they could pursue the same at their locality. Over a period of time, with better infrastructure, the college would get autonomous status. Students could also avail scholarships and other government benefits easily.” The government might also add more seats and courses to these colleges from next academic year, said Thirunavukkarasu, zonal president, Association of University Teachers. Pointing out that the colleges were functioning out of government school buildings until last year, he said the state had already allocated funds for separate buildings, which were being constructed. “The move will also reduce the financial burden on the Bharathiar University, which was paying the salary for the teaching and non-teaching staff from its fund.” Thirunavukkarasu, however, said they were not sure what would happen to the teachers and other staff of the constituent colleges, as government staff would be appointed there. Veeramani, meanwhile, urged the government to take necessary steps to create teaching and non-teaching posts in the colleges and appoint eligible government faculties at the earliest. “The university should take back its faculties.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-bu-constituent-colleges-converted-to-govt-colleges/articleshow/79699849.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Railway officer suspended after senior gets late to attend marriage, reinstated||NAGPUR: A senior railway official, travelling in a lavish saloon coach attached to the cargo train, ensured an officer was suspended on Friday after he got stuck in a block resulting in his getting delayed to attend a colleague’s daughter’s marriage in Chhattisgarh. In a turn of events, the suspension of assistant operations manager (control), Bilaspur, south east central railway (SECR) Shailesh Toppo was revoked by the principal chief operations manager on Saturday. The letter of revocation of suspension, though issued on Saturday, had mentioned the order would come into effect from the previous day. The high drama of questionable suspension had taken place after a block had ‘burst’ on Friday. The block at Jharsuguda was supposed to take place between 10am and 12 noon for maintenance work of the overhead high tension work. It burst two hours before at 13.55pm. Though the reason for overshooting the block schedule was not clear, it’s learnt that a senior railway official’s train had got stuck in it delaying his attendance in a marriage. The official was coming from Kolkata. Infuriated by the delay, the official had called up a top ranking colleague from SECR narrating his grievance. The SECR’s senior official had called up the operational team and their supervisory level personnel urging them to place the concerned person under suspension. As the ‘order’ was not complied with on technical grounds, the SECR’s top officer started to mount pressure. He wanted the officer suspended as his earlier instruction was not followed. Asst operations manager Toppo was placed under suspension after the SECR’s senior officer’s last instruction. Upset over the suspension, a disappointed high-level official, too, had proceeded on leave. As the drama unfolded in Bilaspur division, there was a widespread bitterness in the rank and file of the SECR zone. Chief public relations officer Saket Ranjan of SECR said the ‘block’ was routine work and the subsequent suspension order was an ‘internal’ administrative issue of the railways. Sources from the railways said the block was planned after secretary-level talks with the Odisha government following which a two-hour slot had been earmarked for the maintenance work during which the power supply was to be disrupted. “The delay had serious connotations as the power secretary was involved,” said an official. On the other hand, sources from the SECR said Toppo had joined work at 6am to ensure the block was successful. He is known as a dedicated worker. “The suspension was not fair because Toppo cannot be singled out for the delay as the work involved a substantial workforce and several departments. The revocation decision itself points to the fact that the earlier suspension was wrong,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/railway-officer-suspended-after-senior-gets-late-to-attend-marriage-reinstated/articleshow/79700539.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Prisoner flees from CMCH||Coimbatore: A remand prisoner escaped from police at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here on Saturday. The Race Course police have formed a special team to nab him.A police source said S Prabhu, 20, a native of Madurai district, was arrested on December 2 for pickpocketing. He was later lodged in Avinashi sub-jail under judicial custody.“On Friday, he told the prison authorities that he was unwell and wanted to consult a doctor. The prison authorities approached the Rathinapuri (crime) police to take him to the CMCH,” the source said.Subsequently, a four-member police team led by sub-inspector Revathi took Prabhu to the CMCH. “While the hospital staff were collecting his details, Prabhu pushed down Revathi and the other three police personnel and started to run towards Lanka Corner. While the team, who were joined by the general public, tried to chase him, Prabhu managed to escape,” the source said.The sub-inspector was injured in the incident. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prisoner-flees-from-cmch/articleshow/79699861.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Curve to save gurdwara turns airport road deadly||MOHALI: Bending the airport road past a controversial gurdwara created a killer curve, the design flaws of which came out in police inspection a day after two more lives were lost. Recently, a speeding tipper truck had run a woman and her daughter over at this black spot after knocking them off a two-wheeler. The truck driver is under arrest. Superintendent of police (traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler, who inspected the bend on Saturday, said: “It is a sharp, blind turn, where the drivers tend to lose control of their vehicles. The crash barriers that Gmada (Greater Mohali Area Development Authority) installed now have gaps for illegal U-turn. We’ll send our observation report to the Punjab government for remedial action.” The path is straight in the Airport Road master plan. Experts from the bridges and roads department say it was bent because a gurdwara had encroached upon on the Punjab government land marked for the route and the latter couldn’t get it vacated. Former executive engineer N S Kalsi said: “When the road project was on, we had warned Gmada that the curve will prove fatal.” He said: “We even told the authority to mend the flaw while there was time but it rushed up the construction instead and today this turn is one of the most dangerous spots in Mohali. We can still correct the curve by re-constructing the opposite stretch in Sector 77.” Of the 200 fatal accidents this year on the airport road, 17 were at this bend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/curve-to-save-gurdwara-turns-airport-road-deadly/articleshow/79699851.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Half of all gram panchayats in Maharashta set for Janaury polls||KOLHAPUR: The Maha Vikas Aghadi will face its first major political test next month when almost half of the gram panchayats in the state go to polls. The state election commission had announced the election programme for 14,234 gram panchayats on Friday. The polls were originally scheduled for March this year, but had to be postponed because of the pandemic. The voting for the elections will now be held on January 15. The model code of conduct has already come into force and the process of filing nomination papers will begin on December 23. The counting will take place on January 18. Maharashtra has 28,813 gram panchayats and 14,234 of them will be having the polls. The gram panchayat election is being seen as a mini-referendum. This will be the first major election after the formation of the Thackeray government under the Maha Vikas Aghadi in November last year. The new Maharashtra government saw the Shiv Sena breaking ties with its long-term ally BJP and forming an alliance with the Congress and NCP. The Thackeray government has reverted the decision of the previous Fadnavis government. While the previous government had the public (not elected members) elect the sarpanches, this government again gives the power to the members to pick sarpanches. However, a draw for the reservation for the post of sarpanch is yet to be conducted and will now be held after the election. This is expected to upset political calculations at the local level. Compared to the Congress and Shiv Sena, the NCP has major stakes in the election as it is considered a rural party. Sena and Congress are likely to contest the election in their respective strongholds. BJP leaders said, “The party would fight the election seriously and look at it as an opportunity to expand the base. The party would soon meet to chalk out the strategy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/half-of-all-gram-panchayats-in-state-set-for-jan-polls/articleshow/79698745.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vigilante attack on two, FIR filed||Ahmedabad: Gaekwad Haveli police lodged an FIR on Friday over the battering of two men on the suspicion that they were thieves. The two men were tied to a pole and thrashed near Sayar House at Gollimda. The cops took action after the video of the vigilantism went viral. According to the FIR, the incident occurred on Thursday. “Based on the video, our investigation led us to Soheb Dudhwala of Patni Sheri in Gollimda,” said a police official. “He told us that when he was approaching his home after offering namaz on Thursday morning, he saw the two youths coming down the stairs of his flat.” The official added: “Dudhwala said when he asked them who they were, they acted as though they were speech-impaired and deaf. They showed him a leaflet which had the words ‘help them’.” Dudhwala told police he started following the men because he was suspicious. The two then started running. “Dudhwala told us that the youths threw two mobile phones on the road — the phones were his,” the official said. “According to Dudhwala he then raised an alarm and some people caught the two youths while he went back home.” The FIR said that later, when Dudhwala was going to his shop, he saw that the two youths were tied to a pole. “According to Dudhwala, he untied them and left the place,” the official said. “We are determining the identity of the persons behind the incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vigilante-attack-on-two-fir-filed/articleshow/79699860.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Mining in ocean could have less impact on ecology: NIO scientist||PANAJI: Mining – whether it is continental, or ocean related – will have an impact over the area. For the benefit of society and mankind, we must minimise it and gauge its ecological impact, said director of the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Sunil Kumar Singh. “We must work in such a way that mining causes minimal problems to the ecosystem. The type of technique needs to be developed where the problems are minimised,” he said. Speaking to TOI, Singh said that compared to the land areas, mining in deep seas would cause lesser damage to the environment. “In mining areas, there is usually a huge population living in impoverished conditions. The mining activity impacts the ground water, sanitation besides causing a lot of dust. Also, the mining discharge will impact the local ecology. However, mining in the ocean will not have these impacts, since a huge pump will drill onto the ocean floor and a crawler will prowl on the seabed. The continental pollution created by mining will be very less in the ocean and there will be no mine discharge,” he said. However, when the ocean is being drilled, it will disturb the marine ecosystem and the turbidity created will impact the marine animals and benthic life in the ocean, he added. While Singh maintained that ocean mining would be better than land mining, he said that it would certainly impact the benthic biodiversity and ecology. “How much it will impact, is something that needs to be looked into very seriously. The technology for the environmental impact assessment (EIA) is being developed for the assessment,” Kumar told TOI. With the help of Chennai-based National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT), NIO is trying to experiment the measurement of the benthic diversity before mining begins, while it is ongoing and after the activities end. This EIA is being carried out to gauge the impact of mining in ocean regions. Last year, the NIO collected a few samples from the mining belt while working with the NIOT. This year, the collection process has been delayed due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-in-ocean-could-have-less-impact-on-ecology-nio-scientist/articleshow/79701352.cms||Nida Sayed
December 13, 2020||Pune||Activists allege less than 10% recovery orders of MahaRERA implemented by collectorates||Pune: Citizen activists have alleged that less than 10% recovery orders issued by the MahaRERA have been implemented by the collectorates of various districts so far, leaving homebuyers to suffer.The activists have also sent a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. President of Maharashtra Societies Welfare Association Ramesh Prabhu told TOI that MahaRERA has received 12,737 complaints against registered and unregistered projects so far. Of these, as many as 8,741 complaints have been disposed of. “According to our estimate over 2,000 complainants have been granted refund and interest on their investments due to delay in completing the projects. But only 10% of the builders must have complied with the order of refund and interest,” he said.For the purpose of execution of 90% of the orders of refund and recovery of interest , MahaRERA sends the execution warrants to collector of respective district where the projects are situated for its execution. Unfortunately, due to various reasons, the collectorates are not able to recover the money and satisfy the consumers, Prabhu said.The recovery warrant is issued under Section 40 (1) of RERA, which says, “If a promoter or an allottee or a real estate agent, as the case may be, fails to pay any interest or penalty or compensation imposed on him, by the adjudicating officer or the Regulatory Authority or the Appellate Authority, as the case may be, under this Act or the rules and regulations made thereunder, it shall be recoverable from such promoter or allottee or real estate agent, in such a manner as may be prescribed as an arrears of land revenue.” Prabhu said they had raised this concern many times with MahaRERA as well as the housing department. “We we will be representing before the government and the CM to make proper arrangement to get the orders of MahaRERA implemented. We will also suggest the government to follow the model of Rajasthan RERA and Gujarat RERA where the officers of collectors are made to execute the orders passed by RERA,” he said.Collectorate officials told TOI that they were already burdened with pending work of Covid-19 and other revenue issues, besides the recent Graduates’ and Teachers’ constituency MLC elections. “We have received the orders and we will be taking them up soon,” an official from the Pune collectorate said.THE PROCESSOnce the order of attachment is issued, the collector has to issue a certificate for the attachment of the property, and the developer is given a chance to repay the amount. If he fails to do so, the auction process followsMahaRERA officials’ takeRERA officials said they couldn’t follow-up on behalf of the collector. “It is about each collector executing the orders,” an official saidCitizens’ speakMahaRERA members can also make confidential adverse recommendation to the state government against select collector’s staff in case of dereliction of duty, an affected party saidLawyers standA lawyer said RERA should be amended to ensure that more powers for recovery are given to the people concerned||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-allege-less-than-10-recovery-orders-of-maharera-implemented-by-collectorates/articleshow/79699859.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Metro ridership increasing gradually despite Covid-19||Nagpur: Despite Covid forcing many people to work from home and keeping schools and colleges shut, ridership of Nagpur Metro has shown a gradual increase over a period of two months. Not content, MahaMetro is taking several steps to sustain the numbers and increase them further. Data provided by MahaMetro shows that ridership is significantly higher on Sundays than weekdays. This implies that a large number of people are still boarding the Metro for joyrides. The ridership on November 2, a weekday, was 3,014. On November 10, it was 4,263, November 13 (5,232), November 24 (6,378), November 27 (5,974) and December 7 (8,373). The ridership on Sundays is also showing a gradual increase. On October 25, it was 4,172, November 1 (5,100), November 8 (7,331), November 15 (9,017), November 22 (11,716), November 29 (11,488) and December 6 (13,187). Station-wise data of ridership shows that Sitabuldi Interchange is the most popular station. The other popular stations are Lokmanya Nagar and Subhash Nagar. A MahaMetro spokesperson said that several measures were being taken to increase the ridership. “We went to industries in MIDCs of Butibori and Hingna and urged the employees to use the Metro. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation runs feeder buses from Khapri and Lokmanya Nagar stations. The response from the employees as well as employers was very positive,” he said. “There are many colleges on Hingna Road but they are closed. While students are studying through online classes, the teachers have to report to work. We have urged them to use the Metro,” added the spokesperson. The agency has launched a campaign to promote the common mobility card (Mahacard) all over the city. MahaMetro has taken several innovative steps to up the figures. These include renting the train for birthdays, allowing cyclists to take their bicycles in trains, developing a hang out joint for senior citizens, providing free feeder service at Nagpur airport, etc. Under its ‘Celebrations on Wheels’ scheme, a person could book the train for birthdays, pre-wedding shoots, marriage anniversaries, etc for one hour by paying Rs 3,000. “We have allowed bicycle riders to carry their machines in the train. We are not charging anything for the bicycles,” said the spokesperson. Metro officials allow you to hold exhibitions at some of their stations at affordable rates. A book exhibition was held at Sitabuldi station while old articles were on display at Subhash Nagar station. A replica of Bapu Kuti has been created at the Airport Metro station. This has been developed as a hangout centre for senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-ridership-increasing-gradually-despite-covid-19/articleshow/79699310.cms||Ashish Roy
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Transport vehicle owners slam rule on speed governor, reflective tape||Coimbatore: Transport vehicle owners said they are forced to shell out thousands of rupees to get calibration certificate for the speed governors installed in their vehicles and also to reinstall the governors to obtain fitness certificate (FC) from the regional transport office (RTO).“Even for the BS4 vehicles, which have inbuilt speed governors, RTO officials insist that we get calibration certificate. But we cannot tamper the inbuilt speed governors. The officials do not have the tools to check whether the governors are working. But they demand the certificate,” said V Durai Kannan, president of the Coimbatore District Private Bus Owners Association. “We will have to get the calibration certificate from the manufacturer. If the name of the manufacturer is not in the list of authorized dealers, then the officials will force us to install a governor from an authorized dealer. The list of authorized dealers is revised every year.”“The difference between changing a speed governor and obtaining a calibration certificate is just a few hundred rupees and instead of taking efforts to obtain the certificate, we could install another governor,” said D Shobinathan, assistant secretary of Tourist Vehicle Drivers’ Welfare Association. A speed governor costs about 4,000. “The officials do not even check whether the governor is installed properly. All they need to see is the equipment in the vehicle and the certificate,” he added. Meanwhile, the state government has made it mandatory for the vehicle owners to fix reflective stickers – white sticker on the front, yellow on the sides and red on the back - of their vehicles. Vehicles that have more than 23 seats should have cameras.“Most of the vehicles already have reflective stickers. But the officials want us to buy stickers from authorized dealers. We are forced to spend at least Rs 4,000 on the stickers,” said a vehicle owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/transport-vehicle-owners-slam-rule-on-speed-governor-reflective-tape/articleshow/79699857.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||As farmers occupy toll plazas, Panchkula DC imposes Section 144||PANCHKULA: Deputy commissioner M K Ahuja has imposed Section 144 in Panchkula district on Saturday after farmers made the Chandimandir toll plaza free for public. The DC in his orders stated that for free movement of traffic on the National Highway (NH) 5, NH-73 and toll plazas, Section 144 has been imposed after farmers made the toll plaza free for public on Saturday in their nationwide strike against farm bills. Farmers gathered at the toll since morning. Various political parties, including Congress and Aam Admi Party (AAP) supported them with their workers at the toll plaza. The DC said Section 144 of the code of criminal procedure (CrPC) prohibit unlawful activities, blocking of roads, passages, railways tracks, water channels, power houses, etc., by agitators and assembly of five or more persons carrying any weapon like firearms, swords, lathi, barcha, kulhari, jellies, blunt and sharp weapons likely to cause obstruction in maintenance of peace and tranquility. The orders will remain in force till further orders unless withdrawn earlier. The deputy commissioner of police along with all the duty magistrates and incident commanders have been asked to regulate the orders and take a legal action against anyone violating the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-farmers-occupy-toll-plazas-pkl-dc-imposes-section-144/articleshow/79699858.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Micro-contained zones now just 98 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: With no new micro-containment reported in the last two days, the number of societies in micro-containment since November 15 have gone down to below 100. On Saturday, there were 118 micro-contained areas of which 20 more were removed from the list bringing their figure to 98. AMC officials said that of the 98 societies that are micro-contained, over 60 are in the western part of the city which includes Paldi, Chandkheda, Chandlodia, Gota, Bodakdev, Thaltej among other areas. On Tuesday, of the 20 societies that were removed from micro-containment, nine were from western parts of the city and 11 were from the eastern city. Officials in the AMC said that with the daily tally dropping to nearly 250 cases per day there has been a decline in those testing positive through RTPCR test and antigen tests. The positive case ratio of those tested has once again gone below 3%, after crossing 5% post Diwali festival. Active cases, too, have dropped to almost 2,500, which figure was over 3,200 in mid-November. On Saturday, the North West Zone including areas of Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia had the highest 458 active cases followed by 450 cases in Ranip, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi and Usamanpura. The areas of Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal, and Sarkhej had 416 active cases. The contribution of other zones to the case tally included North (318 active cases), East Zone (260 cases), South Zone (393 cases) and Central Zone 246 cases. AMC officials said that in the past couple of days, there had been only a marginal increase in case numbers in North and South Zone, but the West Zone and the North West Zone areas were regularly reporting more than 450 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/micro-contained-zones-now-just-98/articleshow/79699882.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Roads, virus: Bumpy ride for AMC board||Ahmedabad: In the last AMC general board meeting of the incumbent elected wing, on Saturday, the opposition cited stalled projects worth Rs 689 crore. The opposition claimed that the ruling BJP has failed to fulfill promises made over the years. The term of the elected wing ends on Sunday. Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar has been appointed as the administrator till the new wing is formed. The Congress’s Kamla Chavda, the leader of the opposition in the corporation, listed out projects which were mentioned in the budget but not implemented. She said that projects worth Rs 106 crore, promised as far back as in 2016-17, are yet to be implemented. She said that this year, projects worth only Rs 263 crore were implemented. However, standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt refuted the claims and highlighted the projects that have been completed. He said that when it comes to cleanliness, Ahmedabad ranked sixth overall in the country, finding a spot among the Top 10 metros. Chavda responded by drawing attention to roads. “The city roads are not designed to cope with increasing traffic,” she said. “Over the next five years, the city will have no space to drive as the vehicle population is increasing by 2 lakh per annum.” The leader of the opposition also said that Covid-19 case numbers and the death toll were not being reported accurately by the AMC. She said the opposition had asked the ruling party to hold talks with all councillors to discuss strategies to handle the pandemic. “But the opposition was not given an opportunity even in the general board to raise the issue,” Chavda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/roads-virus-bumpy-ride-for-amc-board/articleshow/79699863.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem team wins state-level tennis ball cricket tourney||Salem: The district has won first place in the state-level tennis ball cricket tournament that concluded in Erode on Friday. Secretary of the Salem District Tennis Ball Cricket Association (SDTBCA) S Arun Kumar said this was the first win for the district in the past 20 years.The Tamil Nadu Tennis Ball Cricket Association has been holding tournaments every year since its inception 20 years ago. While the Salem team hadn’t missed any tournaments in the past 20 years, we could emerge victorious only this year,” said Kumar, who is also the coach of the district team.The week-long tournament was held at Thamaraipalayam village near Kodumudi in Erode this year, featuring more than 20 teams from across the state. The final match was held on Friday when the Salem district team faced the Vellore district team, a five-time champions. “However, our boys played well and won the match,” Kumar said.According to him, it was a five-over match and the Vellore team had scored only 18 runs. “We also scored only 18 runs and the game was extended to the super over and we scored six runs against their five. Vellore team gave us a tough fight.”The team is now qualified for the south-India zonal tournament at Ongole in Andhra Pradesh and the national tournaments at Haridwar in Uttarakhand that would be held between December 16 and 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-team-wins-state-level-tennis-ball-cricket-tourney/articleshow/79699865.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Madurai||6 held for murder of dalit man in Madurai village||MADURAI: Police on Saturday arrested six men in connection with the murder of a scheduled caste man in Panniyan village near Madurai on Wednesday. The arrested accused have been identified as Paraman, Kasi Viswanathan, Surendran, Ravikumar, Ajithkumar and Muthumayan. They were produced before a judicial magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. M Senthil Kumar, 37, who belongs to the paraiyar caste, was found dead on Wednesday evening. The Checkanurani police registered a case against 11 people based on a complaint filed by Kumar’s wife S Jothi. The accused belong to the piramalai kallar caste, a subsect of the thevar community. Inquiries revealed that the six men were the key accused. Kumar’s relatives and members of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi staged a protest for the third day in front of the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai refusing to receive the body. After the arrest of the six accused, the protesters received the body in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6-held-for-murder-of-dalit-man-in-madurai-village/articleshow/79700550.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP to develop IT parks in all divisions to draw investment||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government will set up IT parks in all 18 divisions of the state to promote information technology to attract investment. IT parks are expected to become functional in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Meerut and Agra in the first half of 2021. The parks are being set up by the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI). According to officials, work will start soon on the development of IT parks in Aligarh, Saharanpur, Azamgarh and Jhansi. Minister for information and technology and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Saturday said a new dedicated data centre policy is also on the cards. “Under the proposed policy, a 250 MW (IT power) data centre industry is to be developed in the state to attract an investment of about Rs 20,000 crore. At least three state-of-the-art private data centre parks will be set up,” he said. The government had achieved its five-year target of attracting Rs 20,000 crore investment and providing three lakh jobs in IT sector in only three years, he added. Sharma added that an investment of about Rs 200 crore had been made for the development of IT parks. “In addition to this, 40 acre land has been acquired in Lucknow to develop a state-of-the-art IT park on PPP model. Out of this, 4 acres has been allocated to STPI to set up the country’s largest incubation centre,” he said. Sharma said several international companies from China, Taiwan and Korea had expressed interest in setting up manufacturing units in UP and an electronics manufacturing cluster was being developed in an area of 100 acres in Greater Noida. “The new Electronics Manufacturing Policy-2020 has targeted an investment of Rs 40,000 crore over the next five years and employment generation for 4 lakh people. Three electronics manufacturing clusters will be set up which include an electronic city near Jewar Airport, a defence electronics manufacturing cluster in Bundelkhand and a medical electronics manufacturing cluster in the Lucknow-Unnao-Kanpur zone,” he said. “More than 3,300 start-up units are operational in UP and a fund of Rs 1,000 crore has been set up by the government with help from SIDBI which is expected to be operational soon,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-develop-it-parks-in-all-divisions-to-draw-investment/articleshow/79700549.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘Plastic menace biggest issue at Gorewada’||Pandurang Pakhale (41) has been posted as range forest officer (RFO) at Gorewada. A regular birder, Pakhale recently won a gold medal announced by the Maharashtra government for forest management and protection. Earlier, he had bagged the Special Tiger Award-2017 by Sanctuary Nature Foundation, Lakshmikant Harkare Memorial Award 2017 by Vanrai Foundation for excellent work in the field of wildlife conservation and several state-level awards for photography. In an interview to TOI, the accomplished forester spoke about his various challenges and achievements. Excerpts... Q. The gold medal by the state government is another feather in your cap. Your thoughts?A. My name was recommended by the CCF, Nagpur, for effective efforts related to forest and wildlife protection in my earlier tenure as RFO at Paoni range under the unified control of the Pench Tiger Reserve, where we nabbed a gang of fishermen involved in tiger poaching. The other works included establishing a nursery of 2 lakh seedlings of forest fruit trees, construction of low-cost water holes, habitat and meadow development works, collecting seeds of local grasses and broadcasting them into the jungle, awareness campaigns, organizing sports events to bridge the gap between the forest department and the villagers etc. The medal may also be for my work at Gorewada. A state-level committee does the selection. Q. Why is Gorewada becoming a birding and biodiversity hotspot?A. Our work regarding habitat development, especially around the lake is noteworthy and there is a significant increase in the number of birds and species. We need to scientifically ascertain this fact. Gorewada is witnessing good bird activity throughout the year and I’m really fortunate to get a posting here. The area is full of diverse avifauna because of different habitats like wetlands, woodlands, grasslands, dense forest patches, etc. According to estimation, there are over 200 bird species, many of them are migratory birds. Q. What kind of changes have you brought about at Gorewada?A. The Gorewada project consists of two ranges and a rescue centre. I’m looking after the range which includes the jungle safari, 2.5km nature trail along the lake, biopark, garden, etc. The biggest change was that we uprooted and burned the ipomoea and replaced it with ‘khus’ or vetiver grass. This grass will arrest soil erosion and act as food for herbivores. Besides, waders and water birds will use it as a cover. We also introduced ‘chaura’, a native grass species brought from Gondia and Bhandara region to attract ducks and other water birds. Now, these grasses are well established and have started seeding too. I’ve installed artificial perches, roosting and resting places for birds by using dead trees and branches. Because of this development, many photographers are getting good pictures of birds. I, along with the then divisional manager Nandkishore Kale, was also instrumental in the maiden leopard estimation with the help of camera traps along with workshops on camera trapping, birding and photography. Q. The Gorewada nature trail is 8km long. Why was it reduced to 2.5km?A. There is leopard movement along the nature trail and managing nature lovers and visitors, especially youngsters, on such a long trail is a bit challenging. The existing 2.5km patch along the Gorewada lake is very beautiful and full of bird activity. Q. You have birding regularly.A. Yes. I love birding and have doing it even before I joined the state forest department. Along with birding, I’ve developed a niche for photography, and conservation photography is my passion. Q. From nabbing tiger poachers to birding. How has it been?A. In the forest department, challenges vary from area to area. At Gorewada, apart from protection and wildlife management, managing ecotourism and training guides have added to my work list. With the upcoming Gorewada International Zoo, inter-departmental coordination has become one of the important tasks for me. Q. Why did the tiger poaching case in Pench remain inconclusive?A. This is an important case in the protection history of Pench. I was actively dealing with the case till I got transferred to Gorewada in October 2018. I don’t know what happened after that. Q. What role is Gorewada playing to sensitize people?A. To create awareness amongst students and youths we are regularly arranging birding activities, nature walks, insect walks, bird photography, etc. Last year, over 1,000 plus students and youngsters visited the nature trail through which I could sensitize them. With the help of the publicity wing of the department, we planned visits of selected schools under a program called ‘Nisarg Shikshan Mala’. We procured spotting scopes and binoculars for students through which they are enjoying birding. Q. There is a lot of habitat destruction due to anti-environment visitors. Any plans to save Gorewada from such elements?A. Fortunately, the forest land of the Gorewada project has a wall fencing and so, there is no issue of habitat loss by way of encroachment or grazing. The plastic menace is the biggest issue we are facing. Visitors throw plastic and waste into the nalla near the toll plaza on Katol road which flows into the lake. We are requesting tourists to not bring plastic to the jungle and the nature trail area. As sewage water enters from the Dhaba side into Gorewada lake, at the behest of the Gorewada project administration, a sewage treatment plant is being constructed by the NMC. Q. What does your latest achievement mean to you?A. A gold medal at the state level is very precious for me. Whatever I have achieved is only because of teamwork. I thank all my frontline staff, colleagues and senior officers for their support and last but not the least, my wife Indira and daughter Dnyaneshwari. The medal will inspire me to serve better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plastic-menace-biggest-issue-at-gorewada/articleshow/79700562.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Politics over hall inauguration||Ahmedabad: In a political drama, Congress councillors, led by Dariapur MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh, held the ‘inauguration’ ceremony of the Lala Kaka Hall in Shahpur on Saturday. The inauguration was done a couple of hours before the official inauguration by mayor Bipal Patel was scheduled. Congress said that the facility was ready but the ruling party was waiting for appointments from ministers and hence it was delaying the inauguration. “People of the area need the facility for utilization as the marriage season is on,” said a leader. The leaders even cut the ribbon which was put up for inauguration by the mayor. However, the AMC officials from the zone said the inauguration was decided in advance and even the hall was readied for the inauguration by the mayor at 4pm. BJP leaders termed the Congress’ act as a political drama aimed at the local body elections scheduled early next year. The ruling party had on Friday fixed the charges for the hall and the same was approved by the board on Saturday. With the mayor’s term getting over on Sunday, the mayor went on a inauguration spree on Saturday with the opening of water distribution centres in Kankaria and Chadlodia and community centres in Shahpur and Vastrapur. More inauguration are scheduled for Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/politics-over-hall-inauguration/articleshow/79699866.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Active cases drop to 24 in Ahmedabad district||AHMEDABAD: With nine more Covid-19 cases reported on Saturday, the number of active cases in the Ahmedabad district dropped to just 24 including two admitted in Covid care centres. The district has so far reported 3,757 cases and 60 deaths. Of the nine cases reported on Saturday, one case was reported from Nirmit Flora in Sanand, three were from Dholka, two from Dhandhuka and one each from Daskroi, Dholera and Viramgam. Data shows the maximum cases, 821, were reported from Sanand taluka and Sanand town. Apart from Sanand, areas of Aslali and those situated on the outskirts of the city and in Daskroi taluka have reported 510 cases, the third-highest figure in the district so far. Dholka town and the taluka, with 794, had the second-highest number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-drop-to-24-in-abad-district/articleshow/79699881.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Without seafarers, Marina now battles to stay afloat||KOCHI: The sight of yachters walking out from their boats was typical of Kochi Marina’s tourist rush during high tourism seasons. But as the tourist crowd remains at home, that once familiar scene has since been replaced with emptied docks and closed berths. With the international travel yet to be free from restrictions, the Marina is facing an uphill battle amid the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. Since the lockdown, the inflow of foreign yachts has completely stopped and many yachts that reached here before March have sailed out. There are only six yachts docked at the Marina now compared to nearly 22 in February. Among them only one has anyone staying on board and all others have left for their countries on repatriation flights after locking the boathouses. “The Marina used to receive a good number of boats during these months but many yachters have abandoned their plans to reach Kochi due to the restrictions in immigration. The decrease in number of the boats has nearly halved the Marina’s revenues and with more boats to sail out in the coming months, the situation is expected to worsen,” said a Marina official. The Covid-19 restrictions have left the yachters stranded as they cannot make any trips to explore the country. The initial months of lockdown was really tough for most of them as the authorities mandated them not to come out of the docks as the Marina hotel was turned into a Covid-19 isolation centre. The Marina officials helped them to get food and other provisions from outside. Once the restrictions were relaxed, some of the yachters ventured to some tourist places in Kerala but were hesitant to travel further due to the social isolation amid the pandemic. “Staying in boats is nothing new for us as it is our home. But the stay during the pandemic was really tough. We had to stay on-board continuously for two months and could not even go out of the docks. It was very difficult for us as we could not sail out too fearing denial of entry to other countries. After the restrictions began to be eased, we went to Munnar but again people are afraid to welcome us fearing infection,” said Reboux Dominic, a 64-year-old yachter from France who reached Kochi in February. The frequent climate change in the Arabian Sea too has affected the sailing and yachters are worried about the unpredictable weather and occurrence of cyclones on short notices. Many of the owners have returned by air leaving their boats behind. Yachters said climate change has been derailing their sailing plans like never before. “We had to postpone our journey due to the unpleasant weather. We are planning to sail out by next week and hope the weather will be favourable,” Dominic said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/without-seafarers-marina-now-battles-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/79699316.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||LMC to share income, spend data with taxpayers: Mayor||LUCKNOW: City Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia announced on Saturday that Lucknow Municipal Corporation will be soon upload all information about tax collection and expenditure on the civic body’s official website to ensure transparency in working. Speaking after being felicitated by Governor Anandiben Patel for completing three years as mayor at a function organised in her honour at LMC headquarters, Bhatia said, “If a taxpayer is paying LMC even one rupee, then she/he has the right to know where the money has been spent.” A booklet with achievements and projects completed under the mayor’s tenure was released by UP urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon on the occasion. “Under the guidance of the mayor, LMC became the first municipal corporation in north India to issue bonds on the stock exchange. She is also working hard to ensure every nook and corner of the city remains clean and her priorities and focus are reflected by Lucknow’s improved rankings in Swachh Bharat Survey 2020,” said Tandon. A theme song by Kailash Kher on Swachchta Survey was also launched on the occasion. Presenting report card of her work, Bhatia said she is following former governor Ram Naik’s rule that every public representative should give account of his activities to public. LMC carried out development work worth Rs 800 crore in the city, got 12th rank among 269 cities in Swachh Bharat Survekshan 2019-20, bagged award of ‘Fastest Moving City’ in SBS 2020 and also became the first municipal corporation in the country to issue licence for sale of tobacco products besides becoming the first municipal corporation in north India to launch bonds,” Bhatia said. “LMC also installed over 31,000 LED streetlights in the city. Out of 48 projects worth Rs 2,000 crore under the Smart City mission, 17 have been completed and 31 are underway,” she added. Reeling off other LMC achievements, Bhatia mentioned performance in implementation of PM Swanidhi Yojana, renovation of Atal Bihari Vajpayee degree college, deployment of 400 new vehicles and 63 compactors for garbage collection and management, GIS survey for property tax assessment, launch of LucknowOne App for single window redressal of complaints and recovery of bad debts worth Rs 2 crore from rubbish removal department. New cow shelters were constructed and existing ones were expanded, besides production and marketing of products made from cow dung and urine she added. “During lockdown, over 35 lakh food packets were distributed and financial assistance of Rs 1,000 was provided to 72,000 poor under central government scheme. The hello doctor service started during lockdown is still helping patients,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-to-share-income-spend-data-with-taxpayers-mayor/articleshow/79700556.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
December 13, 2020||Kochi||‘Kerala plans may attract EU funds’||Kochi: The French Ambassador to India expressed his expectations that Kerala might come up with innovative, eco-friendly and gender-oriented projects that could attract funding from the EU. Ambassador Emmanuel Lenain was visiting the various projects that are being funded by France and Germany in Kerala, along with the German Ambassador Walter J Lindner and EU Ambassador Ugo Astuto, at the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement. “Every year the French and the German Developmental Agencies select and finance new projects of roughly 300 million Euro. Given the quality of projects here, we are confident that Kerala will come forward with new projects which are the most innovative, eco-friendly and gender-oriented,” said Lenain in Kochi on Saturday. The sixth India-EU Summit held in New Delhi in 2005 had endorsed a Joint Action Plan clean development and climate change are part of the common shared goals. Hence the joint projects include CDSC (clean development and sustainable cities), which is focusing on cities to bring down pollution. “The EU has one year ago taken the decision to be carbon neutral by 2050. It is an important commitment and we have just adopted more stringent decisions for this. India is also supportive of the Paris agreement. So, we are here to showcase a very good example of the project for which France, Germany and EU are coming together with India to bring down the emissions,” ambassador Astuto said. “It is a special day because it is the fifth anniversary of the signing of the Paris [Climate] Agreement. Kerala, and Kochi in particular, is a very special place for environmental protection. You are doing a good job, which starts with while arriving at the airport, which is the only airport in the world which is powered fully by solar energy,” said Lindner. The envoys had highlighted the eco-friendly project of water metro, powered by solar energy and the e-rickshaws and e-buses which offer last mile connectivity for the Kochi Metro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-plans-may-attract-eu-funds/articleshow/79699871.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Families that stay together, fight together!||Ahmedabad: Dr Umesh Karia, an associate professor of dermatology at the BJ Medical College, has been on constant Covid-19 duty ever since the pandemic started in March. But he’s not alone – his wife, Dr Bela Karia, is an associate professor of dermatology at GMERS Medical College, Gandhinagar and their daughter Niyati Karia, a medical student in Patan, are part of the Sanjeevani Rath initiative by AMC. While even one family member getting constant Covid-19 exposure could worry families during the pandemic, there are several doctor families in the city and state where two generations are fighting against the viral infection standing shoulder-by-shoulder. Dr Hemant Leuva, professor of general surgery at SVP Hospital, and his wife Dr Surbhi Leuva, chief medical officer (CMO) at Gujarat Vidyapith, both served Covid-19 patients and also got infected. “Being in the same profession helps us understand each other’s stress and also provide the support that is often needed when the pandemic drains a medical professional emotionally,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/families-that-stay-together-fight-together/articleshow/79699883.cms||Parth Shastri
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gopal Italia named state chief of AAP||Ahmedabad: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national executive on Saturday appointed Gopal Italia as president of the Gujarat unit of the party. He replaces Gandhian Kishor Desai. Among other appointments, actress Nikita Rawal has been appointed state spokesperson of AAP while Tuli Banerjee has been named state media co-ordinator. “We are pleased to welcome Gopal Italia, Nikita Rawala and Tuli Banerjee to the state leadership team of AAP, Gujarat, said Gulab Singh Yadav, co-in-charge of AAP Gujarat. Yadav said that Kishor Desai has done a commendable job as president of AAP, but he decided to step down as he felt that it is time for youth to take up leadership positions in the state unit. He will continue to be part of the party’s decision-making and planning committee, Yadav added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gopal-italia-named-state-chief-of-aap/articleshow/79699870.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Over 300 get trial vaccine at Sola Civil Hospital||AHMEDABAD: Against the target of 1,000 shots to volunteers for trial Covid-19 vaccine – Covaxin – the medicine department at Sola Civil Hospital reached the one-third mark in a fortnight after the trials got started. Dr Parul Bhatt, professor and head of medicine department at GMERS Sola Medical College, said that they have got a very good response from the citizens. “We are getting about 50 inquiries daily and we are administering the trial vaccine to about 30-35 persons daily. To accommodate the working professionals and women, we have now made the registration and administering the dosage is now a round-the-week activity” she said. Dr Bhatt said that they have also started follow-up with the earliest vaccine volunteers for the second shot. “The inactivated virus in technical parlance is whole virion as it can function against different known strains. The second shot is a booster dose for the same. We wait for about 25 days after both the shots to see its impact,” she said. What are the most frequently asked questions about the vaccine? Dr Bhatt said that it’s about the right candidates for the vaccine, the side effects of the shots, whether it works as the ‘real’ vaccine, and also to understand the prevalent discussion about various vaccines in development around the world. “We have so far not seen any side effects of the shots. Our teams are constantly in touch with the volunteers,” she said. Officials said that those who wish to volunteer for the vaccine can approach the medicine department OPD on ground floor of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/over-300-get-trial-vaccine-at-sola-civil-hospital/articleshow/79699880.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Indian Army gets 325 new officers; 70 cadets from friendly foreign countries also pass out of IMA in Passing Out Parade (POP) ceremony held with tight Covid guidelines in place||Dehradun: A total of 395 Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) of the 147th Regular Course and 130th Technical Graduate Course, including 70 GCs from nine friendly foreign countries successfully passed out from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday. The maximum GCs — 50 — were from Uttar Pradesh, followed by 45 from Haryana and 32 from Bihar. The passing out parade (POP) ceremony was conducted with tight Covid-19 protocols in place and all attendees were required to produce Covid-negative certificates. The parade was an impressive affair, with the GCs marching with perfection to military tunes of “Col Bogey”, “Sare Jahan Se Achha” and the Army’s song “Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja .” Even the rains, which added to Saturday’s chill at the historic Chetwode square, could not dent the enthusiasm of the GCs, as they were cheered on by the parade’s reviewing officer, vice-chief of Army Staff Lt Gen SK Saini. In his address, Saini complimented the instructors and GCs on an “excellent parade, immaculate turnout as well as the crisp, synergised drill movements, which point to high standards of training and discipline imbibed by the young leaders”. The vice-chief further said, “Love for your country, love and compassion for the men you command and an unflinching loyalty towards them are the basic tenets of the Indian Army. The fundamentals of soldiering have been instilled in you here; the onus is now on your young and firm shoulders to define the various facets of the art of soldiering and to be men of formidable bearing, courage and stature.” He also thanked the parents of the officers for motivating their wards to choose “such a noble profession, which entails serving the nation and facing threats that the country might need to encounter in the present and the future”. Commending the 70 GCs from friendly foreign countries, Saini said, “I am sure you, as ambassadors of your country, carry back a treasure of fond memories of IMA and the training, which you shall cherish for a lifetime.” The pipping ceremony, where GCs transition into commissioned officers, was carried out as usual with parents placing the stars on their wards’ uniforms, while following Covid safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/indian-army-gets-325-new-officers-70-cadets-from-friendly-foreign-countries-also-pass-out-of-ima-in-passing-out-parade-pop-ceremony-held-with-tight-covid-guidelines-in-place/articleshow/79698755.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Madurai||CM should explain advantages of new farm laws: Stalin||Madurai: Taking a dig at chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for being the only farmer supporting the Farm Acts, when thousands are protesting in Delhi, DMK leader M K Stalin has said that the CM should meet them and explain the positive impacts of these acts.He was addressing the “Tamilagam Meetpom” programme for Ramanathapuram district virtually. Listing out the developments implemented in Ramanathapuram district under the DMK rule, he said that Palaniswami was supporting the Farm Acts more vehemently than the chief ministers of states that are ruled by the BJP. “The AIADMK is trying to destroy the farmers, can the chief minister assure them that free power will not be scrapped through the new Electricity Act?” he asked.The government is claiming that it gave compensation for the cyclone-affected people in Ramanathapuram, and claiming that it had handled it successfully. But, fishermen in Ramanathapuram have not received any compensation for their damaged boats, Stalin said.“Edappadi Palaniswami managed to evade action under the Corruption Act by getting a stay on the CBI inquiry by going to court. Can he say that he is innocent?” he said. He was not elected to power by the people, and he will be defeated in the next election by the people, the DMK leader said.“He is saying that he is a farmer and that he has no income other than his agricultural income, even the AIADMK members will laugh at this,” he said. The present government, which had pledged the AIADMK founded by late MGR and nurtured by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa to the BJP had done the same to Tamil Nadu to protect themselves. They have brought a black mark on Tamil Nadu and this will be erased in the ensuing elections, Stalin said. People who are trying to use spirituality against the DMK would not succeed, he said, adding that serving the people was the best spirituality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-should-explain-advantages-of-new-farm-laws-stalin/articleshow/79700563.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders sale of ship after owner fails to turn up||Ahmedabad: As an oil company did not appear in debt-related litigation for three months, the Gujarat high court has ordered sale of its ship on request of the creditor bank that the crew on board is likely to suffer more because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Biren Vaishav on Friday ordered to put an oil tanker, which is anchored at the Pipavav port, for sale immediately after the National Bank of Fujairah PJSC filed an admiralty suit for the default made by the gulf-based oil company after obtaining loan from the bank. The HC has directed its registry to appoint a deputy registrar as court commissioner to undertake the procedure of selling the ship.In this case, the bank extended a loan of $1,1,05,000 to Gulf Petrochem FZC, which mortgaged certain assets including three ships. As the company defaulted in paying installment in August, the bank moved the high court in Gujarat because one of the mortgaged ships – a Panama flag bearer 103-metre long oil tanker named MT GP B3 IMO No 955199 was anchored at the Pipavav port. The bank urged the court to invoke its powers to direct the shipping company to furnish the due or else arrest the ship.On September 9, the high court ordered Pipavav port and customs to arrest the ship if the company did not pay US$ 2 lakh. The high court had issued notice to the company, but nobody appeared on its behalf. This led the bank to request the HC to sell the ship and realize the amount. It submitted that it apprehended that the owner of the ship has abandoned it and it was left to fend for itself.The bank also argued that if the vessel is left in the same condition on the port, it is likely to pose a danger to the port and environment as well and the crew on board. In this Covid-19 situation, the crew is likely to suffer even more.This led the HC to direct for immediate sale of the ship. A court official’s appointment is ordered to facilitate the sale after roping in Ericson & Richards for its valuation. The court has ordered the bank to deposit Rs 5 lakh towards sale expenditure. The court has ordered to invite bids for the vessel after its appraisal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-sale-of-ship-after-owner-fails-to-turn-up/articleshow/79699875.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Parrikar’s obstinacy led to mining stoppage, economic crisis: Ramakant Khalap||PANAJI: Instead of blaming the Congress, the BJP should come out with a report on the state government’s performance since 2012, including facts and figures about Goa’s debt, economic slowdown and the iron ore mining saga, said former union minister Ramakant Khalap. Khalap said the “corrupt, insensitive and arrogant” governments headed by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, Laxmikant Parsekar and present chief minister Pramod Sawant ruined the state. “We demand that BJP government must stop the blame game and present its report card in the form of a white paper from 2012 till date,” Khalap said. “We also demand that the chief minister should show courage and order an inquiry into all the 21 cases reported by Lokayukta.” Khalap also said that the BJP should have the courage to acknowledge that Goa’s present economic chaos is an effect of Parrikar’s actions. Parrikar’s haughtiness and obstinacy, Khalap said, could be seen in the abrupt closure of Goa’s mining sector. The illegal renewal of 88 mining leases only served to worsen the crisis, he added. Khalap also said that former Goa lokayukta justice P K Misra had sent 21 reports citing corruption in various departments and projects involving the chief minister, cabinet ministers and other functionaries of the government but the state has failed to act on the reports. “Congress has nothing to hide and we are repeatedly demanding that the chief minister must release a white paper on the financial status of Goa, Mhadei, Covid pandemic, coal handling and other environmentally destructive projects. Let the people of Goa know the truth with facts and figures,” Khalap said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikars-obstinacy-led-to-mining-stoppage-economic-crisis-khalap/articleshow/79701358.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Man held for murdering wife||Madurai: A 50-year-old man was arrested for murdering his wife due to a family dispute on Friday night. The deceased was identified as V Anjana Devi, 44, from Naga Nagar in Bethaniyapuram in Madurai. Police said that Anjana Devi and her husband N Velayutham were running a provisional store. Velayutham suspected his wife’s fidelity and often quarrelled with her. They got into a quarrel on Friday night too before going to bed. Velayutham woke up at midnight and took a stone from a wet grinder and dropped it on Anjana Devi’s head. She died on the spot. Neighbours who rushed to the house after they heard a loud sound found Anjana Devi’s body lying in a pool of blood and alerted the police. A police team from the Karimedu station reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. The body was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Based on a complaint from Velayutham’s daughter, Priyadarshini, a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-held-for-murdering-wife/articleshow/79700574.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Corona vaccine first shots for L3 hospital staff||LUCKNOW: As preparations for the Covid-19 vaccination drive continue on war footing in the city, sources in the health department said that medical staff of Covid hospitals will be among the 40,000 frontline workers who will receive the vaccine shots in the first round. The vaccine is expected to arrive in the first or second week of January, said sources. Times ViewThe news of the vaccine has come as a relief, but it does not mean that people should drop their guard. The initial phases of vaccination to frontline workers followed by the elderly and vulnerable will definitely help in breaking the chain and reducing number of casualties, but it will take a few more months for covering a substantial population required to bring the pandemic completely under control. Till then, strict adherence to safety protocols is the best and only option.According to the health department’s plan, staff of Covid-19 L3 hospitals will be first among frontline workers to get the shots followed by those in L2 and L1 Covid hospitals. The staff of non-Covid hospitals will receive doses thereafter. Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “The city has 40,000 health workers as per our database. All will be vaccinated. We will prioritise administering the vaccine in the bigger Covid-19 facilities first, followed by smaller units, and then non-Covid-19 hospitals so that the maximum number of vulnerable groups can be covered in a quick span of time.” A meeting has been called on Tuesday in which health department officials from the Centre, state and district will take part to decide the vaccine distribution strategy. A 4,800-sq ft storage unit with four ice-lined refrigerators (ILR), each with 225-litre capacity to maintain a cold chain, has already been made at a healthcare centre in Aishbagh locality of the state capital. The training of vaccinators has also started. ANMs, MBBS interns, staff nurses and pharmacists, both from government and private sector, are being trained as vaccinators. “These health professionals already know how to administer vaccine. Only precautions which must be taken for Covid vaccination will be taught to them,” said in-charge of routine immunisation Dr MK Singh. “All persons who will get vaccinated will be registered on the Covid-19 control portal. Database for the purpose has been already prepared,” Dr Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-vaccine-first-shots-for-l3-hosp-staff/articleshow/79700570.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lower corona cases, deaths in old age homes: Study||Ahmedabad: While the population above 50 years is considered to be highly susceptible to Covid-19 infection due to age-related factors and existence of co-morbidities, the old age homes – having a large number of senior citizens – fared much better. A study carried out by researchers from Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) across three western states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, covering 1,573 residents in 44 old age homes revealed that these homes had 146 positive cases and four deaths, giving cases rate of 9.3% and mortality rate of 2.7%. To put the figures in perspective, about 59% of the deaths in Covid pandemic in Gujarat are from patients above 60 years, whereas the age group of 50 years and above account for 60% of the active cases. Dr Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G said that the starting point for the study was the high mortality in the pandemic at the old age homes in the western countries. “When during our pilot study we found a completely reverse trend, we expanded it and started collecting data,” he said. He said that some of the factors which could be responsible for the phenomenon include de-congesting the old age homes, putting in place stringent restrictions and genetic factors. “Several of the home administrators told us that they sent the residents back home in cases when it was a possibility. About 26% of the residents under the study were sent home cumulatively. Even those who lived on the campuses were kept under isolation to reduce chances of infection,” said Prof Mavalankar. The paper titled ‘Low COVID-19 mortality in old age homes in western India: an empirical study’ by Prof Mavalankar, Jallavi Panchamia, assistant professor, and Bhavya Bhagat, Vishakha Bharati and Anushree Joshi from IIPH-G, also pointed out that all the care homes were equipped with thermometers, 95% had sphygmomanometer (to check blood pressure), 70% had pulse oxymeters, but only 5% had oxygen cylinder facilities. All the homes had regular visits of doctors and 80% had isolation facility. Dr Prasoon Chatterjee, associate professor (geriatric medicine) of AIIMS Delhi, said that Indian care homes also made it a rule for the caregivers to be on the campus and also laid stringent rules about the visitors, some of the factors which worked in favour of the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lower-corona-cases-deaths-in-old-age-homes-study/articleshow/79699888.cms||Parth Shastri
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Acid attack on woman, three minor children in Gujarat's Madhavpura||AHMEDABAD: A woman and her three minor children were injured in an acid attack on Friday. Madhavpura police have lodged an offence under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder, against Ajay Dantani and his brother Vijay. The accused are the cousins of the woman’s husband. Ajay and Vijay unleashed the vicious attack over a property feud. Inspector M B Barad of the Madhavpura police station said that while the injured are being treated in Civil Hospital, cops have formed a team to nab the accused. According to the complaint lodged by the woman, 30, about six years ago her husband had bought their Madhavpura house from his father’s brother, Mohan Dantani, for Rs 3 lakh. “The complainant has alleged that Mohan’s sons Ajay and Vijay kept pressuring her and her husband to vacate the house,” said a police official. According to the complaint, when the woman’s family was sleeping, Ajay threw acid from an open window. Police sources said that the woman, her two daughters (aged 5 and 8), and her 14-year-old son sustained burn injuries. The woman has five children. According to the FIR, as the victims were writhing in pain, Vijay intimidated them with threats. When people began gathering after hearing the cries of the victims, the two accused fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acid-attack-on-woman-three-minor-children/articleshow/79699877.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||IMR down by 2 points, state 7th worst in rural context||Ahmedabad: The state of Gujarat may have shown an improvement in Infant mortality rate (IMR) as it came down by two points, but in the context of rural areas, the state was still in the bottom seven states with 33 points. IMR is the number of infant deaths every 1,000 live births. The Sample Registration Survey data released for the year 2018 reveals that the IMR in rural areas in Gujarat was 33 while the same in urban areas was 20. In case of urban Gujarat and even the overall position, Gujarat was at 11th spot on the list of 21 big states. The SRS also reveals that as compared to 2017 the IMR in rural areas improved by three points while the same in urban areas improved by two points. The maternal mortality rate (MMR) in Gujarat was 5.1 between 2016-2018 while the same was 6 between 2015-2017. Infant mortality was recently in the headlines as 522 infant deaths were reported from two major civil hospitals of Rajkot and Ahmedabad between October and December 2019. Between October and December, 269 children had died in the hospital in Rajkot, while 253 infants had died in the Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Dr Chetan Trivedi, executive board member Indian Academy Of Paediatrics said that IMR relates to deaths within one year, and diarrhoea and pneumonia are the two major diseases contributing to deaths of infants. Infant mortality finally boils down to maternal health. Also, the gap between urban and rural IMR was expected as there is lack of facilities in rural areas. In urban areas, one can find facilities at affordable rates, but in rural areas there is lack of specialized doctors and those practising there are overloaded. Also, there are still health misconceptions and beliefs among the rural people which also contribute to deaths of infants. Jayanti Ravi, the principal secretary, health, said, “The state has now paid more attention on tracking both mother and child. All the high-risk pregnancies are being monitored. The state health workers are keeping a track of newborns for nearly ,1000 days and interventions are being done whenever required. The state also now has a neonatal ambulance and Bal Sakha ambulance which have saved many newborn lives. The issue of anaemia is also been addressed and proper care is being taken.” Ravi said that even during the Covid pandemic, health workers were on the job taking care mothers and children. The issue is also being addressed in urban slums as there is lack of education among there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/imr-down-by-2-points-state-7th-worst-in-rural-context/articleshow/79699889.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 13, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: School going siblings harvest veggies of all kinds||MADURAI: Two school students, a brother and sister duo have been using their time productively to cultivate vegetables in their garden supply it to their friends and neighbours. They have been cultivating even potatoes, which are not grown in Madurai. S S Saandron, 12, is a Class VI student and his sister S S Semozhi Nayagam, 6 is a class I student from Nagamalai Pudukottai in Madurai. During the first month of the lockdown, they spent their leisure time playing. After listening to their father tell them that earthworms help in gardening, they even took care of the wriggly worms that they dug out from the sand. Plants were planted in every available spot including plastic bags and cans. Gardening is now their hobby after online classes. Curious to see small sprouts in a potato lying in the kitchen, Saandron, under the guidance of his father R Sivakumar, carefully cut the eyelets from the potato and planted them in a plastic bag filled with sand and earthworm manure. He harvested the first batch of potatoes in August this year that he had cultivated in June, and says that he felt happy. “I watered them regularly in the morning and evening. I was happy when I saw the flowers and was a bit anxious when the leaves started wilting, but my father said I might see some potatoes soon and found them in about six weeks,’’ he said. The kids harvested about two kg of tasty potatoes. They also cultivated tomatoes, chillies, ginger, broad beans, snake gourd, okra, coriander, brinjal, and even pineapple, which has now started growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/school-going-siblings-harvest-veggies-of-all-kinds/articleshow/79700577.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Child birth is safer, children's health is worse: Govt report||Mortality indicators for infants and children under five years have improved with some exceptions over the four years since the last National Family Health Survey (NFHS) in 2015-16, but malnutrition indicators have worsened, with the proportion of children with stunting rising in 11 out of 18 states for which data was available, of those with wasting going up in 14, and of those with anaemia in 17. The government on Saturday put out data for 22 states and Union territories, including J&K, from the NFHS of 2019-20. What is disturbing is that indicators related to malnutrition have become much worse in most states.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Stunting, caused by chronic deprivation of food, and defined as less height for age when compared than the child growth standards median, has gone up by as much as eight percentage points in Tri pura, almost six percentage points in Telangana and about four percentage points in Kerala and Himachal. Among larger states, Maharashtra and Gujarat have recorded a marginal worsening, with 35% and 39% children stunted in the two states, respectively.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Wasting, caused by acute food shortage and defined as inadequate weight for height, has increased in most states with almost one out of five children being wasted in many of the states that have seen worsening. Even the proportion of severely wasted children has gone up in 14 out of the 18 states.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); While the proportion has marginally increased in most states that have registered a worsening, in states/ UTs like Jammu & Kashmir and Telangana, it has in creased by about four percentage points to almost 10%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); There has also been a huge increase in the proportion of children with anaemia in most states, with Assam showing a jump of almost 33 percentage points, which means more than two-thirds of children (68%) below 5 years in the state are anaemic. Gujarat is the state with the highest proportion of anaemic children, 80%, a big jump from about 63% in the last survey. Child mortality indicators — infant mortality rate, which pertains to deaths before the completion of one year, neonatal mortality rate (NMR), which is deaths in the first four weeks of life, and under-five mortality — have improved in most states with some like Jammu & Kashmir and Assam showing significant improvement. Among the few states which have shown a worsening of these indicators the worst off are Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura. Among the bigger states, Maharashtra has shown a marginal worsening on NMR and hardly any improvement in the other two mortality indicators for young children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/child-mortality-is-down-but-malnutrition-worsens/articleshow/79701816.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||Serve 10 years in PMHS cadre after PG or pay Rs 1 crore: UP to govt doctors||LUCKNOW: In a bid to check the depleting number of specialists in the Provincial Medical and Health Services (PMHS), the UP government has made it mandatory for government doctors seeking the NOC to pursue post-graduate courses to serve in the cadre for at least 10 years. Those who don't do so will have to pay back Rs 1 crore as penalty to the government. “As per the rule, the in-service doctors who undertake PG courses will have to give in writing that they would return to the primary cadre upon completion of their programme and serve for a minimum period of 10 years. In case they fail, they will have to pay a fine of Rs 1 crore to the state exchequer,” said additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad. Rules in this regard had been framed through an order issued by the Yogi Adityanath government in April 2017. Prasad issued a fresh order on Thursday to enforce this order strictly. The same order also stated that in-service doctors who leave the PG course mid-way will be debarred from taking PG exams for three years. Government doctors who are a part of the PMHS are encouraged to take up PG courses to fill up the shortage of specialists in the cadre. Out of 8,000 sanctioned posts of specialist doctors in the cadre, 60% seats are lying vacant. At the time of PG admissions, PMHS doctors get extra marks if they have served in rural areas for a minimum period of three years. “However, there are examples to prove that people took advantage of the provision but strayed away when the time to return the favour came. The realization made the Yogi Government issue strict orders,” said Dr Sachin Vaishya, president, UP PMHS Association. The order issued by the state government clearly mentions that the intention behind this scheme is to provide quality medical care and specialist services to the people in rural and difficult-to-reach areas. An official spokesperson also pointed out that many steps have been taken by the Yogi government to address the shortage of specialist doctors during the pandemic peak. In August this year, the medical education department made it mandatory for doctors completing MD, MS and PG Diploma courses from state government-run medical colleges to serve in government hospitals for at least two years. Earlier on Friday, the state government amended the UP Medical and Health Service Rules to make the government services more attractive to post graduates. As per the amendment, the specialists will be appointed one level above the entry level (medical officer). It also stated that they will be allowed to serve in their home districts till level-3 and will not be sent on non-clinical duties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/serve-10-yrs-in-pmhs-cadre-after-pg-or-pay-rs-1cr-up-to-govt-docs/articleshow/79700581.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In year of ups and downs, farm fire season came early, but left a more lasting impact||NEW DELHI: Crop stubble fires not only began to impact Delhi’s air much earlier this year, but their contribution to pollution was also much higher compared with last year, data analysed by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has found. Track the pollution level in your cityCSE analysed the data compiled by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) till November 30 and found that on seven days this season the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was over 30% compared with only three such days last year. The daily contributions were divided into four categories — over 30%, between 20% and 30%, between 10% and 20%, and less than 10%. On six days this year, the contribution of smoke from farm fires was between 20% and 30% compared with just four days in 2019. The contribution ranged between 10% and 20% this season on 16 days compared with 15 such days last year. However, there were 23 days with less than 10% contribution, down from 30 days in 2019. The data also showed that smoke from crop stubble fires started impacting Delhi’s air quality from October 10 this year compared with October 16 in 2019, almost a week earlier than usual. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at CSE, said winter this year was drier in Delhi with less rain and western disturbances, which meant northwesterly winds were able to bring in more pollutants. “Meteorological conditions have played a key role and winter has been drier. If long-range transport occurs through strong northwesterly winds and localised conditions do not allow pollutants to disperse easily, then the impact will obviously be greater,” she added. This year, Diwali pollution was also compounded by the heightened contribution of smoke from farm fires, which increased to 32% during that period. Companies and agencies looking to provide solutions to farmers said financially viable solutions, such as options to manage paddy straw, which could be used to generate power, were yet to percolate completely to the ground level. “While the government has taken several initiatives, there is scope for more seriousness towards implementation of on-ground solutions. The smart way to go about this is to look at farm stubble not as waste, but as an energy resource. This could be turned into a commodity, so that businesses are built around the same,” said Suvrat Khanna, CEO and co-founder of Verve Renewables, a company procuring and processing baled paddy straw. Khanna added that straw collected by them was used to generate electricity at the Naraingarh Sugar Mills (25MW) plant at Ambala, Haryana. CSE’s analysis further found that cyclical ups and down of pollution this winter were more volatile, showing quicker rise and fall than last year. “There were days in November when the air quality improved substantially without rain, but with overall improvement in wind patterns. There were three days during the second half of November when air quality improved to the moderately polluted category. This was the same as 2019, but the clean-up last year was induced by rain,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-year-of-ups-and-downs-farm-fire-season-came-early-but-left-a-more-lasting-impact/articleshow/79699901.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||Now, you can get 6-hour liquor licence online in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: With the promulgation of the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Grant of Bar Licences) Rules, 2020 by the state cabinet, you can now expect to be served liquor in airport lounges, special trains and cruises. The new rules also allow for taking special liquor permits online, for a period of six consecutive hours from 8 am to midnight, extendable by an hour with the prior approval of the licensing authority on payment of additional license fees. So far, the temporary liquor licence would be issued for just for three hours -- from 8 pm 11 pm -- for parties and weddings, and require a long procedure. “The new rules are forward looking and will significantly simplify the process of obtaining licenses,” said Sanjay Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary (excise). He said that the new rules have reduced the number of steps from the time of application for a license to its grant from around 28 to just eight. “The process has been decentralised and will now take significantly less time to grant licences. The present provision of approval by the state government on the recommendation of a committee headed by the divisional commissioner has been done away with and an excise commissioner has been authorized to accord the approval directly on the recommendation of the committee headed by the DM,” he said. Among rules that have been eased for grant of licence are the need for the restaurant to be operational at the time of applying for licence, a process which will be entirely online. An official said that applicants had to start functioning and therefore run losses till the licence was awarded. Now the restaurant has to be operational at the time of depositing the licence fee. Another major relief for applicants is that licence fee will not be charged for the entire year, irrespective of the month in which the licence was sanctioned. As per the new rules, licence fee will only be charged for the remaining quarters of the year based on the time of granting licence. The unit for which the licence is being applied for needs to have a minimum floor area of 200 sqm and a minimum seating capacity of 40 persons. Private parking or valet parking arrangement will be considered valid even if it is within 500 m of the premises, unlike earlier when it was necessary to have sufficient parking within the premises itself. If a bar is located in a mall or in a commercial complex, the parking facilities and washrooms of the mall or complex shall be considered as the facilities for the bar. Premises of bars and clubs will be geo-tagged. In case of a dispute with the district level bar committee regarding the sanction of licence, an appeal can be filed with the divisional commissioner. Any change in the premises of a licensed bar can only be approved by the excise commission on recommendation of the district committee. For violation of the rules, one will be fined Rs 25,000 for the first offence, Rs 50,000 for the second offence and cancellation of license in case of third offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-you-can-get-6-hour-liquor-licence-online-in-up/articleshow/79700584.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||4 persons including 2 minor sisters and a juvenile, held for murder of RTI activist who exposed SC/ST scholarship scam||Haridwar: Four persons, including two minor sisters and their juvenile friend, were arrested in the murder case of Dalit RTI activist Pankaj Lamba on Saturday. The three minors were sent to a child observation home after being produced before the juvenile justice board while the fourth accused, Kasim, was sent to judicial custody by the court. Earlier, as reported by TOI, a case of murder had been registered on the basis of Pankaj Lamba’s wife complaint but after investigation, police converted the case into culpable homicide not amounting to murder under section 304 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and claimed that there is no criminal conspiracy in the case. Lamba, who had blown the lid off the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam in Uttarakhand, was killed after a freak incident in which a 16-year-old girl fired a shot at him from the activist’s own pistol on December 4. The activist was said to have given the pistol to the girl to look at, not realising that there was a bullet inside. The accident took place during a wine party at the minor girl’s house in Tehri Visthapit colony falling under the city’s Ranipur police station. Later, Lamba’s wife Jyoti Lamba alleged that he was murdered and police registered a case in the matter. Thereafter, police collected forensic evidence from the room and ballistics experts were also called to recreate the scene. The police also examined phone call details of the victim and the accused but claimed to have not found any foul play in the case. During the probe, it was revealed that Lamba was getting a house constructed in Tehri Visthapit colony and the accused Kasim, a friend of Lamba, was a contractor in the project. On the day of his death, Lamba went to the construction site along with Kasim. The two met the juvenile accused at the site who took them to the rented accommodation of the minor sisters. The sister duo, along with their two minor brothers, had been living in the rented accommodation for the past four months as they were not happy with the second marriage of their father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/4-persons-including-2-minor-sisters-and-a-juvenile-held-for-murder-of-rti-activist-who-exposed-sc/st-scholarship-scam/articleshow/79698796.cms||MS Nawaz
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: RT-PCR recheck to find false Covid-19 negative||KOLKATA: The state is all set to identify those who had tested negative for Covid in rapid antigen tests and make them go through RT-PCR tests to trace false negatives. This follows ICMR’s revised guideline on Covid testing. On Saturday, the health department asked all district magistrates and chief medical officers health (CMOH) to intensify the search for missed positive cases through follow-up RT-PCR tests for all rapid antigen test negative cases. The test should be done on those who had taken the rapid antigen test five-10 days ago. Sources at the department said that only those people who were symptomatic but their rapid antigen test report was found negative were being re-checked by RT-PCR. “Following the revised ICMR guideline, all district health officials and administrations have been told get all rapid antigen test negative cases re-tested through RT-PCR,” said a health department official. “While RT-PCR is more sensitive, rapid antigen test is known for false negative reports, especially in people who do not have symptoms. Therefore, missing positive cases is higher in rapid antigen test than RT-PCR. It is a good move to get negative reports ratified by RT-PCR,” said microbiologist Pratip Kumar Kundu, former director at School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata. The state started conducting rapid antigen tests on July 28 with only 1,183 tests. The number started rising in August when out of the 9,13,460 tests that month, 4,01,402 were through rapid antigen testing. Till Saturday, out of the total 63,82,278 tests, 28,52,391 had been done by rapid antigen tests. “Initially, the rapid antigen test kits were of good quality. But of late ,many companies have forayed into rapid antigen test kit manufacturing and we have come across low-quality kits with less than 60% sensitivity. This might give rise to false negative cases,” said Pradip Mitra, former director of medical education who is now officiating as the coordinator of Covid management and containment committee. While in Kolkata rapid antigen tests are being carried out through KMC, in districts they are in operation in different government health centres. Medical colleges in Kolkata are using it only in specific cases, like before an emergency surgery. “In rapid antigen tests, the sensitivity is poor — around 50% to 70%. Hence, negative results in rapid antigen tests have the chance of actually being positive in 30% to 50% of cases. So it is always good to re-test negative results of rapid antigen tests with RT-PCR,” said Prabhas Prasun, associate professor at Institute of Child Health. According to Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research (IPGMER) professor Diptendra Sarkar, this is a good move and will help to identify more Covid cases. “Rapid antigen tests were never strongly recommended other than for screening of people in a cluster or where an immediate result was necessary. They have a lower sensitivity than RT-PCR and obviously lead to more false negative reports,” said Sarkar. It won’t be particularly difficult to identify and trace those who have taken rapid tests, felt experts. But only those who have taken the rapid test within the last five-10 days ought to be made to take an RT-PCR now since the virus can no longer be traced in those who took the test earlier. “The virus can be traced within the first five to 10 days of symptoms. The Covid viral load is at its peak on the seventh day. While a rapid test has a 50% sensitivity rate, in case of RT-PCR, it’s 70%,” Sarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rt-pcr-recheck-to-find-false-cov-ves/articleshow/79699397.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 13, 2020||Kochi||‘No school punishment at cost of child’s dignity’||Kochi: The Kerala state child rights commission has asked teachers not to publicly shame children in the assembly or in front of other children in school in the name of punishment. The commission said that this is a gross violation of the child’s rights and the authorities should take strict action against teachers who mete out such punishment to children. If the child has done something wrong, the punishment should be accorded as per the mistake they have committed. The division bench of the commission was hearing a petition filed by the mother of a class 3 student against St Patrick’s school management, Mananthavady. The petitioner complained that in the name of not having cut his hair properly, the eight-year-old boy was made to stand in front of the assembly of 800 students. He was turned to display the hair cut at the back. After that, the teacher took the student to the principal’s room and the boy was suspended for three days. The incident took place on January 31, 2020. The mother told the commission bench of K Nazir and B Babitha that the incident traumatized the child who refused to eat food for many days. The commission issued directives to the state education department and CBSE/ICSE schools to ensure that such incidents do not happpen in their schools. Every school has its rules and disciplines. However, when students violate rules, disciplinary action should not be in violation of the dignity of the child, the commission emphasized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-school-punishment-at-cost-of-childs-dignity/articleshow/79699891.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||From namkeen factory to Army officer, farmer’s son travels far||DEHRADUN: As 28-year-old Balbanka Tiwari from Arrah, Bihar, graduated from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday, transitioning from being a sepoy in the Indian Army to an officer, his wife, mother and four-month-old daughter, who he was meeting for the very first time on Saturday, watched with pride. The young officer said that he had been unable to go to his home during the birth of his daughter due to his training schedule and the pandemic. Barely able to hold back her tears, his mother Munni Devi said, “My son has struggled a lot. He started working by the time he had turned 16 to supplement the family income and toiled for 12 hours in return for just Rs 50 to Rs 100 a day.” Tiwari, son of a farmer in Sundarpur Barja village of Arrah, said only “grit and faith” had brought him this far. “After Class XII, unable to find any prospects in Arrah, I moved to Rourkela in Odisha. I first worked at a factory that cut iron springs and rods. I then joined a namkeen factory. However, I continued my education and took tuitions. I never left my dream of joining the Army all this while,” said Tiwari, adding that he was inspired by a relative who was a jawan in the Army. “I was fascinated by the kind of respect he received in our village,” he said. In 2012, Tiwari managed to crack the entrance exam of the Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME) Centre of the Army in Bhopal in his second attempt. In the next five years that he worked as a jawan there, he prepared for the exams of Army Cadet College (ACC) which facilitates transition of soldiers to the rank of officers. He cracked it in 2017. “I am so happy I will serve the nation as an officer now,” Tiwari beamed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/from-namkeen-factory-to-army-officer-farmers-son-travels-far/articleshow/79698803.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||All Christian schools to meet on Tuesday||Kolkata: All Christian schools have been called for a meeting by the Association of Christian Schools at St Lawrence School on Tuesday to discuss about the steps to be taken against school-fee defaulters. Though the high court has permitted schools to remove defaulting kids from online classes from December 8, most Christian schools — church and non-church — have not done that. Many have extended the deadline till December-end after being swamped by requests from distressed parents. Many schools fear that they might find it difficult to pay salaries to teachers unless defaulting parents clear their dues. “Many Christian and Anglo Indian schools, which do not have the backing of the church or a trust, are in distress and need help. The meeting will help us decide what action should be taken,” said head of an Anglo Indian school in the city. Father Moloy D Costa, secretary of the association, said: “Each school has a different percentage of defaulters and we will then brainstorm about our course of action to arrive at a decision,” he said. The association has also filed an appeal in Supreme Court against the HC order. The matter is yet to come up for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-christian-schools-to-meet-on-tuesday/articleshow/79699404.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Classical concerts to be back in city soon||Kolkata: Much to the relief of musicians and their audience, live offline classical music conferences will soon be held in the city. At least three live, on-ground conferences — the one hosted by Rajya Sangeet Academy, Behala Classical Festival and Uttarpara Sangeet Chakra — have been planned this winter. The Behala Classical Festival will begin on January 9. This is the ninth year of the festival and the organizers are sticking to their four-day evening festival format. Pt Bickram Ghosh, one of the performers, said, “It must be lauded that they are hosting the festival this year amidst the havoc that Covid-19 has wreaked upon our lives. They will host the festival following social distancing rules. I congratulate them for standing by classical music and music in general.” Pt Bickram Ghosh Sandipan Banerjee, general secretary of Behala Sanskritik Sammilani that organizes this festival, hopes for a good audience response too. Banerjee is the secretary of Behala Notun Dal that organized a Durga Puja earlier and the experience of crowd-management will also come in handy. “We will have a sanitizing tunnel. The audience at a classical concert is not unruly, so we don’t apprehend too much of a problem. Every year, we have around 2,000 people in the audience. This year, we have decided to have 500 chairs at safe distances from each other on the Blind School ground. There will be ticketed online screening of the conference too,” he said. As many as 26 artistes, including Pt Kushal Das, Pt Kumar Bose, Pt Anindo Chatterjee, Pt Subhankar Banerjee, Pt Abhijit Banerjee, Pt Subhen Chatterjee, Pt Samar Saha, Pt Jyoti Goho, Parthosarathy, Kaushiki Chakrabarty, Anubrata Chatterjee will be performing here. Four celebrated outstation artistes - Pt Venkatesh Kumar, Pt Kaivalya Kr Gurav, Rahul Sharma and Rakesh Chaurasia - will be flying down to Kolkata to perform for this event. Pt Venkatesh Kumar has strictly stayed away from performing in any digital concert during the pandemic. “I have recorded in studios and the programme has been beamed. But I have not done any Facebook live shows. I believe both the audience and the artistes have traditionally enjoyed live concerts the most. I have two live concerts in Dharwad during December and January. My third live concert is in Kolkata and I am looking forward to it,” the Mysore-based vocalist said.  Last week, Pt Subhankar Banerjee performed his first live concert at the 48th Pt Motiram Pt Maniram Sangeet Samaroha in Hyderabad. “Performing offline was such a relief,” said Banerjee, who will be performing with Kaushiki Chakrabarty at the Behala Classical Festival. Pt Subhankar BanerjeeIf all goes well, the Rajya Sangeet Academy will be hosting its Rajya Sangeet Sammellan in February. “Every year, we have a five-day-long conference with some 25 artistes at Rabindra Sadan. For this edition too, we are trying to host it for five days,” said Munmun Hore Sinha, executive officer of West Bengal State Music Academy. Members of the 65-year-old Uttarpara Sangeet Chakra, too, are upbeat. For the last 20 years, the organization has been hosting three-day-long classical conferences with two whole-night events. “We will be meeting in December-end to decide whether to host the programme in February or March. The venue will also be decided then,” said Anish Mukhopadhyay, joint secretary of Uttarpara Sangeet Chakra. All possible options of hosting a simultaneous online and offline event of the Dover Lane Music Conference are being explored too. “We have 800 members and have to give passes to everyone. Besides, there are others in attendance. The government norms currently allow only 200 people to attend an indoor concert. We are hoping that number will be relaxed and we will be able to host our event at Nazrul Mancha,” said Bappa Sen, one of the organisers of the 69th Dover Lane Music Conference||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/classical-concerts-to-be-back-in-city-soon/articleshow/79699414.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Two UDF members arrested for blocking MLA PV Anvar’s vehicle||KOCHIKODE: Police registered a case against 30 persons and arrested two UDF activists for blocking the vehicle of Nilambur MLA PV Anvar late on Friday night and allegedly attempting to manhandle him and his gunman. UDF members alleged that the MLA was on a visit to the nearby Appankappu tribal colony to influence voters by offering things in return. Tension prevailed at Munderi in Malappuram as the incident led to skirmishes between UDF and LDF activists for around an hour. Pothukal police identified the arrested as Abdu (51) who is a local congress activist and Shinoj (37). The arrested have been booked under IPC Sections 143, 147, 148, 353 and 323. While UDF workers alleged that the MLA’s visit was part of LDF’s attempt to influence tribal voters of Appankappu colony by offering cash and liquor, Anvar strongly denied the charge and said that he had not gone to the colony. He claimed that he was returning after visiting the house of a resident who is also a friend as part of the election campaign. "My vehicle was blocked in two places including Mele Munderi. When I lowered the windshield and asked the crowd what the issue was, they tried to pull me out and hit the gunman, who tried to protect me, in his face. I was elected by the people of Nilambur with a majority of over 17,000 votes and still how can I be denied freedom of movement in my constituency after 10pm," Anvar said. LDF workers took out marches in Nilambur on Saturday in protest against the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/two-udf-members-arrested-for-blocking-mla-anvars-vehicle/articleshow/79699896.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Boards date uncertainty adds to students’ anxiety in Covid year||KOLKATA: With only six weeks to go before the usual commencement of board examinations, students are still uncertain about the fate of this year’s exams. If the stress of a pandemic, staying indoors and coping up with pressure of continuous online classes were not enough, examinees from the state boards, CISCE and CBSE have no clue when the exams will be held. Though the boards have crunched the syllabus to reduce stress on students and the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education as well as West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education have even waived the requirement to qualify in selection tests to appear for the boards, students remain jittery and unsure. Several parents have reached out to school heads with the plight their wards. Those set to appear for the Class XII board exams are fretting over the fate of practical examinations in science subjects as most haven’t had the opportunity to attend laboratory classes in the 2020-2021 academic session. Students studying in HS schools also have no access to mock question papers based on which the candidates can prepare. Students aspiring to study abroad are also uncertain if the original transcripts will be available for handover to foreign universities in time for the Fall Session in 2021. Though the state boards have announced that performance at the selection tests will not determine whether students can sit at the board exams, many schools have decided to hold the selection tests online some time January. In CBSE affiliated schools, the selection tests are being held on schedule. Though CISCE and CBSE announced the decision to reduce the syllabi well in advance, state board students who have been in tension finally learnt last month that the syllabus will be reduced by 30%-35%. “In classes X and XII, several chapters that were either completed during the virtual classes or bear a strong connection with the topics that have remained in the curriculum have been omitted from the syllabus. It will be impossible to move ahead without studying them,” said a headmaster of a government school. CISCE had reduced the syllabus in two phases: first in July and again in October. CBSE has also curtailed the syllabus by 30% in July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/boards-date-uncertainty-adds-to-students-anxiety-in-covid-year/articleshow/79699413.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||Cabinet committee will hammer out development roadmap for Purvanchal: Uttar Pradesh CM||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that a cabinet committee will be set up to prepare a roadmap for the development of Purvanchal. The committee will prepare its report within three months, the CM said on Saturday and directed the planning department and Purvanchal Development Board to ensure participation of all departments for implementing the development plan. Speaking at the concluding session of a three-day seminar on ‘Sustainable Development of Purvanchal: Issues, Strategy and Future Course of Action’, jointly organised by the state planning department and DDU University, Gorakhpur, the chief minister said, the committee will study all the recommendations made at the seminar after intensive discussions among experts over three days and look for local solutions to problems. “The hurdles in Purvanchal’s development identified during the three-day seminar will have to have local resolutions. Local organisations, particularly academic institutions, will have an important role to play in this,” the CM said. Purvanchal is blessed with fertile land and pure water, but was left behind in absence of any efforts by past regimes, the CM said. “You know you are doing something right when the Opposition speaks against you. Purvanchal remained poor and backward due to narrow thinking of some people. We will get rid of those who are against development,” he said. CM Yogi Adityanath said, from 1977 to 2017, there were more than 50,000 deaths due to encephalitis in 38 districts in the state. “In 2017, our government did not allocate any additional budget for control, but instead made the health department the nodal authority under which other departments worked. In just three years, we managed to control spread of the disease,” he said. The CM said, universities and other educational institutes should not restrict themselves to handing out degrees, and students have to come forward and participate in governance. Government policies should be made a part of curriculum, he said, adding students should also be taught about practical work done by the government. Emphasising on local resolutions, the CM cited Deepotsav in Ayodhya, which was first celebrated in 2017 and 51,000 diyas were collected from across the state. “We were dependent on China for diyas and idols even though we have everything available here. After Covid outbreak, our dependence on China ended and Mati Kala Board was encouraged to ensure supply. We managed to light 7 lakh diyas this time,” the CM said. Union minister for AYUSH, Shripad Yesso Naik, special guest at the event, said his ministry would extend more health facilities in rural areas. University Grants Commission chairperson D P Singh said, education and training were both crucial for development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-cabinet-committee-will-hammer-out-devpt-roadmap-for-purvanchal/articleshow/79700589.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Salem||Four killed, 7 injured as truck ploughs through vehicles in Tamil Nadu's Dharmapuri||DHARMAPURI: Four people died and seven others were injured when a container truck carrying cement load ploughed through 12 cars, a mini-van, a truck and a bike on the Thoppur ghat road of the Salem-Bengaluru National Highway near Dharmapuri around 4.15pm on Saturday. The truck was heading to Salem from Andhra Pradesh. The incident took place when a highway patrol team was trying to regulate traffic on the stretch where an accident between a truck, which was heading to Salem from Krishnagiri, and a minivan had led to pileup of vehicles. “Traffic had come to a standstill with the truck and the minivan stranded on the road. Police were trying to restore traffic. Vehicles were moving slowly on the two lanes of the road when the container truck came dashing through the gap, crashing into vehicles,” a police officer said. A Madhan Kumar, 42, of Omalur, his car driver T Karthik, 38, of Pagalpatti near Omalur, and another car driver Nityanandham, 35, of Coimbatore, were killed on the spot. The truck driver escaped from the spot. Eight injured were rushed to government and private hospitals in Dharmapuri and Salem districts. “Another victim, G Kannan, 42, of Perumbalai near Omalur, died at the Dharmapuri government medical college and hospital without responding to treatment,” superintendent of police Pravesh Kumar said. Dharmapuri collector S P Karthika visited the spot and held talks with police. Talking to reporters, she said the truck driver, whose identity was yet to be ascertained, had managed to escape from the spot. She said the district administration and the National Highway Authority of India were exploring the possibility of laying an alternative road to avoid accidents on the ghat road. “We had sent a proposal to the Union and the state government for their nod. There are also plans to install cameras to monitor speeding vehicles on the stretch at a cost of 35 lakh.” The Thoppur police have registered a case and a probe is on. Rajyasabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss, meanwhile, said the accident could have been averted had the Centre given its nod fro laying an alternative road on the NH. “We had sent a proposal at an estimated cost of 140 crore and it is still pending with the Centre. Officials had promised to widen the existing road by making it six-lane.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/four-killed-7-injured-as-truck-ploughs-through-vehicles-in-dharmapuri/articleshow/79704330.cms||Senthil Kumaran
December 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Four killed, 7 injured as truck ploughs through vehicles in Tamil Nadu's Dharmapuri||DHARMAPURI: Four people died and seven others were injured when a container truck carrying cement load ploughed through 12 cars, a mini-van, a truck and a bike on the Thoppur ghat road of the Salem-Bengaluru National Highway near Dharmapuri around 4.15pm on Saturday. The truck was heading to Salem from Andhra Pradesh. The incident took place when a highway patrol team was trying to regulate traffic on the stretch where an accident between a truck, which was heading to Salem from Krishnagiri, and a minivan had led to pileup of vehicles. “Traffic had come to a standstill with the truck and the minivan stranded on the road. Police were trying to restore traffic. Vehicles were moving slowly on the two lanes of the road when the container truck came dashing through the gap, crashing into vehicles,” a police officer said. A Madhan Kumar, 42, of Omalur, his car driver T Karthik, 38, of Pagalpatti near Omalur, and another car driver Nityanandham, 35, of Coimbatore, were killed on the spot. The truck driver escaped from the spot. Eight injured were rushed to government and private hospitals in Dharmapuri and Salem districts. “Another victim, G Kannan, 42, of Perumbalai near Omalur, died at the Dharmapuri government medical college and hospital without responding to treatment,” superintendent of police Pravesh Kumar said. Dharmapuri collector S P Karthika visited the spot and held talks with police. Talking to reporters, she said the truck driver, whose identity was yet to be ascertained, had managed to escape from the spot. She said the district administration and the National Highway Authority of India were exploring the possibility of laying an alternative road to avoid accidents on the ghat road. “We had sent a proposal to the Union and the state government for their nod. There are also plans to install cameras to monitor speeding vehicles on the stretch at a cost of 35 lakh.” The Thoppur police have registered a case and a probe is on. Rajyasabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss, meanwhile, said the accident could have been averted had the Centre given its nod fro laying an alternative road on the NH. “We had sent a proposal at an estimated cost of 140 crore and it is still pending with the Centre. Officials had promised to widen the existing road by making it six-lane.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-killed-7-injured-as-truck-ploughs-through-vehicles-in-dharmapuri/articleshow/79699897.cms||Senthil Kumaran
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Churches tweak rules for Christmas prayers||Kolkata: Churches across the city are tweaking their Christmas plans to implement social distancing guidelines and prevent any spread of coronavirus while celebrations are under way. While some churches are creating additional seating space inside and outside the shrines to prevent crowding, others have cancelled several traditional ceremonies and festivities so that people do not congregate in large numbers. Most churches will restrict the entry of people before and after the Christmas prayers while some are also contemplating holding multiple prayer services on Christmas so that everyone can attend without crowding. Churches across the city have been following all safety guidelines, including maintaining social distance and sanitizing the premises regularly, since places of worship were allowed to reopen in June. “Christmas this year is going to be different due to the pandemic and we are taking all precautions so that nobody’s safety is compromised,” said Reverend Biswajit Biswas of Duff Church where traditional ceremonies like carol singing and Christmas tree decorations on second and third Sunday of December have been cancelled. Christmas prayers will start at 9am instead of 8.30am. “We are also creating seating space outside the church so that everyone gets an opportunity to attend the prayers without the place getting crowded,” said Biswas. Every year, thousands of people visit St John’s Church on Council House Street before and after Christmas to see the decorations and savour a slice of history. The iconic church was built in 1787 and is one of the oldest churches in the city. “This year, we have decided to restrict entry of people inside the compound. The church will open only for the prayer service on the morning of Christmas,” said Rangan Dutta, the church officer. Catholic Church has already announced that there will be no midnight mass at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary on Christmas eve due to Covid restrictions. At St Andrew’s Church on Brabourne Road, too, special seating arrangements will be made for the devotees to ensure that there is adequate space between them. “We will be following all safety guidelines suggested by the government. Several ceremonies and activities that lead to a congregation have been done away with this year,” said Reverend Swarup Bar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/churches-tweak-rules-for-christmas-prayers/articleshow/79699419.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Andal airport: Govt to be single largest shareholder||Kolkata: The West Bengal government will soon become the single largest shareholder of Bengal Aerotropolis Projects Ltd (BAPL), that owns Andal airport near Durgapur. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, during her recent trip to Asansol, had announced that the state will have 47% stake in the airport. Changi airport of Singapore is also a stakeholder of the Andal airport along with a host of Indian promoters.Now, the state government has 26% equity in the company while Changi airport has around 37% and the rest is with other Indian promoters. Sources close to the development told TOI that the state will convert some preference shares acquired during financial restructuring of the then ailing BAPL in September 2017, to equity shares. As a result, the shareholding pattern, too, will change as Indian promoters will settle with around 26% and the rest will be divided between Changi airport and IL&FS.Changi airport is likely to have 20% after the conversion of preference shares into equity. Incidentally, in 2017, the West Bengal government gave its nod to increase its share of 11% to 26% in BAPL — a move that was believed to save the country’s first greenfield private airport. The cabinet sub-committee on industries had then decided to infuse Rs 180 crore, besides Rs 120 crore as loan repayment into the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/andal-airport-govt-to-be-single-largest-shareholder/articleshow/79699418.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Focus on Bypass, BT Road in cops’ accident bad-spot survey||KOLKATA: With the year drawing to a close, Lalbazar has started its annual accident survey. A crucial part of the exercise will be the identification of black spots — denoting the city’s most accident-prone zones. Sources said that though this has been one of the safest years , with only a fraction of accidents occurring during the lockdown, 14 fatal accidents recorded since November have the cops on their toes. Among the prime spots under scanner are stretches lying on some of the longest roads of the city — BT Road, Diamond Harbour Road, EM Bypass and AJC Bose Road. The list is usually finalized by the first month of the year. The city presently has 20-22 such spots based on the findings from 2019, said an officer. “There are several aspects that make a spot ‘black’. The most important being a zone of 150m-300m metres that has witnessed multiple accidents, including fatal ones. We are now looking into four areas that can be changed to make such stretches safer — methods of pedestrian movement, changing traffic signal cycles, making necessary lane markings and evaluating if road dividers or multiple manually operated barriers can stop people from illegally coming on to the road,” said an officer, adding that identifying such spots was a dynamic process. Fifteen out of 70 police stations in Kolkata — roughly a little more than 20% of the entire city area — contributed to the bulk of all fatal crashes in the city this year, claimed sources. In 2019, the same 15 police station areas had contributed to more than 35% of the accidents and around 42% in 2018. The police said that a couple of stretches around Chingrighata and on Basanti Highway are likely to be dropped out, while the Ekbalpore crossing and BT Road (in Cossipore) is likely to be included in the list. “As accidents were fewer this year and spread across the city, we are studying each accident individually and have called for a report from both the local traffic guard and the fatal squad that investigates such cases,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar. Primary enquiries have found fault with the basic traffic sense of both pedestrians and bikers — with both being unaware of the blind spots of large vehicles. The police said that with this year setting new records in road safety, the National Crime Records Bureau found Kolkata to be the safest city in terms of accidents per lakh population for two consecutive two years among all megacities of India. Historically, Kolkata has witnessed maximum accidents at the onset of winters. The period between October and December is considered to be the worst in terms of road safety. Last year, 638 of the total of 2,068 accidents (both fatal and non-fatal), occurred in these months with October, November and December recording 222, 214 and 202 accidents respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-bypass-bt-road-in-cops-accident-bad-spot-survey/articleshow/79699416.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 13, 2020||India||India will exceed climate goals: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: As global leaders gathered on a virtual platform to set the tone for higher climate goals, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said India is not only on track to achieve its 2030 targets but to better them “beyond expectations”. As the Paris agreement completed five years, Modi pledged that a “centennial India” would have achieved much more. “In 2047, India will celebrate 100 years as a modern, independent nation. To all my fellow residents of this planet, I make a solemn pledge today that the centennial India will not only meet its own targets, but will also exceed your expectations,” Modi said at Global Climate Action Summit, co-hosted by the United Nations with the UK and France. The Paris Agreement on climate change, which was adopted on December 12, 2015, will become operational on January 1, 2021. Though India, unlike China, EU, South Korea and Japan, has not pledged for any carbon neutrality time-lines, it is the only G-20 nation, which will meet its Paris Agreement commitment and is among few countries whose target is 2°Celsius-compliant. Seeking to remind the global community about India’s track record, Modi said, “Today, as we are looking to set our sights even higher, we must also not lose sight of the past. We must not only revise our ambitions, but also review our achievements against targets already set. Only then can our voices be credible for future generations.” The PM also told the gathering about India’s progress in reducing its carbon footprints by adopting renewable energy in a big way and increasing its green cover. He said, “We have reduced our emission intensity by 21% over 2005 levels (against the target of 33-35% by 2030)... Our renewable energy capacity is the fourth largest in the world. It will reach 175 GW before 2022... We have also succeeded in expanding our forest cover.” Modi mentioned about two major initiatives — International Solar Alliance and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure — which India had taken to deal with mitigation and adaptation aspects of climate change. Watch Paris Climate Agreement anniversary: PM Narendra Modi addresses Global Climate Summit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-will-exceed-climate-goals-pm-modi/articleshow/79701819.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||ED arrests Campus Front leader from Tvm airport||Kollam: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday arrested a Campus Front leader from the Trivandrum International Airport while he was trying to leave the country, reportedly for supporting the farmers’ agitation in Delhi. The man, Rauf Sheriff, was later taken to Anchal for collecting evidence. A resident of Chunda near Kadakkal in Kollam district, he had been residing in a rented accommodation near Anchal market. Campus Front workers staged a protest when Sheriff was brought to Anchal. Armed police provided security to the officials, but as more people from other parts of the district also joined the protest, more force was brought in from neighbouring police stations. Campus Front workers shouted slogans, took out a demonstration and partially blocked a road. They later convened a protest meeting. Campus Front leader and Sheriff’s relatives accused the central government of using its security and intelligence agencies against those protesting its policies. They also said that Sheriff was arrested for supporting the farmer’s agitation in Delhi. Meanwhile, IANS reported quoting an unidentified ED source that Sheriff was wanted in a money laundering case by ED as well as by the UP police in connection with the Hathras case. The source claimed that Sheriff had illegally received about Rs 2 crore in his account from Oman and Qatar in 2020 and was suspected to be used for subversive activities. Sheriff was evading summons on the pretext of the pandemic and was hiding for a long time, the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-arrests-campus-front-leader-from-tvm-airport/articleshow/79699902.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||BJP, TMC clash in Kasba, 10 detained||Kolkata: With the election heat rising, the Trinamool Congress and the BJP had their first major clash in Kasba on Saturday morning, leading to panic in the area. Both parties heaped allegations on one another.While Trinamool claimed that the BJP workers attacked its office near Bijon Setu and thrashed its supporters, the latter claimed that they were assaulted twice — once when trying to block the road and then while gathering outside Kasba police station to complain against the “ruling party’s atrocities”. Around 10 people were detained by the police, but were released later.Locals said BJP workers had blocked the Bijon Setu crossing last Thursday, claiming that one of their leaders was assaulted at the spot by Trinamool workers. To protest against the assault, the BJP on Saturday planned a rally from Bijon Setu to Kasba police station and submit a memorandum. South Kolkata BJP president Shankar Sikdar said Ward 67 Trinamool workers mounted the attack, injuring a few supporters.Trinamool leader and KMC Ward 67 coordinator Bijan Lal Mukherjee rubbished the allegations saying BJP workers attacked their party office. He said they had gone to complain about BJP’s “atrocities” and that the BJP was trying to twist the facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-tmc-clash-in-kasba-10-detained/articleshow/79699420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik wholesalers warn of shortage of supplies||Nashik: Wholesale traders — who are on an indefinite strike to protest against the Agriculture Produce Market Committee’s decision to levy a 1% cess on the volume of business — fear the general public may ultimately have to bear the brunt, as there could be a short supply of goods over the next few days if the issue is not resolved soon. The added that more traders from across the district are set to join the protest. Many wholesalers and retailers in Nashik city had kept their establishments shut for a day in support of the wholesale traders at the Nashik APMC going on an indefinite strike. While the shops in the Ravivar Karanja, a major trade hub, remained closed throughout the day, some shops in other parts of the city were open. Prafull Sancheti, the president of the Nashik Dhanya Kirana Ghauk Vyapari Sanghatana (wholesale traders’ association), said, “This is just the beginning of the agitation against the Nashik APMC, which was collecting the cess ‘illegally’ even though the traders with shops at the Sharadchandra Pawar Market Yard were paying the annual maintenance.” “We will fight till the time the APMC withdraws the cess,” Sancheti said. Briefing the media, Sancheti said the traders were unnecessarily being harassed by the APMC that is collecting the cess on agriculture goods, which do not come under the ambit of the goods controlled by the APMC Act. Moreover, wholesale traders have slim business margins — 1.5% at most. If the APMC levies 1% cess, then the wholesalers will have to increase the cost of the goods accordingly. “Ultimately, the consumer will have to bear the cost,” Sancheti added. The traders said since all the 70 wholesales in the market yard have stopped their businesses indefinitely, there is bound to be a cascading effect. “There are very few wholesalers outside the market yard and they too are set to join the agitation if the APMC failed to repeal its decision. Supplies to the retail shops have already stopped and the city will feel the impact when the shops run out of the supplies,” warned Santosh Patel, another trader. They have petitioned district collector Suraj Mandhare to intervene in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-wholesalers-warn-of-shortage-of-supplies/articleshow/79699908.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 13, 2020||Kochi||SHRC tells cops to ensure clarity before raids||Idukki: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has directed the state police to ensure clarity before conducting inspection in houses based on secret information. Justice Antony Dominic issued the order based on a complaint filed by Idukki Senapahi native Siji PR. The order to the state police chief directed that when information is received before the police, clarity on it should be ensured before conducting inspection or raid inside a house and house premises on every occasion. On April 23, 2020, the Udumbanchola sub-inspector and team conducted inspection at his house when the marriage of his daughter was fixed. The unexpected inspection caused untold miseries to him and his family with the bridegroom’s family withdrawing from the marriage and it seriously affected the family, said the order. The commission had sought explanation from the Munnar deputy SP and found that only an air gun was found at the house in the inspection. The inspection was based on a secret information that bottles of illegal liquor and a country made gun were kept secretly in the house. Some people consider sharing secret information to police as an opportunity to settle scores and mislead the police. The commission chairman said that police should ensure the facts when conduct an inspection in emergency cases. During functions like marriage, police should not hinder them and ensure practical and humane approach. The commission also directed that the state police chief should ensure that the officers under the department understand the importance of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shrc-tells-cops-to-ensure-clarity-before-raids/articleshow/79699936.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||Ceasefire violations on LOC have increased this yr compared to previous years; we are retaliating in calibrated manner, says vice-chief of Army Staff at IMA POP||Dehradun: Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of the Passing Out Parade (POP) at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday, vice-chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen SK Saini, who was the reviewing officer of the parade, said that “both diplomatic and military-level talks are going on with China to maintain the previous status quo.” Commenting on ceasefire violations by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LOC), the vice-chief said, “The ceasefire violations across the LOC have increased this year, if you compare the figures with last year or the year before that. We have also seen that there has been calibre escalation in terms of artillery being used from across the LOC to target innocent civilians. These acts are abhorrent. Although casualties have taken place on our side, we have been retaliating in a calibrated manner and are prepared for all contingencies which arise in the LOC.” Elaborating on the talks with China, he said, “We are in touch with our Chinese counterparts, both at the diplomatic as well as at the military level and we hope that a solution is found through this dialogue and status quo as of April this year is restored. While we seek a resolution through dialogues, we are also committed to ensure the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country, irrespective of the cost involved.” When queried why the dialogues between India and China — which are going on since the past six months — have not achieved a breakthrough so far, Lt Gen Saini said, “We have to keep the engagement on with China. These are complex talks and likely to take time. I do understand that these talks are protracted but we are maintaining our commitment in this dialogue and hope that an early resolution is achieved.” When questioned about reports that claimed that China was setting up villages near Arunachal and Doklam, the vice-chief said that “there are no new structures created inside our territory and development of infrastructure on the other side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) has been ongoing for the last many decades which is not a matter of concern for us.” On a question on viruses being used as bio-weapons, Lt Gen Saini said, “Virus and other antigens can be used as bio-weapons. Our training methodology is being continuously revised to incorporate the changes that take place in the character of warfare. Therefore it’s a continuous process and the training is accordingly modified.” He rubbished reports that alleged that China has used ‘microwave-based weapons’ on Indian forces in Ladakh, adding that “there is no evidence to show that any microwave or directed energy were used on the LAC.” On the impact of the recent visit of Army chief General MM Naravane to Nepal, that took place after the neighbouring country claimed the Kalapani territory as its own, the vice-chief said that India has civilisational and historical links with Nepal and the ties between the two countries are 'unshakable.' “We have Nepalese citizens in the rank and file of the Indian Army too. The visit of the Chief of Army Staff to Nepal only goes to show that the linkages between India and Nepal remain unaffected and will be strengthened further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ceasefire-violations-on-loc-have-increased-this-yr-compared-to-previous-years-we-are-retaliating-in-calibrated-manner-says-vice-chief-of-army-staff-at-ima-pop/articleshow/79698822.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Govt sanctions 165 posts for new GMCH at Nandurbar||Nashik: The new government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in Nandurbar will come up in 41.09 acres of land in the heart of the city .State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh chaired a meeting on Thursday at Mumbai and discussed different aspects of the Nandurbar GMCH. District guardian minister K C Padavi and officials from state directorate of medical education and research (DMER) were also present during the meeting.Official sources said that the medical education minister has sanctioned 165 posts in the initial phase. The National Medical Commission had approved the new 500-bedded GMCH at Nandurbar in the last week of October. It has allowed an intake of 100 students, including 15 from all India quota.The project will be funded by both Centre and state government. While Centre has approved has Rs 195 crore, the state government will chip in Rs 130 crore.Dean of Nandurbar GMCH Shivaji Sukre told TOI that the union and state governments are rendering all help to set up the Nandurbar GMCH.“The classes for the maiden batch of first year MBBS will start from the first week of February. A total of 91 students have already taken admissions and the remaining nine seats would be filled up before the classes start,” said Sukre. According the Nandurbar GMCH dean, at present, the infrastructure of Nandurbar civil hospital would be used for teaching purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-sanctions-165-posts-for-new-gmch-at-nandurbar/articleshow/79699934.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 13, 2020||Nashik||District finalises Rs 11.2cr drought plan for this fiscal||Nashik: The district administration has finalized a drought action plan for the year 2020-21 at a cost of Rs 11.2 crore. The district administration believes that 604 villages and 718 hamlets would require drinking water supply, for which, tankers would have to be started from the month of January onwards. This assessment is based on various parameters, including the rains, the groundwater levels.Overall, good rains this year and the delayed withdrawal of the monsoon has resulted in better availability of water across the district. It may also be noted that the water sources in most of the villages are now live, ensuring they will get better water throughout the year for longer period.Besides, the plains in the district, which are mostly the parched regions, have received 120% and above rainfall this year when compared with their annual average. In contrast, the regions that receive heavy showers have received showers in the range from 73% to 100%. Since the rains have not been to the extent they usually are witnessed in the hilly areas, there are chances that they groundwater levels will drop sharply in these regions requiring more efforts for the administration to provide them drinking water. “Providing water in the hilly areas is literally an up-hill task given that the villages are inaccessible, far-flung and remote in the tribal talukas. Considering the same, the officials have been asked to be sensitive towards the demand of the tankers in these areas,” the officer said.The Zilla Parishad is the executing agency for the drought alleviation programme. Of the Rs 11.2 crore, Rs 6.5 crore has been earmarked for the deployment of over 290 tankers. The tankers would not be required till December-end, but would be required in the second quarter beginning in January. The maximum demand is expected to be from April to June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-finalises-rs-11-2cr-drought-plan-for-this-fiscal/articleshow/79699957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||India||Housewife’s road death ‘loss of future prospects’, kin to get Rs 17 lakh||MUMBAI: Ruling that compensation for “loss of future prospects” can also be granted in the case of a housewife’s death, a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) last week ordered the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to pay around Rs 17 lakh to the husband and two minor children of a 33-year-old woman who was killed after a bus rammed into their bike at Mankhurd in 2014. “Loss of future prospects” is among the heads covered while awarding compensations in motor accident cases. The tribunal fixed the deceased housewife’s notional salary at Rs 5,000 per month. A possible future increase in this notional monthly income was pegged at 40%, bringing the loss of future prospects to Rs 7,000 per month. The tribunal cited a recent Supreme Court judgment and said, “The housewife who contributes for the welfare of the family and upbringing for the children must be given future prospects in as much as with the passage of time, the utility of her services increases in the family.” It stated that a housewife’s services to the family are invaluable. “The housewife renders very important duty. She looks after her husband and children passionately round the clock and creates the comfort zone in the house. In the absence of her in a house for a single day realises her importance (sic) to the other family members,” the tribunal said. The tribunal refuted the defence that only when the housewife renders skilled services to the family does the question of future prospects come. It said that judgement does not make any distinction between a skilled and unskilled housewife. “In fact housewife is a housewife and with the passage of time her skill in tackling and handling household affairs increases,” the tribunal said, quoting the Supreme Court judgement. While the victim’s husband and older son will each receive 30% of the compensation amount, the younger son will receive the remaining 40%.It however rejected Archana’s parentsin-law as claimants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/housewifes-road-death-loss-of-future-prospects-kin-to-get-rs-17-lakh/articleshow/79701822.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Close shave for 14 trekkers from bus blaze near Igatpuri||NASHIK: A group of 14 trekkers from Mumbai had a narrow escape on the Mumbai-Agra highway when the minibus they were travelling in suddenly caught fire on Saturday morning. No casualties or injuries were reported as everyone was able to get out of the vehicle on time. The incident took place near the Talegaon Phata. The area falls within the jurisdiction of the Igatpuri police station. Amol Valzade, the assistant police inspector at the Ghoti traffic aid post of the highway police, said the group was proceeding towards Ghoti when the driver of the bus noticed smoke coming out of the vehicle. The driver stopped the bus and the passengers got out. Harish Chaube, the fire officer of Mahindra & Mahindra, Igatpuri, said the entire bus was in flames within a few minutes and was completely gutted. Inspector at Igatpuri police station Ashok Ratnaparkhi and the highway police rushed to the spot to streamline traffic as many motorists, who had stopped near the bus, compounded the traffic congestion on the highway. Chaube said the group had come for trekking to Harichandra Gad. They called another tourist bus from Mumbai and then proceeded towards their destination. Meanwhile, one of the Igatpuri fire station personnel fell down while dousing the flames. An ambulance was called and the fireman was immediately taken to a local hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/14-trekkers-safe-after-bus-catches-fire-on-highway/articleshow/79699998.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 13, 2020||Kochi||Protesters to shift venue to Palakkad civil station||Palakkad: The tribespeople and plantation workers, who are on warpath demanding land for house construction, will shift their agitation from Nelliampathy panchayat office to Palakkad civil station after the local body election. The 94-day-long sathyagraha by landless tribal people and plantation workers in Nelliampathy did not yield any result as the district administration and the state government have ignored it so far, said labour union leader V S Prasad. He said that there are 7,157 hectare of surplus land available with the government in Nelliampathy. There are 4,000 landless and houseless plantation workers and tribespeople in Nelliampathy. There is no private land available for purchase in Nelliampathy. Nobody can buy land there because it is a forest area where plantations are owned by either government or big private planters, he added The agitators are demanding one acre and house to landless plantation workers and tribespeople, said Janata Dal (UDF) district president M M Kabeer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protesters-to-shift-venue-to-palakkad-civil-station/articleshow/79699970.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Partner in CA firm arrested in GST ‘fraud’||Mumbai: The Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department on Saturday arrested a partner in a chartered accountant firm in connection with issuance of fake invoices, and for allegedly availing of and passing on fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs 10.6 crore on a turnover of Rs 59.1 crore. ITC reduces the total tax outgo. CGST’s Mumbai west wing on Friday arrested Chandraprakash Pandey, partner in Pandey and Associates. He was produced before a holiday court and remanded to 14 days’ judicial custody. Officials said they are looking for more people. —S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/partner-in-ca-firm-arrested-in-gst-fraud/articleshow/79700025.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hear the borrower before branding them as fraud: HC||Hyderabad: Telangana high court has made it clear that RBI’s master circular on declaring certain accounts as fraud accounts must possess clauses that give an opportunity to the borrowers to explain their case before declaring their accounts as fraud. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy in its judgment said the principles of natural justice should be read in the relevant clauses of the master circular. The bench pronounced its verdict after hearing a petition moved by Rajesh Agarwal of BS Company Ltd whose account was declared as fraud by the SBI in tune with the RBI circular. The company took loans of Rs 1,400 crore and defaulted on repayment. The SBI and other banks formed to a joint lenders’ forum (JLF) and initiated action against Agarwal’s bank account. The fraud identification committee (FIC) that looked into the issue also recommended action against the account of Agarwal. His counsel Arunabh Chowdhury argued that since penal provisions like FIR, etc., would come into effect automatically after declaration of an account as fraud, it is imperative that the right of hearing should be read into the master circular by the court. The bench, after an elaborate hearing, however, set aside the resolutions passed by the JLF on Feb 15, 2019, and the FIC on July 31, 2019, which declared the petitioner’s account as fraud. The bench then gave a direction to the JLF to give an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner by furnishing the copies of the forensic audit report on the affairs of BS Company. “Provide a report prepared by insolvency resolution professional KR Srinivas and also the one prepared by official liquidator to the petitioner,” the bench said. Before taking a decision on whether or not to classify his account as fraud, the JLF should hear both the petitioner and the official liquidator, the bench said in its order. After the JLF takes its decision, the FIC is directed to pass its resolution on whether the decision of the JLF should be confirmed or not. “This exercise should be carried out by the JLF within a period of three months from the date of receipt of the certified copy of this judgment. Furthermore, subsequent exercise by the FIC should be carried out within two months from the date of the decision of the JLF,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hear-the-borrower-before-branding-them-as-fraud-hc/articleshow/79700013.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bareilly||Woman thrown out of house for dowry, husband, nine others booked||Pilibhit: An FIR was registered against 10 members of a family based in Shahjahanpur’s Tilhar town at Pilibhit Kotwali police station here for allegedly demanding dowry. In her complaint, Sudha, a resident of Shiv Nagar Colony in Pilibhit city, said she was married to Amit Kumar, a government school teacher of Tilhar, in June 2017. Her father had given a car, Rs 6 lakh cash and jewellery worth Rs 3 lakh as dowry. But her husband wanted more and physically abused her. Ten months ago, he threw her out of their house for failing to fulfil his demand for a diamond ring worth Rs 1 lakh and a gold chain. He also made several attempts to kill her, she alleged. On December 6, her father went to Tilhar to settle the matter but Amit Kumar whipped out a gun, abused and beat him up, she alleged. Then, she lodged a complaint with police. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said Amit Kumar, his parents and seven other family members were booked under IPC section 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty), 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-thrown-out-of-house-for-dowry-husband-nine-others-booked/articleshow/79698462.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 9,015 crore to be spent on post-harvest mgmt projects||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya has said under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund for basic development in the state, loans worth Rs 9,015 crore would be disbursed to farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs in four years at minimum zero percent interest. He said a target of distribution of Rs 901.50 crore has been set this year. Arya was addressing officials of Agriculture, Cooperation, NABARD, and allied departments. The chief secretary said 21 banks have been authorised to support supply chains of agricultural infrastructure in the state. These banks will provide loans at a maximum interest of 9 per cent. A 3 per cent interest grant is payable on timely repayments of the loan. The state government has also linked the Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agricultural Export Promotion Policy, 2019. With this, maximum 50 per cent capital grant and maximum 6 per cent interest subsidy will also be provided to those seeking loans for agricultural projects. Thus, the borrowers for agricultural projects will have to repay the loan at minimum zero percent interest.Arya said post-harvest management projects like supply chain services, warehouses, silos, pack houses, grading and sorting units, cold storage, logistic facilities, primary processing centers and for the development of infrastructure in the sector will be constructed. Similarly, community agriculture assets such as organic input production, bio-catalytic production units, smart and precision agricultural infrastructure, supply chain infrastructure for clusters will be developed. He directed that the Cooperative and Agricultural Marketing Board should give wide publicity to the scheme.He said this year, there is a target of disbursing Rs 216.36 crore to the SC/STs. He said that 16 per cent of the total amount should be made available to Scheduled Castes and 8 per cent to Tribes from Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. Principal secretary, agriculture and cooperatives, Kunjilal Meena said under the scheme, in the next three years, Rs 2704.50 crore per year will be provided as loan for the development of agricultural projects. He said that under the Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agri Export Promotion Policy, 2019, 93 projects worth 140.24 crore are eligible for Agricultural Infrastructure Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-9015-crore-to-be-spent-on-post-harvest-mgmt-projects/articleshow/79700021.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Kisan rail gets farm sales on right track; 961 tonne of perishables sent since Aug 7||Nashik: Farmers from Nashik are happy with the new kisan rail, using which they have transported tonnes of vegetables to the northern states. The kisan rail from Deolali Camp has carried over 900 tonne of perishable goods from farmers in Nashik district to various places in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar since August 7.“The biggest advantage for us is that that train has a fixed time-table. This way, we know when the train will leave and when it will reach the destination,” said Sharmila Pekhale, a farmer who sends vegetables to Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh and Danapur in Bihar.Initially, the railways started the kisan rail on a weekly basis but later increased the frequency to three times a week. This enabled the farmers to send their agriculture produce to UP and Bihar and earn better returns.The railways transported 121.6 tonnes of goods in the month of August, while in September, it transported 305.9 tonnes of goods from Nashik district. October witnessed highest transportation of goods – 328 tonnes, while till November 24, the railways had carried 205 tonnes of perishable goods.Apart from this, 506.3 tonnes of parcel other than perishable goods was also sent in the train. The railways have earned Rs 57.9 lakh from the business so far.The farmers from Nashik and Manmad, who cultivate vegetables, onions, pomegranates are finding this train to be a boon. The farmers are also happy that they are able to send in small consignments as per their capacity through the railway to various destinations from Bhusawal to Jabalpur, Satna, Prayagraj, Dindayal Station, Buxar, Danapur and Muzaffarpur at specified time.“As there is no condition of booking the entire van, we are able to send our goods even in small quantities to the required destinations very easily, ensuring better quality as well and hence earning better returns for the produce,” Ashwin Patil another farmer said.The railway authorities pointed out that the cost of sending goods from Nasik Road Railway station to Bhusawal was Rs 1.03 per kg, while the cost for transportation of goods up till Muzaffarpur was Rs 4.13 per kg only, which was extremely farmer-friendly and hence they have appealed to the farmers to use the Railways parcel service for increasing their profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kisan-rail-gets-farm-sales-on-right-track-961-tonne-of-perishables-sent-since-aug-7/articleshow/79700014.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Farm stubble to biochar — to boost crop yield||NEW DELHI: Instead of being a source of air pollution, stubble can be used to improve soil health and crop yield by converting it into biochar — a black charcoal-like product, JNU’s School of Environmental Sciences (SES) has suggested. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to professor Dinesh Mohan of SES, who has been in the global list of highly cited researchers for the past seven years, biochar can not only solve the problem of stubble burning but also, in the long run, “reduce carbon from the carbon cycle, improve soil fertility and increase yield”. According to the new and renewable energy ministry, he said, the annual availability of biomass in the country is currently estimated at 500 million metric tonnes. “Tragically, a large portion of unused crop residues is burned in the fields after harvest, causing serious air pollution and producing carbon dioxide that contributes to global warming. It also causes a huge loss of carbon feedstock that can be used to improve soil fertility.” Mohan claimed SES had found a sustainable alternative to it. “Instead of burning agricultural waste, we can conduct pyrolysis — the heating of biomass in the absence of oxygen. This can help amend the soil, emit less CO2 and return a higher carbon fraction to the soil.” Biochar can also help in increasing the water holding capacity of soil, increasing its organic carbon. “We witnessed eggplants grown without biochar exhibiting about 36% of its original growth in seven weeks versus 53% in the soil amended with rice-husk biochar,” Mohan pointed out. Converted into fine powder or activated into a cartridge, biochar can remove pollutants such as fluoride, phosphate and arsenic from groundwater, the professor said. “We are developing technologies for farmers to build reactors in their farms, where they can convert stubble into biomass and use it as a fertiliser. We started the process in Rohtak early this year, but could not continue due to Covid-19,” he said. SES has used many such reactors on the JNU premises to create biochar and even bio-oil. Stating that the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has recognised biochar as an effective method of reducing pollution, Mohan said, “This technology also promotes the Prime Minister’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and even supports Swachh Bharat Mission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farm-stubble-to-biochar-to-boost-crop-yield/articleshow/79700028.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Health department gears up for vax roll-out in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Preparing for the roll-out of a potential Covid vaccine in the near future and its staggered distribution , the health department has formed eight committees — a state steering committee, three task forces at various levels and four committees at district, mandal, municipal and GHMC levels —.to overlook prioritisation of beneficiaries and the implementation process. Highlighting the need for prioritisation of high-risk and socio-demographic groups, an order, announcing the formation of the state screening committee, state task force, district task force and mandal task force, was issued by health secretary S A M Rizvi. The order stated, “Government has begun preparations for possible introduction of Covid-19 vaccine. It is anticipated that initially the supply of the vaccine will be limited in view of huge demand, hence prioritisation will be needed. It is likely that Covid-19 vaccine introduction will span over a year with multiple groups being included subsequently starting from health care workers (HCWs).” The 10-member state steering committee, headed by secretary health department, would monitor the progress of database of beneficiaries on Covid-19 vaccination beneficiary management system, fix timelines and ensure prioritization of beneficiaries is taken up in first phase. Also, reviewing preparatory activities in terms of cold chain preparedness, operational planning, communication planning, mobilise human resources and coordinate with other departments would be done by the steering committee. “The steering committee will also be responsible for the financial planning, microplanning, track social media for misinformation and rumours around vaccine that could impact the community acceptance for Covid-19 vaccine,” the order added. Another important role of the task forces at various levels, as per the order, would be to ensure minimal disruption of other routine health care services, including routine immunization. Meanwhile, the coordination committees at various levels would be focussing on meticulous enrolment of eligible recipients of vaccine in the initial phase and reach out to people for building awareness with regard to manner of vaccine introduction and inform them about prioritisation of recipients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-dept-preps-for-vax-roll-out-8-panels-formed/articleshow/79700020.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Weddings a costly affair during pandemic||JAIPUR: Marriages organised during Covid-19 times amid restrictions may not be big and fat in terms of number of guests, but they are still an expensive affair. Everything varying from marriage bands, marriage lawns, catering, decoration and wedding photo shoot has been highly exorbitant. Marriage managers stated that even for lesser guests, the arrangements remain the same and cost of catering increases with lesser guests. TOI on Tuesday spoke to the marriage managers, bandwallahs and those involved in the business of weddings and also the families who solemnized the wedding of their kin to know what has exactly increased the costing. “My son’s wedding was fixed in May this year, but due to Covid-19 inspection, we postponed it to mid-November. While we postponed the wedding everyone including marriage lawn owner, wedding photographer, food caterer and decorators asked us to pay extra. They stated that even for lesser number of guests they need to have the same scale and grandeur for the wedding,” said Subash Sharma who solemnized the wedding of his son on November 24. Mohammed Sheikh, who provides things varying from horse, lighting and band in weddings, said, “There might be less number of guests, but we have to send the same number of people in the band, a horse and arrange for full lighting. Our prices are not proportionate to the number of guests. Also, we sent our various groups in different weddings in fear of getting penalized.” Likewise, the caterers stated that for lesser number of guests the cost increases. “For more guests say 2,000, the cost of food per plate decreases, but for lesser guests, it increases. Also, the kind of food varieties we have offered for lesser guests is more than what we used to provide to larger number of guests. Thus, cost has increased,” said Rajendra Goyal, a Jhotwara-based caterer who facilitates in weddings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/weddings-a-costly-affair-during-pandemic/articleshow/79700012.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||32k cases settled in lok adalats in T||Hyderabad: Three warring couples said they recognised the value of family bonding and reunited in the presence of judges at a lok adalat organised by Hyderabad city civil courts legal services authority on Saturday. As many 32,304 cases were settled in lok adalats held all over the state. City civil courts chief judge C Sumalatha, who presided over the lok adalat as chairperson of the legal services authority, advised the couples to start their lives afresh. Signalling a change in their attitude , the couples even planted saplings on the court premises to mark their reunion and garlanded each other and repeated their marriage vows. The judges closed their long-pending cases. The lok adalat saw resolution of 360 pending civil cases and distribution of Rs 30 crore compensation to those affected by motor accidents. Six benches each at Hyderabad and Secunderabad city civil courts functioned for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/32k-cases-settled-in-lok-adalats-in-t/articleshow/79700032.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nashik||9,000 Covid warriors in Dhule to get vaccine||Nashik: The Dhule district administration has prepared a list of about 9,000 frontline Covid-19 warriors who would be administered the vaccine when it arrives in the district. The district’s Covid-19 coordinator Vishal Patil told TOI that the list includes doctors, nurses, health workers, etc. who have been involved in Covid-related activities like treating patients and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients. “These Covid-19 frontline warriors are from 73 government and 199 private institutions,” added Patil. Dhule has been one of the severely affected districts. But, the district administration, along with the local civic bodies, had worked overtime to curb the spread of the virus. The district, at present, has a healthy recovery rate of nearly 97%. Patil said that the administration is working out the nitty gritty related to the training of the vaccinators.“The district has identified 10 health officials who would undergo online training programme, training the trainers (TOT), organised by the state government,” added Patil. According to him, storage of the vaccine in rural areas of the district would not be a problem as there are cold storage facilities. “These cold storages are used to keep vaccines during immunization drives. We will be using these facilities to store the Covid vaccine,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/9000-covid-warriors-in-dhule-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/79700030.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||State registers 635 new Covid cases, four fatalities||Hyderabad: Telangana on Saturday recorded 635 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths. With this, the total count of cases in the state has reached 2,77,151 and the death toll is 1,489. While 2,67,992 patients have recovered in the state, there are still 7,670 active cases. On Saturday, 52,308 tests were conducted in the state, taking the total number of tests to 60.8 lakh. Telangana has now reached 1,63,393 tests per million population. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is constant at 0.53 percent for the last two months while the recovery rate has been improving constantly. Out of 2,77,151 patients tested positive so far, 1,94,006 (nearly 70 percent) have been asymptomatic while 83,145 are symptomatic. Of the 635 new cases recorded on Saturday, 141 were in the GHMC, followed by Ranga Reddy (76), Medchal- Malkajgiri (72), Karimnagar (39), Khammam (36) and Warangal Urban (35). While there were no new cases in Narayanpet, around 1-30 cases were registered in all other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-registers-635-new-covid-cases-four-fatalities/articleshow/79700029.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Inebriated man sets own house on fire, held||Thiruvananthapuram: The Vattiyoorkavu police on Saturday arrested a 41-year-old man who had allegedly set his own house on fire in a drunken rage. Police identified the accused as Binto of Bharath Nagar at Pappad near Nettayam. According to police, the incident took place during the early hours of Saturday, shortly after midnight. Binto was a chronic alcohol and used to torture his wife and 12-year-old daughter often under the influence of alcohol. Tired of his torture, his wife and child was living with his parents who resided nearby. On Friday night, Binto turned up at his parents’ home in an inebriated condition and picked up a quarrel with his wife. His parents and neighbours intervened and sent him back to his house. It was after this, he set his own tile-thatched house on fire. “He allegedly piled up all combustible materials in the house, including clothes and study materials, of his child and set them on fire,” said Vattiyoorkavu sub-inspector Jayaprakash. After committing the alleged crime, the accused fled. The neighbours alerted fire and rescue services personnel, who then doused the fire. But, the house had suffered serious damages by then. The burned articles include the child’s books and certificates too, the SI said. By Saturday morning, police tracked him down and took him into custody. Soon, his arrest was recorded. Police booked him with relevant sections for causing hurt under IPC for physical harassment of his wife and Juvenile Justice Act for torturing his child. The police officer said the accused was an autorickshaw driver by profession. His wife often used to tell him to stop drinking liquor and this always ended in him violently attacking her. This was why she moved in with her in-laws who lived nearby. The accused was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. In another case, the Vizhinjam police on Saturday arrested a 53-year-old man for harassing a woman. Sajikumar of Payatuvila was arrested for assaulting a woman when she told him to stop creating ruckus outside her residence. Police said the accused was in an inebriated condition and he was shouting abusive words when the woman confronted him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/inebriated-man-sets-own-house-on-fire-held/articleshow/79699462.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Do not let the guard down: CJ||Hyderabad: Hinting at the possibility of the Covid-19 virus being man-made, Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, on Saturday, asked people to be on guard against “China, perhaps, unleashing another set of virus”. “Already there are, again, dark clouds gathering on the horizon. Again there is a talk of a second wave. So, while we celebrate our victory, our triumph (in tackling the pandemic); it is not the time to lower our oars,” Justice Chauhan said. He was speaking at The Institution of Engineers, Visvesvaraya Bhavan in Khairatabad during the the release of a book ‘Cop Vs Covid’ by the Hyderabad City Police.  “Let us learn from the experiences we have gathered over the last nine months...to realise where we went wrong, what were the lacune in our planning, because many hard times are about to come,” Justice Chauhan added. At the event, the chief secretary Somesh Kumar commended the police for its effort during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/do-not-let-the-guard-down-cj/articleshow/79700052.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Partner in CA firm arrested in GST ‘fraud’||Mumbai: The Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) department on Saturday arrested a partner in a chartered accountant firm in connection with issuance of fake invoices, and for allegedly availing of and passing on fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs 10.6 crore on a turnover of Rs 59.1 crore. ITC reduces the total tax outgo.CGST’s Mumbai west wing on Friday arrested Chandraprakash Pandey, partner in Pandey and Associates. He was produced before a holiday court and remanded to 14 days’ judicial custody. Officials said they are looking for more people. —S Ahmed Ali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/partner-in-ca-firm-arrested-in-gst-fraud/articleshow/79700027.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 13, 2020||Dehradun||41 Afghan cadets at POP, Bhutan has 17; Bhutanese cadet bags best foreign cadet award||Dehradun: With 41 cadets, Afghanistan had the maximum number of gentlemen cadets (GCs) from friendly foreign countries (FFC) who passed out of the IMA on Saturday. A total of 70 cadets from FFCs passed out at the culmination of the passing out parade (POP), of which 17 were from Bhutan. Tandin Dorji, a Bhutanese cadet, also bagged the 'best cadet' award among FFCs. Defence attaché of Afghanistan, Colonel Karimulla Karimi who was present at the POP, said that “ties between India and Afghanistan have always been strong” and thanked the IMA for providing the training to the Afghan cadets. Commenting on the increasing number of Afghan cadets this year, Capt Khalil Khushiwal, liaison officer (Afghanistan) at the IMA said that in every POP, around 30 to 40 Afghan cadets pass out. Till date, over 700 Afghan GCs have passed out from IMA, he added. Apart from Afghanistan and Bhutan, the IMA during this term also trained three cadets from Tajikistan and Vietnam, respectively, who were relieved earlier this month on the special request of their governments. Also, two cadets from Nepal passed out of IMA on Saturday along with one each from Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar and Sri Lanka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/41-afghan-cadets-at-pop-bhutan-has-17-bhutanese-cadet-bags-best-foreign-cadet-award/articleshow/79698863.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan inaugurates portable RT-PCR point of care||Hyderabad: Speaking at the launch of portable RT-PCR point of care at ESIC hospital, G Kishan Reddy, the Union minister of state for home affairs, said that referrals of outpatient to others hospitals have reduced due to improvement of facilities at the hospital. The minister pointed out that first mobile virology lab set up at the hospital has conducted nearly 80,000 tests so far. The minister was at the hospital to launch four devices, including the Innovative Portable Point of Care (RTPCR), Remote Health Monitoring System, Covid Safe Incubator for Newborn Babies and Round the Clock in-House Dialysis Services. “We are implementing a number of health care schemes, with a health insurance facility of Rs 5 lakh,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-inaugurates-portable-rt-pcr-point-of-care/articleshow/79700031.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bareilly||2 minors & a woman shot at doorstep, man, 59, dies of heart attack in Bareilly||Bareilly: An argument after a car brushed past a man’s bike on a narrow street escalated into a brawl in Bareilly’s Partapur village and one of them pulled the trigger. Three people — two minors and a 36-year-old woman — were shot at and, in shock, a 59-year-old man suffered a heart attack. Tasawwar Hussain, a fitter with the Indian Railways, died. The three others were hospitalised and one of them, Mohammed Sohail, 14, is said to be critical. Police have registered an FIR against eight persons under IPC sections 302 (murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with deadly weapons), 452 (house trespass with intent to hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 504 (intentional insult). It all started when Mahir Hussain’s bike was parked outside the house when Ashraf’s car brushed it and it fell down. When Mahir reprimanded Ashraf for his mistake, he started arguing with him and soon his aides joined him. Mahir’s kin and neighbours rushed to help him when one of the members of the opposite party opened fire with a country-made weapon and two minor boys and a woman, identified as Shahbano, were reportedly hurt. Izzatnagar SHO Verma KK Verma said, “We have detained four persons. They will be sent to jail soon. The man had died of shock, but his family alleged that he was also thrashed by the accused. We are waiting for the autopsy report to confirm the reason behind his death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-minors-a-woman-shot-at-doorstep-man-59-dies-of-heart-attack-in-bareilly/articleshow/79698476.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: PMR’s Covid-19 active tally drops to 9,380, its lowest in three weeks||PUNE: The Covid-19 active tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) dropped to 9,380 on Saturday, its lowest level since November 17 when the count stood at 9,246. Health officials attributed the decline to higher recoveries and fewer infections. Health officials said cases started going up steadily in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, as well as the rural areas, after the festive season. On December 1, the active tally had reached up to 11,588. However, the trend reversed after that, prompting the active caseload to slip below 10,000 on the last two consecutive days, the officials said. As per the district health office data, the active cases have reduced by over 2,000 since December 1. The active caseload dropped below 11,000-mark on December 4 and further dipped below 10,000 on December 10. The data showed that the PMC limits were the highest contributor of active cases (5,150) as on Saturday. The active tally in rural areas was at 2,710 on Saturday evening, while in the case of PCMC limits, the load stayed at 1,520. The officials said they had been monitoring the cases and kept the infrastructure ready to tackle any possible surge. A PMC health official said, “The city has been recording around 300 to 400 cases every day. No alarming surge in caseload has been seen in the last two weeks. But we are on alert and reviewing the situation. Citizens have been appealed to undergo tests in case they develop symptoms and avoid overcrowding. The administration has prepared a plan to handle over 19,000 active Covid-19 cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-active-tally-drops-to-9380-its-lowest-in-3-weeks/articleshow/79700057.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Neonatal mortality rate reduced by 3%: Nat’l health survey||Hyderabad: The latest National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5) released on Saturday shows that the number of females above six years of age who have attended school in Telangana has reduced from 62.6 per cent in the last survey to 60.9 per cent in the latest survey. Meanwhile, the sex ratio at birth has improved from 872 in NHFS-4 to 894 now. While there is an improvement in institutional delivery from 91.5 per cent to 97 per cent, C section deliveries have gone up from 57.7 per cent to 60 per cent, shows the latest NFHS-5 survey. Now 99.6 per cent of people are living in households with electricity, showing improvement in the power distribution network over the previous survey period. The survey also shows a marked improvement in households having access to drinking water, improved sanitation facility and usage of clean fuel for cooking.  The survey said 30.1 per cent women are now overweight as compared to 28.6 per cent earlier. 32.3 per cent men were found to be obese as compared to 24.2 per cent. Domestic violence experienced by married women saw a slight decline over the previous survey. 36.9 percent women have experienced domestic violence as compared to 42.9 per cent earlier. Also 5 per cent young women reported having faced sexual violence as compared to 7.4 per cent earlier. As per the latest report 66.6 per cent of women in Telangana are literate as compared to 84.8 per cent literate men. While 45.5 per cent of women have more than 10 years of schooling, in case of men it is 61.2 per cent. The number of women being married before the age of 18 years has dropped slightly from 26.2 per cent to 23.5 per cent. Neonatal mortality rate, infant mortality rate and under five mortality rate have all reduced by 3 per cent, 1 per cent and 2 per cent, as compared to the findings of the NFHS-4.  Sex ratio at birth has improved from 872 in NHFS-4 to 894 now. While there is improvement in institutional delivery from 91% to 97%, C section deliveries have gone up from 57% to 60%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/neonatal-mortality-rate-reduced-by-3-natl-health-survey/articleshow/79700058.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Overflowing drain in Laad Bazaar||Hyderabad: An overflowing drain has exposed the failure of the stone laying work in the busy Laad Bazaar of Hyderabad. The drainage line is said to have diverted, which causes water overflow frequently. Residents who come for shopping have to deal with drain water along the way. The vendors told TOI that desilting had been carried out but the problem persisted, causing much inconvenience for the people passing through the lane. “The problem has persisted for the last several weeks. It needs immediate attention,” said Akber, a vendor. The wet passage also causes inconvenience to the vendors as they find it difficult to move around freely amid the crowd. “It is a heritage place. One has to take care of its surroundings. Such problems may tarnish the image of a beautiful place,’’ Manoj, a visitor from Rajasthan said. When TOI contacted HMWSSB, it was said that the problem was being attended. “We are aware about the issue and being addressed immediately being busy place. Already, new pipeline work has been sanctioned, but we are waiting for the removal of stones,’’ Abdul Hakeem, deputy general manager, HMWSSB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/overflowing-drain-in-laad-bazaar/articleshow/79700059.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mula-Mutha pollution control proposal gets shot in the arm||PUNE: The civic administration said a recent state government decision allowing sewage treatment plants (STPs) inside river flood lines will help the Mula-Mutha rivers’ pollution mitigation project. In 2016, the central government had sanctioned the construction of 11 STPs as a part of Pune Municipal Corporation’s Rs1,000 crore pollution control project. Four of these STPs were proposed in the blue flood line. “The state government recently announced unified development control rules, which allow setting up STPs inside the river flood line,” a PMC official confirmed. Before the UDC rules were announced, the official said PMC was in the process of finding alternative sites for the four treatment plants. This development has alarmed environmentalists, who said it could adversely affect the flow of the river. They said they feared that the STPs would get inundated during floods. “The construction of the STPs will lead to other constructions, such as control room gates. The government needs to think of a long-term plan, taking into consideration the environmental impact,” activist Sarang Yadvadkar said. PMC, however, allayed these fears, with the official saying the plants would be built above the high flood level (HFL), eliminating any chance of inundation. Another activist, Vaishali Patkar, said citizens and experts should have been consulted before a decision with environmental repercussions was taken. “We will write a letter to the minister concerned in this regard,” Patkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mula-mutha-pollution-control-proposal-gets-shot-in-the-arm/articleshow/79700064.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nashik||NMC seeks separate quota of Remdesivir for 2 hosps||Nashik: The civic administration has sought separate allocation of Resmdesivir from the state government to ensure there is no shortage of the drug at its two hospitals treating Covid -19 patients. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has written to the state health department highlighting the need to earmark a seperate quota of the drug for Zakir Hussain and Bytco hospitals. “At any given point of time, nearly two-third of the total case load in the whole of Nashik district is in Nashik city. A sizeable number of Covid patients undergo treatment at these two civic hospitals. We are awaiting a response from the state health department,” said Jadhav. Apparently, Jadhav’s letter to the health department comes in the wake of the shortage of remdesivir at the two civic hospitals, which forced the civic body to send its staff to Thane civil hospital to procure 1,000 vials of remdesivir. Some corporators had raised questions about the unavailability of the drug at the two civic hospitals. Sources in the NMC said till September, the state government had allowed the civic body to buy the drug on it’s own. “From October, the government changed its policy and started supplying remdesivir to Nashik civil hospital, which in turn, supplies the drug to NMC, rural hospitals etc. At times, the civil hospital is unable to provide the quantum of the drug required by the NMC. If we get the supply directly from the state government, we need not depend on the civil hospital,” said civic health officials. According to sources, there were two instances where the drug had to be procured from Aurangabad and Ahmednagar as Nashik civil hospital did not have adequate stock. “We need at least 70-80 remdesivir vials per day at these two hospitals,” said civic officials. District civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said the distribution of the drug was as per its availability. “Even if we don’t have the stock, we get it from other districts,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-seeks-separate-quota-of-remdesivir-for-2-hosps/articleshow/79700055.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: 31 arrested for running illegal horse race betting racket, six cases filed||PUNE: As many as 31 men, including three prominent bookies, were arrested late on Friday night following police raids at six spots for running an illegal horse race betting racket in the city. Six laptops, some cash, 31 cell phones and other articles used to run the illegal betting racket, collectively worth Rs3.41 lakh, were seized from the arrested people. The raids continued till Saturday morning. The city police filed six cases against the 31 arrested men at Wanowrie, Kondhwa and Hadapsar police stations. A city court on Saturday remanded them in police custody till Sunday. Accepting bets on horse races outside the premises of racecourses is illegal. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta had ordered the raids on Friday. A team headed by deputy commissioner of police Pankaj Deshmukh (Zone IV) raided the six spots and arrested the 31 men. Deshmukh said, “Accepting bets outside the premises of racecourses is not allowed according to the provisions of the Bombay Racecourse Licensing Act. One must bet on a horse on the premises of a racecourse. If bets are accepted beyond the premises of a racecourse, it is illegal in nature. These men were found accepting bets from people over phones and through online means.” A senior police officer said betting tickets attracted goods and services tax (GST). Betting operated outside the racecourses deprived the government of the GST, he said. The 31 arrested men were operating the betting racket from their houses, paan stalls, hotel rooms and other places. The police have invoked provisions of the Gambling Act, Bombay Racecourse Licensing Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC against the arrested persons. Another senior police officer said, “During the nationwide lockdown, people started staying in home and there were no horse races in the country. The races resumed in November, but many people preferred to bet on horses using online modes and through phones.” Senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar lodged a formal complaint regarding the illegal betting racket. Inspector Shilpa Chavan of the crime branch is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/31-arrested-for-running-illegal-horse-race-betting-racket-six-cases-filed/articleshow/79700071.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Cured count tops infections for 6th straight day, 10 dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday reported 781 recoveries against marginally less (761) new cases, taking its tally and cured count above 3.51 lakh and 3.33 lakh, respectively. For the sixth straight day, the region recorded more recoveries than new infections, health officials said. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 10 more patients succumbed to the infection on Saturday in PMR, pushing its total fatalities to 8,612. While the Pune municipal limits and the rural areas recorded six and four deaths, respectively, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits did not report a single death due to Covid-19 on Saturday, the report stated. The PMC limits have so far reported 4,703 fatalities, which are highest in the region. As many as 2,193 deaths have been reported from the rural and cantonment areas due to Covid-19, while 1,716 people have succumbed to the infection in the PCMC areas. The district data has revealed that of the total active cases reported on Friday, almost 67% patients (6,258) were in home isolation and remaining (3,152) patients were admitted in various hospitals and Covid Care Centres for treatment. More patients in home isolation has translated into vacant beds in hospitals treating Covid patients. Beds have been available in almost all categories, including the Covid Care Centres, ICU and oxygen support, in the region.  The region conducted 9,160 tests on Saturday, which was more than the Friday’s count of 8,602. The total sample testing in the region reached above 17.36 lakh by Saturday evening. Meanwhile, the tally of patients on oxygen support dropped below 1,000-mark to 803 on Saturday in the PMC limits. As many as 383 patients were at critical stage, of which 228 patients were on ventilator support. The tally of active patients was at 5,150, a report released by PMC’s health department stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cured-count-tops-infections-for-6th-straight-day-10-dead/articleshow/79700069.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Student lends ear to passers-by, helps them lighten their heart||PUNE: Twenty-two-year-old Raj Dagwar can be spotted on Fergusson College Road on weekends from 6.30-10.30pm holding a placard, encouraging passers-by to share their stories with him in exchange for Rs10. “Due to my depression, there were times I wanted to talk about my feelings but didn’t know how to express them. Finally, I came out to my family and friends, but many people don’t have that option. They feel it is easier to talk to a stranger who will not judge them. Early December, I made a placard and stood on FC road to see if people would come and talk to me. To my surprise, I received a great response.” Many people are hesitant to take the money after the conversation. “But I request them to take the ten rupees and use it to help someone. It is a small amount, but it gets the ball rolling,” he said. He has been approached by people of all age groups. “So many speak about how they lost their jobs and are having a tough time finding one. There are many facing relationship crisis, alcoholism, financial problems, and so on. Many stories have stuck with me and I learnt from them to make better choices in life,” said the computer engineering student of Pune Institute of Computer Technology (PICT). Dagwar follows safety and social distancing protocols while on the road. “I wear a surgical mask and replace it every hour. We sit a few feet away from each other while having a conversation,” he said. Since many people have evinced interest in his initiative, he has decided to collaborate with them to take it to other parts of the city. “We plan to have volunteers in Aundh, Baner, Balewadi, Kondhwa and so on, so that people can have a chance to talk to someone in person on weekends,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/student-lends-ear-to-passers-by-helps-them-lighten-their-heart/articleshow/79700078.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man murdered in Miyapur graveyard||HYDERABAD: A 65-year-old labourer was bludgeoned to death by unknown persons at a graveyard in Miyapur on Friday night.  The deceased was identified as M Ramulu, a resident of Miyapur. On Friday night, Ramulu, quarrelled with his wife and went to sleep in the graveyard. On Saturday morning, his daughter Mangamma went there and found Ramulu lying dead in a pool of blood. “We suspect that someone Ramulu knew might be involved in offence,” Miyapur inspector S Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-murdered-in-graveyard/articleshow/79700074.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Six-point plan by SCB to revitalise Trimulgherry lake||SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) will implement a six-point formula to rejuvenate the 100-year-old Trimulgherry lake and protect low-lying areas from frequent flooding. The October floods caused immense hardships to the residents of Malani Enclave, Airlines Colony, Padmanabha Colony and Surya Enclave. Due to heavy rains, the retaining walls of the adjacent sewage canals got breached and water gushed into these areas, inundating the colonies. To prevent these sort of incidents in the future, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is preparing a detailed project report (DPR). “The water board is preparing the DPR. The plan is to divert the sewage water, which enters the lake from Chinna Kamela. A team of water board’s senior project wing officials visited the lake and assessed the situation,” a senior SCB engineering official told TOI. Removing the silt is the first priority, and for this, SCB is planning to take the help of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA). As per the six-point formula, SCB wants to lay a sewerage trunk main network to free the lake from sewerage water, increasing the height of the retaining walls, take up construction of a culvert, demolition of illegal structures, construction of a compound wall on the 40% cantonment land and lay walking tracks along with development of greenery around the lake. Officials said that they will assess the cost of the facelift works after receiving the DPR from HMWS&SB. “To prevent flooding, the SCB has a mega plan to develop the Trimulgherry lake,” a senior SCB official claimed. Meanwhile, Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) served noticed to the SCB chief executive officer in the last week of November after locals complained about the waste being burned near the residential colonies. Following this, instructions were given to the SCB health and sanitation wing to place dustbins in the colonies. SCB warned that severe action will be taken against the persons who burn the waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-point-plan-by-scb-to-revitalise-trimulgherry-lake/articleshow/79700080.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 13, 2020||Bareilly||Newly-married man goes missing two days after wedding in UP's Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A newly-married man in a village under Bilsanda police station went missing from his home two days after his marriage. Following a written complaint lodged by the missing man’s elder brother, police registered the matter in their records on Friday night and started inquest proceedings. SHO Birja Ram said after the wedding — in a village under Banda police station of Shahjahanpur district on December 8 — the groom returned home along with the family members and relatives in the morning of December 9, while the bride came in the evening. Upon tracing the call records of the groom, police found that he had made a call to a doctor at 10.52 pm on December 10 and left home around 11.11 pm without informing anyone. Based on the call record, police questioned the doctor who told them that the groom had explained to him his vitality-related physical weakness and due to which he was very disturbed, said the SHO. The SHO further said it could be a reason behind the groom’s leaving home. Police, meanwhile, shared information about the missing man with neighbouring police stations, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/newly-married-man-goes-missing-two-days-after-wedding-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79698487.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Architecture students float conservation ideas||PUNE: Separate pedestrian walkways, eco-friendly cultural centres, connections to Sambhaji Park, Vartak Park, Balgandharva Sanskrutik Sankul and Omkareshwar Ghat, bird watching and meditation, art exhibitions under the Pune Metro corridor, and beautification, have been proposed for the Mutha River as part of a study to preserve it. Architecture students of Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture for Women (BNCA) came up with the recommendations to the Pune Municipal Corporation, after a collaborative study with the department of landscape architecture and environmental planning at Utah State University in the US. The two-week online workshop organised on ‘New Urban Inserts: Old Morphologies’ was preceded by pre-studies and pre-workshop site visits in October. As many as 27 participants from Utah and 55 from BNCA, with five international and 12 national mentors from the fields of architecture, urban design and planning, environmental architecture, digital architecture, landscape architecture were involved. Principal of BNCA Anurag Kashyap said, “ This project is for Pune’s positive development , along with the Mutha. Government, political leadership and the administration’s support will help us make positive changes in the riverside area.” The workshop’s organizer and head of the landscape department at BNCA, Swati Sahasrabuddhe, said people have been witnesses to many unhealthy urban changes over the last several years. “We are experiencing a lack of clean air, mental health, well-being, spiritual and cultural participation due to the immense growth of Pune in the last few decades. The city is culturally and historically rich with natural and local features, and independent urban topography. The suggestions are expected to increase the value of the environment, and the area needs to be restructured,” she said. Nine-point suggestions were made keeping in view the citizens. Transport links, history and culture of the city, architecture and constructions, natural environment, urban parks, available land-use trends and economics were considered during the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/architecture-students-float-conservation-ideas/articleshow/79700075.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||National education programme held on thalassaemia and sickle cell disease||Nagpur: Union minister Nitin Gadkari inaugurated national education programme for thalassaemia and sickle cell patients, their parents and health care workers who are taking care of the patients. Gadkari stressed on prevention of these diseases. “There should be research to find out a way by which this disease can be completely eradicated,” he said. About bone marrow transplantation, Gadkari said there should be many more centres available in our country. He also said bone marrow transplantation should be taken under Ayushman Bharat scheme. The programme was organized by Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Centre, Nagpur, run by Thalassaemia Society of Central India. Dr Vinky Rughwani, director of Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Centre, Nagpur, Vinita Srivastava, national coordinator, blood cell, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Mahendra Kendre and Dr JS Arora, general secretary, Thalassaemia Welfare Society, New Delhi, were present. After the inaugural function, a conference was held on ‘Blood transfusion in thalassaemia and sickle cell disease’. Dr Deepti Jain, paediatrician, Dr Vinky Rughwani, Dr Ravi Dara and Sangeeta Wadhwa were the panellists. They spoke on the subject and answered queries about blood transfusion and sickle cell disease. In a session on thalassaemia, Dr Ravi Dara along with Dr Vinky Rughwani were present. During the inaugural function, Dr Rughwani said the programme has been organized on the occasion of Sickle Cell Awareness Week which is observed from December 11 to December 18. He mentioned about the difficulties faced by thalassaemia and sickle cell patients and their parents. He also demanded that thalassaemia and sickle cell patients, although included in a Disability Bill 2016, should be given reservation in jobs. Vinita Srivastava and Dr Mahendra Kendre spoke about the various schemes government has undertaken for thalassaemia and sickle cell disease. Kritiksha Umale was the master of ceremony for the inaugural function. Dr JS Arora proposed a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/national-education-programme-held-on-thalassaemia-and-sickle-cell-disease/articleshow/79708911.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 13, 2020||Pune||In district, twice as many men as women die of nCoV||Pune: Twice as many men have succumbed to Covid-19 as women in the district since the pandemic hit Pune in March this year, a health department analysis has shown. Of the total 8,537 people who have died of Covid-19 in Pune district till December 9, as many as 5,925 (69%) were men, and 2,611 (31%) were women. One transgender has also succumbed to the virus in the district, the department analysis showed. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid control told TOI, “Not only Covid-related deaths, but the number of cases have been observed more among men than women because the former seem more exposed to the virus due to more outdoor and social activities.” A whopping 83.4% deaths due to Covid in Pune district had associated risk factors like diabetes, hypertension, heart and lung diseases among others, while 16.6% deaths had no associated risk factors, the analysis showed. “Risk factors may include conditions like diabetes, hypertension, a major disease like a liver or kidney disease, asthma, heart and brain diseases. These are the associated risk factors which could be a contributory factor to Covid-19 mortalities,” a health official said. Piyush Chaudhari, infectious diseases specialist at Jehangir Hospital, told TOI, “The nose is often the first portal of entry for SARS-CoV-2, which enters respiratory epithelial cells via ACE2 (receptors). ACE2 activity is lower in children and increased in the elderly and patients with co-morbidities. This may explain the age distribution in terms of Covid-19.” Chaudhari said relatively milder disease in women compared to men can be explained by higher interferons and Interleukin 10 production in women, among other such biological factors. “A virus-infected cell releases “interferons” causing nearby cells to heighten their anti-viral defenses, while Interleukin-10 is an essential immunosuppressive cytokine, with the ability to resolve inflammation and promote wound repair,” he said. On comorbidities, Dr Salunke said, “ Comorbidities make a person vulnerable to Covid-19 and increase its severity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-district-twice-as-many-men-as-women-die-of-ncov/articleshow/79700073.cms||Neha Madaan
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Former ICCR employee held for KSFE fraud||Thiruvananthapuram: A man suspected to be the head of a racket that swindles money from Kerala State Financial Enterprises Limited (KSFE) using fake documents has been arrested by the city police. The arrest of Karthikeyan, 56, a resident of Ravi Nagar at Kudappanakunnu, was recorded at Museum police station Saturday. Police said Karthikeyan headed the racket that availed loans and chits from KSFE by submitting fake documents. He was an employee of Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) that functions under the central government. Karthikeyan has been accused of taking over 10 loans from two KSFE branches at Sasthamangalam and Vazhuthacaud between 2017 and 2019 using fake certificates. He also provided fake salary certificates from ICCR to his accomplices, who applied for loans or join chit fund schemes posing as ICCR employees. The fraud was revealed when the loan repayments were defaulted and the KSFE authorities initiated recovery measures. They found out that the receivers of loans were not ICCR employees. The first case was registered on November 3 based on a complaint filed by KSFE Vazhuthacaud authorities. Two weeks later, another case was registered after the officials of Sasthamangalam branch too detected the fraud. “Two permanent employees of ICCR are also part of the fraud. They have gone absconding after we took Karthikeyan into custody,” museum sub-inspector Shyamraj J Nair, who was part of the investigation team, said. Police are on the hunt for the accomplices of the accused. Karthikeyan, who is estranged from his wife and daughter, was sacked from ICCR for alleged cash misappropriation. The ICCR authorities found in an auditing that he had siphoned off the funds kept aside for scholarships for foreign students. Another case was registered against him at the museum police station a week ago in this regard. The police have booked him under sections of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/former-iccr-employee-held-for-ksfe-fraud/articleshow/79699465.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Post-Covid OPD started at Zakir Hussain hospital||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started a post-Covid out-patient department (OPD) at Zakir Hussain hospital to ensure that patients who have been treated get help regarding their health issues. While one centre has been opened in the city, the other centre will be opened soon at Bytco Hospital at Nashik Road. “In case patients suffer from serious conditions after being infected with Covid-19, there are chances that their lungs might have suffered irreversible damage and, therefore, despite being treated for the infection, they will continue to feel uncomfortable all the time. Hence, the post-Covid-19 centre has been started,” a senior officer from the health department of the NMC said. The post-Covid-19 OPD has been started from Friday and has very less footfall, but it is aimed at providing respite to people who are suffering breathlessness and other health issues despite having recovered from coronavirus. According to health officials, at times, people who were affected by Covid-19 and had undergone serious complications during the course of recovery, at times, suffer from fibrosis. Fibrosis occurs when the liver attempts to repair and replace damaged cells. Since Covid-19 attacks liver, the patients have to be very careful. “This could further lead to asthama and, hence, people must be advised to undergo appropriate post-care treatment,” the officer said, adding that such help and related guidance is provided to the patients in the newly-opened OPD. Patients seeking help at the OPD are prescribed medicines and even further treatment if and when required. Usually, patients recovered from Covid-19 do not require hospitalization, but some of them need medicines, strong diet and exercise that can help them regain balance of their life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/post-covid-opd-started-at-zakir-hussain-hospital/articleshow/79700068.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: RPF ASI held for raping minor||HYDERABAD: An assistant sub-inspector of Railway Protection Force (RPF) was arrested by Rachakonda police for allegedly raping a minor. The 44-year-old accused is an ASI (driver) of Railway Protection Special Force in Mumbai and is a resident of Malkajgiri.  On December 7, family of the 15-year-old filed a complaint that the ASI had raped the class X student several times since 2018, threatening her when her parents were away, said Malkajgiri ACP N Shyam Prasad Rao.  A case was registered under sections of IPC, POCSO Act and SC/ST (POA) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rpf-asi-held-in-minors-rape/articleshow/79700070.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||TRSMA to state: Extend academic year till July 2021||Hyderabad: The Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA) on Saturday demanded that the state release the academic calendar with assessments, examination dates and extended the academic year 2020-21 till July 2021. They said that the state should make it mandatory for students to attend 120 days of physical classes after re-opening the schools to get promoted to the next class. “At present, the school education system is derailed due to the pandemic. To bring school education back on track, the state should release the academic calendar with assessments and examination dates, give instructions to ensure that all students attend online or TSAT classes to minimise the loss,” said S Madhusudhan, general secretary, TRSMA. Highlighting the importance of students attending physical classes, they said that not many are able to attend online or digital classes owing to various reasons including lack of devices or internet connectivity. “The current academic year should be extended at least till July so that students get to attend classes physically for three to four months. This is necessary for students to get doubts cleared or get important topics and basics revised. Unless a student attends classes for 120 days, he/she should not be promoted to the next class,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA. The school managements also said that the state should announce the dates of the Secondary School Certificate(SSC) examination as early as possible so that students have ample time to prepare for the examinations. They, however, said that SSC exams should not be held in March like every year and added that students should be given an additional time of at least two to three months. TRSMA members also asked the state government to renew recognition of all schools, whose recognition had expired, until the academic year 2021-22. In the 2019-20 academic year, all students, including SSC, are promoted to the next classes without examinations due to the pandemic. Educationalists said that students should not be promoted this year as well without exams as it is more important for them to meet learning outcomes and gain knowledge than getting promoted to the next class.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trsma-to-state-extend-academic-year-till-july-2021/articleshow/79700094.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||JDA starts survey of plots given at discounted prices||Jaipur: Following urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal’s directions, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has started physical inspection of plots which were given at concessional rates. To ensure that land allotted at concessional rate was not being misused for other purposes, the state government is verifying its usage. Zone commissioner Hridesh Kumar has directed all his counterparts to submit a report after inspecting the sites. An official source said, “To prevent any irregularities, the commissioners have been asked to submit a written report if they believe that allottee is not misusing the land. Action will be taken against the official if a wrong report is produced.” In the past 38 years, the JDA has allotted land at concessional rate to 299 organisations for various purposes. A recent report compiled by the civic body has data of land allotment since 1982. As per the records, 30 land allotments were done free of cost, out of which majority were government departments. In all, 10 organisations were allotted land on Re 1 token money. In the last seven years, no land allotment has been made by the JDA. In 2013, the authority allotted land to 13 institutes, including religious groups and government. “The proposal to allot land after 2013 are pending at the state government. After the change in regime in 2013, the then BJP government introduced land allotment policy in 2015. No major land allotment at concessional rates were done after that period,” said a senior officer at the JDA.The exercise has been conducted as the department received several complaints that many institutes were using the land for commercial purposes. “Many have rented out the place which is against norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details,” said a source. Officials claimed many private hospitals which are beneficiaries of concessional land have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals, which have been allotted land at concessional rates, have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-starts-survey-of-plots-given-at-discounted-prices/articleshow/79700081.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Extra space must between buildings higher than 15 mts||Jaipur: Buildings with a height of 15 metres built under the Chief Minister’s Awas Yojana, 2015, must have an extra ‘setback’ of one-fourth of the size of the plot.The proposal has been passed to develop the space for movement of fire tenders in case of an emergency. Earlier, developers were leaving a 6-metre setback in high-rise buildings. A setback is the minimum distance which a building or other structure must be set back from a street or road, a river or other stream, a shore or flood plain, or any other place which is deemed to need protection.An official said, “As per the new rule, the setback in buildings having a height of 15-metres will be one-fourth of the size of the plot. The proposal received approval in building planning committee (BPC) meeting.” Earlier, the government allowed construction of multi-storey buildings up to 32 metre and above before the Rajasthan High Court in 2018 banned construction of new high-rises till municipal corporations procured aerial hydraulic ladder platform equivalent to 32 metre or above and the fire department strengthened its firefighting system. The ban was lifted after the requirements were met.An official source said, “Jaipur has fire tenders that can douse fire till 42 metres. Ladders that can reah a height of 70 metres will be procured by February 2021.” Apart from Jaipur, high-rise buildings can be constructed in Jodhpur, Kota, Ajmer, Bikaner, Udaipur and Bharatpur. In cities where buildings above 32 metre are to be constructed, a written permission has to be obtained from the government. There have been many incidences in the past where illegal constructions of buildings have taken place. If in a city a ladder above 32 metres is not available, then the construction company has to give it in writing that they will construct further only when the ladder becomes available in their municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/extra-space-must-between-buildings-higher-than-15-mts/articleshow/79700089.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Sword of honour’ for Yapral cadet||Hyderabad: Thirty gentlemen cadets (GCs) of technical entry scheme (TES-36) course passed out from the portals of Cadets Training Wing (CTW), Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), of the Army Training Command at a parade at Cariappa drill square in Secunderabad on Saturday. Platoon cadet Captain R Rishab Shankar, who is from Yapral in the city, was awarded the prestigious sword of honour for standing first in the overall order of merit, while Shivaji Platoon was awarded the coveted GOC-in-C, ARTRAC banner, for winning the inter-platoon championship for autumn term-2020. The GCs were pipped as commissioned officers in the rank of Lieutenant by senior military officers and welcomed into the fraternity of the officer cadre of the Indian Army. Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, Commandant, MCEME, who was the reviewing officer, stressed on maintaining professionalism, commitment and sacrifice during their journey as officers. He apprised them of the challenges to national security and the call of duty that awaits them in their new role. Because of Covid-19 protocol and restrictions, parents and close family members of the GCs were not invited for the ceremony. This time, they watched it online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sword-of-honour-for-yapral-cadet/articleshow/79700083.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Vehicle goes up in flames on ORR||Hyderabad: A private driver had a narrow escape near Chinna Golconda village on Outer Ring Road on Wednesday when his vehicle suddenly went up in flames, forcing him to abandon it in the middle of the road. Police suspect that the fire may have been triggered by a faulty electrical cable. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vehicle-goes-up-in-flames-on-orr/articleshow/79700097.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice to govt on Bisalpur water for agri use||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has issued a notice to the government on a PIL praying for the non-release of Bisalpur dam’s water for agricultural purposes this year. The petitioner has raised concern over the limited availability of drinking water for 2021 in the dam which is the main source of drinking water for Jaipur and Ajmer. The petition stated that approximately only 11.5 TMC water would be available in Bisalpur dam before arrival of monsoon of 2022 and so the water if released for the purposes of agriculture, would result in huge scarcity of drinking water for almost a crore of the population. While issuing the notice, the court has appointed lawyer Prateek Kasliwal as amicus curiae in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-govt-on-bisalpur-water-for-agri-use/articleshow/79700096.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Smooth run to Bhama Askhed pipeline testing work for a month||PUNE: The testing of supply lines to fetch water from Bhama Askhed dam has not run into any major hurdles so far after it started last month. The pipeline has been commissioned till Lohegaon-Dhanori covering a distance of 16km from the treatment plant set up at Kuruli. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is expected to get 2.6 TMC water annually from the dam’s reservoir. The civic administration has initiated hydro testing based on technical parameters and has been checking the pipelines to spot any leakage. Last month, the water had reached the Kuruli treatment plant at a distance of 26km from the dam site. Testing is now under way in the remaining stretches of the pipeline that travel through rural areas and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s limits. Civic officials said barring a small leakage in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area, the line commissioning and hydro testing work had progressed as per expectations. The cleaning and clearing of water pipelines in the PCMC area is expected to get over in the next two weeks, after which water will flow further in the distribution system set up in the PMC’s eastern parts. The civic body has been working on laying the pipeline for several years. Some were laid three to four years ago, and it is vital to test them. A senior official said, “The work has been done in parts because of land acquisition issues. We are now checking all the stretches. Cleaning is crucial to maintain the water flow and ensure good quality supply. We are also checking the joints of pipes and functioning of the valves. Water will be distributed in the eastern parts through storage tanks,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/smooth-run-to-bhama-askhed-pipeline-testing-work-for-a-month/articleshow/79700087.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Ayurvedic product enters clinical trial, results in early 2021||PUNE: A Kolhapur-based ayurvedic research centre has claimed that a medicine it has developed to help people fight Covid is currently in the clinical trial stage. The Shri Vishwavati Ayurvedic Chikitsalaya and Research Centre said results from the trial are expected early next year. The trial has been designed to check if the medicine works to improve patients’ condition when used with other allopathic drugs. “The trial was started after approvals from the Clinical Trials Registry. A medical college of an Indian university will complete the task,” said Prasad Pandkar, chief consultant with the centre at a press conference on Saturday. The research centre has claimed that the medicine, ‘Madhav Rasayan’, was developed using eight herbs. Its developers said results were positive when used with allopathy drugs. “The medicine has been used across the state since March (at Covid care centres in the region), with positive results. But we could not carry out clinical trials earlier because the ICMR did not give us the approval,” said Shailesh Malekar, head of research and development at the Ayurvedic centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ayurvedic-product-enters-clinical-trial-results-in-early-2021/articleshow/79700088.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 13, 2020||Pune||Govt should control private service providers: Pune experts||PUNE: Experts on Saturday stressed on bringing service providers under the government control to shield senior citizens from crimes, a day after four men, including a domestic help service provider, were arrested for robbing an elderly couple in Kothrud. Retired IPS officer Rajendra Sonawane said, “The business of service providers is an unregistered sector. The labour commissioner should conduct a survey to identify the service providers and verify the credentials of their employees under the labour laws.” A number of service providers operate in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, offering services of caregivers, domestic helps and babysitters. Most agencies allegedly shrug the responsibility if their employees commit crime. Activist Assunta Pardhe said, “The state government should appoint a designated officer under the Senior Citizens’ Act for monitoring the services offered by the service providers to elderly people.” Deputy commissioner of police (Zone III) Pournima Gaikwad told TOI, “We are conducting an audit of service providers at six police stations in my zone to understand their recruitment process and business. If lacunae are found, we shall frame a standard operating procedure. It will be implemented across Pune after approval from our superiors.” Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve said, “There is no law for service providers. We shall check what practice they follow.” Additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale from the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate said, “We are collecting details of the domestic help service run by one of the suspects in the Kothrud case. Besides, we are collecting details of other service providers. We shall frame guidelines for them.” Nagesh Patil, a housekeeping and allied service provider, said, “We do due diligence before hiring staffers. We get their police verification done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-should-control-pvt-service-providers-experts/articleshow/79700090.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 13, 2020||Bareilly||Attack on journalist: Mediapersons warn of dharna, set Dec 14 deadline for arrest of accused||Pilibhit: A group of mediapersons working in Puranpur tehsil on Saturday handed over a memorandum containing their six-point demands to SDM Rajendra Prasad in connection with police’s "failure" in arresting five accused booked for attempting to kill a correspondent with a Hindi daily in Puranpur city on December 5. The mediapersons warned that if the accused were not arrested by December 14, they would stage a dharna at the gate of Puranpu kotwali. SDM Rajendra Prasad said he had directed SHO SK Singh to intensify his search for the absconding accused and produce a definite result, at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/attack-on-journalist-mediapersons-warn-of-dharna-set-dec-14-deadline-for-arrest-of-accused/articleshow/79698515.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Furore over spl postal ballots, dist admin yet to publish data||Thiruvananthapuram: The district administration, which went through a strenuous process to distribute the special postal ballots, is now facing heat over a barrage of allegations of irregularities from political parties. Five days after the local body polls in the district, the administration hasn’t published the exact figures on the number of special postal ballots distributed in the district either. District collector and district election officer Navjot Khosa did not respond to the request for a comment. State election commission officials said that apart from the identity of special voters, everything else, especially the figures pertaining to the special postal ballots, have to be transparent. The special cell constituted at the district collectorate has also received phone calls from political party representatives demanding clarity on the matter. It is learnt that around 9,000 special postal ballots were distributed in the district; however, no data have been made available regarding their local body-wise distribution. There has been no clarity either on the number of voters who sent the special ballot by post or on the number of special postal ballots sent to the voters’ addresses by post. There are no exact figures on the number of electors who did not receive the special postal ballots as well. While the district collector had earlier said that the information was being compiled, returning officers are learnt to have submitted split-up data on distribution of special postal ballots. The district administration had prepared a verified list out of the certified list received from designated health officers and whether all the special voters in verified list received special postal ballot also remains to be ascertained. In the meantime, political parties have piled on complaints of irregularities. District Congress committee president Neyyatinkara Sanal filed a complaint with the collector on Saturday citing that there had been malpractices in special postal ballot distribution to deliberately cause invalid votes. Sanal said declaration forms were not attached in many special postal ballots and this was intentionally done to make such votes invalid. BJP district president V V Rajesh also issued a statement the other day alleging that the collector and the returning officer have not yet given a detailed information on the special postal ballots. State election commission has already expressed displeasure with the district administration over mismanagement and lack of co-ordination at the distribution centre and later at the collection centre on the polling day. The administrative committee of city corporation, which includes the collector and corporation secretary, ought to have been responsible for proper crowd-control measures at the centres and SEC has noted that adequate number of counters were not set up at the collection centre, which caused trouble for polling officials. The SEC is also yet to receive a detailed report regarding distribution of special postal ballots from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/furore-over-spl-postal-ballots-dist-admin-yet-to-publish-data/articleshow/79699474.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Poll mood amiss, most places see voting pick up pace in final hour||PANAJI: Devoid of the usual long queues of voters eager to cast their franchise, the polling booths for the zilla panchayat polls on Saturday were lacking in the enthusiasm typical of elections. In most parts of the state, the voting was sporadic. The only crowds visible were those around the tables of polling agents, where even social distancing norms appeared to take a hit. Though the ZP polls did see senior citizens step out to vote, many voters aged 60 and above decided to give the polls a miss for the fear of contracting Covid-19 infection. Residents of Alto-Porvorim, senior citizens Krishnakumar Pathak and wife Sushila were relieved that they could walk into an empty polling booth on Saturday afternoon, avoiding contact with other voters. “There is surely the worry about infection. But we stepped out to cast our vote nevertheless. Fortunately, it went well,” said Pathak. A senior citizen from Santa Cruz, who decided to avoid voting due to comorbidities, said she did not understand the rush to conduct the polls when the arrival of a vaccine was on the horizon and elections could have been delayed till the vaccine arrived in three to four months’ time. “The ZP elects do not have any great powers anyway that the polls should have been held in such a hurry,” said the senior citizen. On this polling day, even the usual picnic spots like Siridao, where voters are known to enjoy their public holiday after casting their votes, bore a lonely look, owing to the pandemic. “ZP polls had to be conducted as they were already delayed by so many months. All precautions were taken at our polling booth like ensuring social distancing and making sure that masks are worn by all involved,” said Socorro resident Neeta Tari. In many areas, voters were seen having to be convinced by party workers to leave homes to exercise their franchise. This lead to voting percentages in many areas like in parts of Canacona going up in the last couple of hours of voting. In the three ZP constituencies of Keri, Honda and Nagargao in Sattari too, the voting was initially seen to be slow, but picked in the final hours of polling. “For the first time, there is low turnout of voters in Sattari. People didn’t move out of their houses in large numbers due to the Covid pandemic. Usually for every election, people from Saleli and Honda under Poriem assembly constituency come out in large number to exercise their franchise,” said BJP’s Vishwajit Krishnarao Rane, from Saleli, Sattari. (With inputs from Albert Fernandes & Afaq Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poll-mood-amiss-most-places-see-voting-pick-up-pace-in-final-hour/articleshow/79700777.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 13, 2020||Pune||Practice with flu jabs before corona shots’ arrival: Expert||PUNE: Public health experts have said the Centre should ideally test the country’s capacity to vaccinate adults before deploying an approved Covid-19 vaccine. Dr Gagandeep Kang — infectious diseases expert at Christian Medical College, Vellore, and prominent vaccine expert — said authorities could have pilots of a mass vaccination programme by giving health workers the flu shot, just to “see how the system works”. Dr Kang said, “We have never had an adult immunisation programme in the country. The government will depend on the existing immunisation network, which is yet to achieve 100% coverage. Countries such as Bhutan are offering influenza shots to healthcare workers before the actual rollout of the Covid vaccine.” She added that many nations have also deployed the influenza vaccine to prevent a double burden of the flu and Covid in their communities. Dr Kang said, “These pilots can help us determine how well systems are working. A test run has the added benefit of being an intervention for national policy. It would also help if we could pilot an impact assessment, which will give fresh data.” The expert added that pregnant women and new mothers — often left out of vaccine trials — will need to be monitored during mass vaccination. She said, “There is some emerging evidence that Covid may be associated with pre-term birth. If that or other poor outcomes of pregnancy are associated with infection, we need to be thinking about how early we can have vaccines for pregnant women. Usually inactivated and subunit vaccines are considered safe for pregnant women, but we do not know about how the new vaccine platforms will be tested in pregnant women.” She said this group is key during an adult immunization campaign because one does not usually ask women if they are pregnant or test for it. Even in the first phase of vaccination, most frontline health staff are women of reproductive age and some may be pregnant without knowing it. “What are our plans for these individuals?” Dr Kang said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/practice-with-flu-jabs-before-corona-shots-arrival-expert/articleshow/79700092.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: CP asks cops to adjust timing of traffic signals at major junctions||NASHIK: Commisionser of police Deepak Pandey visited prominent junctions across the city on Saturday to take stock of the traffic situation and instructed traffic officials to adjust the timing of the traffic signals. Pandey visited a number of traffic junctions in the Bhadrakali, Sarkarwada and Gangapur areas of the city. “The problem is that the timing at most of the traffic signals is not synced properly. A signal remains green for a long time even if there is no traffic on that particular road. At some places, the green signal turns red even when there are plenty of vehicles on the road,” Pandey told TOI. “On this backdrop, I have instructed the traffic officials to adjust the timing of the road signals at certain places. The timing of the traffic signals is the same at all the places from morning till late night when, actually, it should change as per the rush of vehicles,” said Pandey. Officials of the traffic branch would be speaking with officials from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to come up with a way to rationalize the timing of the signals. The commissioner also said control of the traffic signals should rest with the police and not with the officials of the civic administration as was the case in Nashik city. The police would be speaking to the concerned officials and come up with a way so that the traffic police themselves are in a position to adjust the timings and sync the traffic signals. Meanwhile, Pandey also visited various junctions in the jurisdiction of Sarkarwada, Bhadrakali and Gangapur police stations and asked officials to ensure zebra crossings at all the junctions for the convenience of pedestrians. He also held meeting with officials of the traffic branch and took note of the problems faced by them with regard to their work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-asks-cops-to-adjust-timing-of-traffic-signals-at-major-junctions/articleshow/79700076.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 13, 2020||Chandigarh||1,008 new Covid-19 cases surface in Haryana, 11 die||CHANDIGARH: Haryana reported yet another low of 1,008 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths. Overall tally of the state reached 2,51,402 cases and 2,711 deaths on Saturday. At 1,365, recoveries exceeded new cases, taking the overall count of recoveries to 2,38,376. Recovery rate has risen to 94.82%. Now, there are 10,318 active cases in the state. These include 292 critical patients, of whom 258 are on oxygen support. With 27,788 samples collected, Haryana’s testing rate has gone up to 1,56,209 tests per million per day. Haryana’s positivity rate has come down to 6.38%, while the death rate has reached 1.08%. Three deaths have been reported from Hisar, two each from Faridabad and Sonipat and one each from Gurugram, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Faridabad. Maximum of 276 new cases were reported from Gurgaon, where the overall tally reached 54,344 cases, 329 deaths and 2,205 active cases. Faridabad reported 182 new cases, which took the total to 43,734 cases, 385 deaths and 1,252 active cases. A total of 76 cases were reported from Ambala district followed by 64 from Sonipat, 58 from Rohtak, 51 from Kurukshetra, 39 from Karnal, 38 from Hisar, 32 from Palwal and 30 from Jind district. Less than 30 cases were reported from 12 districts, with the lowest count of one being reported from Nuh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1008-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-haryana-11-die/articleshow/79700100.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man robbed by woman he met on dating application||PUNE: A 28-year-old Ravet resident was drugged and robbed by a woman whom he invited to his house for dinner, after meeting her through an online dating platform. The incident occurred on Thursday evening. The man approached the Dehu Road police and, as per his complaint, the suspect fled with two gold rings, a gold chain and a high-end smartphone, together worth Rs1.5 lakh. The police have registered a case under IPC sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) and 380 (theft). Police said the complainant, who works for a private company, downloaded a dating application on his cellphone a few months ago. His profile matched with the suspect’s a few days ago and the two of them started chatting. They decided to have a date at his house on Thursday, police said. “The woman arrived at his home around 5.30pm. Both of them sat down and chatted for a while. Sometime later, the man fetched water for both of them,” police said. When the man went to the washroom, the woman mixed a sedative in his glass of water. The man drank the water and lost consciousness, police said. The woman walked out of the flat with the valuables. “Samples of the water from the glass have sent for chemical analysis,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-robbed-by-woman-he-met-on-dating-application/articleshow/79700108.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||25-year-old youth hangs self over debt in Harmada||JAIPUR: A 25-year-old youth hanged himself from a tree at Harmada on Saturday. The apparent reason seems that the victim, identified as jeweller Ramswaroop Prajapat, was under a lot of debt which he was unable to repay. “On Saturday morning, Prajapat parked his bike off the road after which he hung himself from the tree. He had come with a rope. We also found a suicide note on him”, said an official of Harmada police station. According to the note, the victim was extremely troubled as he was under a lot of financial stress due to which he was taking his own life. “The victim was under debt and despite multiple attempts, he was unable to clear it,” police said quoting his note. While officials said no person had been named in the note, sources told TOI that the victim had named certain people in the letter to who he owned money and who were exterting pressure on him to pay it off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/25-year-old-youth-hangs-self-over-debtin-harmada/articleshow/79700102.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Water-treatment plant work gathers pace||Thiruvananthapuram: The works to connect the pipelines of the new 75MLD water-treatment plant with the existing 74MLD plant is fast progressing at Aruvikkara. The regions that come under Thirumala and Karamana stations of KWA will face water-supply disruption on Sunday too owing to the works. Vattiyoorkavu MLA V K Prasanth will visit Aruvikkara on Sunday to review the progress of the works. The new 75MLD water-treatment plant, once it gets operational, will be the fourth water-treatment plant in the district. The other existing plants are of the capacity 74MLD, 84MLD and 72MLD. The new 75MLD water-treatment plant has been constructed using central government fund from Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Under this scheme, the central government would bear 50% of cost of the project and the state government and city corporation would bear the remaining cost. It was built as part of Neyyar water project, which aims to generate 120 million litres of water per day. Of this, 100MLD will reach the city while the remaining will be distributed to four panchayats in the area. As per the project, Maranalloor, Malayinkeezhu, Vilappi and Vilavoorkal panchayats will get 5MLD water each. Besides this project, the KWA had also launched other maintenance works, owing to which parts of the city had been facing partial disruption of water supply. KWA has finished the annual cleaning of overhead tanks in the city, as a result of which the city faced water supply disruption from Thursday to Friday. On Saturday, the works at the new water-treatment plant at Aruvikkara commenced. Meanwhile on Saturday, the KWA staff rectified a leak on the drinking water pipe at Marappalam that had caused water supply disruption to neighbourhoods in and around Pattom. The regions were facing water scarcity for the past one week owing to the leak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/water-treatment-plant-work-gathers-pace/articleshow/79699482.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Requests for borewells see two-fold jump after rains||Hyderabad: Requisitions on feasibility of locating groundwater are flooding Hyderabad ground water department (GWD) and hydrogeologists are busy clearing them. Officials say they are receiving 500 to 700 requisitions a month and, based on the feasibility reports, the department is giving permissions accordingly. “The number of requisitions has increased two-fold compared to the past few months,” officials admitted. Reason: Excess rainfall and flooding led to a significant rise, between three to five metres, in groundwater table. As a result, property owners have been making a beeline to the ground water department department, seeking permissions to sink borewells as groundwater recharged significantly. “After a decade, the groundwater table in all 16 mandals in Hyderabad district has seen a massive improvement and the recharged groundwater can serve the city population up to 2021 monsoon,” says ground water department officials. Though the city has enough groundwater, people fear they might face acute shortage of water in the ensuing summer. “Private borewell operators are minting money by sinking illegal borewells,” admitted ground water department officials and city people. “The ground water department department will never give permissions to sink borewells. We are recommending feasibility of a groundwater table from revenue authorities. We do not have authority either to seize the drilling machines or penalise the private borewell operators,” joint director, ground water department, K Laxma told TOI. The joint director also agreed that groundwater was being extracted illegally by private drilling operators. “The ground water department does not have data on the number of private borewell operators involved in the digging activity in the state,” said Laxma. He also clarified that ground water department was operating own borewells across the state. Regarding the modus operandi of the private borewell operators, though they hit water at 300-feet below ground level, but operators continue their drilling up to 700-feet, to mint money. For instance, approximately, Rs 1 lakh-Rs 1.5 lakh is required to sink a borewell, but operators were collecting Rs 2-3 lakh. “The state government has to frame a policy to prevent illegal drilling and ensure a fixed rates,which common people can afford,” Residential Welfare Associations (RWAs) opined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/requests-for-borewells-see-two-fold-jump-after-rains/articleshow/79700107.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Police arrest transporter for extortion bid||PUNE: The anti-extortion cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch arrested a transporter for trying to extort a man to the tune of Rs9,000 after withholding his household goods. Police suspect the transporter — Virendrakumar Ramkishan Puniya (25) — is part of an interstate extortion racket. “We arrested Puniya on Thursday evening,” Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said. Police said the complainant, Ashish Shivajirao Gawade (43), was recently transferred from Pune to Mangalore in Karnataka and wanted to shift his belongings. He contacted Puniya’s and agreed to pay him Rs11,000. Gawade paid Rs8,000 in advance, police said. Prakash said Puniya instead took the loaded truck to Nigdi and demanded that Gawade pay him Rs9,000 more to move the goods. Gawade approached the police on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-arrest-transporter-for-extortion-bid/articleshow/79700101.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fire breaks out at fast food outlet||PUNE: A fire broke out at a fast food outlet in Kalyaninagar on Saturday morning but no one was injured in the incident. Station duty fire officer Vijay Bhilare said the fire broke out in the outlet’s kitchen, damaging electronic goods and other equipment at the store. “The outlet is located at a commercial complex at the Kalyaninagar junction. Thankfully, there were no customers in the shop when the fire broke out,” he said. The employees were working in the kitchen when accidentally someone spilt oil near a burning stove and the flames caught it immediately, leading to the fire, Bhilare added. The employees of the outlet used fire extinguishers to quell the source of the fire but by that time, it had spread to the other section of the outlet, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-breaks-out-at-fast-food-outlet/articleshow/79700098.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Shimla||On average, Himachal Pradesh saw 650 positive Covid cases, 12 deaths a day in December||SHIMLA: With average 650 positive cases of Covid-19 and 12 deaths a day reported in December so far in Himachal Pradesh, containing spread of the virus has become a challenge for the state government. By on November 30, the state had reported total 40,518 Covid-19 positive cases and 635 deaths that increased to 48,418 positive cases and 788 deaths till Saturday noon. Amid claims by the government that all possible steps were being taken to stop the spread of coronavirus, the opposition Congress is accusing it of failing to take required steps to stop the spread. While commenting on the existing Covid-19 situation in the state, the Himachal Pradesh high court in a judgment on December 3 had stated “A stitch in time saves nine” if at all the state government had kept this phrase in mind, it would not have been facing so many new cases of Covid-19 and consequential deaths arising there from. The court had said, however, it is not the government that is solely responsible for the rise in Covid-19 cases. “We may note with regret that the public at large has also exhibited behaviour, which is nothing short of being callous, negligent and irresponsible,” it added. Shimla district so far has reported 9,019 total confirmed cases of Covid-19 of which 1,477 positive cases are active, 7,294 positive patients have recovered, 213 have died while 31 patients have migrated out of state. The district has also reported highest number of active cases and deaths in the state. Mandi district has reported second highest number of corona positive cases in the state. So far, the district has reported 8,066 total positive cases of Covid-19 of which 1,339 cases are active, 6,627 patients have recovered while 100 have died. Kangra district has reported total 6,556 positive cases so far of which 1,307 positive cases are active, 5,092 patients have recovered while 156 have died. Secretary (health) Amitab Awasthi, in a statement, stated that all possible steps were being taken to stop spread of coronavirus in the state. He added that ‘Him Suraksha Abhiyan’ had been launched by CM Jai Ram Thakur that was being run throughout the state to sensitize people regarding Covid-19 pandemic and to collect information regarding symptoms of diseases like TB, leprosy, sugar and high blood pressure by door-to-door campaign. The HC in a recent order has observed that effective steps in matters of both infrastructure and manpower had only been taken now when there is a huge spike in the Covid-19 cases. It said evidently Shimla had become the corona capital of tate as it had witnessed an increase of 183.1% cases since October 31 to November 30 and in addition thereto, six other HP districts hadwitnessed multiple increase. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on December 7 has directed the officers to ensure effective implementation of the SOPs regarding limit of maximum 50 persons in social gatherings such as marriages for checking the spread of the virus. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said Himachal Pradesh was among the states from where maximum number of positive cases were being reported. He said the CM should devise ways and means to save the people of state from the virus. He added that corona outbreak in the state is result of administrative failure and failure of state government to take timely steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/on-average-hp-saw-650-ve-cases-12-deaths-a-day-in-dec/articleshow/79700095.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Police drop rifles, arm themselves with thermal guns||PANAJI: Faced with an invisible threat, Goa Police personnel deployed for the zilla panchayat elections were seen screening voters with thermal guns and sanitizing people’s palms at polling booths. While most police personnel sportingly assumed the role, some did have doubts about their task. According to the Election Commission of India, the state police is responsible for maintenance of law and order around the polling stations. The role of the police personnel, according to the ECI’s guidelines, is to prevent voter intimidation and undue influence by political parties and their candidates. On Saturday, many police personnel across the state were playing the role of health workers by checking people’s body temperature. To make matters worse, the police personnel were devoid of PPE kits and were at risk of Covid-19 exposure. While larger polling stations had a nurse deputed to the site, nursing staff was not deployed at smaller polling booths. “A shortcoming that we noticed is that polling staff were not given PPE,” said state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-drop-rifles-arm-themselves-with-thermal-guns/articleshow/79700782.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Only five of 2,000 at-risk people found infected in Pune Cantonment Board areas||PUNE: Only five out of a total of 2,000 likely super-spreaders tested positive for Covid-19 in a fortnightly drive conducted by the Pune Cantonment Board. Likely super-spreaders are those individuals who could infect a number of people because of their high contact frequency. Individuals including vegetable vendors, salespersons and others, who come in contact with a number of people every day, were early on placed on the list of potential super-spreaders. The board had roped in eight teams to carry out the surveillance drive within its limits As of now, the PCB has only 22 active Covid-19 patients. It has recorded a total of 1,762 cases since the outbreak of the virus. Of them, 1,683 recovered and 57 succumbed to the contagion. VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer of PCB, said, “During the drive, an employee of a store tested positive. So, we tested all the 60 employees of the store and they were negative. Such steps are required to contain spread.” Amit Kumar, CEO of the PCB, said the findings gave a clear indication the virus spread had been contained to a large extent in the board limits. “These likely spreaders come in contact with a large population daily. Considering this, district administration told us to test them,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-five-of-2k-at-risk-people-found-infected-in-pcb-areas/articleshow/79700103.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 13, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Proposal to suspend 40 driving licences sent to RTO||NASHIK: The city traffic branch, so far since January this year, has sent proposals to the Regional Transport Office (RT0), Nashik, for cancelling 40 driving licences of erring motorists compared to 150 licences sent last year. Generally, the city police confiscate licences of erring motorists who are caught jumping traffic signals, talking on cellphones while driving, drinking and driving, rash driving and indulging in clandestine operation like transporting people in vehicles not meant for passenger transport. Officials from the city traffic branch said a large number of vehicles were off the streets for close to three months on account of the lockdown that was imposed to curb the spead of Covid-19. In addition to this, schools, colleges and many private establishments have remained closed since the outbreak of the pandemic, thereby keeping a large number of vehicles off road. All these factors kept the traffic relatively low for a long time this year. As a result, police action against erring motorists has also reduced which in turn reflects in the number of proposals sent for cancelling driving licences this year. Meanwhile, over the past couple of months, on the instructions of commissioner of police Deepak Pandey, the traffic police are focussing more on streamlining vehicular traffic. While the police usually fine motorists if they find them violating basic traffic rules which could lead to accidents, they confiscate licences of those who refuse to pay the fine or unnecessarily argue over the fine amount slapped on them. Police said they recommend the Nashik RTO to cancel the licences of erring motorists for a minimum of three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/proposal-to-suspend-40-driving-licences-sent-to-rto/articleshow/79700099.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Fill forms for Std XII board exam from December 15||PUNE: Regular students of higher secondary certificate (HSC, Std XII) can fill up forms to appear for the 2021 board examination between December 15 and January 4. Students of vocational courses, repeat students, registered private students and students, who want to apply under the class-improvement-programme, must fill forms between January 5 and 18. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education a notification regarding this on Saturday. The process of form filling and payment of exam fee would be completed online.Regular students must fill their forms at the respective school using the Saral database while others can do so on the website www.mahahsscboard.in. Meanwhile, schools would have to download the fee challan and deposit the amount at the respective banks from December 15 to January 25.  After submitting online forms, school can generate a pre-list with necessary information about students via their official login ID. The school should also check the data against the official register.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fill-forms-for-std-xii-board-exam-from-december-15/articleshow/79700113.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Techie loses Rs 26 lakh to gift trick||PUNE: A 29-year-old IT professional, who was under the belief that she was getting a costly gift from her company’s boss in Australia, transferred nearly Rs26 lakh to fraudsters two weeks ago. As per a complaint lodged by the woman with the Hinjewadi police, the fraudsters used an old trick — they told her to first transfer money for various fees and charges, before claiming the “gift” was seized by customs officials. “The woman had applied for two separate personal loans recently. She transferred the entire amount to various bank accounts. The woman then borrowed Rs3 lakh from her father-in-law and some money from her relatives,” sub-inspector Nandkumar Gabhale said. “She also asked her relative in Mumbai for some money. He got suspicious and came to Pune on Friday, afer which a complaint was lodged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-loses-rs-26l-to-gift-trick/articleshow/79700110.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jaipur||Tiwari makes ‘ghar vapsi’ to BJP after 2 yrs||Jaipur: More than two years after he quit the BJP over differences with then state chief minister Vasundhara Raje, senior leader Ghyanshyam Tiwari returned to the party on Saturday. Soon after quitting BJP, Tiwari floated his party and later joined the Congress. His return to the saffron fold came days after he shot a letter to BJP state president and central leaders expressing his regret over leaving the party in 2018. Tiwari was an open critic of Raje’s policies and decisions in the latter’s second tenure. BJP state president Satish Poonia has hinted that more leaders who left the party due to several reasons are likely to return. “After a long time, I got the opportunity to speak from the party office. I thank Poonia and central leaders who acted on my letter and took me back,” said Tiwari, adding that he had never joined Congress formally and shared their platform once. “I had never held primary membership of the party. It was a mistake I made,” said Tiwari, the five-time MLA. On his equation with Raje, Tiwari said most of the issues had become irrelevant. “The Modi government has fulfilled promises including the construction of Ram Temple, abrogation of Article 370, Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and farmers’ reforms. I have lived the dream all my life to see these promises happening for real,” said the former higher education minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiwari-makes-ghar-vapsi-to-bjp-after-2-yrs/articleshow/79700111.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Goa||Cong, NCP in verbal duel at Benaulim||Colva: Though zilla panchayat elections in the two coastal constituencies of Salcete taluka, Benaulim and Colva, were largely peaceful, they were not without skirmishes. Congress candidates from both constituencies Royla Fernandes and Suzie Fernandes complained to the police that Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao’s family members were influencing voters near the polling stations at Varca, Benaulim and Colva. The Congress candidates also got into an altercation with Alemao’s son Savio and nephew Warren Alemao. The contest in these two constituencies was basically between Congress and NCP candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-ncp-in-verbal-duel-at-benaulim/articleshow/79700785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: 31 Covid patients turn up in PPE suits to cast vote||PANAJI: Voters who tested positive for Covid-19 chose to skip the zilla panchayat elections held on Saturday, with just a few of them showing up at polling stations to cast their vote. Among the handful who chose to brave the heat and fatigue to exercise their franchise was a family of six at Corjuvem. Former Aldona sarpanch Facru Panjikar (72) and his wife Janki (61) donned the PPE kit to cast their vote. “Our father and mother told us to vote no matter that the trouble that we have to undergo. When people voted and elected me in the past, it is now my duty to go out and vote,” said Panjikar who was the Aldona sarpanch in 1997. Nine members of the Panjikar family in Corjuvem tested positive on December 4, with six of them eligible to vote for the ZP elections. The BLO in Corjuvem delivered the PPE kit to them on Friday with instructions on how to wear the PPE and vote. “I am grateful to the election commissioner for allowing us to exercise our vote. We were happy to vote. Every election is important, whether ZP or assembly election,” said Amarnath Panjikar, the general secretary of the state Congress unit. According to the state election commission, 31 Covid-19 positive patients cast their vote, with 15 patients from North Goa and 16 from South Goa dropping ballot papers while wearing PPEs. While the Covid-19 patients were provided with PPE, the polling staff and Goa Police personnel were not provided with any additional protection beyond a mask and hand sanitiser. Covid-19 positive patients who were eligible to vote were present in several constituencies, but most chose to stay at home. “We called them and told them that they can come to vote between 4pm and 5pm, but most did not show any interest,” said a BLO at one of the polling stations in the Corlim constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/31-covid-patients-turn-up-in-ppe-suits-to-cast-vote/articleshow/79700783.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: RT-PCR test cost likely to minimum of Rs 700||PUNE: The price of RT-PCR tests in the state may see a price drop soon. State health minister Rajesh Tope said he would reduce the price of the test from Rs 980 to Rs 700 within the next two days. The minister's comment came just days after the Centre asked all states to increase the number of RT-PCR tests. Tope said a note on the matter will be issued ahead of the assembly session set to start on Monday. RT-PCT tests in the state today cost anywhere between Rs 980 and Rs 1,800 in the state. A fresh revision could put it between range of Rs 700 and Rs 1,000. "We should reduce the cost of the test as the price of the kits has reduced. We need to encourage more people to take the RT-PCR tests for Covid-19," the minister said. The Centre has asked states to keep the number of tests via rapid testing kits low. Maharashtra currently maintains a 60:40 ratio - with most tests via RT-PCR. According to guidelines issued by the Centre, RATs - or rapid antigen tests - should only be used to test early symptomatic individuals who are expected to have high viral loads. In other words, RATs can catch Covid when the person is most infectious. The guidelines said that their use in patients five to seven days after symptom onset is not recommended. The advisory added that tests via RATs should never overtake testing via the more reliable RT-PCT method. The state's current tests per million number stands at 60,000, compared to the country's average of 70,000. Public health experts have called for more testing during the winter and the festival season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-test-cost-likely-to-minimum-of-rs-700/articleshow/79700109.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 13, 2020||Goa||Usually vocal, mining belt goes silent this time||PALE/SANVORDEM: Even as promises fly over the restart of mining, Goa’s eastern belt, where the industry once ruled the roost, was unusually silent on the day of the zilla panchayat polls. While CM Pramod Sawant is hopeful that voters will continue to support BJP, the opposition is looking to gain lost ground. Over the past many years, the state’s mining belt has rallied behind the saffron party, but this time around, most people aren’t forthcoming with their views. A voter in Pale said that he is looking forward to the resumption of mining as soon as possible, but when asked whether this would play a role in his vote, he didn’t respond. In the recent assembly election, voters were vocal about their support for BJP. Last month, Sawant held a meeting in Delhi with mines minister Pralhad Joshi and mining firms, and announced that mining in the state would resume in six months. Mining-hit zilla panchayat constituencies of South Goa — Sanvordem, Xeldem, Rivona, Darbandora and Usgao-Ganje — witnessed a relatively robust turnout. While Rivona polled 73.5% votes, 67% votes were polled in Sanvordem, with Dharbandora, Xeldem and Usgao-Ganje polling 64% of votes. As it stands, most ZP seats are with BJP. “It would be difficult for voters to go against BJP in the mining belt because they don’t have an option other than keeping their faith in the present dispensation to restart mining, but the silent ones may go either way,” a political observer said. Another voter said that it has been a long time that he and his fellow-voters are unemployed. “I run a tea stall, but there are not many customers. I do this as I lost my job after mining shut down,” he said. A Mayem voter said that they’ve been hearing assurances for a long time, but without outcome. He, too, refused to comment on whether the mining imbroglio would influence his vote. While Congress whipped up passions against the BJP over the government’s failure to restart mining in the state, chief minister Pramod Sawant tried to assuage people’s feelings with repeated assurances that a solution for the mining imbroglio was being worked out. However, with the resumption of transportation of e-auctioned iron ore in these constituencies, mining-dependent people have found some hope about regaining their livelihoods. While Congress is hopeful that the large turnout in these constituencies could be a reflection of people’s angst against the government for failure to restart mining and thereby work in its favour, BJP is confident of comfortably winning these seats. Mining came to a halt in Goa in March 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/usually-vocal-mining-belt-goes-silent-this-time/articleshow/79700787.cms||Murari Shetye
December 13, 2020||Hyderabad||No data for illegal drilling in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: While the city has seen a major rise in the groundwater table, the water levels have also been depleting gradually. The Water, Land and Trees Act (WALTA), whose aim is water conservation, remains on paper only due to officials’ apathy. Even as illegal drilling of borewells remains rampant across the city, surprisingly, the officials are not booking offenders under WALTA. In some areas, private operators are directly involved in drilling operations, ignoring WALTA norms. “Our revenue wing is cracking down on illegal drilling in my jurisdiction. Action like sealing the drilling machine and imposing penalty will be initiated against private operators, if such illegal activity is noticed,” Venu Gopal, the Amberpet mandal revenue officer said. Bala Shankar, Secunderabad mandal revenue officer, said, “WALTA says that a Rs 5,000 penalty has to be imposed against illegal borewell operators, but I have not noticed any such incident.” A borewell machine owner, Mahender Reddy, said, “We abide by MRO’s permission as per WALTA. If property owner did not take permit and told us to drill borewells, they have to bear the responsibility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-data-for-illegal-drilling-in-city/articleshow/79700112.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 13, 2020||India||UP introduces Rs 1cr fine to curb flight of doctors||LUCKNOW: In a bid to check the depleting number of specialists in the Provincial Medical and Health Services (PMHS), the UP government has made it mandatory for government doctors seeking the NOC to pursue postgraduate courses to serve in the cadre for at least 10 years, reports Shailvee Sharda. Those who don’t do so will have to pay back Rs 1 crore as penalty to the government. “As per the rule, the in-service doctors who undertake PG courses will have to give in writing that they would return to the primary cadre upon completion of their programme and serve for a minimum period of 10 years. In case they fail, they will have to pay a fine of Rs 1 crore to the state exchequer,” said additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad. Rules in this regard had been framed through an order issued by the Yogi Adityanath government in April 2017. Prasad issued a fresh order on Thursday to enforce this order strictly. The same order also stated that in-service doctors who leave the PG course midway will be debarred from taking PG exams for three years. Out of 8,000 sanctioned posts of specialist doctors in the cadre, 60% seats are lying vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-introduces-rs-1cr-fine-to-curb-flight-of-doctors/articleshow/79701824.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||DVC agrees to defer power regulation in seven dists: JBVNL||RANCHI: The Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) has agreed to defer its power regulation to seven districts of Jharkhand after fruitful discussions with the state-owned power distribution company Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL). Earlier, DVC threatened to reduce power to Bokaro, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma, Ramgarh, Chatra and Hazaribag districts by as much as four hours every day beginning December 13 unless its power bills averaging Rs 150 crore per month are paid in full. JBVNL has been defaulting payment to the power major, which supplies around 650 MW to the seven districts, since September. Talking to TOI, JBVNL executive director K K Verma said, “Both JBVNL and DVC are in constant touch. We have given all related information, including the financial constraints we faced, to the power major after which it has agreed to consider our request and not to impose any penal action.” JBVNL officials revealed that their bill collection from the consumers took a hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Against a normal collection of Rs 250 crore per month, the discom could recover only about Rs 90 crore per month. The collection process is likely to be back on track by early next year, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dvc-agrees-to-defer-power-regulation-in-7-dists-jbvnl/articleshow/79700800.cms||Tapas Biswas
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||Rape accused cite unhygienic barrack in bail plea||Vadodara: Two accused of 2019 November Navlakhi gang rape case – Kishan Mathasuriya and Jasho Solanki – have sought bail from the court citing unhygienic living conditions inside the jail despite the looming pandemic. The duo submitted a fresh plea on Friday through their lawyer, while in October, Mathasuriya, who had filed for bail through jail officials later withdrew his application. In their plea, the two rape-accused said that they are kept confined inside the small barrack all the time and are even forced to have food inside it amid the unhygienic conditions. They alleged that the jail authorities are not keeping their barrack clean nor sanitizing it. Mathasuriya, who had recently fallen ill and was taken to SSG Hospital, stated in his application that he was sent back to jail without proper treatment. Despite having fever intermittently, he was not allowed to undergo Covid-19 test. The application also argued that the chargesheet has been filed and key witnesses have been examined. Since the trial has been halted due to Covid-19 situation, the duo and their families have landed in a difficult situation. Mathasuriya has stated that his six children have been forced to beg while Solanki has argued that his elderly parents do not have any income source. “The pleas were submitted on Friday and the court is likely to take it up for hearing next week,” said their lawyer Alpesh Chauhan. Mathasuriya and Solanki were arrested in December last year and since December 21 have been in judicial custody. On November 28, the two accused robbed the 14-year-old rape survivor and her friend at Navlakhi ground. Later they dragged the girl towards the mango orchards through the bushes where they took turns to rape her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rape-accused-cite-unhygienic-barrack-in-bail-plea/articleshow/79699351.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||Seraikela-Kharsawan earns smoking-free tag, bid on to make dist tobacco-free||JAMSHEDPUR: Seraikela-Kharaswan has become the fourth district in Jharkhand to be declared a smoking-free district on Friday. On Saturday, the district administration announced measures to earn the tobacco-free tag at the earliest. Deputy commissioner Alam Ansari said three-tier anti-tobacco squads (ATS) have been constituted at three different levels for effective implementation of the tobacco control measures. He also directed the officials concerned to remove all tobacco selling shops from 100 yards of educational institutes and take penal action against the law violators. “Efforts to make the district smoking-free started in 2018 and we achieved the target in 2020,” Ansari said. Deputy development commissioner (DDC) Praveen Gagrai said to achieve the target in rural areas, awareness campaigns on the ill-effects of tobacco consumption will be organized at panchayat levels. Earlier, Ranchi, Bokaro and Khunti were declared smoke-free based on the survey conducted by the government on compliance of Section 4 of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COPTA) 2003. According to the survey, Seraikela-Kharsawan scored an overall 90.9 % on the five compliance parameters, making it eligible for the smoking-free tag. The district scored 80.4% compliance on signage, 94% on smoking not found, 92.9% on anti-smoking aids, 92% on no smell of recent smoking and 94% on cigarettes butts/bidi ends not found. The nodal officer for district tobacco control, Veena Singh, said all nine blocks of the district were covered by the survey team during its study of the parameters. District surveillance officer Jhujhar Majhi said compliance teams will be extra vigilant at Nimdih and Rajnagar blocks, bordering Bengal and Odisha, to prevent the entry of tobacco products from the neighbouring state. Seraikela sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said police and civil administration officials will work in coordination to crack down on the violators to ensure the measures aimed at making the district tobacco-free effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/seraikela-kharsawan-earns-smoking-free-tag-bid-on-to-make-dist-tobacco-free/articleshow/79700791.cms||B Sridhar
December 13, 2020||Business||V-shaped recovery continues, IIP and core sectors at pre-Covid levels: CEA||NEW DELHI: The V-shaped recovery of economic activity continued in October as the index of industrial production (IIP) and eight core sectors inched up to pre-Covid levels, chief economic adviser K V Subramanian said on Saturday. The CEA’s comments came a day after official data showed the country’s industrial output growth rose for the second successive month to an eight-month high in October bolstered by some festive demand and led by a turnaround in manufacturing, electricity and consumer durable sectors. “Growth in IIP and eight core industries is on the back of broad-based growth in all the sectors. The consumer and investment goods were the main drivers of IIP growth in Oct-2020,” Subramanian said in a series of tweets. He said there was across the board recovery as 243 out of 407 items in IIP basket grew in October this year. In contrast, 217 items grew on average in pre-Covid period (Apr 2012 to Feb 2020). The similar numbers for September-20 and April-20 were 196 and 28, respectively. “From 107 items in the IIP recording a growth more than 10% in January 2020 to 170 items that recorded a growth of more than 10% in October 2020 foretells a strong and robust recovery,” Subramanian said while analysing the IIP data for October which was released by the National Statistical Office on Friday. He said that of the 407 items in the IIP basket, 276 recorded better growth in October 2020 as compared to the growth in September. Several economic indicators have shown a sharp recovery after the easing of the strictest lockdown. The September quarter GDP contraction narrowed to 7.5% from a record 23.9% decline in the June quarter. Several economists, investment banks now estimate the economy to post a narrower contraction compared to their previous estimates. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expects the economy to contract 7.5%, shallower than the previously estimated 9.5% contraction and has forecast growth to return to positive territory in the third and fourth quarters of the current fiscal year that ends in March. Some economists have urged caution over Friday’s IIP numbers saying they would wait for a few more data points to signal a broadbased tur naround.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/v-shaped-recovery-continues-iip-and-core-sectors-at-pre-covid-levels-cea/articleshow/79701828.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Retaliating rise in LoC truce breaches: Army vice-chief||DEHRADUN: Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of the Passing Out Parade (POP) at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday, vice chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen SK Saini, who was the reviewing officer of the parade, said that “both diplomatic and military-level talks are going on with China to maintain the previous status quo”. Commenting on ceasefire violations by Pakistan on the Line of Control (LOC), the vice-chief said, “The ceasefire violations across the LOC have increased this year, if you compare the figures with last year or the year before that. We have also seen that there has been calibre escalation in terms of artillery being used from across the LOC to target innocent civilians. These acts are abhorrent. Although casualties have taken place on our side, we have been retaliating in a calibrated manner and are prepared for all contingencies which arise in the LOC.” Elaborating on the talks with China, he said, “We are in touch with our Chinese counterparts, both at the diplomatic as well as at the military level and we hope that a solution is found through this dialogue and status quo as of April this year is restored. While we seek a resolution through dialogues, we are also committed to ensure the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country, irrespective of the cost involved.” When queried why the dialogues between India and China — which are going on since the past six months — have not achieved a breakthrough so far, Lt Gen Saini said, “These are complex talks and likely to take time. I do understand that these talks are protracted but we are maintaining our commitment in this dialogue and hope that an early resolution is achieved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/retaliating-rise-in-loc-truce-breaches-army-vice-chief/articleshow/79701833.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Business||Atmanirbhar: Finance ministry OKs Rs 9,800cr for 27 states||NEW DELHI: The finance ministry on Saturday said it had approved Rs 9,879 crore for capital expenditure for 27 states under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package. All states except Tamil Nadu have availed benefits of the newly announced scheme for “special assistance to states for capital expenditure”. The scheme is aimed at boosting capital expenditure by state governments who are facing a difficult financial environment this year due to the shortfall in tax revenue. Capital expenditure has a higher multiplier effect, enhancing the future productive capacity of the economy, and results in a higher rate of economic growth. “Despite the adverse financial position of the Centre, it was decided to extend a special assistance to the state governments in respect of capital expenditure, in financial year 2020-21,” said a finance ministry statement. The scheme has received a good response from the state governments. An amount of Rs 4,939.8 crore has already been released to states as the first instalment under the scheme. The capital expenditure projects have been approved in diverse sectors of economy such as health, rural development, water supply, irrigation, transport, education and urban development. The scheme has three parts. Part I of the scheme covers the northeastern region. Under this, Rs 200 crore is allocated to seven northeastern states . In view of higher population and geographical area, Assam has been allocated Rs 450 crore under the scheme, the statement said. Part II of the scheme is for all other states not included in Part I. An amount of Rs 7,500 crore is earmarked for this. This amount has been allocated amongst these states in proportion to their share of central tax as per the interim award of the 15th Finance Commission for 2020-21. The third part of the scheme is aimed at pushing various citizen-centric reforms in the states. Under this plan, an amount of Rs 2,000 crore has been set aside. This amount will be available only to those states who carry out at least three out of the four reforms specified by finance ministry regarding reform linked additional borrowing permissions. The reforms are — one nation one ration card, ease of doing business reform, urban local body/ utility reform and power sector reform, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/atmanirbhar-finance-ministry-oks-rs-9800cr-for-27-states/articleshow/79701838.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: MVA will fight civic polls as alliance, says Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Saturday said the parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) would contest all the local self-government body elections together to defeat the BJP. On a day’s tour to Nashik to conduct an organisational review of the Shiv Sena, Raut said the MVA had understood the mood of the people, who were vexed with the BJP and its policies. He said the recently held legislative council election had demonstrated it. “We have, therefore, decided to be together in all the local self-governing body elections to stop the BJP,” he said. He took a dig at the ‘Mission Mumbai’ of the BJP, saying the campaign was not going to help the party as all the constituents of the MVA were bound by a common thought. “We have come together for the development of the state,” Raut said. He said each constituent would be accommodated in the seat-sharing formula of the MVA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mva-will-fight-civic-polls-as-alliance-says-sanjay-raut/articleshow/79701835.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 13, 2020||India||‘Pawar can be agent of Opposition unity even without UPA top post’||NEW DELHI: The talk about NCP chief Sharad Pawar becoming the UPA chairperson may have been denied but there is a strong feeling in the opposition camp that the Maratha strongman should be given a role to bring the opposition together. Well-placed sources said that some sections of Congress as well as opposition parties believe that Pawar is the man who can throw the net wide and bring about greater opposition unity in the present times. An informal discussion among opposition parties is learnt to be going on about how the anti-BJP camp can become more coherent and structured entity. The larger view is that it should be able to have the reach to the parties that are opposed to BJP but are not very friendly with Congress. This has been a major hurdle in erecting the sort of opposition alliance which can pose a serious challenge to the ruling BJP. A Congress functionary said there was little chance of Pawar becoming the UPA chairperson, arguing that the position is bound to remain with the largest party in the anti-BJP axis. Also, Congress would not want to leave the position because it is the only reliable anti-communal force in any given situation. However, there can be another position to accommodate Pawar where he can appeal to regional parties. “There can be a position like convenor of UPA. Such a position was occupied by George Fernandes in NDA. It can give Pawar the perch to talk to parties like TMC, TRS, even Akali Dal, “ said a Congress functionary. The view, a member claimed, among the opposition parties is that the formation of government in Maharashtra by bringing about an alliance between NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena has changed the equation and given an alternative view to strengthening the opposition unity. Pawar’s role in forging the Maharashtra alliance has been crucial. Pawar, besides Rahul Gandhi, CPM chief Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D Raja and DMK MP TKS Elangovan, met the President this week to demand that government repeal the controversial farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pawar-can-be-agent-of-opposition-unity-even-without-upa-top-post/articleshow/79701848.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Palghar: Woman, daughter strangled, bodies found; hubby suspect||MUMBAI: A 50-year-old woman and her 30-year-old daughter were found strangled to death at their home in Tarapur, Palghar district, on Friday. The bodies were badly decomposed. A man in his 50s, captured on closed-circuit television of the residential building, is the prime suspect. Neighbours identified him as the second husband of the victim, Laxmi Pawar. Police have launched a search for the suspect whose cellphone is not reachable. He was seen leaving the flat at Chaya Niwas in Pasthal village, Tarapur, on December 6. Neighbours told police he had latched the door before leaving. He never returned nor did neighbours see the mother and daughter. The murders came to light around 8.30pm on Friday, when Tarapur police received a call from building residents complaining of foul smell from the flat. Police found the flat latched from outside. Doorbells went unanswered and police had to break into the flat. Laxmi and her daughter Sonali were lying on a wooden bed in the bedroom and the fan was switched on. The lights were off and all windows were shut. Police said that the victims had strangulation marks on their necks. The bodies were highly decomposed. Police said the killer had left the fan in the bedroom on to delay decomposition of the bodies. Neighbours told police that the victims did not interact much with them. Laxmi had reportedly left her first husband and remarried the prime suspect. Police said that the killer did not take away the victims’ cellphones. Laxmi’s call data record showed she had made several calls to her husband, the prime suspect. A case of murder under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) has been registered against an unknown person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-woman-daughter-strangled-bodies-found-hubby-suspect/articleshow/79701850.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||Inspection of Dabhoi-Chandod section tomorrow||Vadodara: Commissioner railway safety, western circle will inspect the newly converted broad gauge line section from Dabhoi to Chandod station on Monday. The speed trial of train at 130 km per hour on this 18.66 km long section will also be done on the same day from 4 pm to 7 pm. The gauge conversion project is part of the plan to provide rail connectivity from Vadodara to Statue of Unity (SoU) up to Kevadiya. The centre had announced the gauge conversion of the rail line in 2017. This rail line is being extended up to Kevadiya. The foundation stone for Kevadiya railway station was laid in December 2018 by President Ram Nath Kovind. The upcoming railway station in Kevadiya is located at a distance of around 5 km from SoU. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/inspection-of-dabhoi-chandod-section-tomorrow/articleshow/79699379.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Rajkot||Rain spoils Amreli fishermen’s livelihood, seek relief package||Rajkot: Unseasonal rainfall has adversely impacted fishermen’s catch in Jafrabad taluka of Amreli district. The 2-day incessant rain poured losses in crores in Jafrabad after the region received the highest rainfall on Friday at 50 mm. Fishermen living along the Amreli coast have now demanded special relief package from the state government to compensate their loss of catch. Most parts of the Saurashtra region, especially the coastal parts, witnessed heavy downpour on Friday and Saturday. According to fishermen, they put their catch for drying on the coast before sending these to other places or export to other countries. “Fishermen were not expecting rains at all and had put their fishes in the open grounds for drying. However, the weather suddenly changed and the rain left most of the fish unfit for sale, thus making the fishermen run their losses in crores as they have to dispose of the fish. We request the government to announce a relief package for the affected fishermen,” Kanaiyalal Solanki, president, Jafarabad Boat Association, told TOI. “The state government should conduct a survey and provide relief package for the loss suffered due to the natural calamity,” said Rajula MLA Amrish Der. “Estimates peg Jafrabad fishermen’s loss to the tune of Rs 4 crore,” said Vishwesh Solanki, a fisherman from Jafarabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rain-spoils-amreli-fishermens-livelihood-seek-relief-package/articleshow/79698283.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Surat||Surat e-lok adalat disposes 999 cases in one day||Surat: Surat District Legal Services Authority (SDLSA) disposed as many as 999 cases in a one-day e-lok adalat organized on Saturday. According to officials, of these, 48 cases of motor accident claim petition (MACP) were settled with a total award of Rs 2.41 crore. Additional District Judge A R Malik disposed a MACP claim of 2018 by way of compromise and ordered compensation of Rs 10.85 lakh. According to the case details, petitioner Rafik Khatik was going on his his bike near at Devgarh village in Mangrol taluka of Surat district on February, 20, 2018 when a car dashed into his motorcycle. In this accident, Rafik had sustained serious injuries and filed a claim of Rs 12 lakh from New India Assurance Co Ltd. Due to the compromise, the injured would now get compensation amount of Rs 10.85 lakh,” said an official statement from SDLSA. “Similarly, another criminal case filed in the court of 18th Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (Surat) M M Shukal by Vishal Thakkar against accused Nimaben Doshi for dishonour of cheques worth Rs 30 lakh was settled amicably by both parties in the e-lok adalat on Saturday,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-e-lok-adalat-disposes-999-cases-in-one-day/articleshow/79698615.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Tribunal cites ‘loss of income’ in housewife’s death, orders relief||MUMBAI: Ruling that compensation for “loss of future prospects” can also be granted in the case of a housewife’s death, a Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) last week ordered the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to pay around Rs 17 lakh to the husband and two minor children of a 33-year-old woman who was killed after a bus rammed into their bike at Mankhurd in 2014. “Loss of future prospects” is among the heads covered while awarding compensations in motor accident cases. The tribunal fixed the deceased housewife’s notional salary at Rs 5,000 per month. Further, a possible future increase in this notional monthly income was pegged at 40 percent, bringing the loss of future prospects to Rs 7,000 per month. The tribunal cited a recent Supreme Court judgment and said, “The housewife who contributes for the welfare of the family and upbringing for the children must be given future prospects in as much as with the passage of time, the utility of her services increases in the family.” It stated that a housewife’s services to the family are invaluable. “The housewife renders very important duty. She looks after her husband and children passionately round the clock and creates the comfort zone in the house. In the absence of her in a house for a single day realises her importance (sic) to the other family members,” the tribunal said. The tribunal refuted the defence that only when the housewife renders skilled services to the family does the question of future prospects come. It said that judgement does not make any distinction between a skilled and unskilled housewife. “In fact housewife is a housewife and with the passage of time her skill in tackling and handling household affairs increases,” the tribunal said, quoting the SC judgement. While the victim Archana Bhalerao’s husband Pravin Bhalerao and older son Praful Bhalerao will each receive 30 percent of the compensation amount, the younger son Rahul will receive the remaining 40 percent. The tribunal reasoned that while Praful was now a major, Rahul was still a minor. It however rejected Archana’s parents-in-law as claimants. The family submitted the claim in April 2014. They alleged that on the evening of February 9, 2014, Archana was riding pillion with her sons, while Pravin was riding the bike at moderate speed. They further alleged that the MSTRC bus came at high speed and tried to overtake the motorcycle but rammed into the bike and all four fell on to the road. Archana sustained severe injuries and died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-tribunal-cites-loss-of-income-in-housewifes-death-orders-relief/articleshow/79701875.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 13, 2020||India||CBI: Inquiry under way in ‘missing’ TN gold case||NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday said an internal inquiry is being conducted into the matter of 100kg of gold in its custody in Chennai going missing. “It is clarified that CBI in case number RC-24/2012 had searched the building of Surana Corporation limited, NSC Bose Road, Chennai, and prepared a search list. The search list mentioned that 400.47 kg gold had been inventorised and was kept in safe and vaults of Surana, sealed in presence of independent witnesses and the MD of Surana corporation and its officials,” the agency spokesperson said. According to CBI, the vaults were opened and inspected, according to the directions of the Madras high court, in the presence of official liquidator, officials belonging to six banks and independent witnesses from February 27 to 29 this year to hand over the gold to the lender banks of Surana Corporation. “The seals affixed on the vaults were found intact. However, gold weighed only 296.66 kg. The agency promptly ordered an internal inquiry by a senior officer to look into the role of its officials, if any,” the spokesperson added. The spokesperson said the inventorised gold was not kept in the agency’s ‘malkhana’ but on the premises of Surana under CBI’s seal. While the inquiry was on, a petition was filed in the Madras high court, which pronounced an order on December 11. “CBI’s internal inquiry continues and if any adverse role of any agency officials surfaces, strict action will be taken against them,” the agency said. Regarding the investigation of the case being assigned to state police, the agency said the high court had observed that CBI under the DSPE Act did not have authority to register a theft case which falls within the domain of local police. “The case will be registered by the CB-CID of state and investigation will be conducted by an officer of the rank of SP in CB-CID,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-inquiry-under-way-in-missing-tn-gold-case/articleshow/79701881.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Buses off roads for Day 2, no sign of Karnataka govt-staff talks||BENGALURU: Bus commuters were put to hardship for the second consecutive day on Saturday in Bengaluru and across the state with the transport department and employees of transport corporations unable to break the deadlock. Except for making appeals through media for withdrawal of strike, the government is yet to make any concrete effort to convince protesting employees to come for negotiations. With employees threatening to continue their strike, transport minister Laxman Savadi said the government plans to hire private vehicles and run them with government-fixed fare from Sunday. “The government has categorically told them to end their strike and come for discussions; we’ll examine their demands sympathetically. But they’re not ready for it,” Savadi said. Earlier, CM BS Yediyurappa too appealed to protesters to end the strike. However, employees maintained the government was only trying to buy time instead of addressing their demands. Protesters to lose salary, may face EsmaWhile the strike may continue on Sunday, the transport department hopes to resume services at least on Monday morning. Ananda, a protesting leader, said: “We’ve planned a hunger strike from 10am at Gandhi Statue near Maurya Circle on Sunday. We’ll continue the indefinite strike till our demands are met. We’re not scared of Essential Services Maintenance Act (Esma) since we know what happened in Tamil Nadu after the government invoked it in 2003.” KSRTC and BMTC operated skeletal services under police protection for some time. BMTC operated only 126 of 5,000 buses till 6pm. A few Vayu Vajra airport services were also run with security. KSRTC operated 168 buses of 5500 across the state till 5pm including Bengaluru division (11), Mysuru Rural (6), Kolar (2) Mandya (1) Shivamogga (5), Davanagere (3) and Mangaluru (139). “We operated skeletal non-AC services, including Bengaluru-Mysuru route, with police escort,” said an official. Some protesters targeted buses. KSRTC said 37 buses were damaged, including 32 on Friday and five on Saturday. BMTC officials said buses were 16 damaged over the past two days. Sources said the delay in talks is mainly because protesters are not from the recognised employees union, the KSRTC Staff and Workers’ Federation, which is affiliated to the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC). However, AITUC doesn’t support the strike. Sources said transport department honchos were not keen on speaking to protesting union representatives as they went on a strike without prior notice. Officials said protesters will lose their salary for the past two days and may face action under Esma. A BMTC official said disciplinary action will be taken against employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-off-roads-for-day-2-no-sign-of-govt-staff-talks/articleshow/79699981.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 13, 2020||India||India to discuss Chabahar port issue with Iran and Uzbekistan||NEW DELHI: Looking to enhance its engagement with energy-rich central Asia, India will participate in the first trilateral working group meeting with Iran and Uzbekistan for joint use of Chabahar Port on December 14. The meeting would be jointly chaired at deputy minister level by Uzbekistan and Iran and at secretary level by India. “India welcomes the interest of Uzbekistan to use the Chabahar port as a transit port. This would open up economic opportunities for the traders and business community of the region,” said the government in a statement. “Besides Uzbekistan, other central Asian countries have also shown interest in using the port. India seeks to cooperate closely with regional countries on this issue,” it added.The port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan in the wake of Pakistan denying transit access to New Delhi. Ways to speed up connectivity projects linking central Asia was a major focus of a virtual summit between PM Modi and Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-discuss-chabahar-port-issue-with-iran-and-uzbekistan/articleshow/79701891.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Violence at iPhone plant in Karnataka: 125 Wistron employees held for arson||KOLAR/BENGALURU: Violence broke out at Wistron Corp’s manufacturing plant, which makes iPhones, at the Narasapura industrial estate in Kolar district in the early hours of Saturday as workers ransacked the premises demanding payment of salaries on time along with overtime allowance. Two battery-powered buggies were set on fire, six vehicles were damaged and glass windows and doors of the facility were smashed by iron rod-wielding workers. While a few security guards and floor managers were manhandled by workers, there were no casualties. The violence, which comes at a time when the state is making all efforts to woo investors, has put the government in an embarrassing situation. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said: “We strongly condemn the violence at Wistron’s factory in Narasapura. Strict action will be taken under the law against errant elements.” Police said they have arrested 125 workers for indulging in vandalism and arson and are identifying more who resorted to violence. Kolar deputy commissioner C Sathyabhama said the unrest was triggered by the failure of labour contractors to pay workers on time as well as the amount promised. Trouble started around 5.45am when employees on the night shift were exiting the premises and those on the day shift were all set to enter. Made to work more for less pay: StafferThough Wistron India MD Sudipto Gupta refused to comment, sources said workers were angry that the firm was not paying the amount promised at the time of recruitment. “While an engineering graduate was promised Rs 21,000 per month, his salary had reduced to Rs 16,000 and, then to Rs 12,000. Diploma holders were promised Rs 11,000 and were getting around Rs 5,000. There was no consistency with regard to the date on which salaries were getting credited into bank accounts,” said an employee who spoke on condition of anonymity. “While those in managerial positions worked for 8 hours, workers were clocking 12 hours a day and not being paid OT,” the employee alleged. The unrest has been brewing for a few months. Employees complained about poor working conditions and food at the facility, sources said. On what triggered the violence, another employee said: “We got our salaries on Friday and everyone started discussing it. We felt we were made to work more for less pay. This led to resentment and when the shifts changed, a few workers lost their cool. There were reports of a verbal argument between an HR manager and a worker over wages and that triggered other contract staff to go on the rampage.” Other sources said Wistron and a recruitment agency had differences over wages that led to the conflict. By the time cops were alerted, the workers had caused considerable damage. Sources said a few consignments of smartphones and other electronic gadgets were looted by workers. The facility has been shut for a week until audits are over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/workers-at-iphone-plant-in-kolar-go-on-rampage/articleshow/79700001.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
December 13, 2020||India||Namkeen factory worker fulfils dream, graduates as Army officer||DEHRADUN: As 28-year-old Balbanka Tiwari from Arrah, Bihar, graduated from the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Saturday, transitioning from being a sepoy in the Indian Army to an officer, his wife, mother and four-month-old daughter, who he was meeting for the very first time on Saturday, watched with pride. Barely able to hold back tears, his mother Munni Devi said, “He started working by the time he had turned 16 to supplement the family income and toiled for 12 hours in return for just Rs 50 to Rs 100 a day.” Tiwari, son of a farmer, said only “grit and faith” had brought him this far. “After Class XII, unable to find any prospects in Arrah, I moved to Rourkela in Odisha. I first worked at a factory that cut iron springs and rods. I then joined a namkeen factory. However, I continued my education and took tuitions. I never left my dream of joining the Army all this while,” said Tiwari. It was a relative, a sepoy in, who kindled the dream of joining the Army in Tiwari. “I was fascinated by the kind of respect he received at the village,” he said. In 2012, Tiwari managed to crack the entrance exam of the EME centre in Bhopal in his second attempt. In the next five years that he worked as a sepoy there, he prepared for the exams of Army Cadet College. He cracked it in 2017. “I am so happy I will serve the nation as an officer,” Tiwari beamed. “My father will pick up the newspaper in the morning and will likely tell everyone around that I made our village proud,” he smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/namkeen-factory-worker-fulfils-dream-graduates-as-army-officer/articleshow/79701893.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||Govt stays freehold status of MLR lands||Nagpur: The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has imposed a stay on rules framed for giving freehold status to what is called collector’s land in Mumbai and MLR lands in other parts of Maharashtra. No reason been cited for taking the decision. No such decision has been taken for nazul leasehold plots which are located only in Vidarbha. However, a senior cabinet minister told TOI that a decision on it is expected soon. A few months before the state elections last year, the Devendra Fadnavis-led government had decided to free such land claiming that it has been the demand of people. Joint secretary Ramesh Chavan, of revenue and forest department, issued a circular on December 10 to all divisional commissioners and collectors for implementation of stay with immediate effect. “The government had issued notification for conversion of its leasehold or occupied lands from occupancy class-II to class-I under The Maharashtra Land Revenue (Conversion of occupancy class-II and leasehold lands into occupancy class-I lands) Rules 2019. Stay is being given for conversion from occupancy class-II to class-I till further orders of the government,” it reads. The circular refers to the notification dated March 8, 2019, which relates to the government-owned lands leased out under the Maharashtra Land Revenue (MLR) Code. Claiming that this is a “direct attempt to undermine the people and to treat them class-II citizens”, Fadnavis said, “Farmers will suffer most because of this decision. Most of the leasehold lands under MLR are with farmers for agriculture purpose. Again, they will be unable to sell or purchase and obtain loans by mortgaging it.” Fadnavis said he has been trying to ring in changes since 1999. “It was policy of the British to keep Indians class-II holders that is ‘bhoomidhari’ and not ‘bhoomiswami’. I had even moved a private member bill while I was in the Opposition. Hence, when I got the opportunity as CM, we moved a proposal before the cabinet and made necessary amendments and took this decision to convert class-II lands to class-I. Even earlier land conversion was permitted but heavy bureaucracy and corruption created hardships for the people,” he said. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and additional chief secretary (revenue) Nitin Karir did not respond to TOI’s call and message. Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakare said, “We have to implement the policies of the government.” Virendra Kukreja, a Nagpur builder who is the BJP city joint treasurer and an office-bearer of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, said it is “poor politics” from the existing government as the decision taken by the Fadnavis government was in “larger public interest”. “It was a long-pending demand from the people for giving freehold status for lands on which they were farming, residing or doing business. The rules were framed after following all due procedures like publishing draft for suggestions and objections, legal vetting and approvals from all concerned authorities. Staying the decision without proper procedure, reason and circular of one paragraph is unjust,” said Kukreja who is a close aide of Fadnavis. The leasehold lands under MLR Code are located all over the state. In Vidarbha, such lands were leased out at concessional rates in urban areas for residential and educational purposes, and in rural for agriculture and residential. For getting freehold status, the beneficiaries were supposed to pay a premium of 15-50% taking into account the usages for it was leased out. Some districts of Vidarbha have nazul leasehold plots which are owned by the government but leased out under the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue (MPLR) Code. There are big-sized 25,000 such plots in Vidarbha of which 11,000 are in Nagpur city. Huge residential and commercial complexes had come up on nazul lands, 90% of which were leased out by government after recovering 100-110% rate of ready reckoner value in 1906, and between 1971 and 1975. Six days before rules were framed for MLR lands, the then government had issued a notification for freehold of nazul leasehold plots. The premium was 5% for residential and 10% for commercial plots as government had already leased out these lands by recovering market value. There was panic as well as confusion among owners of nazul leasehold plots about the stay. “Government had given some ray of hope for us to get freehold. The premium has been fixed at 5% which is very high. We are pressing for reduction in premium for 1% on lines of decisions taken by adjoining states. Any stay on the decision would mean a major setback for us,” said a couple of nazul leaseholders. Kukreja said the BJP will launch an agitation if a stay is brought upon nazul plots too. “The process of giving ownership documents with freehold status to plots at Khamla and Jaripatka for people from Sindhi community has started after the decision taken by Fadnavis,” he said. ----------------------------------- IN A NUTSHELL * Fadnavis govt gives freehold status for lands under collector, MLR code and nazul months before last elections * Rules were framed to give freehold status after recovering charges from owners who were using it for agriculture, residential, commercial and industrial purposes * On Dec 10, MVA government imposes stay on the decision but mum on nazul * No decision cited||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-stays-freehold-status-of-mlr-lands/articleshow/79699412.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 13, 2020||India||‘No one can speed up vaccine trials, and their evaluation’||As the founder of Shantha Biotechnics, one of the first Indian companies to develop vaccines indigenously and the only one to develop a vaccine independently, K I Varaprasad Reddy has a unique insight into the ongoing global race to launch a Covid-19 vaccine. In an interview with Swati Bharadwaj, the Padma Bhushan awardee talks about the challenges aheadIt takes years to develop a vaccine but now the process is being fast-tracked. Are you worried that safety is being compromised?Everyone knows that no vaccine was ever developed this fast. TB vaccine took 28 years, Ebola took 5.5 years. AIDS, though known for 40 years, does not have a vaccine as yet. Yes, technological advancement in virology and experiments with repurposed vaccines speeded up the development of this vaccine but no one can speed up clinical trials and their evaluation. A car can be designed to go at 300 km/hr speed. Still we fix a 100/120 speed limit on Indian roads because our road tests say so. Similarly, tests alone can testify to the safety of this vaccine. Also, risks involved will be different for each vaccine and will be known once mass vaccination starts. Vaccine makers are facing tremendous public and political pressure to deliver a vaccine. Are basic aspects of vaccine development being ignored in this haste?Pressure from governments is obvious. A scientist does not compromise on quality or ignore basic aspects of development of vaccine but he cannot be sure of the efficacy and immunogenicity of his invention unless it is analysed and observed on a reasonable time basis and peer-reviewed. But governments are eager to put the stamp of approval under the head ‘Emergency Authorisation of Use’, even without this essential process. I am afraid vaccine makers are running the risk in these circumstances as their image is at stake. Do you think there is enough scientific data on Covid-19 vaccine candidates?We get only press reports. Data is revealed only to a committee of experts in the regulatory authority’s office. They are neither crosschecked nor peer-reviewed nor published in inter national scientific jour nals as much as they should be. The world is looking to India and vaccine capital Hyderabad to churn out Covid vaccines. What challenges do Indian vaccine makers face?Let us be clear on one point. India has not produced any original vaccine so far, except for cholera by Shantha Biotechnics. What we have here is robust infrastructure to manufacture vaccines in bulk. If someone hands us over a good vaccine, we can produce them in large quantities at an affordable cost so that even third world countries can buy it. The challenge Indian vaccine makers face is how to keep producing other ongoing vaccines with the same infrastructure, while trying to produce billions of doses of Covid vaccines in a short span of time. Once Covid-19 vaccines are approved for use, what is the way forward?As of now, we are far from having a viable vaccine, whatever it means. Normally, after a vaccine has been approved, we manufacture five consistent batches of vaccine and send them for testing to the National Testing Laboratory for sterility, potency tests, etc and start mass production only after getting clearance. In the case of the Covid vaccine, large-scale manufacturing started even before third-stage clinical trials were concluded. In these circumstances, every step poses a challenge, right from determining shelf-life to the period it takes for developing immunogenicity in the body. The biggest challenge is to see that the public does not lose faith in the whole process of vaccination, in case there are any adverse effects. How prepared are we for the mammoth task of vaccinating 1.3 billion Indians?Delivery system poses a number of problems especially since our primary health centres (PHCs) are in poor condition. Government should use this as an opportunity to develop logistics to strengthen the healthcare system. Many developed nations have already cornered a chunk of Covid-19 vaccines? What are its implications for developing nations?Here production capacity does not matter. What matters is who funded the research and had modern technology. Successive Indian governments did not encourage R&D in the country and, now, we are depending upon others’ innovations. Developed nations paid huge amounts to block the production for them. India did no such thing and we cannot grumble. Indian government allowed 100% FDI in the healthcare industry. So even socially conscious entrepreneurs like me are hand-tied to do our bit in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-one-can-speed-up-vaccine-trials-and-their-evaluation/articleshow/79701899.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Railway mishap deaths rise as more people are allowed to board locals||MUMBAI: Accidental deaths on railways in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region started to climb as the city unlocked and more categories of passengers were permitted to board local trains. From 558 deaths in January-March 2020, fatalities had dipped to 115 in April-July, and more than doubled to 314 in August-November. Though locals were not operational from March 22 till mid-June, fatalities continued to occur in this period, largely due to trespassers getting knocked down by goods trains or workmen specials. Track-crossing contributed to 64% of all 987 deaths this year and remained the leading cause of rail accidents. “Fatalities are unlikely to reduce drastically unless a complete compound wall or fencing comes up, bordering the tracks throughout Central and Western lines,” said GRP commissioner Ravindra Sengaonkar. Earlier this year, two teenagers — Akash Rathod and Chhotu Chauhan — died after being knocked down by a train at Dahisar. The two had slid onto railway premises through a gap in the compound wall. In June, octogenarian Vitthal Mulye, who was being treated for Covid at a civic hospital died, while crossing the tracks at Kandivli. Mulye had left the hospital without informing anyone. The railways said that encroachment along tracks is one of the key causes of trespassing. “Drives to remove encroachments are being carried out regularly. More than 600 encroachments were removed from various locations on WR last year and another 980 were removed until July this year,” said chief PRO Sumit Thakur. Work on construction of a boundary wall over a stretch of 17.10 km is going on on WR. “Divider fencing between two sets of tracks has been put up in the Churchgate–Virar section, except at four locations,” Thakur added. CR said it had provided 76 escalators, 40 lifts and 50 foot over-bridges or subways. Over 23,000 trespassers and foot-board travellers were booked in 2019-20 on CR. The Kalyan-Kasara and Kalyan-Badlapur belts together were the deadliest this year, claiming 158 lives. Thane-Diva, Diva-Kalamboli and Thane-Airoli sections saw high number of fatalities (127) together. Over 800 male commuters died in mishaps which is more than seven times the number of female. The Jogeshwari-Vile Parle belt witnessed the biggest drop in casualties between January and November 2020 compared to the same period last year. From 99 casualties, the figure dropped 76% to 24. One reason could be closure of Mumbai Metro services till October which translated into fewer passengers at Andheri railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-railway-mishap-deaths-rise-as-more-people-are-allowed-to-board-locals/articleshow/79701882.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 13, 2020||Nagpur||7 of 11 Vid dists have less than 500 patients under treatment||Nagpur: The pandemic situation is coming significantly under control. On Saturday, Vidarbha reported 795 new cases while 928 patients recovered in a day. Of the total 2,37,990 Covid-19 cases reported till date, 2,21,266 have recovered so far.Only 10,442 patients are under treatment in the region. Of them, nearly 6,000 are in Nagpur district alone. All other districts in Vidarbha have very less number of patients under treatment. Except Nagpur, Akola, Bhandara and Chandrapur, remaining seven districts have less than 500 patients under treatment. Almost 50% of the under-treatment patients are in home isolation which means the hospitalization rate in most districts of Vidarbha is very low. Reduced hospitalization is one of the indicators of good control of infection.Another indicator of good control was also reported in the form of lowering deaths on Saturday. The region reported 12 deaths, lowest since November 12. Of these, seven were reported in Nagpur district. Only one of them was from Nagpur city. Of the remaining six deaths, three were from Nagpur rural and three were patients who reached in critical condition from other district/states and succumbed during hospitalization on Saturday. Vidarbha’s death toll has reached 6,282 and case fatality rate to 2.63%.Recovery rate also improved to 93% for the first time in December. While its still less than the state and national average, recovery rate is improving daily in Vidarbha. On Saturday, daily Covid report of Gondia district was not received.Yavatmal: The district administration received 257 test reports on Saturday of which 24 came positive. Total 28 patients recovered in the day. Currently, 276 active patients are undergoing treatment at Covid care centres. The caseload has touched 11,904 were positive of whom 11,249 have recovered and discharged. No death was reported.Chandrapur: With the discharge of eight patients from hospitals and isolation, the recovery figure of the district crossed the 20,000-mark to reach a total of 20,091. The active cases, that were above 2,500 a month ago, have dropped to 841 now. Total 86 new cases were detected during the day taking the caseload to 21,266. Two deaths were also reported taking the toll to 334.Amravati: Sixty-eight recoveries as against 62 new cases and no deaths marked the covid scenario. The total recoveries went up to 17,691 while the caseload swelled to 18,529. There are now 449 active cases here, including 252 in home isolation.Wardha: Total 41 patients tested positive for Covid taking the caseload to 8,370 while 58 patients were discharged after recovery. The number of recoveries has now reached 7,825. The cases were reported from Wardha (28), Hinganghat (6), Deoli (4), Selu (2) and Karanja (1). The active patients in the district are 284 while no death was reported on Saturday. The death toll stands at 261 in the district.Washim: The district reported 40 new cases, highest in December so far. Only seven patients recovered in a day. Now, the district has 6,386 cases, 6,020 recoveries and 148 deaths. The number of under-treatment patients reached 218 after remaining under 200 for almost 5 days since December 7. Bhandara: The district received reports of 471 tests done in the last 24 hours of which 54 tested positive. On the other hand, 72 patients recovered. A death of a positive patient took Bhandara’s toll to 271. Now, the district has 11,489 cases, 10,630 recoveries and 588 patients under treatment.Gadchiroli: With 66 patients recovering in a day, the number of recoveries in the district surpassed the 8,000-mark on Saturday and reached 8,020. Total 35 new patients were detected while no death was reported. Now, the district has 8,505 cases and 91 deaths. The number of under-treatment patients also reduced to 394.Akola: A 68-year-old man from Akot died during treatment taking the death toll to 302. Of the 1,167 RT-PCR tests done in last 24 hours, 24 patients tested positive while six tested positive of the 150 Rapid Antigen Tests. Together, 30 patients were added into the caseload which reached 9,854. With 19 patients getting discharge, 8,817 of them have recovered till date. Now, Akola has 735 patients under treatment.Buldhana: The district received 293 reports of which 47 tested positive. Now, Buldhana has 11,782 cases. On the other hand, 31 patients recovered. The number of recovered patients reached 11,336. A 65-yr-old woman patient died in Buldhana taking the toll to 143 while 303 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-of-11-vid-dists-have-less-than-500-patients-under-treatment/articleshow/79699444.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 13, 2020||India||Women’s panel chief’s rape remarks spark row||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh women commission chairperson Kiranmayee Nayak has sparked a controversy by saying that girls often get into live-in and physical relationships consensually, and file rape complaints when they break-up. She appealed to girls “not to get trapped in relationships with married men”. “It’s a wrong belief that men are always wrong. Women are also often at fault and we, at the commission, try to bring families together when women approach us with complaints. I also scold or counsel them if I feel they are at fault,” she said. In a country where most rapes are believed to go unreported, Nayak’s remarks have triggered outrage. She was speaking to mediapersons after a public hearing of the commission in Bilaspur on December 10 when she said: “These days girls get married as soon as they turn 18 and then, carrying a baby in their arms, come to us with relationship issues or complaints of infidelity.” The panel commonly deals with cases where women feel ditched after having relationships with married men, she said. “Girls should understand their responsibility before entering into a relationship with a married man. Such relationships end in police station or court,” she added. “Girls develop physical relationship with such men with consent, stay with them in live-in relationships, and when dumped, they file a rape complaint. It’s wrong,” she said. She advised teenage girls to “shun the thought of filmy love”. “Women and girls aspire for filmy kind of love but end up spoiling their life or get trapped in the wrong relationship. It’s better to educate yourself first and develop an understanding of life. Know your rights,” she said. When CM Bhupesh Baghel was asked for his comments on Nayak’s statement, he refused to reply, saying she is in a constitutional post, and “if she has said something, it must be coming out of experience”. Opposition BJP condemned her comments. Former chairperson of women commission, BJP worker Harshita Pandey, said, “It’s an anti-women statement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/womens-panel-chiefs-rape-remarks-spark-row/articleshow/79701911.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||International flyers landing without a Covid-19 report won’t have to wait at Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: The BMC will allow passengers arriving in international flights without a negative Covid-19 report to go home after swab collection. This has been done to reduce crowding at the airport as these passengers have to wait for hours to get the Covid report. “The passengers will be updated about the report over the phone,” said a BMC official. The BMC will release a related notification in a day or two. AMC P Velrasu confirmed the development. BMC nodal officer at the airport and deputy executive health officer Dr Santosh Revankar said, “The rule is already in practice for domestic passengers (coming from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa) where we allow them to go home after collecting their swab sample.” At present, international passengers coming at the city airport with Covid-19 negative reports are allowed to go home. But those landing without a report are escorted by airport management officials to the Covid-19 testing centre in the airport premises managed by private labs. The passenger needs to pay the charge, after which their swab samples are collected. The passenger needs to wait in the airport holding area till the outcome of the report which takes between 8 hours to 24 hours. The BMC received several complaints from passengers that they face a tough time spending a day inside the airport premises and it causes mental harassment and adds up load on their purse, said a BMC official. Officials stated that the new rule will provide relief for such passengers. If a report comes Covid-19 positive, the BMC will communicate with these passengers for further process. If the report is negative, the passengers will be informed about it directly by the lab. Earlier, there were no testing criteria for domestic passengers, but the Maharashtra government introduced new testing rules for passengers coming to the state and Mumbai from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa due to a rise in Covid cases there. Initially, it caused lots of overcrowding at the airport premises as there were only a few counters. Recently, a video went viral on social media where a youth who had returned from Delhi was asked to undergo an RT-PCR test at the airport and was told that the report would come after 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/international-flyers-landing-without-a-covid-19-report-wont-have-to-wait-at-mumbai-airport/articleshow/79701918.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Central call for three IPS officers on JP Nadda duty; Bengal says no||KOLKATA: The Union government has “requisitioned” for central deputation the services of three senior IPS officers who supervised BJP national president JP Nadda’s Diamond Harbour rally security, prompting the Bengal government to express its “inability” to relieve them. The central move comes two days after Thursday’s attack on Nadda’s convoy on Diamond Harbour Road and a day after the Union home ministry asked the state chief secretary and the state director-general of police to meet the Union home secretary in Delhi on Monday. The Centre usually seeks the state’s consent before such a move, say officials in Kolkata. “These are Bengal cadre IPS officers. This is a unilateral decision taken by the Centre. Bengal, like the rest of the country, is battling a pandemic under specific laws. So, in this backdrop, the state cannot relieve these officers immediately,” a senior state official said. The officers caught in the centre-state battle are South Bengal inspector-general of police Rajeev Mishra, Presidency Range deputy inspector-general Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Diamond Harbour superintendent of police Bholanath Pandey. The issue also found mention in a letter Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha chief whip Kalyan Banerjee wrote to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Saturday. Banerjee, also a lawyer, wrote: “You named three IPS officers for central deputation. All three IPS officers were deployed near the place of occurrence (of Thursday’s incident involving Nadda). Your motive is very clear... you want to create pressure on the officers.” The Centre’s letter to Bengal seeking specific officers for central deputation did not have any “immediate precedence”, officials here said. One senior Bengal officer was transferred to the Union home ministry in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha poll but that move was effected by the Election Commission. The usual procedure for central deputations starts with the state government sending its “offer list” (a panel of officers), say officials. The Centre then informs the state government which officers can go on central deputation. 3 officers not on ‘offer list’ sent by Bengal to CentreAbout a dozen Bengalcadre officers are now on central deputation; they include a special director-general of police in CRPF, a joint secretary in the cabinet secretariat, two CRPF additional directors-general, a National Crime Records Bureau director and another IPS officer on deputation to the ministry of external affairs. The three officers asked to go on central deputation were not on the “offer list” sent by Bengal to the Centre, officials here said. The Centre wrote to all states, including Bengal, in April and November this year, mentioning that they were not sending enough officers for central deputation. Both letters added that all disputes would be referred to the Union home ministry, whose decision would be binding. Bengal has an IPS cadre strength of around 350 officers and 75 are required to be put on the “offer list” for central deputation. But officials say Bengal works with a fewer number of IPS officers, of whom nine are still undergoing training. “The states have always used this rationale to not allow officers to go on central deputation,” a senior state government officer told TOI. The Centre and the Tamil Nadu government have been involved in a protracted legal case on this issue that has reached the Supreme Court. Central deputation rules stress on “concurrence” between state and central governments but they add that the centre’s decision will be binding if there is any dispute, say officials here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/central-call-for-3-ips-officers-on-nadda-duty-state-says-no/articleshow/79701031.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||18 students awarded gold medals, 826 conferred degrees||Vadodara: Eighteen students were awarded gold medals while 826 students of undergraduate, post-graduate and doctorate programs were conferred degrees during the 8th convocation ceremony of city-based Navrachana University, Vadodara (NUV) on Saturday. Inventor and serial entrepreneur Parag Amin was the chief guest at the virtual convocation. Amin, founding director at iCreate and president of Radiqal, United States, emphasized that given the fact that lakhs of Indian youngsters are being added to work force every year, the competitive edge will be sharpened for only those who can bring an entrepreneurial mindset to the workplace. He said that the number of educated unemployed in India is already mind-boggling and will continue to increase over the next 20 years. In such a situation, the competition is intense and the ability and confidence to take the plunge, learn from failures, and learn fast must be developed and honed during the years at the university. During the convocation ceremony, of the 18 awarded gold medals, 12 were girl students. Among the 826 conferred degrees, four have completed their doctoral studies, 259 have specialized in engineering and information technology, 202 in management studies, 149 in sciences, 76 in architecture and interior design, 52 in education, 39 in computer applications, 26 in mass communication and 11 in social work. “While some of them have secured admission for further studies in prestigious institutions abroad as well as in other parts of India, a number of them have been placed in several corporates in Vadodara and other parts of the country,” an NUV official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/18-students-awarded-gold-medals-826-conferred-degrees/articleshow/79699390.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||JMB man wanted to ‘spread intolerance’ in Bengal pockets: STF||Kolkata: A day after Kolkata Police’s Special Task Force arrested a printing press owner from Birbhum’s Murarai on charges of spreading Islamic extremism, sleuths said Najibullah’s questioning has revealed that he was planning to fan disturbance in the state as early as the coming New Year. His aim, said a source, was not to carry out a terror attack but to spread intolerance. The police have recovered leads from the accused’s laptop that include objectionable literature and names of several people he had come in contact with. “Most of the literature belongs to the Jammat-ul-Mujadideen Bangladesh. In addition, we have also traced certain questionable monetary transactions, mostly through the humdi and hawala routes from a neighbouring country,” claimed a source. A father of seven, Najibullah had studied at a madrasa in UP and was associated with one at Hiyatnagar in Birbhum. He also briefly practised ayurvedic medicine before setting up the press. “His children insist he was a frequent visitor to Rampurhat. The origin of the press is something that we are probing right now since it seems the entire planning revolved around this press,” said an investigating officer. The STF is investigating if he was recently radicalized by any South Asian offshoot of the Islamic State or its ideological opponent, the al Qaida. “His job was not to arrange logistics. It was his job to spread extremist thoughts among the maximum number of people. The fact that he could use his profession to carry out his activities made his neighbours — or even family members — to never suspect him,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jmb-man-wanted-to-spread-intolerance-in-bengal-pockets-stf/articleshow/79700767.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 13, 2020||Rajkot||2K-tn tiles chug their way to K’taka||Rajkot: Revenue-starved Indian Railway, hit hard by drastic fall in passenger income after the pandemic-induced lockdown, is now concentrating on keeping its freight business steady on the track. Keeping this in view, the business development unit (BDU) of Rajkot division succeeded in sending the first trainload comprising 68 containers filled with tiles from Gujarat’s tile hub Morbi to Karnataka. The first such tile train to south India carried 2,000 tonne tiles departed from Morbi goods shed to Maranayakanahalli near Bangalore on Friday, and will cover a distance of 1,867 km. Going by the figures, passenger income of Rajkot division, which stood at Rs 168 crore during April to November 2019 tumbled to Rs 5.31 crore in the current year during the same period, therefore netting a loss of Rs 163.49 crore in just the passenger income category. To compensate this huge loss through goods transportation, the division is looking at cargo transportation, said senior divisional commercial manager Abhinav Jeph. Talking to TOI, he said, “This is the first time that a train is transporting tiles to the southern state. There is drastic fall in passenger income and we are therefore constantly doing market surveys and reaching out to people asking them to use railway as goods transportation to compensate our loss.” Jeph further said that the railways is planning to run two racks in a month to Bengaluru and very soon start service for Mangalore too. India’s biggest hub of tiles manufacture Morbi’s annual turnover is Rs 45,000 crore. Morbi sends goods worth Rs 7,000 crore to four states of south India. President of Morbi Ceramic Association, Nilesh Jetpariya said, “This train service will definietely be most beneficial for us. We currently send our goods by road but train will save 35 to 45 percent of our transportation costs. It will also save cost of damage of goods during transportation.” Tiles are heavy, but at the same time very fragile goods. So, transporting it through roadways cause manufacturers to bear loss of damage during journey. Morbi’s ceramic manufacturers are also demanding goods train service to Visakhapatnam, which is in the next phase of railways’ planning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/2k-tn-tiles-chug-their-way-to-ktaka/articleshow/79698294.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||State kicks off recruitment process for filling up teachers, senior residents posts across 5 med colleges||Ranchi: The state health department has laid the groundwork for filling up vacant posts of teachers and senior residents in 22 departments across five medical colleges in Palamu, Dumka, Hazaribag, Dhanbad and Jamshedpur. The move comes after the National Medical Commission (NMC) earlier this year barred MBBS aspirants from taking admission in either of the newly set up medical colleges in Palamu, Dumka and Hazaribag owing to faculty and resource crunch. On Saturday, the health department notified the recruitment process to fill up 159 posts through walk-in interviews on December 21 and 22. Joint secretary Alok Trivedi said, “Interviews will be held at RCH campus in Namkum (Ranchi) on both the days from 11am to 3pm.” As many as 11 teachers’ posts in anatomy, physiology and biochemistry each need to be filled while three in microbiology and seven posts in preventive and social medicine, among others, are lying vacant. Similarly, nine senior residents’ posts have to be filled in radiology, 15 in radiotherapy, 10 in physical medicine, etc. The government has decided to provide a fixed remuneration of Rs 75,000 per month and the tenure of each post will be three years. “If any applicant applies for more than one discipline, then he/she must mention his/her priorities in the application form,” a health department official said. He added that if any serving government employee applies for any of the vacancies and gets selected, his/her salary and allowances will be similar to what he/she was getting in the previous job. “The maximum age limit for the applicant has been fixed at 40 years. In case of a serving government doctor, the age limit has been extended to 45 years,” the official said. Meanwhile, the department has asked the MBBS aspirants of those frontline workers who died while performing their duties, including ASHA workers, doctors and nurses, to submit their application by December 21. Earlier this year, the Union government had announced to reserve one MBBS seat in every medical college for the kids of deceased frontline workers. Out of all the applications that’ll be sent for the reserved seats, admission would be done on the basis of merit. The three medical colleges in Palamu, Hazaribag and Dumka were set up during the previous Raghubar Das-led BJP regime and they were inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year just before the Lok Sabha polls. After NMC’s ban on new admissions for the current session, chief minister Hemant Soren wrote to the medical commission and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan last month, asking them to reconsider the ban in the interest of several tribal MBBS aspirants in Jharkhand. Hemant promised to fill up the vacant posts and infrastructural gaps on a priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-kicks-off-recruitment-process-for-filling-up-teachers-senior-residents-posts-across-5-med-colleges/articleshow/79699118.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||1 yr on, vow to withdraw Pathalgadi cases yet to be fulfilled by CM||Ranchi: The first major announcement that chief minister Hemant Soren had made on December 29, 2019 immediately after taking oath of office was to withdraw all cases related to Pathalgadi movement. However, ever after almost a year, the promise is yet to be fulfilled and several villagers and traditional chieftains continue to languish in different jails. According to information sought through RTI applications, there are 30 FIRs spread across Khunti (23), Seraikela-Kharsawan (5) and West Singhbhum (2) districts, related to Pathalgadi cases. The district committee, comprising the deputy commissioner, superintendent of police and public prosecutor, has recommended withdrawal of only about 60% of the total cases. In addition to this, the Khunti district committee has recommended removal of only Section 124A and 120A/B from seven cases. Regarding action on the recommendations sent by the districts, the home department has simply said that it is under process. Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM), the umbrella organisation for various civil right groups and tribal rights activists, organised a state-level seminar on Friday to discuss the status of the withdrawal of Pathalgadi cases and human rights violations across the state. One of the members of JJM, Elina Horo said the earlier Jharkhand government headed by chief minister Raghubar Das, had come down heavily on the Pathalgadi movement and responded with severe violence and repression. “It had filed several cases against the people associated with the movement and also several Adivasi traditional heads of the villages. The police filed several cases against about 200 named accused and more than 10,000 unnamed persons under charges that include abetment, obstruction to public servants discharging their duty, creation of public nuisance, criminal intimidation and even sedition,” she said adding, that these cases are yet to be withdrawn despite tall promises by Hemant. “The recommendation of districts to withdraw just over half the cases and the delay in withdrawing the cases indicate that the political decision of the government is yet to fully translate into action on ground,” she said. Other members of JJM pointed out the ordeal faced by innocent villagers. “Ghaghra’s Asrita Mundu who gave birth to a physically-disabled daughter after being beaten by the security forces during her pregnancy is yet to receive any compensation. Similarly, action against personnel responsible for the violence, including killing of Birsa Munda and Abraham Soy, are yet to be held accountable,” said Aloka Kujur of JJM. Activists also raised the issue of the state’s inaction in the incidents of people being beaten. “The most glaring example is the severe beating of 20 Adivasis of West Singhbhum district’s Chiriyabera by CRPF in June this year. As many as 11 were severely beaten and three sustained grievous injuries. The CRPF, accusing the villagers to be Maoists and enraged by their inability to respond in Hindi, beat them using wooden sticks, batons, rifle butts and boots. Even though the victims clearly told the police at the hospital that they were brutally beaten by CRPF personnel, the FIR filed by the police obscures many facts of the incident and makes no mention of the role of CRPF in the violence,” Kujur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-yr-on-vow-to-withdraw-pathalgadi-cases-yet-to-be-fulfilled-by-cm/articleshow/79699162.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Vijayvargiya: CAA soon in Bengal, but no NRC||Thakurnagar (North 24 Parganas): BJP national secretary in charge of Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya reached out to the Matua headquarters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas on Saturday to reassure the community that the Narendra Modi government will implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the state soon. He also clarified that unlike in Assam, there will be no NRC exercise in Bengal. Vijarvargiya’s outreach comes exactly a week ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bengal visit on December 19. Shah is likely to address a public meeting at Thakurnagar. The BJP leader reached Thakurbari at 11.45 am and spent two hours talking to Matua Mahasangha leader and BJP Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur, who had publicly expressed his displeasure over the Centre sitting on the citizenship issue. “The Matuas have been fighting for this cause for the last 71 years. We appealed to governments to grant us citizenship but no government listened to our demand,” Thakur had said at a Matua Mahasangha meeting last month. The Matuas — a religious sect mainly comprising the Namasudras — had migrated from Orakandi in Gopalganj of Bangladesh to this border district. They hold the key to determining the fates of political leaders in at least six border assembly seats, namely Bongaon Uttar, Bongaon Dakshin, Gaighata, Swarupnagar and Bagda in North 24 Parganas and Haringhata in Nadia. The Matuas largely voted for Trinamool till 2019 when large sections voted for BJP after it assured them citizenship. Vijayvargiya, after coming out of the private meeting with Thakur, said: “The Centre will implement CAA in Bengal soon. Rules are being framed to implement the Act. Election or no election, we are committed to granting citizenship to Matuas, Namasudras and refugees who came over to this country from Pakistan and Bangladesh.” The BJP national secretary made it clear that the Centre will not conduct the National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise in Bengal. Thakur reiterated the Matua demand after the meeting. “The Matuas who came over to this part of Bengal after 1971 had been asking for citizenship. It was not permitted under the prevalent laws. There is no point saying that Matuas are already citizens,” the MP said, taking an indirect dig at Trinamool. Vijayvargiya also offered prayers at the Harichand-Guruchand temple, three days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an impressive rally at Bongaon’s Gopalnagar on December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vijayvargiya-caa-soon-in-bengal-but-no-nrc/articleshow/79700633.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||BSF jawan beaten up during rally in Murshidabad||Behrampore: A BSF jawan was allegedly assaulted by Trinamool Congress workers in Kandi, Murshidabad, on Friday evening, sparking tension in the area. Biswajit Sahani has been admitted to Kandi subdivisional hospital with internal haemorrhage. His father, Biswanath Sahani, has lodged a police complaint, but no arrests have been made so far. Residents said the attack took place near Khamarpara. Biswajit was biking home when he crossed Trinamool’s Bangadhwani rally coming from the opposite side. Trinamool workers allegedly intercepted his bike, pulled off his helmet and assaulted him. “My son swerved towards the pavement to make way for the rally, but was attacked nevertheless. Police have done nothing yet,” Biswajit’s father said.  The Bangadhwani Yatra is a new initiative to restore the Trinamool’s image as advised by election strategist Prashant Kishor. District Trinamool spokesperson Apurba Sarkar said: “Trinamool does not believe in such culture. I am trying to find out what happened, perhaps there was provocation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-jawan-beaten-up-during-rally-in-murshidabad/articleshow/79700727.cms||Sukumar Mahato
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||No Pous Mela this year, but Visva-Bharati University to hold Pous Utsav with Covid curbs||BOLPUR: Visva-Bharati University on Saturday formally announced the cancellation of this year’s Pous Mela, the fair on the university grounds that is extremely popular among locals as well as visitors to the university town. The university will, however, go ahead with Pous Utsav that marks the foundation of Visva-Bharati by Rabindranath Tagore a century ago. The Prime Minister, who is the chancellor of the university, has been invited to virtually attend the ceremony along with the governor and chief minister. The university court had in an online meeting on November 10 decided not to organise this year’s Pous Mela due to the pandemic but had agreed to hold Pous Utsav with Covid protocols in place. The twin decisions were reiterated at Saturday’s meeting and announced. The four-day handloom, handicraft, art and music festival that traditionally starts on the seventh day of the Bengali month Pous (usually end-Decmber) got mired in controversy earlier this year when the Visva Bharati authorities decided to scrap the annual fair and conveyed the decision to the National Green Tribunal that had taken the university to task for pollution caused during the fair and had called for the setting up of sewage treatment plants. Later though, Rajya Sabha MP and member of Visva Bharati court Swapan Dasgupta had raised hopes when he said the fair should be organised under the supervision of the central government. The state government, too, wanted Pous Mela to continue. The fair is officially conducted by the Santiniketan Trust set up by Maharshi Devendranath Thakur, but it is the Visva Bharati university that practically organises the mega event. Debendranath Tagore, the poet laureate's father, had built a small retreat for meditation at Santiniketan, and in 1888, dedicated the land and buildings towards establishment of a Brahmavidyalaya. Rabindranath Tagore's school Brahmacharyasrama started functioning formally from December 22, 1901. From 1925 this school came to be known as Patha-Bhavana. The school was the nucleus around which the unconventional university evolved. In May 1951, Visva-Bharati was declared to be a central university and "an Institution of National Importance" by an Act of Parliament. It was granted the status of a unitary teaching and residential university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-pous-mela-this-year-but-vb-to-hold-pous-utsav-with-covid-curbs/articleshow/79701071.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Surat||Suart: Accountant, seven others siphon off Rs 3 crore firm’s money||SURAT: Eight persons including an accountant of a firm were booked on allegations of cheating of Rs 2.8 crore by fraudulently transferring money from company’ bank account into their own. Rajesh Dholakia, 36, a resident of River Vint Apartment in Piplod area and engaged in construction, diamond and textile business in the city lodged a cheating complaint with Sarthana police against nine persons. In his plaint, Dholakia named Haresh Vaishnav, Vilash Patel, Bhargav Navadia, Bhagyashree Navdia, Govind Navadia, Dhruv Savani, Mansukh Padmani, Dinesh Rakholia and Babu Vachhani who were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy, forgery using fake documents, criminal breach of trust by clerk for purpose of cheating. Dholakia’s stated that Haresh Vaishnav, who has been working with his firms as an accountant for the last 14 years, fraudulently transferred Rs 1.14 crore from his company’s bank account to his personal account. Furthermore, Vaishnav fraudulently transferred Rs 1.65 crore from H K Hub Diamond LLP’s bank account to his and his accomplice’s bank accounts by making fake receipts, forged signs and fake cheque numbers. In his FIR, Dholakia, a native of Dudhala village in Lathi taluka of Amreli district, alleged, “Vaishnav has been associated with our various firms as an accountant and we put our total faith in him. However, he and his associates forged signs and documents and transferred money for our various firms’ bank accounts to their bank accounts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/accountant-seven-others-siphon-offrs-3cr-firms-money/articleshow/79698612.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||No Covid deaths for 2nd time this month||RANCHI: For the second time this month, Jharkhand did not report any Covid deaths on Saturday and of the 19,757 samples tested, 189 turned out to be positive while 273 were cured of the infection, taking the state’s caseload to 1,11,366. With 995 deaths so far, the death rate currently stands at 0.89% and with 10,8761 recoveries, Jharkhand’s recovery rate is 97.66%, surpassing the national average of 94.90%. Meanwhile, the seven-day growth rate has plummeted to 0.14% as against the national average of 0.27%. Out of all the 24 districts, Ranchi reported the highest number of cases — 78 — and the highest number of recoveries — 89 — on Saturday. Palamu reported 15 cases while Pakur and Simdega did not report any cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-covid-deaths-for-2nd-time-this-month/articleshow/79700780.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||Speeding, drunk driving amid fog led to recent fatal accidents||RANCHI: Over-speeding vehicles, drunk driving and fog covers led to several accidents in the state, in most cases leading to deaths, in the last one week, said officials. Chairperson of Road Safety Committee and local Member of Parliament Sanjay Seth said, “During a meeting of the committee recently, I stressed on putting a curb on speeding vehicles on the national highways. Drivers should put on fog lights preferably with blinkers during the morning hours of winters.” Joint commissioner (road safety) Ravi Shankar Vidyarthi said, “Speed control is a vital factor in foggy conditions and it is necessary to drive slowly to avert accidents. Often fog covers that form on the state and national highways passing through vast tracts of open land reduce visibility. In such conditions, fog lights are a must.” Officials also said that areas located near Ganga, namely Sahibganj, witness dense fog in the winters. Notably, four people were killed when a vehicle hit a stationary truck from behind in Rajganj area in Dhanbad on Thursday. Three people were killed when a car hit a stationary vehicle near Jamchau village under the Namkum police station area in Ranchi early on Saturday morning. Three youths were killed when a new car they were travelling on dashed against a tree in Chanho area of Ranchi on Tuesday. Two youths were killed when their bike lost balance near Jamua village in Dumka district. It may be mentioned here that according to the National Crime Record Bureau, Jharkhand saw 5,702 road accidents in 2019 in which 4,289 persons, including 3,785 males and 504 females, died. Meanwhile the number of black spots, identified as accident prone areas in the state and the national highways has risen to 95 this year compared to 90 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/speeding-drunk-driving-amid-fog-led-to-recent-fatal-accidents/articleshow/79700784.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||Govt plans farm loan waiver from Jan||Ranchi: Amid the ongoing farmers’ stir in the state against the Centre’s new farm laws, the Jharkhand government is gearing up to roll out a farm loan waiver scheme, which was promised in its election manifesto, from January next year. State government officials said the scheme, which is likely to provide loan waivers up to Rs 50,000 to each farmer, is expected to be formally launched by chief minister Hemant Soren on December 29, the day on which his government will complete one year in office. Agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique, however, said the cap on the loan waiver is awaiting the cabinet’s nod. Talking to TOI on Saturday, he Siddique said, “A high-powered committee, which was set up to work out modalities for the scheme has recommended waivers up to Rs 50,000. This proposal is now being sent to the cabinet for its approval. We are targeting to launch it on December 29.” He further said about 13 lakh farmers are expected to get benefits from the scheme initially. “The number may vary depending on the amount that will be finalized for the waiver. But going by the recommendation of the committee, about 13 lakh farmers are likely to get the benefits initially. We are currently fine-tuning the modalities for its actual rollout,” Siddique said. The government has earmarked funds to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore for the scheme in ongoing fiscal. Agriculture department figures suggest that between 2014 and 2019, about eight lakh state farmers took loans worth around Rs 7,000 crore. Of the total amount, many have turned into non-performing assets (NPA). Siddique said the government’s priority is to provide waivers to the farmers who have loans are still operational. “To start with, waivers will be extended only to standard loans, which means the loans that are currently operational but farmers are finding it difficult to pay,” he said, adding that the department is currently busy seeding Aadhaar details of the farmers with their bank accounts by updating their KYC for proper tracking and smooth implementation of the scheme after its rollout. The secretary further said about 32 lakh farmers are currently covered under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Yojana. “Of them, we have updated the KYC of 14 lakh farmers while the remaining is underway,” he said. Agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, on the other hand, said the scheme was one of the promises made to the electorate during last year’s assembly polls and the government is inching towards making it a reality soon. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the scheme is delayed but we are now almost set to begin its rollout very soon through our own funds. While the Centre is trying to outsource the agriculture sector through its anti-farmer laws, which it brought in recently, the Jharkhand government is going the extra mile to safeguard our annadatas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-plans-farm-loan-waiver-from-jan/articleshow/79699084.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand BJP plans kisan sammelans on December 15 in favour of new farm laws||Ranchi: Even as the farmers’ protest against the newly enacted farm laws continues at the Delhi border, BJP’s Jharkhand unit on Saturday said it will conduct kisan sammelans across five areas on December 15 to apprise the farmers of the benefits of the legislation. State BJP general secretary Aditya Sahu said that the move aims to dispel myths and falsehoods which are being promoted by Congress and other non-BJP entities. He added, “Congress and other parties are misleading the farmers regarding the new laws. We have decided to go to the farmers and explain how the laws framed by the Centre are aimed at bettering their future.” The sabhas have been planned in Deoghar (Santhal Parganas), Medninagar (Palamu), Nirsa (North Chotanagpur), Kanke (South Chotanagpur) and Ghatshila (Kolhan). The party has appointed an MLA/MP in each of the five areas who will oversee the arrangements there. The state BJP’s announcement comes on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi defended the farm laws while speaking at the 93rd AGM of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-bjp-plans-kisan-sammelans-on-december-15-in-favour-of-new-farm-laws/articleshow/79699100.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||583 teachers’ posts lying vacant in Garhwa schools for years||Garhwa: As many as 583 teachers’ posts across 100 state-run schools in the district are lying vacant for the past few years, district education officer Ram Prasad Mandal said on Saturday. “This is posing a problem for all the 40,000 students enrolled in the schools since against the total 1,009 sanctioned posts, only 426 are occupied at the moment,” Mandal added. “The matter was brought to the state education department’s notice but it was all in vain,” he said. For instance, there are only four Sanskrit teachers against the sanctioned posts of 94, four Civics teachers against 69 sanctioned posts, 55 Maths teachers against 100 posts, 48 English teachers against 94 posts, eight History teachers against 94 posts, three Home Science teachers against 33 posts, 38 Physical Education teachers against 80 posts, one Music teacher against 22 posts and 44 each in Zoology and in Chemistry departments despite the government sanctioning 96 posts in both the departments. Surprisingly, though there five people teaching Arabic when the government has sanctioned only one post for that subject and there is not even a single student taking that class. In addition to this, the high schools which are conducting intermediate classes are facing a similar problem and currently, the para-teachers are taking those classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/583-teachers-posts-lying-vacant-in-garhwa-schools-for-years/articleshow/79699144.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip hits out at Trinamool over attack on Nadda convoy||Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Saturday held that Trinamool Congress was “doing politics” after “leading an attack” on JP Nadda’s convoy. “I wrote to Diamond Harbour SP (Bholanath Pandey) urging him to provide security to BJP president JP Nadda’s visit in view of a security lapse at Hastings in Kolkata the day before. I called on the Bengal governor ahead of the visit. He told me he had alerted the director general of police. Things happened after all this. We got permission from the police to hold the rally. Do we have to seek Trinamool’s permission for holding a rally in Bengal?” Ghosh said. With the Union home ministry asking the Bengal chief secretary and the state director-general of police to meet the Union home secretary, BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar cited similar precedents. “Union home minister P Chidambaram called then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee to Delhi over the killings in Lalagarh’s Netai in January 2011. The Union home minister called the CM over the worsening law and order situation in Bengal. Trinamool leaders didn’t take offence to it then,” Majumdar said. “The Union home minister could have called the chief minister to Delhi. He didn’t do that. Instead, the MHA called the chief secretary and the director general of police,” he added. In his letter, Kalyan Banerjee mentioned that law and order was recorded as a State subject under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. “The Centre can’t call individual officers like the way the present government did,” he said. This apart, the Trinamool leader pointed fingers at the BJP president taking “convict” Rakesh Singh in his convoy without prior intimation to police. BJP national secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya refused to comment on the letter. “I won’t comment on what Kalyan Banerjee has said,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-hits-out-at-trinamool-over-attack-on-nadda-convoy/articleshow/79700675.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Swasthya Sathi card: Panchayat head accused of bullying villagers||Malda: A panchayat pradhan in Malda’s English Bazaar area is allegedly refusing to enrol villagers for Swasthya Sathi card — the flagship health scheme under the Bengal government’s Duare Sarkar outreach programme — unless they withdraw complaints of irregularities against him. Satyajit Choudhury, the head of Kajigram panchayat who owes allegiance to the ruling Trinamool Congress, has in the past been accused of nepotism in distribution of dwelling units under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. In their complaint to the district magistrate, villagers had also claimed anomalies in distribution of job cards and in setting up of 100-day job rosters. The matter is under investigation. According to complainants Chandana Mandal and Kulesh Mandal, the pradhan is now denying them and others, who had signed the complaint, Swasthya Sathi enrolment. “He has threatened us that if we do not withdraw the complaint, we will not be given Swasthya Sathi cards,” Kulesh said. While Choudhury has rubbished the allegations against him, Trinamool Congress district coordinator Dulal Sarkar said: “We will look into this matter.” District BJP president Gobinda Mandal didn’t waste the opportunity to take a swipe at his rivals. “Govt schemes are considered Trinamool property here. People have to bow to corruption if they want scheme benefits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-sathi-card-panchayat-head-accused-of-bullying-villagers/articleshow/79700700.cms||Subhro Maitra
December 13, 2020||Kolkata||Bhagwat in Kol to take stock of RSS ‘shakhas’||Kolkata: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat arrived in Kolkata on Saturday on a two-day visit at a time BJP and Trinamool are caught in a war of words over the attack on BJP national president J P Nadda’s convoy on December 10. Soon after reaching the city, Bhagwat attended a religious programme organised at Bharat Chambers of Commerce office at Park Circus. “He will meet some young and noted personalities, apart from those from the cultural field, on Sunday,” an RSS spokesperson said. The RSS chief’s trip, which comes a week ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s scheduled visit, indicates that the Sangh Parivar is taking the 2021 Bengal assembly polls quite seriously. Bhagwat will take stock of RSS ‘shakhas’ that saw a huge expansion over the past few years. RSS pracharaks had played an active role in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, helping BJP win constituencies with heavy Adivasi and Scheduled Caste presence. Bhagwat during his last visit here had asked RSS local units to set up at least one ‘sakha’ in every block of Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bhagwat-in-kol-to-take-stock-of-rss-shakhas/articleshow/79700731.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Ranchi||‘Serosurvey can help plan Covid vaccination strategy’||RANCHI: As the state health department is gearing up to launch a drive for Covid-19 vaccination once it is launched by the Centre, experts in the field of infectious diseases management said a serosurvey can help the administration plan a strategy to identify priority zones for the jabs. Serosruveillance provides an estimate of the levels of antibodies in blood which safeguards the human body against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring a population’s immunity following past infections or vaccinations. It is an important component of disease surveillance and complements notification, hospitalisation, mortality and immunisation coverage data. Till date, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in association with health experts from the Centre has conducted two rounds of serosurveillance in three districts — Pakur, Latehar and Simdega — while an independent serosurvey was conducted by the state government in association with the Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), Bhubaneshwar in 10 districts of the state. Professor of preventive and social medicine (PSM) at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Dr Devesh Kumar, said the earlier serosurveys were conducted at a time when the Covid-19 infection had not spread widely. “If we have an idea about the chunk of population that have antibodies against the SARS-Cov-2 (Covid-19) virus, we can plan a controlled exposure of people instead of forcing containment as people develop antibodies naturally without the need of vaccines after infections,” he said. Kumar further explained that the regions where seropositivity is approaching 50% could be placed lower in the priority list for vaccinations than the regions where the positivity rate is in single digits. State head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, said the first serosurvey conducted by the Centre was in Pakur Latehar and Simdega in May while the second was conducted in September. It was found that the seroprevalence in Pakur increased from 1.26% to 10% during this period. In the survey conducted by the state government in the 10 districts in June, Ranchi showed the highest seroprevalence rate of 2.4%. Commenting on the issue, principal health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni, however, said the survey may not be of help in identifying the target group because a serosurvey is meant to understand the immunity status. “We are not clear about who all are immune as it is a sample survey,” he said. State TB Cell director Dr Anindya Mitra is in favour of a serosurvey and said the third round survey is going to be conducted by the Centre next week. “Once the ICMR serosurvey is over, the state would also repeat the survey in the 10 identified districts on a scientifically selected sample comprising people from different walks of life,” he said. According to rough estimates by the experts, antibodies produced against the SARS Cov-2 virus remain in the body for more than 10 months. “As of now, we have observed the presence of antibodies in people who were the first to get infected after the outbreak of the pandemic. Whether the antibodies will be present for a longer period is not known because this is a new virus and no case can be older than a year,” Kumar said, underlining the need for more data collection through various surveys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/serosurvey-can-help-plan-covid-vaccination-strategy/articleshow/79700797.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 13, 2020||Chennai||Man tries to rescue cattle, drowns in sewage-filled pond at Chennai's Ambattur||CHENNAI: A 50-year-old man drowned in a bid to rescue cattle trapped in the sludge pond at Ambattur Industrial Estate on Friday. A team of firemen battled for about 30 minutes to retrieve the man who had died after strugling or some time. He was identified as Ezhumalai, 58, a resident of Vellalar Street in Mogappair. He had noticed his cattle struggling in the pond behind AIEMA in the industrial estate. Witnesses, who alerted the fire personnel, told the firemen that the man jumped into the pond and later realised it was full of sludge under the water hyacinth. They noticed the man starting to struggle and begin to be sucked into the sludge. Passerby informed the fire control room. The firemen used a ladder and rubber buoys to retrieve the man. One fireman tied a rope to his abdomen and he recovered the body. Though the firemen also tried to search for the missing cattle, they could not find any trace and gave up after looking for an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-tries-to-rescue-cattle-drowns-in-sewage-filled-pond-at-chennais-ambattur/articleshow/79701951.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chennai||NHAI covers drains on Chennai Bypass Road with slabs||CHENNAI: Five days since the horrific deaths of a doctor and her daughter after the scooter in which they were travelling in skidded into an open drain along Chennai Bypass Road, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has begun covering drains. The 700-metre stretch along the accident spot near Nolambur is covered with cement slabs. Kanagaraj, who was heading the construction works at the site, said a one-feet wall will be constructed on both sides and slabs will be placed above them. "It will take 15 days to complete this work. Remaining work along the 11-km stretch in Nolambur and Maduravoyal areas might take another month," he told reporters on Saturday. However these are just temporary measures. NHAI Chennai regional office is yet to get approval from its New Delhi headquarters to cover the drains all along the 32-km bypass road connecting Tambaram with Puzhal. NHAI's 2018 proposal to cover open-type storm water drains (SWDs) along this road was declined because they wanted the stretch to be a 'Model Highway Road', which includes planting of trees, shrubs above closed drains and wider service lanes, said a senior NHAI official. But the fact remains that SWD on both sides remain open thereby putting lives at risk, as reported by TOI earlier. Even on Thursday, a car slipped into the drain but luckily the girl escaped with injuries. Taking cognizance of this report, Madras high court had directed NHAI to collect 50% of toll fee at both the toll plazas located between Maduravoyal and Walajapet. It was not an isolated case as SWDs along Chennai-Tada Road, which is also maintained by NHAI, has open-type drains on its sides. When asked, the NHAI official said of the 33km-long SWD, only 11km was open. The rest were covered with slabs this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nhai-covers-drains-on-chennai-bypass-road-with-slabs/articleshow/79701959.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Measures to stop spread of virus in closed spaces a must, show studies||MUMBAI: While Mumbaikars wait for the December 31 deadline for further unlocking, a study from South Korea underlines that indoor transmission of the novel coronavirus, especially through air, is still a threat. “Good ventilation is a must to ensure coronavirus doesn’t spread within restricted spaces such as temples, schools, restaurants and markets,” a Covid-19 task force member said. As not all temples in the city are well-ventilated, the government opted to allow limited darshan to ensure crowding does not take place. The South Korean study, published in the Journal of Korean Medical Science, found the novel coronavirus was transmitted from an asymptomatic carrier to a healthy individual in five minutes of exposure. While the World Health Organisation has said set six feet is the acceptable social distance, the Korean transmission occurred despite a distance of 20 feet between the two. In October, the American Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention published that, under certain conditions, people farther than six feet apart could become infected by exposure to tiny droplets and particles exhaled by an infected person. Local experts said Covidappropriate behaviour was important if a second wave or surge had to be prevented in the city. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said that unless people adopted Covidappropriate behaviour like wearing masks and frequent handwashing, the drop in temperatures and increasing pollution levels could lead to another surge. The BMC has kept up with fining citizens not wearing masks. “Every day, we fine around 15,000 people not wearing masks,” BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani said. Masks help reduce the volume of virus released when a person coughs or sneezes. The Washington Post recently used an infrared camera to detect exhaled breath as a proxy to show potential transmission risk in various settings. “Those particles may spread farther or linger longer than the visible exhalation plume, which dissipates quickly to a level of concentration the camera can no longer detect,” said the Post. The risk of exposure increases when people are not wearing masks and are close together in an enclosed space or in an area with poor ventilation, said the newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-measures-to-stop-spread-of-virus-in-closed-spaces-a-must-show-studies/articleshow/79701956.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Our roads not fit for deaf people, say officials||CHENNAI: Can the deaf or those who are hard of hearing be allowed to drive a vehicle? Can they be issued a licence? While the Union ministry of road transport and highways, in its letter to all state governments in 2016, quotedtheAIIMS conclusion ‘Driving is primarily a visual function with little inputs from hearing,’ state transport authorities see it as a road risk. The Centre insists authorities consider the driving licence applications of the hearing impaired and says if a person has been rehabilitated with hearing aids and can hear reasonably, there is little reason to prevent them from driving. In TamilNadu ,to get a licence a hearing impaired person must get an audiometry test and if they can hear at least 60 decibels with the hearing aid they are qualified to get one. However, some people who wear hearing aids and certified fit by a doctor said they have been denied a learner’s licence. A few months ago, Naveen Raj Louis of Ayyapanthangal approached the Regional Transport Office in his area to get an application and was reprimanded by an official for ‘wanting to drive despite having hearing impairment’. “I have a two-wheeler that I bought to go to work. But without a license it’s useless,” he said. Naveen said his friend, also a hearing impaired person, was turned away too. “One has to be watchful. That’s why there are rear view mirrors. Let us to take a test at least,” he said. In another incident, Santhana Mohan, who is hard of hearing, had to keep following up to renew his licence. “It took me more than a year to get a new one. The official first denied but then I had to convince him that though I have been driving for more than 20 years, not once was I involved in any accident. Finally he relented,” he said. Vidya Menon, a trainer at v-shesh,, an organisation that works for the welfare of the disabled, had a licence when she was in Australia but when she came here she was denied it despite her hearing ability of more than 60 decibels. Spatial awareness and indicators through mirrors are more important, because while hearing aids can help pick up audio signals like horns and sirens for a few, for others it may amplify the background noise and hinder their concentration, she said. “Many tend to drive while talking on the phone or hearing loud music. But we won’t,” she said. The World Federation for the Deaf says studies have revealed that deaf drivers have been involved in fewer car accidents than the average driver. “Hearing is not a necessary sense for driving a car and denying deaf people driving licence deprives them of the mobility that gives them access to essential services, social opportunities and life in general,” it concluded. Officials are sceptical. “There are many aspects that need to be considered. We do we abide by rules and if an applicant is found fit to drive on our roads, they are not denied a license,” said another official from the RTO Chennai southwest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-our-roads-not-fit-for-deaf-people-say-officials/articleshow/79701971.cms||Aditi R
December 13, 2020||Chennai||12 days after death of daughter, 13, man arrested in Tamil Nadu's Vellore||CHENNAI: Police arrested a 53-year-old man on Saturday, 12 days after he and his wife strangled their 13-year-old daughter at their Taramani residence before the woman hanged herself and he fled with their younger daughter. Police who identified the accused as Geetha Krishnan said he was caught in Vellore while boarding a TNSTC bus with his younger daughter. A court later sent him to jail, while his daughter was handed over to relatives. An officer said Geetha Krishnan and his wife Kalpana, a part-time lecturer at a private college, were struggling during the lockdown. He had borrowed heavily from friends and relatives and the different part-time jobs that he did were not enough to sustain the family, he added. On December 1, Geetha Krishnan told investigators, the couple decided to end their lives and that of their daughters. But the man had to go out and took the younger girl with him. When he returned, he found Kalpana had consumed poison and fed it to Kunali Sri, but that the poison had had no effect. Late in the night, the couple strangled Kunali Sri before Kalpana ended her life by hanging. Geetha Krishna, however, had a change of heart and he left the house the next day with his younger daughter after locking the door. A few of their neighbours saw them going out. On December 9, after several neighbours complained of a foul smell emanated from the house, a police team led by Kotturpuram inspector Ajukumar arrived, broke open the door and sent the bodies to the Government Royapettah Hospital for autopsy. Since leaving home, police said, Geetha Krishnan and his daughter had been roaming all over the state, travelling by bus. They were finally found in Vellore town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/12-days-after-death-of-daughter-13-man-arrested-in-tamil-nadus-vellore/articleshow/79701977.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pulling out all punches for the good fight||Until about a year ago, hardly a day went by without teachers spotting 10-year-old Madhavan dozing off in class. He kept to himself and struggled to answer questions. Around the same time, his friend, 11-year-old Regan lost his father to cancer, following two years of struggle to get him treated in a good hospital. In Vyasarpadi where the boys live, an environment marred by trauma, exploitation and poverty could easily breed entire communities of distrustful children resigned to gang violence and substance abuse. But three young men, Rathna Kumar, Milton Samsunder and Stephen Manigandan, are determined to take from the powerful counterculture that youth in north Chennai have channelised their anger and frustration to create — excellence in sports. After watching the area produce some of the finest carrom, football and cricket players, this trio’s team of 30 boys are following another legacy — boxing. “Every household with an aspiring boxer knows Venkatesan Devarajan, the Arjuna-awardee and Olympian from Perambur who trained boys here, including international champion Senthil Nathan, also a Vyasarpadi boy,” says Milton. What started as an attempt to distract boys such as Regan and Madhavan from their dire circumstances a year ago, has now become a full-fledged revolution to create an army of boxing champs who hit back against the system with dreams of getting railway jobs and playing national and international tournaments. “This is our ticket to freedom,” says Rathna, a local who after being trained by Devarajan, went on to bag medals at university and state levels and play nationally. “I was a below average student. The club spurred me to perform academically too, as I needed that to participate nationally and internationally. We started with four boys and watching them, 26 others joined us,” he says. Later this year, Pa Ranjith’s upcoming film, ‘Sarpatta Parambarai’, may introduce audiences to north Chennai’s boxing tradition, but the legacy dates at least three decades. “I started training at a club in Royapuram in 1985, because my father was a diehard Muhammad Ali fan. I was 11 years old; a puny child who was practising day in and out with professional fighters,” says Devarajan. “There was a time when local matches had to be stopped, as professional bouts led to rivalry outside the ring as well,” he recalls. But in the 1990s, when champions like him won international tournaments and found coveted government jobs, the game was received with renewed vigour among local communities, inspiring families to enrol their kids and leading to the emergence of clubs. Following the pandemic, Milton’s boys who are training to play state -level tournaments have been hit hard, as they struggle with lack of gear and resources. The founding members have now started a crowdfunding campaign on social media to make ends meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-pulling-out-all-punches-for-the-good-fight/articleshow/79701978.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
December 13, 2020||India||Dushyant: Hope stalemate will end in 24-48 hours||CHANDIGARH: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala met Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Piyush Goyal and Narendra Tomar in New Delhi on Saturday and urged them to form consensus on the demands of the agitating farmers. Chautala, under pressure to snap his Jannayak Janta Party’s ties with BJP, said he hoped for the ongoing impasse to end in the next 24 to 48 hours. He said both sides are in favour of coming to an agreement and that is why there had been many rounds of talks. He said on some points both parties have agreed, due to which one by one six rounds of talks have taken place. He said the 24-page proposal sent by the central government promises a written assurance on the guarantee of MSP. Chautala said as deputy CM, he was guaranteeing the MSP and that if there was any threat to the MSP system he would be the first to resign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dushyant-hope-stalemate-will-end-in-24-48-hours/articleshow/79701983.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Linking farm stir with Khalistanis unfortunate: Badal||AMRITSAR: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal alleged on Saturday that the Centre was trying to defame the farmers’ struggle by linking it with separatists, anti-nationals and Khalistanis, reports Yudhvir Rana. “It appears that whosoever disagrees with the central government is dubbed as separatist and anti-national. This is very unfortunate,” he said. The SAD president demanded an apology from the Centre and its ministers for “trying to defame the farmers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/linking-farm-stir-with-khalistanis-unfortunate-badal/articleshow/79701990.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Vijayvargiya: No NRC in Bengal, but CAA implementation soon||THAKURNAGAR (NORTH 24 PARGANAS): BJP national secretary in-charge of Bengal, Kailash Vijayvargiya has clarified that unlike in Assam, there will be no National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise in Bengal. At the matua community’s headquarters at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas district on Saturday, he also announced that the Centre will soon implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in Bengal. Vijayvargiya, after coming out of the private meeting with Matua Mahasangha leader and BJP Bongaon MP Shantanu Thakur, said, “Rules are being framed to implement the CAA. Election or no election, we are committed to granting citizenship to Matuas, Namasudras and refugees who came over to this country from Pakistan and Bangladesh.” Read AlsoProtests in West Bengal against Citizenship ActNEW DELHI: Protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act and implementation of the proposed National Register of Citizens (NRC) in West Bengal continued on Tuesday. The state government led by chief minister Mamata Banerjee opposes the amendment in the Citizenship Act and the NRC. Several parts ofVijarvargiya’s outreach comes a week ahead of Union home minister Amit Shah’s Bengal visit on December 19. Shah is likely to address a public meeting at Thakurnagar. The senior BJP politician spent two hours talking to Thakur, who had publicly expressed his displeasure over the Centre sitting on the citizenship issue.  Thakur reiterated the Matua demand after the meeting. “The Matuas who came over to this part of Bengal after 1971 had been asking for citizenship. It was not permitted under the prevalent laws. There is no point saying that Matuas are already citizens,” the MP said, taking an indirect dig at Trinamool.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vijayvargiya-no-nrc-in-bengal-but-caa-implementation-soon/articleshow/79701998.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 13, 2020||India||Covid-hit now battling a rare fungal infection||AHMEDABAD: The fight for survival has got tougher for coronavirus patients with doctors reporting an alarming incidence of mucormycosis — a rare and serious fungal infection with 50% mortality rate — preying on patients battling Covid-19 or those who recently recovered. Ahmedabad-based retina and ocular trauma surgeon Dr Parth Rana has reported mucormycosis in five men suffering from coronavirus, wherein two patients died while two survived with vision loss. Of them, four were aged between 34 and 47, while the fifth was a 67-year-old from Bhuj who was rushed to Ahmedabad in a critical condition late Friday. All reported enlarged eyeballs that bulged out of their sockets. “All had a history of uncontrolled diabetes and were on strong drugs, including steroids. Their immunity was very low. We believe these conditions led to the rapid spread of the infection,” Dr Rana said, adding that before the pandemic, mucormycosis would take 15-30 days to spread. In these cases, however, it took just two to three days. Leading infectious disease specialist Dr Atul Patel , who was part of a national study on mucormycosis, had earlier red-flagged the growing incidence of the fungal infection in coronavirus patients. “We have recorded 19 cases of mucormycosis in Covid-19 recovered patients in the past three months. This is 4.5 times higher than the burden reported conventionally before the pandemic,” he said. Poor diabetes control, use of high doses of steroids and overall compromised immunity due to immune dysregulation and hyper-inflammation in Covid-19 patients has rendered them more vulnerable to the deadly fungal infection, Dr Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-hit-now-battling-a-rare-fungal-infection/articleshow/79702012.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard that killed kids remains evasive||Vadodara: The leopard that attacked two children within hours in Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal district continues to evade traps set by the forest department. Interestingly, it even devoured a goat kept inside a trap on Thursday and made a mockery of the efforts to trap the rogue animal. The children were killed from late on Tuesday afternoon to the night on the same day. At around 4.30pm, an eight-year-old boy was attacked near the Kantaveda village when he had gone out to graze goats with others. The second incident came to light on Tuesday night when a five-year-old boy playing outside his house was killed by a leopard. Since Wednesday, the forest department set up traps in the area where the incidents were reported. On Thursday, however, a major embarrassment was in store as it came to light in the morning that a goat kept inside one of the traps had been devoured by the leopard. It came to light that the trap did not close and the trap was replaced. Ghoghamba taluka has a healthy population of leopards. Incidents of man-animal conflict have been reported here in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-that-killed-kids-remains-evasive/articleshow/79699496.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Surat||‘8 months’ jail, pay twice the amount of dishonoured cheque’||Surat: A 40-year-old man was convicted in a cheque bounce case and was ordered jail term of eight months besides paying the victim twice the amount he owed within 30 days of the order. According to case details, Mukeshkumar Arjun Prasad owed Rs 60,000 to his friend Yasharaj Maurya from whom he had taken a hand loan in February, 2017. When Yashraj demanded this money back, Mukesh issued a cheque in June 2017 as repayment. The cheque was, however, dishonoured and Maurya lodged a complaint against Prasad under Negotiable Instrument Act. “I am not inclined to extend the benefit of the provisions of the Probation of Offenders Act,1958, because the offence committed is in the nature of an economic offence and the backbone of the nation depends on a healthy economy. Moreover, the real intention behind the enactment of the said offence is to provide quick remedy to the payee or the holder of the cheque, and also to instil a sense of confidence and assurance to the business community,” the court observed. In case of default of payment of Rs 1.2 lakh within the stipulated time, the court has stated that the accused will have to further undergo simple imprisonment of 2 more months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/8-months-jail-pay-twice-the-amount-of-dishonoured-cheque/articleshow/79699540.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Surat||Construction workers to travel free in Surat city buses||SURAT: In a unique initiative, the construction workers in the city will be able to travel in the city buses and BRTS free-of-cost. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the Shramyogi Kalyan Board have jointly launched a scheme where the construction workers have been provided with free yearly passes for travelling from one destination to other destination across the city on Saturday. Official sources said that the Shramyogi Kalyan Board will bear 80% of the travel cost, while the rest will be borne by the SMC. Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who was in the city to dedicate Rs 500 crore worth of development project, handed over bus passes to three beneficiaries on Saturday. Talking with TOI, assistant commissioner (BRTS cell), Kamlesh Naik said, “We have received registration of 978 construction workers under the free transportation scheme. A total of 998 labourers applied for the scheme with the Shramyogi Kalyan Board across the state and Surat has the highest numbers of beneficiaries.” Naik added, “The expenditure per passenger will be Rs 1,400 in a year. The workers will have to show the passes to the conductors of the city buses and that they can travel multiple times from one destination to other destination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/construction-workers-to-travel-free-in-surat-city-buses/articleshow/79698608.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Kanpur||Etawah lion safari cheer: Two cubs born to Jessica||KANPUR: Etawah Lion Safari, which has been tottering in face of serial deaths of cubs for five years, has a big reason to cheer after lioness Jessica delivered two cubs, minutes after midnight on Saturday, taking the cub count to eight and paving way for successful rehabilitation of Asiatic lions. The lioness and her litter are being kept under vigil and cubs’ gender is yet to be ascertained. The first 72 hours are crucial, said safari deputy director, Suresh Chandra Rajput. Earlier, Jessica gave birth to six cubs, Sultan, Shimba, Bahubali, Bharat, Sona and Roopa and is the only lioness from Gir National Park, whose cubs have survived, raising hope of opening of the lion safari as it nears the cub count of 10, as per Central Zoo Authority norms. Jessica, who was brought from Gir in December 2015, mated with Manan three months back and was expected to deliver in December second week, said wildlife officials. One cub of Jessica died in 2019Interestingly, all surviving cubs have been fathered by Manan. Only one cub of Jessica died in 2019 immediately after birth. Safari authorities are taking steps to protect the newborns. “Jessica gave birth to its first cub at 12.08 am and the second at 1:13am. They have been kept in an enclosure and officials are monitor them through CCTV cameras. Jessica is feeding the cubs. Only the safari keeper and veterinary doctors are allowed in enclosure,” said Rajput. Currently, the Etawah Lion Safari boasts of four lions and two lionesses, Jessica and Heer, and six cubs Sultan, Shimba, Bahubali, Bharat, Sona and Roopa, all born from Jessica. Work on setting up the safari began in 2005, but environmental clearances were given in May 2013. Since 2014, the safari has recorded 10 deaths — two lions and three lionesses and five cubs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/etawah-lion-safari-cheer-two-cubs-born-to-jessica/articleshow/79702029.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 13, 2020||India||Covid deaths drop below 400, 3rd time since July 2||NEW DELHI: The number of daily Covid deaths countrywide dropped below 400 on Saturday — only the third time since July 2 when fatalities were reported at this level. Dec 6 and 7 are the previous two days when fewer than 400 deaths were reported. Typically, lower testing done on weekends causes a slight decline in both cases and deaths reported on Sundays and Mondays. Compared to 392 deaths this Saturday, the previous one had seen 482 deaths. In other statistical landmarks, Karnataka crossed the figure of 9 lakh cumulative cases since the beginning of the outbreak, becoming the second state after Maharashtra to have seen this level of cases during the course of the pandemic. Andhra Pradesh, which is the third worst-affected state in terms of cumulative caseload, has reported 8.7 lakh infections so far. Daily Covid cases continued to remain above the 30,000 level for the second consecutive day after taking a brief plunge on Thursday, when they had dropped below that benchmark. This took India’s tally to 98.5 lakh cases and 93.5 lakh recoveries. The outbreak has so far claimed 1.4 lakh lives, while 3.6 lakh cases remain active in the country. If cases continue to grow at this rate, India will become the second country after the US to cross one crore total Covid cases by the end of next week. Kerala topped the list of states for the third consecutive day as it reported 5,949 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-deaths-drop-below-400-3rd-time-since-july-2/articleshow/79702042.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Visva-Bharati nixes Pous Mela in Covid year||BOLPUR: Visva-Bharati University formally announced on Saturday the cancellation of this year’s Pous Mela, the fair on the university grounds that is extremely popular among locals as well as visitors to the university town. The university will, however, go ahead with Pous Utsav, which marks the foundation of Visva-Bharati by Rabindranath Tagore a century ago. The PM, who is the chancellor of the university, has been invited to virtually attend the ceremony along with West Bengal’s governor and chief minister. The university court had in an online meeting on November 10 decided not to organise this year’s Pous Mela due to the pandemic but had agreed to hold the traditional Pous Utsav with Covid protocols in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/visva-bharati-nixes-pous-mela-in-covid-year/articleshow/79702053.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Two foreign firms attend pre-bid meet for Ganga e-way||LUCKNOW: In a major boost to 594-km Ganga Expressway, six bidders, including two from abroad, have shown interest in the project. All six of them attended the pre-bid meeting on Saturday, UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi told TOI. “One bidder was South Korea and another from Malaysia, apart from four Indian firms. And the way they showed interest in promoting the project was very encouraging. It reflects the performance of the Yogi government and its positive image due to which foreign companies are ready to invest in infrastructure projects. The meeting was also attended by the IIDC Alok Kumar. The Yogi government has decided to develop the Ganga Expressway between Meerut and Prayagraj on the PPP model while most of the expressway including the Agra-Lucknow and Purvanchal are funded by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-two-foreign-firms-attend-pre-bid-meet-for-ganga-e-way/articleshow/79702043.cms||---
December 13, 2020||India||Stop relying on China for EV parts: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Union road transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari has urged domestic industry to end dependence on electric vehicle components, including lithium-ion batteries and magnets sourced from China, and find ways to manufacture these in the country without compromising on quality. Currently, China is the only country that manufactures NdFeB magnet, which is an integral component for manufacturing of the electric vehicle. In his addresses at a FICCI summit and AIMA, Gadkari appealed to the industry to find a solution to this and to see that India doesn’t need to depend on China. Gadkari also said the government has sanctioned Rs 3 lakh crore for medium and small scale enterprises and has decided to provide 15% of the equity to successful MSMEs and those with a good record of GST and income tax and bank turnover to facilitate them to go raise funds in the capital market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stop-relying-on-china-for-ev-parts-nitin-gadkari/articleshow/79702062.cms||---
December 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three men rape 22-year-old waiting at Sakur Basti railway platform||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old woman waiting on a platform at Shakur Basti railway station was dragged to an isolated place within the station premises and was gang-raped by three unidentified men on Thursday night. Police have formed multiple teams to arrest the accused. The victim, who lives with her family close to the railway station, had left her home on Thursday after an argument with her family members and had gone to the station where she was sitting on a platform. "As told by the complainant, it was then that the three men reached there and approached her seeing her sitting alone. The men started to touch her inappropriately and when she resisted, they caught her and dragged her to the bushes in an isolated corner of the railway station," said a senior police officer. The three men then raped her in turns and also threatened her with dire consequences if she raised an alarm or reported the matter to the police. After the men left, the woman reached home and informed her family members about it. Police were then informed and the woman was sent for a medical examination. After the sexual assault was confirmed, a case of gangrape was registered based on her complaint. "CCTV footage are being checked to identify and arrest them," the officer said. According to Delhi Police's latest data on crimes against women, 1,241 rape cases were reported this year till September 30 compared with 1,723 cases in the corresponding period of year 2019. 1,527 cases of molestation of women were reported in 2020 as against 2,276 cases last year. An analysis of rape cases showed that accused were known to the victim in 97.7% cases while rape by strangers stood at 2.3%. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-three-men-rape-22-year-old-waiting-at-sakur-basti-railway-platform/articleshow/79702064.cms||---
December 13, 2020||World||Report: UK aims to regulate social media companies over content removal||The British government will announce plans for a new law next week under which social media companies will have a duty to be impartial and be barred from “arbitrarily” removing comments because they are controversial, Times newspaper reported. UK ministers will announce plans on Tuesday for a statutory duty of care, which will be enforced by Ofcom, the broadcasting regulator, the newspaper reported, without citing a source. Firms that fail to meet the obligations may face multimillion-pound fines or be blocked from operating in Britain, according to the report. The newspaper cited a source as saying that the British government was concerned that social media companies were removing legitimate content on grounds that it was controversial rather than because it was harmful or inaccurate. A government representative was not immediately available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/report-uk-aims-to-regulate-social-media-companies-over-content-removal/articleshow/79702086.cms||---
