December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Miscreants befriend men on Facebook, extort money with video call clips||BENGALURU: Five cases of miscreants, including women, extorting money from men after luring them into stripping during video calls were reported at CEN crime police stations across the city in the last one month. The victims included a police inspector. According to police, the gangsters pose as women to befriend men on Facebook and exchange WhatsApp numbers. They then begin chatting and slowly shift to video calls where the men are made to strip. The recorded footage is later used to blackmail them. The gang gets its female members to speak during the calls. Whitefield CEN crime police registered a case on December 10 based on a complaint by Ravi (name changed), 31. He alleged that a woman—Shanthi— sent him a friend request on Facebook on December 9 and he accepted it. “She asked me to share my WhatsApp number and I received a video call. Later, she sent me a video recording of the call and also its screenshot. She demanded that I pay her the money through a digital payment wallet. I transferred Rs 4,900, but she demanded more money. Later, I learnt that a few of my friends and relatives had received the video and the screenshot of our video conversation,” he told police. Central CEN crime police registered a similar case on December 9, based on a complaint by Deva (name changed), a 39-year-old police inspector on a non-executive assignment. Deva received a video call at 8.30pm on December 8 from an unknown number. “A woman showed a porn video on the call. Later, she sent a screenshot of the video call and demanded Rs 11,000 if I didn’t want her to upload or send the same to my Facebook friends,” he alleged. Romantic chats, video calls A police officer said the miscreants zero in on their target on Facebook to send requests. “They start chatting on Messenger and ask the men permission to make a video call. A woman appearing on the screen will start stripping and later ask the men to remove their clothes. The gang records the video call and uses it to extort money,” he added. As they demand little money initially, some victims end up paying. Police suspect many victims may not have reported similar incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/miscreants-befriend-men-on-fb-extort-money-with-video-call-clips/articleshow/79710527.cms||Christian Mathew Philip
December 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Sanskrit, Kannada scholar Vidyavachaspati Bannanje Govindacharya dies at 84||MANGALURU: Sanskrit and Kannada scholar Vidyavachaspati Bannanje Govindacharya, 84, passed away at his residence in Ambalpady, Udupi, due to age-related ailments on Sunday. Govindacharya breathed his last at 11am while attending the ritual of his youngest son, who died a few days ago. “He was unwell for the past four days. Upset over the death of my brother, he had not slept for two days. On doctors’ advice, we were preparing to shift him to a hospital when he passed away,” his son Vinaya Bhushana Acharya said. Besides sons, the scholar has four daughters. He had done extensive research on Madhwa philosophy, besides authoring over 100 books and 4,000 pages in Sanskrit on the subject. He had written commentaries on Vedas, Upanishad, Mahabharata, Ramayana, Bhagavata and Puranas. He was awarded Padma Shri in 2009. He had written screenplay for films ‘Bhagavad Gita’, ‘Adi Shankaracharya’ and ‘Madhvacharya’. His online discourses were followed by many enthusiasts from across the world. Several scholars have stayed at his home for months to learn Sanskrit. Govindacharya was born on August 3, 1936, in a Madhwa Shivalli family. His father was a well-known scholar and a teacher to matadhipathis of Ashta Mutts. “Govindacharya’s life took a spiritual turn after his father asked him to look for answers from within. He is probably the only scholar in recent years who had gone through the manuscripts of Ashta Mutts of Udupi for which he was called the ‘encyclopaedia of manuscripts’,” one of his followers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sanskrit-kannada-scholar-govindacharya-dies-at-84/articleshow/79710526.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Christ university bags four awards||BENGALURU: Christ deemed-to-be university bagged four prestigious awards at the first Chartered Institute of Management Accountants’ (CIMA, UK) CIMA Excellence Awards. CIMA is a professional body of management accountants. The university has won the Asia Pacific Champion 2020, CIMA Prize-Winner Excellence Award, CIMA Global Excellence Award and the CGMA Campus of the Year Award. The CIMA Prize-Winner Excellence Award recognises university partners with top-performing CIMA students in case study exams, while the CIMA Global Excellence Award recognises university partners that achieved the highest pass rates for CIMA exams. Fr Abraham VM, vice-chancellor, said: “The news is gratifying and the credit goes to our brilliant and committed students. The team of faculty members, who constantly guided and clarified students’ doubts, deserves equal accolades.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/christ-varsity-bags-four-awards/articleshow/79710528.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Airport passengers struggle to find app-based cabs||BENGALURU: Passengers travelling to and from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) have been facing severe hardships due to the ongoing transport employees’ strike. Many flyers say there is a shortage of cabs at the airport due to rise in demand within city limits because of the strike called by BMTC.  Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) has said: “BMTC bus service to and from airport is not operational due to the ongoing transport strike. Please plan your travel to the airport accordingly.” “As per an update from BMTC, the buses are not operational. For information on taxis from the city to the airport, please contact the operators KSTDC (08044664466), Meru (08044224422), Mega Cabs (08047474747), Ola (App) & Uber (App) directly for more information,” it said. With serpentine queues at KIA’s cab-boarding zones, many passengers have taken to social media to vent their anger. Santosh Singh, a passenger who reached KIA, tweeted: “BMTC strike has people standing in queues for over 90 mins at the airport to get an airport taxi. No @Olacabs or @Uber. There is definitely scope for new entrants in this space.” Sudhir Keshavan, a netizen, wrote on Twitter: “This is one reason we never wanted the Airport so far from the city. There is a BMTC strike. No @Uber No @Olacabs. Only available cab is #airporttaxi. What’s the contingency plan dear @BLRAirport See the queue..Commuter suffering (sic)”. BMTC officials said they operated few Vayu Vajra services with police protection, but majority of the services were cancelled due to the strike. While BMTC Vayu Vajra fare from Majestic to KIA is Rs 235 per ticket, a cab ride costs around Rs 800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/airport-passengers-struggle-to-find-app-based-cabs/articleshow/79710532.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Monday blues: Bengaluru braces for commuting chaos as buses continue to stay off roads||BENGALURU: Commuters are likely to face severe hardship on Monday as transport employees are firm on their resolve to continue their protest on the fourth day. In Bengaluru, BMTC’s daily ridership is now nearly 19 lakh. With a majority of buses not operational, commuters, particularly office-goers, essential staff, domestic workers and dailywage employees will have to depend on private vehicles, Namma Metro, autorickshaws, app-based cabs and scooter rental firms. Though a majority of professionals, particularly techies, are working from home, many employees, especially those working in essential sectors, continue to report for duty at their work places. The final-year college students need to attend classes and their commute has also been affected. Though transport minister Laxman Savadi said there are plans to hire private vehicles and run them as per government-fixed fares, it is still unclear how many buses will be rolled out. KT Rajshekhar of Bus Operator Confederation of India, said: “We’re ready to operate buses as per demand .” S Nataraj Sharma, general secretary of Karnataka State Travel Operators Association, said: “We’ve decided to operate only during the peak hours on long-distance inter-city routes. We’ll operate on intra-city BMTC routes only if the government hires and pays us. So far they have not approached us.”  Veena S, a passenger in Koramangala, said: “We’ve been struggling due to the suspension of bus services. Auto drivers are fleecing us.”  KSRTC and BMTC operated skeletal services under police protection. Only 93 of 5,000 buses were on the roads in Bengaluru till 6pm. KSRTC operated 113 of 5,500 buses across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/monday-blues-bluru-braces-for-commuting-chaos-as-buses-continue-to-stay-off-roads/articleshow/79710534.cms||Christian Mathew Philip
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Flow arts on Church Street gets many curious||BENGALURU: On Sunday between 3pm and 7pm, IndieFlow, a city-based flow arts movement organisation, set up shop at Church Street as part of the Clean Air Street initiative to get curious Bengalureans dabble in a bit of flow arts like poi, juggling and hula hooping. The jam session, as co-founder of IndieFlow Sarena Beri chooses to describe the event, was an attempt to get people to try flow arts as well as build a sense of community — a much needed thing this year. “We were invited to take part in the initiative by the organisers and we intend to hold these sessions once a month till February 2021, when Clean Air Street will be held,” said Beri, a trained lawyer by qualification. Beri and co-founder Rohan ‘Yakobeh’ Jacob have hosted informal jams at Cubbon Park since 2017, where participants would just come, pick up any prop that they wanted to try, from dapo to wands, hoops and juggling balls, and learn a new form of flow art. “Bengaluru has the biggest movement arts community. In 2017 and 2018, the flow arts’ scene in the city boomed and we had people coming to Cubbon Park on Sunday mornings to take part in our sessions. It had become an excuse for them to meet new people and learn something that was beneficial than just getting drunk on the weekends.”  The pandemic,, Beri admits has affected the organisation’s vision of spreading the popularity of flow arts movement. With public meetups out of the question and Cubbon Park shut for any group activities, Beri said that the Clean Air Street initiative was a good way for IndieFlow to make more Bengalureans aware of flow arts. Rounding up how the jam went on Sunday, Beri said, “We had a lot of people turning up for it. In addition to people from the flow arts community, we had youngsters and parents with kids taking part. A lot of the participants are looking forward to our next session next month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/flow-arts-on-church-street-gets-many-curious/articleshow/79710546.cms||Mahalakshmi P
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BMRCL spares apartment complex||BENGALURU: In a relief to more than 100 residents of Royal Heritage Apartment in KR Puram, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited has decided not to demolish the building. In May, BMRCL had inspected the four-storey apartment complex and planned to demolish a part of it for road widening at Tin Factory on Old Madras Road. The road widening was part of the work to decongest Tin Factory junction through which three Metro lines — Byappanahalli-Whitefield, Outer Ring Road-Kempegowda International Airport and depot entry line — are slated to pass. Residents of the apartment constructed in 2000 were worried that BMRCL’s plan to bring down the building during the pandemic would render them homeless. “It’s a great relief to know they have scrapped the plan. There are several families, including senior citizens, staying in this apartment and it will be difficult even if they demolish a part of the building as it will be affect the safety of the entire structure,” said a resident. BMRCL officials confirmed the building won’t be razed. “We had planned to demolish 10 flats in the complex for road widening. The plan was to make the existing three-lane stretch into five. But now we have decided to add only one lane,” said a senior BMRCL official. He said they have completed most of the land acquisition at Tin Factory. “We are waiting for forest department clearance to remove 91 trees from Benniganahalli Lake bund area to create a service lane to divert traffic. Otherwise motorists using the stretch will have a tough time due to Metro work,” he said. Work starts after 2 yearsMeanwhile, work at Jyothipura (Benniganahalli), near Tin Factory, resumed recently following a delay of more than two years. “Metro construction barricades are reducing road width. It will be chaos on this stretch if they delay the service road on the tank bund,” said Rajesh S, a commuter on Old Madras Road. While work on the Seetharampalya (Visvesvaraya Industrial Area)-Whitefield section is progressing fast, land acquisition issues have delayed Byappanahalli-Whitefield corridor. BMRCL officials said since Benniganahalli station may get delayed, they are planning to operate trains between Whitefield and Byappanahalli via KR Puram without the station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmrcl-spares-apartment-complex/articleshow/79710554.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Theft at actor Boman Irani cousin’s house; maid, son held||BENGALURU: East division police have arrested a woman and her son for allegedly stealing cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 1 crore from the house Khursheed Irani, a resident of Embassy Crown apartment on Abbas Ali Road. Khursheed is Bollywood actor Boman Irani’s cousin. Mary Alice, 65, and her son Michael Vincent, 22, of KG Halli are in police custody and are being interrogated. According to the complaint filed by Khursheed, 59, seven gold biscuits weighing 700 grams, Rs 85 lakh cash and US $15,000 (Rs 11 lakh) were stolen from the house. Though the theft had been happening for the past three years, Irani noticed it only in December. According to police, Alice had been working at Irani’s house as domestic help for nearly 25 years and her son Vincent was pursuing an animation course. He had suffered huge losses in Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket betting and since then, he and his mother began stealing bit by bit. Irani noticed gold biscuits and cash missing from the safe, where he had kept them in March and suspected the involvement of Alice. Alice, meanwhile, continued to work so that the needle of suspicion didn’t turn at her. However, police found out that Vincent and Alice’s lifestyle had changed recently. Vincent was caught when he was attempting to sell the stolen gold biscuits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/theft-at-actor-boman-irani-cousins-house-maid-son-held/articleshow/79710560.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||This is not just any shawl, but my mom’s wedding shawl: Tnusree Chakraborty||There is an unmistakable nip in the air and Kolkatans have already started digging out their best jackets and shawls from the closets to keep the chill at bay. When CT asked a few Tolly celebs about their favourite winter wear, some flaunted their heirloom shawls while others proudly showed us their first buy with the money they earned. Here's what Tnusree Chakraborty wanted to share with us,"Red is an auspicious colour and this particular red shawl is very close to my heart. It belongs to my mother. This is not just any shawl, but her wedding shawl. So, I really feel happy when I wear this. It looks quite traditional, but I have often teamed it up with both salwar suits and denim and it always looked great on me."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/this-is-not-just-any-shawl-but-my-moms-wedding-shawl-tnusree/articleshow/79711956.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Toyota unit’s labour row resolved||BENGALURU: The state government has helped resolve a row involving workers at the Toyota Kirloskar factory in Bidadi, Ramanagara district, labour minister Shivaram Hebbar said on Sunday. Production at the unit had halted after a strike over payment issues and a companyenforced lockout. “We have reached a breakthrough in the matter. As many as 1,200 employees will be able to restart their work at the factory. We are sure that in the next one week, the factory will resume operations,” Hebbar said. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who is also Ramanagara district in-charge, said issues such as overtime hours, payment and breaks had been sorted out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/toyota-bidadi-plant-to-resume-ops-min/articleshow/79712284.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Why Tamil Nadu with far smaller population will get more doses than Bihar||As India prepares for mass vaccination against Covid once approvals come through, states with more people in the 50 plus age group and with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension are expected to get larger allocations (besides, of course, frontline healthcare workers, essential staff, and police and defence personnel). So Tamil Nadu should receive more doses of the vaccine than Bihar, Madhya Pradesh or Rajasthan despite being less populous. Bihar’s projected population of 12.3 crore is about 60% larger than TN’s 7.6 crore, but only 1.8 crore of its people are 50 years and above, compared with the latter’s 2 crore. States with younger populations, such as Bihar, also have a smaller proportion of people affected by co-morbidities. In Kerala, on the other hand, almost 30% of the population – roughly 1 crore people – is aged over 50 years with a high prevalence of diabetes and hypertension, making it the state with the highest percentage of people in the priority category. The government is preparing to vaccinate about 19.5% of the population making up the 50 plus age group. This will mean about 26.5 crore people, besides the 1 crore health staff and 4 crore diabetics in the below-50 age group. The distribution of Covid vaccines will, therefore, be weighted towards states with older populations. However, Uttar Pradesh, where only 15% of the people are aged over 50, will still get the largest share of vaccines due to the sheer size of its population. Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, in that order, are next in terms of their 50-plus population. However, Kerala tops the list of states by the percentage of population needing vaccination. Recently released data from the National Family Health Survey of 2019-20 for 17 states and 5 union territories shows Kerala has the highest proportion of people with diabetes (25.3%) and hypertension (13.7%). While 3.6 crore people are eligible for priority vaccination in UP, Maharashtra follows with 22% of its population, or 2.7 crore people, over the age of 50 years. It also has a high proportion of persons with diabetes and hypertension, which would add to the numbers who need to be vaccinated. As the severity of Covid increases with co-morbidities like hypertension and diabetes, the Centre has decided to vaccinate even those below 50 years who suffer from these conditions. A recently published paper based on NFHS 201516 data estimates that about 6.5% of adults below 50 years have diabetes. As the new National Family Health Survey data for major states like UP, MP, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Punjab, Haryana and Chhattisgarh is yet to be released, the numbers of diabetics and hypertensives there is not known. Watch Why Tamil Nadu might get more vaccine doses than Bihar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-tamil-nadu-with-far-smaller-population-will-get-more-doses-than-bihar/articleshow/79712253.cms||Atul Thakur
December 14, 2020||India||Farmer stir: Now, RSS affiliate wants legal guarantee for MSP||NEW DELHI: Farmers protesting against the newly-enacted agri laws on Sunday received support from RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) over their demand for a legal guarantee to ensure foodgrain purchase at minimum support price (MSP). This is the second RSS-linked body after BKS to have lent support to protesting farmers on the MSP issue. Unlike the agitating farm unions, though, these two bodies don’t want the laws repealed. The SJM passed a resolution at its annual convention on virtual platforms suggesting certain amendments, including a provision to make purchases below MSP illegal. The Centre has, however, said it is ready to give a written assurance on the “continuation” of MSP. Read Also10,000 more to join, Delhi on edge over mega farmers protestThe Singhu border in Delhi is bracing for the biggest logjam of the farm agitation so far on Monday, with 10,000 more protesters expected to join those already at the protest site amid signals from Rajasthan that hordes of farmers there are straining at the leash to proceed to the capital. There isThe SJM co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan told TOI that a legal guarantee on MSP could be given either through amending the existing farm law on agri markets or through a new legislation. Follow TOI's live for latest updates on farmers protest“We believe that legal guarantee to MSP will be not only important for farmers’ well-being but also crucial for the country’s food security. It will not increase inflation as certain economists have argued,” Mahajan said, adding, “We have examples of pulses whose procurement at higher MSP encouraged farmers to produce more, reducing the price for consumers and also reducing the country’s import bill. So, legally guaranteed MSP will be a win-win situation.” Experts, however, argue that the idea behind the reforms is to encourage private investment and trade, and official agencies cannot in any case procure all crops. The SJM also suggested establishment of ‘farmer courts’ on the lines of ‘consumer courts’ instead of empowering SDMs to resolve disputes arising from contract farming. Though the government in its draft proposal shared with farm unions has agreed to allow dispute resolution through an appeal mechanism in civil court, both SJM and BKS suggested a separate court to deal with farming issues. The SJM’s resolution said the government’s intention in bringing new agricultural laws was good but some amendments were needed to overcome the drawbacks, allaying “fears and doubts” among farmers. The laws look to provide option to farmers to sell their produce outside APMC regulated ‘mandis’, encourage contract farming and set higher bar for imposing stock limits on essential farm commodities. Referring to the law on Agri market on sales outside ‘mandis’, SJM said it would be appropriate that the “MSP is guaranteed to the farmer and purchases below the MSP are declared illegal”, prohibiting private parties and government agencies to buy at less than MSP. Both SJM and BKS also demanded compulsory registration of all procurer companies and traders – a suggestion which the Centre has already agreed to. The SJM's other demands include payment to farmers in a staggered manner (3-4 instalments) under 'contract farming' so that farmers have enough money in hand to do their farming operations right from the stage of sowing. Referring to the law on contract farming which defines a farmer as a person "who engages in the production of farmers' produce by himself or by a hired labour", the SJM said the definition of farmer is such that companies will now also be included. “It will not be appropriate. The SJM firmly believes that a definition of farmer should include only the farmer who engages himself/herself in farming, not companies,” said the resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-stir-now-rss-affiliate-wants-legal-guarantee-for-msp/articleshow/79712421.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 14, 2020||Business||Tatas bid for Air India, 67 years after exit||NEW DELHI/ MUMBAI: Tata Group, India’s largest conglomerate, is believed to have submitted an expression of interest for the beleaguered national carrier Air India over the weekend. It is learned that the vehicle used to file the interest in AI is AirAsia India, where Tata Sons has a significant majority stake. A group of 200 Air India employees too is expected to place an expression of interest, the deadline for which is Monday 5pm. The group claims to have a financial investor onboard. Ajay Singh of SpiceJet too is eyeing AI but the domestic carrier declined to comment. Unlike May 2018 when the first attempt to sell AI ended with no suitors, this time around, there are multiple interests. Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who last year said that AI will have to shut down if not privatised, stated on Sunday: “It (AI divestment) is a confidential procedure. The department concerned (DIPAM) will comment at the appropriate time.” Though Tata Sons runs a premier full-service carrier, Vistara, in partnership with Singapore Airlines, it decided to route its AI interest through budget carrier AirAsia India. Singapore Airlines was not keen in participating in the privatisation programme of the already distressed AI as it would only add to Vistara’s and its own financial troubles. The Southeast Asian company is in the midst of raising liquidity after it posted its biggest quarterly loss due to a plunge in travel demand because of coronavirus. Meanwhile, AI’s debt-cum-liabilities’ combined burden is almost Rs 90,000 crore. Sources said that since AirAsia India was formed before Vistara, the former’s charter allows it to enter the full-service business. Recently, Tata Sons increased its stake in AirAsia India from 51% after Malaysian partner expressed its inability to infuse fresh funds into the joint venture due to financial troubles in its home country. The Tata Group—which founded AI as Tata Airlines in October 1932—is being seen as the most likely winner, according to industry watchers. The government took control of AI in 1953. The government has this time substantially sweetened the sale terms for AI. It has offered for sale its 100% stake in AI and AI Express — instead of 76% in the first attempt — and the entire 50% it owns in ground handling joint venture AI-SATS. Also, potential buyers will now bid on an enterprise value (EV) basis. This means instead of being required to take on a pre-fixed level of Rs 23,000 crore debt of the airline, they will now quote an EV based on their estimate of the combined value of AI’s equity and debt. Winning bidders will be decided on who quotes the highest EV value and at least 15% of this value will need to be paid in cash while the rest can be taken on as debt. Bidders had sought clarification from the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) regarding the changes. One of them, citing huge cash requirements for things like upgradation of the AI fleet and VRS scheme, suggested the government sell AI without asking for any upfront cash payment. Watch Air India divestment: Tatas bid for national carrier, 67 years after exit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-bid-for-air-india-67-years-after-exit/articleshow/79712441.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 14, 2020||India||Improved home-grown Arjun tanks still await Army order||NEW DELHI:`Arjun’ may have ultimately vanquished `Bhishma’ in the battlefield of Kurukshetra, but the Army still does not have faith in the former. The 13-lakh force continues to drag its feet in approving the long-pending order for 118 `improved’ Arjun Mark-1A main-battle tanks. The DRDO, however, is confident that the Rs 6,400 crore indent to produce the indigenous tanks will be placed on the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF) at Avadi before this fiscal ends on March 31. The mood is buoyant after PM Narendra Modi took a ride on the Arjun in Jaisalmer last month. “The Mark-1A tanks have better firepower, mobility, protection and endurance than the first 124 Arjuns inducted by the Army over a decade ago. As per HVF, each Mark-1A tank will cost Rs 54 crore,” said a defence scientist. But the Army is not convinced yet. The force continues to bank upon the Russian-origin T-90S tanks, christened `Bhishma’, for its “shock and awe” capabilities on the western front. In November 2019, another Rs 20,000 crore indent was placed on HVF for 464 more upgraded T-90S tanks to add to the 1,193 such tanks already inducted. After the first 657 T-90S tanks were imported for Rs 8,525 crore from 2001 onwards, the next 1,000 are being licensed produced by HVF with Russian kits. Arjun has been a long running feud between the Army and DRDO. The force contends the “extra-heavy” Arjun Mark-1 tanks (62.5-tonne as compared to 46.5-tonne T-90S tank) is plagued by “maintenance, sustenance and ammunition issues”. The DRDO, however, says “all maintenance, spares and other issues” have now been resolved for the first 124 tanks. Moreover, there are 14 major and 58 minor “improvements” or capability-enhancements on the Mark-1A tanks to meet the Army’s requirements. “Validation trials of Arjun Mark-1A tanks, which were driven over 6,000-km, were successfully completed in December 2018. They met all technical requirements. The only requirement left is the cannon-launched guided missile (CLGM),” said a scientist. “The Israeli Lahat CLGM did not meet the Army’s specification for lower-range fire below 1.5-km, though it could hit targets between 2 to 5 km away. An indigenous CLGM has already been tested twice…it can later be fitted on the Mark-1A tanks,” he added. But a senior Army officer said the Arjun Mark-1A tank was still a work in progress. “While substantive issues have been addressed, additional upgrades or modifications are required in view of technology advances. The case for procurement of Arjun Mark-1A tanks is under active consideration and will be progressed accordingly,” he added. As per MoD officials, HVF has promised to produce the first five Arjun Mark-1A tanks within 30 months of the indent being placed. “Once approved after tests by the Army, HVF will deliver 30 tanks per year,” said an official. Despite the capability enhancements adding another six tonne weight to the Arjun Mark-1A, mainly due to the explosive reactive armour and mine-plough, the tank’s cross-country speed in deserts remains the same at 40 kmph. DRDO is keeping its fingers crossed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/improved-home-grown-arjun-tanks-still-await-army-order/articleshow/79712460.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 14, 2020||Business||‘No threat from Covid claims to balance sheets’||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com New India Assurance is probably the only large general insurer that grew in the first quarter when the industry posted a decline. In an interview with TOI, New India Assurance chairman Atul Sahai says investments in technology over the years have stood the company in good stead... With the pandemic still on, how do you get into full-scale operations? Senior employees are attending office full-time, while junior staffers are coming on alternate days. Key employees have been provided access to the company’s network. Business procurement and renewals are continuing as usual. With no reinsurance, how will you protect the balance sheet if Covid claims continue? The proportion of infected people requiring major medical intervention is gradually rising, though a majority of them still get cured on their own. Covid claims have not yet reached a scale to threaten the balance sheets of insurers. Such claims, to an extent, are offset by postponement of surgeries, which form a large portion of claims. I am sure reinsurers will support direct insurers in designing more covers to cope with the situation. Creating a pandemic pool, like terrorism or nuclear ones, by using a small percentage of health premium from all general insurers, is another option worth evaluating. How can affordability be maintained in health insurance? We look at the long-term expected frequency and severity. Pandemic claims will play a part in pricing going forward. However, I don’t expect it to make the products unaffordable. There have not been more than 8-10 pandemics over the last 100 years. The issue of affordability can be addressed with the standardisation of pricing for procedures at hospitals. We are trying to do this by expanding our preferred provider network. Do you see New India Assurance becoming a digital company? What gaps need to be filled? We have doubled our turnover in five years with fewer staff because of our digital capabilities. Claims below Rs 50,000 could soon see an automatic settlement. Even appointment of surveyors and lawyers can be automated. How did you adapt to the new normal? Covid has made companies realise the full potential of digital initiatives. Customers are also becoming tech-savvy. The portal access that we offered to intermediaries has seen an increased offtake. Work from home has been formalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-threat-from-covid-claims-to-balance-sheets/articleshow/79651064.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Mushrif feels post-poll alliance is better||Kolhapur: Senior functionaries of the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP want to the contest the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) election as the Maha Vikas Aghadi, revealed NCP leader and minister Hasan Mushrif. He added that local leaders, however, feel a post-poll alliance is more suitable. Mushrif pointed out all three parties have the strength of party workers to contest the polls independently. “The seniors want all the three parties to contest as an alliance. If we contest as the MVA, the BJP would be defeated. Their candidates will lose election deposit on all seats. However, locally, it is not suitable. We can have a post-poll alliance. NCP can become the single largest party. We will try to convince our party leadership. However, they will be taking a final call.” The KMC elections are expected to take place in a few months from now. The elections for other civic bodies in the state too are pending and the decision to go solo or have a pre-poll alliance cannot be taken for one civic body. However, the seat-sharing formula will be a headache for the party leaders. The KMC has 81 seats. Of them, Congress had won on 25, NCP 15 and Shiv Sena four seats. Congress had the support of four independents. Even without Sena’s support, the Congress-NCP reached the halfway mark of 41. Sena leaders are trying to gain more seats now. Sanjay Pawar, the district president of the Sena, said, “We are soon going to start Misal-pe-Charcha programme in 40 wards. Sena will contest in all 81 wards. Congress and NCP had taken us for granted. But we campaigned for their win because of orders from our leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/mushrif-feels-post-poll-alliance-is-better/articleshow/79709858.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Business||Govt scheme to reduce need for corp loan recast||Mumbai: Bankers expect restructuring requests from corporates to drop drastically because of the extension of the ‘emergency credit line guarantee scheme’ which enables banks to give more money to stressed companies. The RBI on Saturday clarified that to be eligible for restructuring, a borrower has to merely submit a request to the lending institution before the December 31 deadline. It added that there is no need to finalise a resolution plan before the deadline. However, banks say that many large corporates may decide not to restructure despite this leeway. Under the scheme, corporates can get a top-up loan up to a fifth of their dues, which would be guaranteed by the government. The additional loan can be repaid in five years, including a one-year moratorium on principal repayment. This is enough to meet their fund requirements, which includes what they need for repaying dues. The scheme, originally meant for small businesses, was amended on November 26 to have the turnover limit removed and its duration extended till March 31. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday reviewed the disbursements under the scheme. Banks have informed that additional credit of Rs 2.1 lakh crore has been sanctioned to 80.9 lakh borrowers, while Rs 1.6 lakh crore has been disbursed to 40.5 lakh borrowers. This indicates that banks have enough headroom to double the existing loans under the scheme. The finance ministry has also indicated that it is willing to increase the limits. Crisil has estimated cash-flow hit to companies that it rates to be in the regions of 17%. This translates to an additional funding requirement of Rs 11,000 crore. “Borrowing under the ECLGS 2.0 scheme can provide additional liquidity equal to 3.5 times the cash-flow contraction for the sample set. This will help them overcome temporary liquidity challenges. Also, the one-year moratorium available under the scheme will provide further room for companies to stabilise their cash flows,” said Subodh Rai, senior director, Crisil Ratings. According to Crisil, the scheme will particularly benefit companies in low-resilience sectors such as hotels, gems and jewellery, and travel as their accruals are expected to fall sharper at 23% this fiscal. For these sectors, the additional liquidity afforded by the scheme will be much higher at almost 10 times of cash flow decline. The fact that various schemes have improved the liquidity position of businesses is reflected in their improved servicing of debt. For instance, NBFCs have repaid Rs 28,644 crore worth loans in the first seven months of the fiscal by raising longer-term funds through debt instruments under government schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-scheme-to-reduce-need-for-corp-loan-recast/articleshow/79712062.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s infant mortality rate improves slightly||PATNA: Mortality rate among infants and those under five years of age has slightly improved in the state over the last four years, as per the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS) 2019-20, which contains detailed information on population, health and nutrition. The report, released by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday, said neonatal mortality rate (NNMR) per 1,000 live births has decreased from 36.7% in 2015-16 to 35.2% in 2019-20 in Bihar. In urban areas of the state, about 29.5% NNMR was registered in 2019-20 and 35.2% in rural areas. The infant mortality rate (IMR) has decreased from 48.1% to 46.8%, while the under-five mortality rate (U5MR) has decreased from 58.1 to 56.4%. The survey findings indicate that 43.1% IMR was recorded in urban as against 47.3% in rural parts of the state. While 50% U5MR was registered in urban Bihar, the figure stood at 57.4% in rural areas. At the same time, some parameters of malnutrition indicators have showed a poor picture in the state in the last four years. The NFHS-5 data showed a rise in the percentage of under-five children who are wasted, severely wasted and overweight. On the other hand, number of children under 5 years who are underweight and stunted has reduced in the state. The health experts opined that wasting or low weight for height is a strong predictor of mortality among children under five, which is usually the result of acute food shortage or disease. Dr Syed Hubbe Ali, health specialist in United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), Bihar said anaemia is the main factor behind the poor nutritional indicators in Bihar. “Anaemia during pregnancy increases the chances of foetal deaths, abnormalities, pre-term and underweight babies. Anaemic mother gives birth to an anaemic child, which severely affects cognitive performance of the child,” he said. “The state government guideline says that the child and mother should get the iron- deficiency tablet for six months, if both are anaemic. However, there is not much uptake of this. In our findings, we have seen that there is about 70% availability of iron folic acid tablet at village health, sanitation and nutrition sites. Besides, many women who received the medicine did not consume it,” Dr Ali said. He added, “Anaemia Mukt Bharat campaign started in Bihar in August 2018 and its results would be visible soon. However, proper monitoring is important for better results.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-infant-mortality-rate-improves-slightly/articleshow/79710077.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 14, 2020||Patna||HAM(S) decides to contest Bengal polls||PATNA: Buoyed by its good performance in the recently concluded Bihar elections, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) has decided to contest assembly polls in West Bengal next year. The HAM(S), an NDA partner, had won four assembly seats in Bihar. Announcing this here on Sunday, HAM (S) national secretary general Santosh Kumar Suman said the party has not yet finalised the number of seats it would contest in West Bengal. HAM (S) chief and former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi said he couldn’t implement many of his plans for the welfare of Dalits and poor as CM because his tenure in the office was short. “I wanted to give Rs 5,000 as unemployment allowance, free electricity to poor farmers, 5 decimal land for housing and one acre of land for farming,” he added. Manjhi was also critical of the role of money, muscle power, caste and religion in elections. “I consider all poor people, irrespective of their caste and creed, as my family members,” he added. The former CM batted for free education to girls from primary to postgraduate for real empowerment of women. “If the government accepts our demand, we will be thankful to it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-decides-to-contest-bengal-polls/articleshow/79709830.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 14, 2020||Patna||Swachh Survekshan: NDA ranked Patna’s cleanest school||PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has announced the results for ‘Swachhta Ranking’ programme under which the cleanliness in various government and private institutions was judged. Patna mayor Sita Sahu, municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma and additional municipal commissioner Devendra Prasad Tiwari jointly released the results on Sunday. The cleanliness ranking was done by classifying the institutions in various categories, including schools, hotels, hospitals, bazaar samitis, housing colonies and government offices. The top three rank holders from each category were felicitated by the officials of PMC on Sunday. Notre Dame Academy was adjudged the cleanest school in the city. It was closely followed by St Michael’s High School (second) and Loyola High School (third). Hotel Patliputra Continental at Anisabad, Hotel Maurya and Hotel Amalfi Grand on Bailey Road were adjudged the top three cleanest hotels in the city, respectively. Paras HMRI bagged the first position in terms of cleanest hospital in the city. It was followed by Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences and Jai Prabha Medanta, which bagged the second and third positions, respectively. Among housing colonies, Arrah Garden Residency at Jagdeopath was adjudged the cleanest. Terrace Gardenia Apartment on Ashiana-Digha Road bagged the second spot and Devendra Residency at Rajendra Nagar the third spot. Power Grid Corporation at Shastrinagar, Aranya Bhawan and Sardar Patel Bhawan were adjudged the cleanest government buildings. P&M Mall, Patna Central Mall and Patna One Mall were adjudged cleanest bazaar samitis in the city. The ‘swachhta’ ranking initiative was part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and aimed at encouraging cleanliness in the city. Municipal commissioner Himanshu said the institutions were ranked on several parameters, including waste segregation (dry and wet), waste processing, water treatment, sanitation in rooms and separate toilet facilities for men, women and differently-abled people, parking facilities and Covid-19 safety protocols. The survey was conducted by the PMC officials in November. “The initiative will help the civic body gain good ranking in the Swachh Survekshan-2021 as people’s feedback carries 70 marks. We had achieved 1,500 of 6,000 points in the last cleanliness ranking of the Union ministry of urban development and housing. This time, we are hopeful of getting 2,500 points with active participation of the people,” Himanshu said. Patna mayor Sahu congratulated all the winners during the felicitation ceremony and encouraged other institutions to actively participate in the cleanliness mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/swachh-survekshan-nda-ranked-citys-cleanest-school/articleshow/79710161.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 14, 2020||Patna||Srijan scam: Assets of key accused confiscated||BHAGALPUR: In a joint move, the CBI and the district administration on the directions of special CBI court began the process of attaching the properties of accused couple Amit Kumar and Rajni Priya in the multi-crore Srijan scam, officials said. The attachment process started from the couple’s house located in the New Vikramshila Colony under the Tilkamanjhi police station area of Bhagalpur town, sources said. It may be worth mentioning that Srijan Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti (SMVSS), a co-operative society registered under the Bihar and Orissa Cooperative Societies Act of 1935, founded by the late Manorama Devi in early 1990, is under CBI probe after the scam came to light. The chargesheet has named Manorama’s son Amit Kumar and daughter-in-law Rajni Priya, apart from two IAS officers. Altogether 15 immovable properties including residential houses, flats, shops, commercial buildings and establishments, lands, vehicles and other movable properties worth several crores besides bank accounts have so far been identified by the CBI and district administration for sealing and attachment. “The process of attachment and confiscation is being done under Section 83 of the CrPC,” said a district official preferring anonymity. “Subsequently, steps for securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002 (also known as the SARFAESI Act) to realize the swindled money would be initiated,” said district administration sources. The CBI has filed three chargesheets in the Rs 1,000 -crore Srijan scam against over 60 persons. CM Nitish Kumar had formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Economic Offence Unit (EOU) and ordered for inquiry in the first week of August 2017. Altogether 22 FIRs were registered against the scamsters including the managing committee members of the SMVSS and several others were arrested by the SIT before the CBI took over the investigation, the magnitude of which is stated to have crossed over Rs 1900 crore. Large amount of government funds were fraudulently transferred between 2004 and 2014 in accounts of SMVSS. The SMVSS reportedly pilfered government funds meant for various welfare schemes from the Bhagalpur district administration’s accounts to its bank account in connivance with some district officials, bankers and its staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/srijan-scam-assets-of-key-accused-confiscated/articleshow/79709802.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 14, 2020||Patna||Patna boy makes it to Georgetown University||PATNA: Patna boy Ritik Raj has been awarded the prestigious ‘Arrupe Scholarship’ to pursue bachelors degree in the Georgetown University in Washington DC (USA). He has secured a full scholarship worth Rs 2.5 crore, which will cover entire expenses for his four-year studies. “Coming from a humble middle-class family of Bikram, I feel really grateful to receive a full scholarship to study in one of America’s leading universities. This is a great moment for me and my parents, who have worked hard all their lives to offer me a good education,” Ritik said. Born to Rajesh Sharma (businessman) and Sharmila Sharma (homemaker), Ritik had passed Class X and XII examinations from Radiant International School with flying colours. The Arrupe Scholarship is offered to those who show promise of contributing significantly to the common good within their own countries and throughout the world. Ritik had represented the country at multiple international platforms, including at Yale University in the US in 2016 and at an international debate competition in Thailand the same year. To secure admission in Georgetown University, he had appeared in the American College Testing and secured 99 percentile. “It gives me great pleasure to inform you that the Committee on Admissions has admitted you to the Georgetown University. This year, the Committee on Admissions considered more than 21,300 candidates for 1,600 available spaces. I look forward to welcoming you to the university as a member of the Class of 2024,” Charles A Deacon, Dean of Admissions at Georgetown University, wrote in his letter to Ritik. The 19-year-old boy, who is associated with Dexterity Global, said he wants to serve the society through his knowledge and dedicate his life to public service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-boy-makes-it-to-georgetown-university/articleshow/79710193.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 14, 2020||Patna||Covid cases on rise in Gaya||GAYA: There has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district during the last one week. The matter came to light during a meeting conducted by district magistrate Abhishek Singh on Saturday to review the status of initiatives being taken to check transmission of the virus. A press release issued by district public relations officer (DPRO) Shambhu Nath Jha said quoting the DM, "During the last one week, there has been a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the district. Most of those tested positive have attended wedding functions, mostly in urban areas.” Since December 8, 84 people have tested positive across the district. On December 8, 14 people were tested positive followed by 32, 21 and 17 respectively on December 9, 10 and 12. The DM has issued instructions to ensure that tests of all the family members of those tested positive be conducted at the earliest. At present, there are 48 containment zones in the district. The DM has issued instructions to ensure testing of every individual in containment zones and directed the officials concerned to submit report with photographs. He has also asked sub-divisional officers (SDOs) concerned and the representatives of World Health Organization (WHO) to visit the containment zones. Reviewing the status of RTPCR tests, the DM issued instructions to achieve hundred percent target. He asked to ensure follow-up of the Covid patients above 60 years of age on day-to-day basis. He asked the doctor on duty at the control room to keep the health update of such patients everyday and also provide necessary health tips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-on-rise-in-gaya/articleshow/79710186.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Business||Burger King’s stock price may double on debut||Mumbai: Dalal Street is expecting another blockbuster listing on Monday with Burger King, the fast food chain operator whose IPO closed on December 4 with an oversubscription of 157 times. The grey market premium for Burger King is between Rs 58 and Rs 60, indicating investors could see their investments in the IPO double on listing. The IPO had a price band of Rs 59-60 per share. The institutional part of the offer was subscribed a little over 86 times, while the high networth investors portion was subscribed over 357 times and the retail part nearly 69 times. The offer got over 24 lakh applications. The 157 times subscription made Burger King IPO, the second-most subscribed offering this year, behind Mazagon Dock’s offer, which was subscribed 157.4 times. The IPO for Happiest Minds, with a subscription figure of 150 times, stood third, industry data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/burger-kings-stock-price-may-double-on-debut/articleshow/79712075.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rajgir tense as 10 injured in violence, six arrested||BIHARSHARIF: Police on Sunday arrested six persons who had attacked the shopkeepers, residents and passers-by with batons, bamboo poles and some sharp-edged objects at Rajgir Bazar locality under the Rajgir police station area in Nalanda late on Saturday evening in which more than 10 persons sustained injuries. The injured persons were taken to Rajgir sub-divisional hospital from where some of them were shifted to Biharsharif sadar hospital on Saturday night. The arresting was done on Sunday after local residents and shopkeepers blocked the Rajgir roads by burning tyres. They demanded immediate action against Rajgir police station house officer, who, they claimed failed to protect people from goons. Rajgir SDPO Somnath Bharti said police swung into action and arrested six goons in less than 20 hours after verifying CCTV cameras installed at the place of occurrence and by gathering local inputs. He said prima facie it appeared that they intended to establish supremacy in the locality. Raids are on to arrest more criminals who had been identified during the investigation. Manish Kumar, a resident of Rajgir Bazar locality said that criminal groups often fight among themselves and they target innocent people for supremacy. He said most of the time such crimes go unreported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajgir-tense-as-10-injured-in-violence-six-arrested/articleshow/79709923.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 14, 2020||Patna||Murder of 16-year-old boy sparks mob fury in Patna||PATNA: A 16-year-old boy was killed in New Azimabad Colony under the Bahadurpur police station area in Patna on Sunday, triggering violent protests by family members and locals. Love affair with a girl belonging to a different community is stated to be the reason behind the incident. The body of the victim, Anshu Kumar alias Lucky King, was recovered from Azimabad Colony. His throat was slit with a sharp-edged weapon and dumped at an isolated place in the same locality. Anshu, a resident of Sandalpur, worked as a delivery boy in an online private company and was also associated with a musical group. Anshu’s family told the police that he had left home around 1am after receiving the phone call of his girlfriend, who lives in the same locality. They apprehended foul play when he didn’t return home till morning and started searching him. Around 7am, some locals informed the family that Anshu’s body was lying along the road in the colony. Anshu’s brother Ritesh Kumar and uncle Krishnadev Sahni rushed to the spot only to find his body lying in a pool of blood. Agitated over the incident, a group of locals pelted the suspect’s house with stones, put up a road blockade and indulged in arson. They also laid a siege to the police station, demanding immediate arrest of the girl and his brother, who were suspected to be involved in the killing. The victim’s brother, Ritesh, alleged that girl’s brother Arman Malik had threatened Anshu with dire consequences recently. As the protesters were adamant on their demand, a police team raided the girl’s house, picked her up and her brother and detained them at the police station for interrogation. The protesters attacked the duo while they were being taken to the police station in a patrolling car. The police had a tough time to bring the situation under control as the protesters outnumbered them. A police vehicle was also pelted with stones. Later, senior police officers, including City SP (East) Jitendra Kumar and DSP (Patna City) Amit Sharan rushed to the site with reinforcements and dispersed the protesters. “Prima facie, love affair seems to be the reason behind the murder. The call detail record of the Anshu’s cellphone will throw more light on the incident,” City SP Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/murder-of-16-year-old-boy-sparks-mob-fury-in-city/articleshow/79710209.cms||Ramashankar
December 14, 2020||Patna||Empty liquor bottles found in hotel, 2 held||PATNA: Sitamarhi DM and SP had a first-hand experience of liquor being served to people at a hotel-cum-restaurant on the Station Road in the town on Saturday night. Though the majority of the customers had fled the spot, empty bottles of liquor said it all. The DM, Abhilasha Kumari Sharma, and SP, Anil Kumar, were taken aback by blatant violation of the prohibition law. The liquor was sold and served to the visitors at a hotel-cum-restaurant in one of the busiest localities of the town falling under the jurisdiction of Mehsaul police outpost. A man, who was in an inebriated condition, was later arrested. The SP said the matter came to light during surprise inspection. “One customer and the owner of the restaurant have been arrested on charges of violating provisions of Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act 2016,” he added. DM Abhilasha Kumari said she has recommended action against the police officers found to be lax in the implementation of the prohibition law. She didn’t rule out the connivance of the senior police officers in the flourishing liquor trade in the district. Surprisingly, the officials of the excise department accompanied the DM and the SP during the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/empty-liquor-bottles-found-in-hotel-2-held/articleshow/79709757.cms||Ramashankar
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops’ dog squad looks at own cadre to deliver future of force||KOLKATA: The match making has been going on for several weeks, but now the stamp of approval has come from Lalbazar itself. The Kolkata Police dog squad has decided to carry out breeding between dogs within its own force — hoping to induct the offspring of its own cadre into the force. The two dogs chosen this month are Labradors that are experts in detecting explosives. “While we have earlier brought dogs from breeders outside our kennels for breeding, this is the first time both have been chosen from our force. There are two purposes — the belief that their offspring will possess their qualities and to try and cut down on the process of buying the dogs from a kennel outside the state. The experiment has been notified to the state veterinary directorate,” an officer said. The number of dogs in the squad has dropped to 40 from 48. “After the death of Rosa, a Belgian Shepherd, we decided to increase squad strength. We began scouting for the best pair. There were several issues — they had to be from different bloodlines, comparatively young and be compatible. We chose Topper, a four-year-old male and Flora, who is three-and-a-half-years old. Both have yellowish white fur,” said an officer. For now, the two dogs are being allowed time to meet each other. Vet T K Samanta sees nothing wrong with the experiment. “This is what every breeder does. He mates across bloodlines hoping that the offspring will possess the same qualities as the father or mother. Not every offspring will meet the mark. But a couple of them can definitely suit the requirement of the job in hand,” he said. He, though, warned that the entire process and the subsequent delivery of the offspring need to be monitored. “The dog squad has expert vets. Their job will be to monitor health conditions and ensure a strict diet. Among the health monitoring parameters, the body temperature and stool results will be crucial,” said Samanta. The two dogs will continue to get their daily allocations — including “post retirement benefits” — even if their offspring manage to join the force. “It will be a difficult test that they need to pass before getting inducted. There will be no short cuts for the puppies,” the officer added. MHA has ordered that the procurement of pups as young as three months old should not be allowed. The ministry feels they are too young to be evaluated on their aptitude for police duties. This, claim city cops, would mean that there can be a further delay in procuring pups unless some “out of the box” solution, like this, are tried. The MHA had in September issued guidelines asking the Border Security Force (BSF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) to undertake large-scale breeding of Police Service K9s, or PSKs, not only to meet their own requirements but also for other central and state police forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-cops-dog-squad-looks-at-own-cadre-to-deliver-future-of-force/articleshow/79710379.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to ask for travel details of those with negative antigen test reports||KOLKATA: A detailed travel history and contact record of all those who test negative in a rapid antigen test will now be sought across the state. The state has decided that those who test negative despite Covid symptoms will be put through an RT-PCR test to rule out the possibility of “false negative”, which rapid tests are known to generate. On Saturday, the Bengal government announced that those who now test negative in a rapid antigen test will be made to take an RT-PCR. Additionally, both nasal and oral samples will be collected from people who come in for rapid antigen tests from now on to facilitate repeat tests. While teaching hospitals at the districts have RT-PCR facilities, health facilities at the lower levels — sub-divisional hospitals and block-level health centres — have been relying on rapid tests to screen Covid patients. It has now been decided that RT-PCR tests will be extended and those undergoing rapid antigen tests will be screened. A detailed report of their recent travel history will be sought along with test reports of their family members. Every such individual will be asked to divulge his/her contact record in the recent past to trace exposure to Covid patients. “In case they have symptoms and have been exposed to a Covid patient, we will ignore the rapid antigen test report if it’s negative. The individual will be made to take an RT-PCR, which is more sensitive and more likely to detect the virus,” said a state health official. He added that while priority may be given to those with symptoms, everyone testing negative in rapid antigen tests will be tested through RT-PCR. A recent ICMR advisory mentioned that “those who test negative for Covid-19 by rapid antigen test should definitely be tested sequentially by RT-PCR to rule out infection, whereas a positive test should be considered a true positive without reconfirmation”. The advisory further said that those from containment zones or hot spots should be made to undergo an RT-PCR, along with all “symptomatic influenza-like illness (ILI), asymptomatic, direct and high-risk contacts with co-morbidities (lung disease, heart disease, liver disease, kidney disease, diabetes, neurological disorders and blood disorders) of a confirmed case to be tested once between day five and 10 of contact”. RT-PCR is the gold standard of Covid testing and needs to be used to effectively check cases from slipping through the net, said the health official, adding that quality of rapid test kits being used, too, was suspect. “It won’t be difficult to trace those who need to be tested since all data is kept,” he said. Doctors said the decision was the right step. “Rapid tests are meant for immediate results. They have a lower sensitivity than RT-PCR and lead to more false negative reports,” said Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research professor Diptendra Sarkar. According to Rajya Sabha MP and KMC health advisor Shantanu Sen, “Both oral and nasal swabs will be collected from now on. While a rapid antigen test is done from a nasal swab, an RT-PCR needs both.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-ask-for-travel-details-of-those-with-ve-antigen-test-reports/articleshow/79710371.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 14, 2020||Patna||Three more pairs of special trains to run between Raxaul & Anand Vihar||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to run at least three pairs of additional special trains between Raxaul and Anand Vihar from December 15 to cope with huge rush of passengers. These special trains will run on Muzaffarpur-Hajipur-Chhapra-Gorakhpur route. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the Anand Vihar-Raxaul biweekly special train (04007/04008) will leave Anand Vihar on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 4.30pm and reach Raxaul the next day at 9.50pm. On its return journey, the train will leave Raxaul on Wednesdays and Fridays at 11.45pm and reach Anand Vihar at 4.45am the next day. The second biweekly Anand Vihar-Raxaul special train (04015/04016) will leave Anand Vihar on Fridays and Sundays at 4.30pm and reach Raxaul the next day at 9.10pm. The third weekly special train (04017/04018) will leave Anand Vihar every Wednesday at 4.30 pm and reach Raxaul the next day at 9.05pm, the CPRO said. Meanwhile, the railways has revised the timings of Darbhanga-Pune special train (01033/01034) with effect from December 16. The special train will leave every Wednesday from Pune at 4.15pm and reach Darbhanga at 6.40am on Friday. On its return journey, the train will leave Darbhanga every Friday at 4.47pm and reach Pune at 7.20am on Sunday. Fog continues to delay trains: Dense fog and poor visibility continued to affect running of special trains reaching Patna from New Delhi on Sunday. The New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express special (02310), New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express special (02394), New Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express special train (02392), New Delhi-Bhagalpur Vikramshila Express special (02368) and New Delhi-Howrah Poorva Express special (02304) reached Patna Junction about one to two hours behind the schedule on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-more-pairs-of-special-trains-to-run-between-raxaul-anand-vihar/articleshow/79709842.cms||Kumod Verma
December 14, 2020||Patna||10,000 litres of liquor seized across Bihar||PATNA: A day after chief minister Nitish Kumar chaired a review meeting, the prohibition cell of the state police on Sunday launched a special drive and seized over 10,000 litres of liquor. Acting on a tip-off, a joint team of the prohibition cell at the police headquarters and the Sitamarhi police raided Sursand in Sitamarhi district and seized over 4,767 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL). A truck, three SUVs, two tractors, two pickup vans and two motorcycles were also seized during the operation. Three people – Salamat Khan, Anish Khan and Shyam Babu Sah – were arrested. According to sources, members of the prohibition cell were following the truck carrying illicit liquor from Patna and intercepted it at a village on Sursand-Pupri road. The arrested people, residents of Talkhapur in Sitamarhi district, were being quizzed by senior police officers. They have confessed to their involvement in the crime and revealed the names of some dealers. In another operation, 2,115 litres of liquor were recovered during a raid under Bochahan police station area in Muzaffarpur district. A motorcycle and Rs 1 lakh in cash were seized. The third operation was carried out in Madhubani district in which the prohibition cell officials seized over 3,600 litres of liquor from a truck. The driver of the truck, Jagdish Kumar, a resident of Pratapgarh district in Uttar Pradesh, was also arrested. The police also raided a den of the liquor smugglers in Sherpur diara under Maner police station in Patna and recovered 97 cartons of IMFL. A car, which was used to transport the consignment, was also seized by the police. SHO of Maner police station Madhusudan Kumar said those involved in the bootlegging managed to escape. “Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the owner of the seized car,” Kumar said. In Jamui, the police seized a pickup van during a vehicle-checking drive on Jamui-Charkha Pathar road and recovered more than 336 litres of liquor. The police seized a diary from the vehicle, which contained the name of one Yogendra Yadav. SHO of Charkha Pathar police station Mritunjay Kumar said, “The seized diary has the details of money transactions and the names of local distributors. Raids are on to arrest them.” Earlier, the police had recovered over 120 litres of liquor manufactured in West Bengal from Raniganj police station area in Araria district. An SUV, which was used for transportation of the consignment, was also seized, SHO Shyam Nandan Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10k-litres-of-liquor-seized-across-state/articleshow/79709749.cms||Ramashankar
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||UK doctor from Kolkata part of first batch to get vaccine||KOLKATA: Amid concerns over reports of efficacy of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine, a Kolkata boy who is a doctor with the UK’s National Health Service has taken the shot, becoming part of the first batch of healthcare workers to receive the vaccine. The doctor, who had been attending to patients daily during the lockdown, received his shot at a health centre near his home on Sunday morning. Arunangsu Dey, a gynaecologist with St John’s Hospital, Livingstone, UK, has been practising medicine in the country for more than 12 years. “Vaccination is done. It is absolutely fine. I felt nothing more than a needle prick,” Dey said over phone, adding, “I am waiting for a few minutes before I drive back home. So far, there is no adverse reaction in the body.” “The first batch was meant primarily for the elderly, specifically those who have crossed 80. I decided to apply for the vaccine when frontline workers were included on the list,” said Dey. He called up the hotline earmarked for the vaccination on Friday and got through after nearly an hour. “It seems that there is a lot of enthusiasm around it. A few of my colleagues here got listed for the vaccine a day ago and they have reported no side effect as yet,” he said. Dey will receive a second dose after 28 days. Back at his Kolkata home, Dey’s parents were, however, initially concerned about their son taking the vaccine. “I was a bit afraid. But it seems that if we have to choose between Covid and the vaccine, the choice is clear,” said his mother Aparna. “My son has been attending to patients throughout the pandemic and some of them were Covid-19 positive, too. A doctor cannot say no to his duties, so it is better that he gets vaccinated. I wish they had allowed family members of the frontline workers to be vaccinated in the first batch too,” she added. Meanwhile, questions were being raised about the efficacy and side effects of the vaccine, including the warning for patients with a history of anaphylaxis to a medicine or food. “Frankly, I was not afraid. This is a big step towards eradication of the pandemic and I am happy to be a part of that. A colleague who took the shot the day before yesterday attended a 12-hour shift on Saturday,” Dey said. “Everything has a bit of risk,” felt Dey’s father Amelendu, who is a doctor himself. “When he said he was going to take the shot, there was mixed feelings. But with the number of vaccines lined up to be rolled out, it seems that the dark days are going to be over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/uk-doc-from-kol-part-of-first-batch-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/79710376.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 14, 2020||Goa||Govt keeps fingers crossed ahead of mining hearing||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the state is prepared to put up its case before the Supreme Court in the mining matter which is likely to come up for hearing on Monday. Sawant said that if the apex court agrees with the stand of the state government then mining leases will be allowed to operate in the state till 2037. Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said that he had a meeting with director of mines, advocate general Devidas Pangam and the counsel in Delhi who will appear on behalf the state. He also said that the state government review petition and mining companies’ special leave petition (SLP) has been tagged by the apex court. “We are hoping to conclude the matter within three hearings,” he said. Twenty-six village panchayats have approached the apex court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the apex court had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire industry to a halt in the state. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-keeps-fingers-crossed-ahead-of-mining-hearing/articleshow/79712248.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Shimla||On the verge of extinction, Himachal Pradesh’s traditional red rice gets govt boost||SHIMLA: On the verge of extinction, the hill state’s traditional variety of red rice has got a new lease of life due to sustained efforts of the Himachal Pradesh agriculture department. “With growing health consciousness, environmental concern and the pressing need for updating our food systems to survive climate change, red rice, probably the earliest of cereal grains that humans started domesticating, are making a comeback,” state agriculture minister Virender Kanwar said on Sunday. Due to shifting of farmers to apple and vegetable cultivation, the area under rice has declined drastically in these areas in the past few decades. Total area under red rice cultivation in the state at present has been recorded as around 1,100 hectares, while its total annual production is 9,926 quintals — around 8-10 quintals per hectare production. Around 4,122 families in the state are growing red rice and efforts will be made to raise the figure to 10,000, he said. The state plans to bring around 4,000 hectare land under red rice cultivation in the next five years and produce around 40,000 quintals. Kanwar said the Himachal government will provide market linkage and promote branding of red rice to generate its demand in metropolitan cities to boost its cultivation and bring economic prosperity in remote and backward areas of the state. The government is also trying to get the red rice registered under the Geographical Indications (GI) of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999, he added. Generally, farmers grow red rice for domestic use. However, in recent years the red rice crop has fetched remunerative rates of Rs 200 per kg in open market. It is estimated that the crop adds around Rs 340 lakh in the economic basket of the state and fetches four-five times (Rs 200-250/kg average) higher prices than the normal white rice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/on-the-verge-of-extinction-hps-traditional-red-rice-gets-govt-boost/articleshow/79711447.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Patna||Govt reshuffles eight IAS officers in Bihar||PATNA: The state government on Sunday effected a bureaucratic reshuffle and posted eight IAS officers, including K Senthil Kumar and B Karthikey Dhanji, who were stripped of field postings during the recently held state assembly polls on the directive of the Election Commission. According to a notification issued by the general administration department, K Senthil Kumar (1996 batch), who was waiting for posting, has been made new commissioner of Kosi division. Earlier, Purnia divisional commissioner Safina A N (1997 batch) was holding additional charge of Kosi division. Senthil was removed from the post of divisional commissioner of Kosi division on the directive of the Election Commission ahead of the polls. Balaguruman D (2005 batch), who was posted as additional chief electoral officer during the assembly polls, has been sent back as project director of Bihar Rural Livelihood Project under rural development department. He has been given additional charge of special secretary of rural development department and also officer on special duty in state disaster management department. Similarly, Gopal Meena (2007 batch), who was posted as additional CEO during the assembly polls, has been sent back as special secretary of minor irrigation department. Sanjay Kumar Singh (2007 batch), who was holding the post of additional CEO, has been re-posted as state project director of Bihar education project. Singh will also look after the works of officer-on-special duty in the state disaster management department. Vinod Singh Gunjiyal (2007 batch), will replace B Karthikey Dhanji (2008 batch), who had been made new excise commissioner-cum-IG, registration. Dhanji will hold additional charge of managing director of beverage corporation. Dhanji was removed from the post of excise commissioner on the directive of the Election Commission. Chief election commissioner Sunil Arora had expressed his displeasure over the seizure of a big haul of liquor in the state despite prohibition. Gunjiyal, who was holding the post of excise commissioner-cum IG, registration, will assume charge as director of animal husbandry department. Amrendra Pratap Singh (2007 batch), who was waiting for posting, has been made special secretary of industries department. Additional CEO Ranjeeta (2013 batch) has been appointed as labour commissioner. She will also look after the works of director of employment and training and additional chief executive officer of Bihar Skill Development Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-reshuffles-eight-ias-officers-in-state/articleshow/79710085.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Business||RTGS to be 24X7 from December 14||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India’s RTGS (real-time gross settlement) system will be operational 24X7 from December 14. RTGS is used for electronically transferring high-value funds of over Rs 2 lakh between bank accounts instantly. While instant transfers have been available for an individual account, this is the first time that wholesale fund transfers have been made real-time and India is one of the few countries to have such a system. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Sunday congratulated the teams from the RBI and its IT arm IFTAS and service partners for making this possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rtgs-to-be-24x7-from-dec-14/articleshow/79712065.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Patna||500 fresh Covid cases take state’s tally to 2,43,248||PATNA: The state recorded 500 new cases of Covid-19 and four more virus causalities in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of Covid cases in the state has jumped to 2,43,248. So far, 1,321 people have succumbed to the virus in the state. As per the state health department, 548 patients were discharged from different hospitals and isolation centres in the last 24 hours. With 2,36,737 people so far recuperating from the virus in the state, the state’s recovery rate has touched 97.32%. The number of active cases in the state stood at 5,190 on Sunday. At least 1,20,503 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours, taking the number of total tests in the state to 1,62,74,624 since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. Two more people died in Patna on Sunday, taking the district’s toll to 342. Munger and Vaishali districts also reported one death each. Five more patients at AIIMS-P have succumbed to Covid, including a 61-year-old man from Prasadi Ganj in Arwal. The other victims were from Patna. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 14 patients were admitted to the hospital and 25 discharged on Sunday. Altogether 167 Covid patients are currently undergoing treatment at the hospital. No new Covid casualty was recorded at NMCH on Sunday. Of 500 new cases registered on Sunday, Patna accounted for 177. With this, the district’s Covid count has risen 45,014. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 22 cases on Sunday, Saharsa 21, Gaya 20, Purnia 19, Supaul 18, Katihar 15 and Banka and Siwan 14 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/500-fresh-covid-cases-take-states-tally-to-243248/articleshow/79710173.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 14, 2020||Varanasi||BHU to start PG course to decode Kashi mystique||Varanasi: Banaras Hindu University will soon introduce a post-graduation course — Kashi Study — from the next academic session to decipher the mystique of the millennia old city through academia. In sync with PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s views on the city’s indigenous culture and ethos, the two-year PG course will encompass all facets of ‘Kashi’, which has always fascinated domestic and foreign scholars. A seven-member committee headed by the dean of faculty of social science, Prof Kowshal Kishore Mishra, is working on the course framework and is likely to complete it by December 26. Other distinguished members of the committee include professor of cultural geography Rana PB Singh, Prof Keshav Mishra, noted folk singer Malini Awasthi, veteran journalist Amitabh Bhattacharya, artist Pt Rajeshwar Acharya and Prof Vrinda Paranjape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-to-start-pg-course-to-decode-kashi-mystique/articleshow/79711526.cms||Binay Singh
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases remain below 1,000 in Hry||Chandigarh: The Covid curve seems to be flattening in Haryana, where less than 1,000 fresh cases were reported on Sunday. Haryana recorded 990 new cases and seven deaths from all the 22 districts. Recovery rate of the state has gone up to 95.1% with 1,426 recoveries. Now, Haryana has 2,52,393 cases and 2,717 deaths while the number of active cases has reached 2,39,800. The slowdown in positive cases despite 33,922 tests conducted on Sunday came as a relief for health officials. This also took testing rate to 1,57,547 tests per million per day. Active cases has came down to 9,875, including 301 critical patients in Covid care centres across the state. Death rate remained stable at 1.08% while doubling rate went up to 75 days. Two deaths each were reported in Gurgaon and Sonipat and one death each was reported from Ambala Bhiwani and Jhajjar districts. Gurgaon reported the highest of 275 cases of the day. Here, the district tally has gone up to 54,619 cases, 331 deaths and 2,250 active cases. Faridabad reported 177 cases. The overall tally here has gone up to 43,911 cases, 385 deaths and 1,223 cases. Kurukshetra reported 93 cases with the overall count going up to 8,195. Sonipat reported 70 cases and overall count of 14,031 cases. In Ambala, 50 cases were reported, 47 in Hisar, 42 in Panchkula, 37 in Panipat and 33 in Jind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-cases-remain-below-1000-in-hry/articleshow/79711452.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Business||Mask oversupply may see 50% cos shut shop||MUMBAI: From a panic situation of an extreme shortage in April, India now faces an oversupply of surgical and N95 masks. More than half of the manufacturers (over 100) have either downed shutters or are planning to shut shop. Most players, which entered the industry to fulfil the government’s vision of self-reliance or ‘Atmanirbhar’ after Covid, are now saddled with huge inventories, and under-utilised plant and machinery. Industry experts and multiple companies whom TOI spoke to blame red-tapism, poor domestic demand and unethical market practices, resulting in just one-third capacity utilisation. When the pandemic struck, a sudden spike in demand for protective masks had created a panic situation. Between April and June, new players entered and companies ramped up production pinning hopes on rising domestic and global demand. The installed capacity to produce N95 masks is over 20 crore pieces per month, with the utilisation being a meagre 10%. For 3-ply (surgical) masks, capacity is over 60 crore units per month, while 30% is utilised. Established players were able to use their full capacity for a brief time, but once exports were banned, demand started dropping drastically, and supply kept getting created just as fast, resulting in extreme oversupply,” All India Mask Manufacturers Association president Anshumali Jain told TOI. The government had banned exports of all types of masks in March to avoid a shortage in the country, at a time when Covid infections had started rising. There were some regulatory and government slip-ups too. For instance, there were confusing signals by the government asking people to wear a ‘gamcha’ as a mask. Though intended for the lower socio-economic classes, most people stopped buying masks, which had hit demand. Also the controversy around N95 respirators after the health ministry warned against masks with valved respirators, impacted sales. The slump in prices was triggered in June by the deluge of low-priced duty-free Chinese imports. “The government opened up restrictions on exports of N95 masks in October, a bit too late. Meanwhile, the Indian market had a glut of overcapacity, falling prices, low-quality standards, with institutional buyers’ procurement at L1 pricing (lowest bidder) based on fake USFDA/ NiOSH certificates. Many manufacturers are now struggling to sell finished goods, or even raw materials’ inventory, below costs to create cash flow. It’s survival of the fittest, and those who can export surplus capacity,” said industry body AiMeD’s forum coordinator Rajiv Nath. Exports for 3-ply masks were allowed from August, but India had already missed the bus to become an export hub, and lost orders and long-term contracts from Western countries. Also, with rising raw material prices and falling margins, the industry could not become globally competitive. “There is no demand for N95 masks for the last few months, and our machines have been idle”, says Vipul Gupta, who is looking for buyers for his plant in Okhla, Delhi. The plant, commissioned in June, is running huge losses, as it has sold less than 3 lakh pieces till September, as against a capacity of 1 lakh pieces per day. Market pricing is below cost, and it is tough to meet quality parameters at unremunerative prices, another player who lost government tenders said. Manufacturers were also let down by the unviable price caps in Maharashtra, which discourage quality suppliers located outside the state, and has led to a shift towards reusable cotton masks that may be priced higher than surgical or N95 ones, AiMeD’s Nath added. However, Shaily Grover, founder of Paramount Surgimed, a Delhi-based manufacturer of medical products, said the units that are shutting down offer low quality or have manual plants, are investor-driven with no experience in this field. His 25-year old company, which makes surgical blades, underpads and adult diapers, forayed into mask manufacturing in June, and exports 40% of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mask-oversupply-may-see-50-cos-shut-shop/articleshow/79712120.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 14, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Baaratis search entire night, fail to locate bride’s house||VARANASI: A bridegroom went with his ‘baraat’ from Azamgarh to Mau for his wedding scheduled for the night of December 10, but found the bride’s address missing and her whereabouts unknown. Braving the chill, the groom and his relatives scoured the streets for the bride’s residence through the night and finally returned home fuming. The family of the groom, resident of Kanshi Ram Colony of Kotwali area in Azamgarh, vented their anger on the woman who played mediator in the marriage. They nabbed the woman and held her hostage on Saturday night, triggering a high-pitched drama at Kotwali police station. Senior sub-inspector of Kotwali police station, Shamsher Yadav, said, “The groom’s family levelled serious allegations at the woman, who brought the marriage proposal. We gave them an opportunity to solve the dispute. Late Saturday, the matter was resolved and the groom’s family agreed not to lodge an FIR against the woman.” The groom was married to a woman from Samastipur, Bihar, four years ago. After a few months of marriage, his wife went to her parental home and did not return, following which the youth’s family began looking for proposals for his second marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/band-baaja-baarat-but-bride-missing-sparks-fly-at-thana/articleshow/79711478.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Youth arrested for cutting birthday cake with sword||Aurangabad: Acting on a tip-off about youths brandishing a sword and cutting a birthday cake with it at the Kiradpura water tank ground, the Aurangabad city police arrested one of the two accused. The second accused managed to flee.Jinsi police station inspector Vyankat Kendre said the accused had brought the sword to their friend’s birthday party to show off their weapon-handling skills. The accused had gathered at the open ground around 11.30 pm on Saturday. “A case under relevant sections of the Indian Arms Act has been registered,” said Kendre. Police have also seized the sword.PSI Datta Shelke said: “We received a tip that youths with a sword were coming for a birthday celebration. We then laid a trap. Soon the youths gathered and one of them took out the sword and started brandishing it. However, a scuffle broke out between two of the youths. We feared that they may use the sword to attack each other. We rushed in managed to nab the one with a sword, while the others fled.” There was also an illegal sound system brought to the ground. Its owner has been summonedThe arrested accused has been identified as Shaikh Muddasir (19). His accomplice is lyas Maulvi Patel (20). Both are residents of Rehmaniya Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/youth-arrested-for-cutting-birthday-cake-with-sword/articleshow/79709865.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Fin constraints of surety no impediment to release a convict on furlough: Court||NAGPUR: Holding that the financial constraints of surety can’t be an impediment to release a convict on furlough, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court granted leave to a murder convict serving in Amravati jail. Petitioner Dinesh Athawale’s leave application was rejected by the respondents, including deputy inspector general (DIG Prisons) and Amravati jail superintendent, stating that his poor mother can’t pay the surety amount. “In the present case, prayer is opposed on behalf of the authority for a reason that the petitioner’s mother, who’s proposed surety, is financially feeble. We’re afraid that financial constraints of surety can’t be an impediment to release the convict on furlough, which is his right and if he is found to be suitable to be released,” the HC’s division bench held. The petitioner was convicted in the sessions’ trial (No. 302/2014) for offences punishable under sections 302, 147, 148, 149, and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on November 2, 2019. The additional sessions’ judge at Amravati sentenced him to life imprisonment. He never applied for leave till he became eligible. After being entitled, he moved an application for the furlough. However, it was rejected by the authority on the grounds that there is an adverse report against the petitioner because of the poor financial condition of his mother Babybai Ashokrao Athawale. Another reason was that if he’s released, there is a possibility that he may indulge in other offences. Subsequently, Athawale challenged the rejection of his application in the high court through counsel Raju Kadu. His prayers were opposed by additional public prosecutor IJ Damle, contending that another case is pending against him regarding offences punishable under sections 376(D), 342, 452, and 506 of the IPC. “Grant of furlough is a right in favour of a convict, if he is otherwise entitled. Regarding another case, we would like to observe that offences punishable under sections 376 (D), 342, 452, and 506 are triable by the sessions’ court. This case is not committed to the court and guilt or innocence of the petitioner in these crimes is yet to be determined by the prosecution,” the bench said while quashing the DIG’s rejection order (July 15). “Another reason put forth to oppose the furlough is that if the petitioner is released, there is a possibility that he may indulge in attacks and gang war. For reaching this satisfaction as reached by the authority, there is no material available on record. In our view, the authority committed an error to reach such a conclusion,” the judges said, before allowing Athawale’s application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fin-constraints-of-surety-no-impediment-to-release-a-convict-on-furlough-court/articleshow/79712405.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 14, 2020||Kozhikode||Cases against 400 for violating curbs on ‘Kottikalasam’||KOZHIKODE: Police have registered cases against 400 workers belonging to LDF and UDF in connection with illegal rallies taken out in violation of Covid-19 norms at Kuttichira on Saturday. The rallies were carried out to mark the conclusion of open campaigning of the final phase of local body elections. Skirmishes had broken out between workers of the rival fronts during the rallies in which hundreds of LDF and UDF workers had gathered at Kuttichira coming under Kozhikode corporation limits even though the authorities had barred rallies as part of ‘Kottikalasam’. Many people, including children, were seen participating in the rallies without wearing face masks. The workers clashed when the rallies of the two fronts came up against each other. One Youth Congress worker was injured in the clash. District collector Sambasiva Rao directed police to take action against the law violators following which the Town Police registered cases against 200 people each from LDF and UDF. Police officials said 10 people have been identified and the other offenders will be identified on the basis of video footage. Police said cases have been registered invoking provisions of Epidemic Diseases Act, apart from other sections. In another incident, police registered case against 100 people belonging to LDF and UDF for taking out rallies as part of Kottikalasam at Kunnakodi near Balussery. In a separate incident, Nallalam police have registered ca ase against three CPM workers on the basis of complaint by UDF workers that they were manhandled after the conclusion of public campaigning on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cases-against-400-for-violating-curbs-on-kottikalasam/articleshow/79709870.cms||---
December 14, 2020||World||Covid-19 vaccine shipments begin in historic US effort||PORTAGE: The first of many freezer-packed Covid-19 vaccine vials made their way to distribution sites across the United States on Sunday, as the nation's pandemic deaths approached the horrifying new milestone of 300,000. The rollout of the Pfizer vaccine, the first to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration, ushers in the biggest vaccination effort in US history _ one that health officials hope the American public will embrace, even as some have voiced initial skepticism or worry. The first of two shots are expected to be given in the coming week to health care workers and nursing home residents. Quick transport is key for the vaccine, especially since this one must be stored at extremely low temperatures _ about 94 degrees below zero. Early Sunday, workers at Pfizer _ dressed in fluorescent yellow clothing, hard hats and gloves _ wasted no time as they packed vials into boxes. They scanned the packages and then placed them into freezer cases with dry ice. The vaccines were then taken from Pfizer's Portage, Michigan, facility to Gerald R. Ford International Airport in Grand Rapids, where the first cargo plane took off amid what airport officials called a "jubilant" mood. "This is a historic day," said Richard W. Smith, who oversees operations in the Americas for FedEx Express, which is delivering 630-some packages of vaccine to distribution sites across the country. The United Parcel Service also is transporting a share of the vaccine. Helping with the transport of the vaccine has special meaning to Bruce Smith, a FedEx package handler at the Grand Rapids airport, whose older sister, Queen, died after she contracted the coronavirus in May. She was hospitalized in Georgia one day after he saw her on a video chat, and they never spoke again. "I think she would be ecstatic to know that something that has ravaged our family _ that a family member is going to be part of such a big project," said Smith, 58, whose nephew, Queen's son, also got sick and is still undergoing therapy for stroke-like symptoms. "It is very, very important.'' Tracked with GPS-enabled sensors, the initial shipments were expected to contain about 3 million doses, with many more to come. Federal officials say the first shipments of Pfizer's vaccine will be staggered, arriving in 145 distribution centers Monday, with another 425 sites getting shipments Tuesday, and the remaining 66 on Wednesday. Doses of the vaccine, co-developed by German partner BioNTech, are given out based on each state's adult population. Then the states decide where they go first. In California, where health care workers will be among the first to be vaccinated, state health officials are prioritizing hospitals that have adequate storage capacity, serve high-risk populations and have the ability to vaccinate people quickly. Initial surveys have found that even some health care workers don't want to be first in line. Dr. Graham Snyder, who's led the vaccine task force at Pennsylvania health care giant UPMC, estimates that about half of its employees are willing to get the vaccine as soon as it's offered. But many health officials expect enthusiasm to grow. "There's that thought that maybe they don't have to be so afraid to come to work if they can be vaccinated and be immune,`` said Dr. Sandra Kemmerly, medical director of hospital quality at the 40-hospital Oschner Health System in Louisiana and Mississippi. Employees approved for the first round are getting texts and emails directing them to schedule their initial injection, she said. Enough vaccine is being saved so that each person who gets the first dose of vaccine can get a second shot a few weeks later. A survey from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research found that about half of Americans want to get the vaccine as soon as possible. Another quarter aren't sure, while the remaining quarter say they aren't interested. Some simply oppose vaccines in general. Others are concerned that the vaccines have been rushed and want to see how the rollout goes. Dr. Stephen Hahn, commissioner of the FDA, which approved the Pfizer vaccine Friday, has repeatedly insisted that the agency's decision was based on science, not politics, despite a White House threat to fire him if the vaccine wasn't approved before Saturday. Speaking to Fox News Sunday, Dr. Moncef Slaoui, chief science adviser to Operation Warp Speed, a US effort to get vaccines developed quickly, also said he is "very concerned'' about the skepticism about the vaccine in some circles. "Unfortunately ... there's been a confusion between how thorough and scientific and factual the work that has been done is, and the perception that people are thinking that we cut corners ...,'' Slaoui said. "I can guarantee you that no such things have happened, that we follow the science." He called the development of vaccines from several pharmaceutical companies, including Moderna and AstraZeneca, ``a remarkable achievement of science, academia, the industry ecosystem and the U.S. government, working together." While the vaccine was determined to be safe, regulators in the U.K. are investigating several severe allergic reactions. The FDA's instructions tell providers not to give it to those with a known history of severe allergic reactions to any of its ingredients. The Moderna vaccine will be reviewed by an expert panel next week and soon afterward could be allowed for public use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/covid-19-vaccine-shipments-begin-in-historic-us-effort/articleshow/79712495.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Hinganghat lecturer burning case trial begins today||WARDHA: Hearing in the infamous lecturer burning case will begin in the court of additional sessions judge at Hinganghat from Monday. Renowned lawyer Ujjwal Nikam has been appointed public prosecutor in the case. Ankita Pisudde, 25, was allegedly set on fire by Vikesh alias Vicky Nagrale, 27, near a college in Hinganghat in Wardha district on February 3 this year. The woman died in a Nagpur hospital on February 10. After the incident sparked outrage across the state, home minister Anil Deshmukh had promised to complete the trial within three months. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the process was delayed. The police had filed a 426-page charge sheet in Hinganghat court on February 28, as the plan to set up a fast track court in Wardha could not materialize. The victim, a part-time lecturer of botany at Smt Kunawar Women’s College in Hinganghat, had arrived in the town by a bus from her village (Daroda) on February 3 morning. Nagrale, also a resident of the same village, accosted her on way to college on Nandori road. As the woman refused to talk to him, Nagrale poured petrol on her person. Before the woman could understand anything, the accused set her on fire and fled. The lecturer suffered 40% burns and was taken to sub-district hospital in Hinganghat. After first aid, she was rushed to a hospital in Nagpur, where she breathed last on February 10. Accused Nagrale is married and also has a daughter. He was stalking the victim for the last several months before the incident. The accused was even scolded by the victim’s father for breaking up her marriage earlier. Nagrale was arrested within hours of the incident and booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 326-A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid etc) of the IPC. He was put in Wardha district prison initially. Later, he was shifted to Nagpur Central Jail. After the victim succumbed, murder charge under Section 302 was slapped on the accused. During interrogation, Nagrale had confessed to have made at least two attempts to assault Ankita before February 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hinganghat-lecturer-burning-case-trial-begins-today/articleshow/79712415.cms||Balwant Dhage
December 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Gang of thieves busted, four nabbed||RAJKOT: A team of Devbhoomi Dwarka local crime branch (LCB) went to Rajgadh in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday and nabbed four thieves involved in a theft in Bhanvad village near Dwarka, a fortnight ago. Police said the accused, Sunny Sashi (30), Parshottam Sashi (26), Kirti Raichura (24) and their minor accomplice, had allegedly targeted a farmer who had come out of a bank after withdrawing money. "While two of the accused engaged the victim in a conversation, the other two snatched the bag containing the cash and fled from the spot. The gang's modus operandi was to pick victims from crowded places like marriage venues, fare and religious programmes. They would throw itching powder on the back of their victims and take away their valuables, while the victims were busy itching," said J M Chavda, inspector with Devbhoomi Dwarka LCB. "The accused were identified on the basis of their CCTV footage. We found that the same gang members were involved in a theft case in Rajasthan and that the gang was from Rajgadh. During their interrogation, the accused confessed to having committed 16 thefts from Bhanvad, Rajkot, Chotila, Anjar, Gondal, Kalawad, Maliya-Miyana, Amreli, Gadhada and Ahmedabad," said Chavda. The police said the gang members would visit the crime spot in a car. They would divide themselves into two teams after selecting the target and decamp after committing the thefts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gang-of-thieves-busted-four-nabbed/articleshow/79709900.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||27 MGP members move no-trust against party president||PANAJI: Around 27 members of Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) have submitted a no-confidence motion against MGP president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar for holding the post without conducting elections. MGP vice-president Ratnakant Mardolkar told TOI that they have received the no-confidence motion. “We will call for a meeting of the 16-member central committee to take a decision on the motion and to decide on the future course of action within a fortnight,” he said. The dissenting members have accused Dhavalikar and his brother, Ramkrishna (Sudin), of running MGP as per their whims and fancies, and without conducting elections. Sudin is Marcaim MLA and the former deputy chief minister. The four-page long letter states that since the last couple of years, the party has not held any meeting to discuss the issue. Further, it states that Dhavalikar himself took the decision to contest the Shiroda by-election, without taking the party into confidence. Reacting to the letter, Dhavalikar said that it has no validity. Further, he called it a conspiracy hatched by a former MGP member. He also said that those who have signed the letter have not mentioned their identity in it. “We are scheduled to conduct party elections in January. This is a conspiracy to instigate people against our party. Supporters of MGP will not allow such a thing to happen,” he said. He said that the central committee will decide on the issue. He added that the party has written to the Election commission of India about the reasons for the delay in conducting the elections. Dhavalikar has been the party’s president for 10 years. The term of the current MGP committee ended in 2017. As per the party’s constitution, the committee can extend a term by two years, which was done in case of the current committee. Accordingly, their term was supposed to end in 2019. The committee had decided to conduct the meeting in December 2019, but due to some reason it was postponed to March 2020. Then, due to the lockdown, the meeting could not be held. Sources say the party has informed the election commission about its inability to conduct the meeting in March. Consequently, the election commission has given it time till February 2021 for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/27-mgp-members-move-no-trust-against-party-president/articleshow/79712254.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Maha has tackled Naxalism best, claims home minister||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh claimed that Maharashtra had responded best to Naxalism in the country among all affected states. He stated efforts by other states like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana followed Maharashtra’s. In 2019-20, Maharashtra managed to neutralize 62 Maoists, including 15 arrested, 31 surrendered, and 16 killed, most of whom were top cadres commanding major zones (Dandakaranya special zonal committee or DKSZC) and divisions in Central India. The arrests of two top DKSZC members, Narmadaakka and Kiran, in connection with Jambhulkheda blast in which 15 jawans were killed last year, had dealt a decisive blow to the rebels as the couple had been leading them for decades and were among the most experienced ones. Deshmukh told TOI that the overall achievements of Maharashtra to tackle Maoism have been substantial enough to make them a benchmark for others. “We (Maharashtra) are definitely ahead of others going by the records this year. After us, there are states like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,” he said. Deshmukh also informed about Maharashtra’s post at Murkudoh (Gondia district) at the tri-junction of three states — Gondia in Maharashtra, Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh, and Rajnandgaon in Chhattisgarh — considered critical from the point of view of tackling Maoists. “At Murkudoh, security forces from three states are deployed under the command of Maharashtra government. This is an unique post across India set up by us,” he said. The home minister said various facilities were provided to the police force in the state who are engaged in fighting Naxalism. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil said the state’s support to create security infrastructure had seen a major boost. “Every 10-15km we have police post having modern weaponry and gadgets. The latest grant of Rs45 crore to renovate police posts was another major development. Locally groomed C-60 commandos are the biggest strength of the district police whose prowess is now nationally acknowledged as one of the best in the country,” Patil said. “We have also ensured 2,000 local youngsters got jobs and stayed away from wrong paths,” said the DIG. “Our training facilities were modernized too and we also boast of a unit like Unconventional Operations Training Centre (UOTC) in Nagpur where the commandos are trained,” he said. The biggest success in the nation added a feather in Maharashtra Police’s cap when 40 Naxals were neutralized at Kasnasur (34) and Nainer (six) within 24 hours under the then SP Abhinav Deshmukh in 2018. In 2019-20, Naxalism had tried to make a comeback with the Jambhulkheda blast but suffered heavy setbacks with top leaders either surrendering or getting eliminated under SP Shailesh Balkawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maha-has-tackled-naxalism-best-claims-home-minister/articleshow/79710472.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Schools unhappy over GR on ‘contractual’ hiring of peons, guards||Nagpur: Grant-in-aid schools are up in arms over the state government’s decision to hire Class-IV employees on contractual basis only. This will affect peons and guards in aided schools, who are needed for multiple things in school. This decision does not affect current employees. Sapan Nehrotra, secretary of Shikshak Bharti, said the state government needs to scrap the decision. “The December 11 GR has heralded the complete privatization of education. For so many years the government has been neglecting this sector, which caters to children from low income families. This elimination of Class-IV employee posts is the start. Then they will target lab assistants and librarians. Then will come a freeze on teacher hiring, thus forcing schools to shut down,” said Nehrotra. He said their organization is preparing for a major protest if this GR is not cancelled in the upcoming assembly session in Mumbai. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) says the government is basically finishing the ‘support’ system. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary, said the amount approved by the government is very low. “Even contractual hiring rates are so low that no one will come to work. The average hiring rate is Rs7,500 per month for city and Rs5,000 per month for rural schools. Only Mumbai and Pune schools will get more. The contract rates are so low that no one will come and work,” said Gavhankar. The current salary range for peons and guards is Rs25,000 to Rs30,000 per month. Gavhankar said, “Peon’s post is one of a multi-tasker. He is expected to clean rooms, ring the bell, open and lock the campus, manage filing system, coordinate with education department and board office, as well as with pay unit for salary bills.” This means the person handling this job needs to well versed in government rules, educated enough to understand the GRs, circulars etc. Various other school principals told TOI that the new GR is like a death knell for schools. “People will work if the pay is commensurate with the profile. Else they will simply join here as a stopgap measure and move out at the first available opportunity,” said a principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-unhappy-over-gr-on-contractual-hiring-of-peons-guards/articleshow/79710487.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 14, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi’s pre-eminence as spiritual, cultural centre brought DRA directorate here: Min||Varanasi: The state cabinet’s decision to establish Directorate of Religious Affairs (DRA) in Varanasi will bring the first state-level office of a government department to this holy city. UP minister of state (independent charge) for religious affairs and tourism, Neelkanth Tiwari said various reasons prompted the state government to take the decision of opening DRA office in Varanasi. “Since time immemorial, Kashi has remained the spiritual centre, cultural capital, the seat of learning, birth and workplace of many legends besides being a cosmopolitan city. These characteristics of Kashi played a key role in the government making up its mind to establish this directorate here,” the minister told TOI. “Inspired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath decided to set up the DRA under the department of religious affairs in Kashi for which we all are very grateful to him,” said Tiwari, adding that ground for the establishment of such a directorate had already been prepared about a year ago. This decision is inspired by all the aspects which are part of Kashi since ancient times, said Tiwari. “It is the only city which houses Dwadash Jyotirlinga, Dwadash Aditya, Ekadash Vishnu, nine Gauri and nine Durga, Ashta Bhairo and Ashta Vinayak and peeths of Sanatan on a Pavan Path (Divine Path). It has Gharanas (schools) of Vedic studies, music and dance, while roots of Ayurveda can also be found here,” he added. Kashi’s association with Adi Shankaracharya, Lord Buddha, Guru Nanak Dev, Ramanandacharya and saints like Kabir Das, Ravidas, Tulsi Das are well known, said Tiwari. Intellectual bodies like Kashi Vidwat Parishad have been playing a significant role too, hence Kashi was the best option to set up this directorate, he added. The minister said the department of religious affairs had no directorate since its inception in 1985 and hence faced problems in implementing government schemes and programmes, even though it is responsible for maintenance of religious, cultural, historical and important architectural buildings, and infrastructure development around these sites. Tiwari also mentioned how the state government had worked to improve facilities for devotees at prime pilgrimage sites in Varanasi, Ayodhya, Mathura-Vrindavan, Chitrakoot and Vindhyachal. The state cabinet of the Yogi Adityanath government had on Friday approved of the proposal to set up DRA under religious affairs department in Varanasi to ease administrative functioning for promoting religious sites by linking them with tourism. As per the decision, the DRAs headquarters will operate from a building made available by Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (KVSADB) while its sub-office will be set up in the Kailash Mansarovar office in Ghaziabad. When asked about the possible sites where the directorate office will be set up, the chief executive officer of Kashi Vishwanath temple Sunil Kumar Verma said, “Till the completion of administrative block in KV Dham (corridor) project area, the offices of temple administration and board are being operated from a rented accommodation in Chowk area.” It would be decided whether the DRA’s office can be operated from KV Dham in consulation with the state govenment, Verma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashis-pre-eminence-as-spiritual-cultural-centre-brought-dra-directorate-here-min/articleshow/79711533.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Third phase of local body polls in 4 districts today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The third and final phase of the local-body election on Monday will cover 354 self-government institutions in the four northern districts of Malappuram Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. A 89,74,993-strong electorate will be able to vote in 10,842 polling booths arranged in these districts. Of these, 1,105 booths have been categorized as sensitive and will be under camera surveillance. A team of 20,603 police personnel has been deployed. The state election commission has deputed 52,285 polling officials for election duty. Malappuram has the most number of voters, with 33,55,028, followed by Kozhikode (25,34,099), Kannur (20,37,221) and Kasaragod (10,48,645). There are 71,906 new voters in the final phase, of which 34,453 are in Malappuram, followed by 18,692 in Kozhikode, 11,949 in Kannur and 6,812 in Kasaragod. Malappuram will have 3,975 polling booths, Kozhikode 2,987, Kannur 2,471 and Kasaragod 1,409. Covid-19 testing not mandated: Poll panelThe state election commission has made it clear that no instruction has been issued for conducting Covid-19 tests on officials on poll duty and agents from various political parties. It has, however, instructed for their temperature screening at booths. State election commissioner V Bhaskaran said those travelling from other states will also have to go through a screening process at polling booths. Other reports on mandatory Covid-19 testing are totally baseless, he said. Bhaskaran urged polling officials and police personnel to ensure that there is no overcrowding inside the compound of polling booths and physical distancing is ensured. Counting for all the three phases will be held on December 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/four-northern-districts-to-cap-lsg-polls/articleshow/79709907.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Think big, Nitin Gadkari tells local businessmen, boasts of Rs 1,300 crore turnover by sons’ cos||NAGPUR: Union minister for transport and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari exhorted local businessmen to think big, adding that his own venture had achieved business of Rs1,300 crore. The minister and Member of Parliament from Nagpur was speaking at the ground breaking ceremony for a common facilitation centre (CFC) for auto and engineering industries at Hingna estate of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). “I am sorry to say but investment of Rs12 crore for the Centre being set up here is peanuts. It should be at least Rs200 crore. My own venture has touched Rs1,300 crore and I am just a social worker,” he said. By Gadkari’s own account, the turnover of his business has grown by Rs200 crore in two years. In 2018, while addressing the foundation day function of MIDC Industries association (MIA), Gadkari had said his sons’ business had touched Rs1,100 crore. Earlier known as Purti Group, it has now turned into two separate entities, Manas Agro and Cian Agro, which are headed by his sons Sarang and Nikhil respectively. Manas Agro has stakes in sugar, power, ethanol and bio-fertiliser businesses while Cian Agro is into health care, agro, home care and infrastructure sectors, say the companies’ websites. The infrastructure business is run through Jairam Infraventure Private Limited, its wholly owned subsidiary. The day to day management is with Gadkari’s sons and he is not in the management. A source close to the management said the turnover of the entire group can be at Rs1,300 crore. Gadkari also claimed many more achievements. “Recently, the MD of Dassault told me that both Rafale and the business jet Falcon will be made in Nagpur. In fact, he told that from 2021, Falcons going anywhere in the world will be made in Nagpur,” he said. Gadkari said he has assured the company to get an order of 10,000 planes. “All they need to do is make amphibian seaplanes that can land on water and land both. Seaplane services have already started to the Statue of Unity in Gujarat. Soon people may board a plane from Ambazari lake and fly to Shegaon,” he said. Naming the sons of two prominent businessmen from the city, Gadkari said he has asked them to take forward the work on CNG and LNG. “I asked Kaustubh Gupta (son of Padmesh Gupta) to take up conversion of vehicles into CNG. So far, 100 NMC buses run on CNG. Pranay, son of Baidyanath’s Suresh Sharma, has been working on the LNG front,” he said. About his own business, Gadkari said they keep on experimenting and invest whatever surplus money they get into innovation. They will be soon exporting a major consignment of oranges to UAE and Canada, he said. Speaking about projects in Nagpur, he said Mihan had generated employment for 58,000 and will touch one lakh figure in coming years. A source in MADC said the minister’s office had sought information on jobs created in the project. The source said around 25,000 were directly employed in the units and rest included construction labourers who had been engaged in building the units, and other indirect employment like housekeeping staff. Gadkari said, however, progress was not good in Butibori and Hingna. An approval has been secured for the broad gauge metro and people can reach Amravati in an hour and 10 minutes. The train will connect other nearby towns too, he said. Gadkari said a facility to make rolling stock for metro is planned at Wardha. The plush trains can be run on partnership by local companies. A company can take up each rake of around eight wagon and run it, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/think-big-gadkari-tells-local-bizmen-boasts-of-rs1300cr-turnover-by-sons-cos/articleshow/79712420.cms||Shishir Arya
December 14, 2020||Allahabad||Locker facility to be made available for devotees at Magh Mela campus||Prayagraj: Pilgrims and tourists coming to Magh Mela 2021, for taking a holy dip, performing a religious ceremony or even sightseeing, need not worry about a safe place to keep their belongings. On the lines of railway stations and some prominent religious sites, the district administration has decided to introduce the concept of a paid cloakroom. The 57-day annual fair will kick-start with Makar Sankranti bathing on January 14 and conclude with Maha Shivratri bathing on March 11, 2021. Prayagraj Mela Authority has decided to introduce this facility for the annual fair on the lines of paid service provided during Kumbh-2019. Pilgrims would be able to keep their handbags, backpacks for safekeeping for Rs 20 for 24 hours, Rs 40 for 48 hours and Rs 60 for 72 hours, while storing larger luggage items would cost them Rs 40 for 24 hours, Rs 80 for 48 hours and Rs 120 for 72 hours, informed officials. The fair would have cloakrooms of up to 600 sq feet at each of the 22 well-spaced out designated parking lots to thwart Covid-19, where the staff would remain in uniform with their identity cards on display. The parking lots will have boom barriers, and the parking tickets shall be issued using digital handheld ticketing machines, they added. The Request for Proposal (RFP) for this has been issued by the Prayagraj Mela Authority inviting e-bids from interested parties with the technical bids scheduled for being opened on December 14. The agency entrusted with the task of setting up and managing the parking sites will set up and operate these cloakrooms.  This facility would free the pilgrims from the need of carrying unrequired luggage to bathing ghats and religious ceremonies sites, said Vivek Chaturvedi, Mela Adhikari, Magh Mela-2021. Each cloakroom would be set up as directed in the layout and have necessary required infrastructure like power supply, lockers, boundary etc. along with waterproof material for safe storage of luggage. Size of the cloakroom shall not exceed 600 square feet each with their number not exceeding one per every 5,000 car spaces, he explained. The sites identified for parking lots include Sugar Mill, Mahuabagh, Triveni Puram, Navprayagam, Agriculture Institute, Deaf and Dumb School, Devrakh, CMP College, CAV College, GIC, Women’s Polytechnic, Bada Bhagara, Colonelganj Inter College, MNNIT, Scout and Guide school and Hindu Hostel among others. Parking lots would also be set up at KP College, Government Press and Khusro Bagh, confirmed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/locker-facility-to-be-made-available-for-devotees-at-magh-mela-campus/articleshow/79711545.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||‘Horse-mounted police can control crowd effectively’||NAGPUR: Top cops, who had served as commissioner of police in the city and considered most efficient in their times, welcomed Maharashtra government’s taking a leaf from the history of British era to induct mounted police for maintenance of public order. Offering opinion on the latest introduction of self-balancing Segway electric scooters and the proposed horse-mounted police in city, three former CPs of Nagpur — PKB Chakraborty, SPS Yadav and Shardaprasad Yadav — analysed the effectiveness of the two systems. Chakraborty, who had conducted a study on Kolkata’s mounted police unit and submitted a report as additional DG (training) to the government, said all major cities must have such units for maintenance of public order. “The biggest advantage of mounted police is that a cop is at a height and can see the surrounding from a vantage position. It’s very effective in managing mob and disciplining crowd,” he said. “A horse has a psychological effect on the mob and hence requires minimum use of force,” said the retired DGP. “The electric scooters can move into congested lanes and can variably be used for increasing visibility, but these must be in buddy pairs,” said Chakraborty. Former CP Shardaprasad Yadav also vouched for the psychological effect of a horse on the crowd. “Horse-mounted police would be ideal for patrolling places like fairs, public or religious congregations. The rider cop will get a wider view and police visibility would also be increased,” he said. “Electric scooters may not be effective in places where roads are bad or when fast movement or quick tracking is required. It would be effective only in places like Marine Drive (in Mumbai) to serve a specific purpose,” said the former DGP. Ex-top cop SPS Yadav too supported the idea of strategic mob and crowd management with horse-mounted squad. “Horse rider cop is in a commanding and imposing position. He not only has better view of the crowd, which he has to manage, but also of the colleagues and their position in case of emergencies,” he said. “The in-charge cop would be in better position to supervise his team and issue better commands,” said the former Nagpur CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/horse-mounted-police-can-control-crowd-effectively/articleshow/79712423.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 14, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Lions on outing near Aji Dam enjoy lavish Sunday spread||RAJKOT: A pride of lions that has moved closer to the periphery of Aji Dam on the outskirts of Rajkot have enjoyed a lavish Sunday feast comprising a cow, a blue bull and a wild boar on Sunday. While locals said that the cow was preyed upon from a cowshed of a maldhari living in Vadali village near Tramba village in the periphery of the dam. “Maldhari Lavji Govind woke up hearing roars and cries of cows from the shed and rushed out. He saw two lions being dragged out of the cowshed,” said an official from Rajkot forest range. “He tried to save his cows but in vain. On Sunday afternoon, Govind packed up his cattle in a utility vehicle and left for his native in Dungarpur near Jasdan,” the official added. Apart from the cow, the lions also preyed upon a blue bull and a wild boar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-on-outing-near-aji-dam-enjoy-lavish-sunday-spread/articleshow/79709913.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Allahabad||Kaushambi jail inmates stitch blanket covers for cow shelters||Prayagraj: Inmates of Kaushambi district jail are stitching covers for cows for the winter seasons using old and torn blankets. The woollen covers will be supplied to gaushalas across the state. These covers are being made from worn out blankets collected from Kaushambi and other district jails of the state. A blanket allotted to an inmate during winter usually lasts around three years. Superintendent of Kaushambi district jail BS Mukund said, “A team of 10 inmates are stitching the covers for the cattle. A pack of 50 woollen covers is being supplied to a gaushala in Manjhanpur. We have collected old and torn blankets from many jails and are using those to make the cover for cattle by stitching them with a thick sheet of cloth\ polythene.” He claimed that this is the first time when inmates have started such an initiative. “We aim to prepare around 1,000 covers for the cattle in a month and are trying to make at least 400 covers this week,” he added. Once the woollen cover is made, we put a logo on it and dispatch it to gaushalas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/kaushambi-jail-inmates-stitch-blanket-covers-for-cow-shelters/articleshow/79711616.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Colonel accused of raping friend’s Russian wife, flees||KANPUR: A Colonel posted at Central Ordnance Depot (COD) in Kanpur allegedly raped his friend’s Russian wife at the officer’s mess in the Cantt area of the city. The incident took place on December 10, but came to light when an FIR was lodged against the Colonel under section 376 (rape) and other relevant section of IPC following a complaint by the woman’s husband at the Cantt police station on December 12. The woman’s husband, who hails from the state capital, told police that his old friend Neeraj Gehlot, who is Colonel in COD, invited him and his Russian wife for dinner at his place. He agreed and they reached Kanpur from Lucknow on December 10. “After shopping in the day, they went to the Colonel’s official bungalow in COD where the latter offered him a drink laced with sedatives. Soon after consuming it, he was knocked out of his senses. The Colonel then dragged his friend’s wife to another room and tried to force himself on her. She pushed him away and shouted, but he brutally assaulted her. The woman lost her consciousness. We have sent the woman for a medical examination and the report is awaited,” said SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal. The woman narrated her ordeal to her husband when he regained consciousness. The victim’s husband accompanied her to the Cantt police station on December 12 to file a complaint. He told police that his wife was a Russian and had been living in India for the last 10 years. Police said the survivor would be produced before a magistrate on Monday. “The Colonel is currently on the run,” the SP added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/colonel-accused-of-rapingfriends-russian-wife-flees/articleshow/79711679.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 14, 2020||Goa||Bicholim boy raps and rhymes to shine spotlight on drug abuse among peers||BICHOLIM: He is no ‘Gully Boy’, but 24-year-old Adil Palekar is an avid rapper from Bicholim, who has chosen to use the medium to help raise awareness about drug abuse among his peers. The son of restaurant owners, Adil works with a cooperative society and was introduced to rap music in his early teens. By age 19, with no training in music, Adil began writing his own lyrics and began rapping. “I was inspired by the works of cartoonists like Balasaheb Thackeray and R K Laxman, who chose their art to create awareness on different social issues,” said Adil. The youth said he has vowed to raise awareness about drug abuse in Goa. He has written eight songs addressing the issue. “I noticed that the problem of drug abuse is becoming increasingly serious. A large number from an entire generation are taking to narcotic substances and I was alarmed by this. So I felt more efforts by more persons were required to help tackle this menace,” he said. After mainly rapping in Hindi, Adil is now attempting to write songs in Konkani to get his message across. “When I rap in Hindi, many tend to think I am an outsider and it comes in the way of delivering my message. Youth are the pillars of our country and resorting to drug abuse is like carrying out a crime against the nation,” said Adil. Adil said he has also uploaded his videos against drug abuse on YouTube so his message can reach a wider audience. “Through these videos I try to spread the message. My father Anil Palekar encouraged me to carry out a detailed study of the structure of rap music. We began researching the genre from 2016,” said Adil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-boy-raps-and-rhymes-to-shine-spotlight-on-drug-abuse-among-peers/articleshow/79711539.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two held with ganja||HYDERABAD: Two men were arrested by Rachakonda police on Sunday with 18 kg ganja, worth Rs 2.28 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-held-with-ganja/articleshow/79711540.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kanpur||SIT visits Chandigarh to record statements of victim’s wife, son||Kanpur: The members of the Special Investigation team (SIT) probing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 In Kanpur reached Chandigarh on Sunday and recorded the statements of a family whose family member was killed in Armapur area. The SIT members met deceased Mohan Singh’s wife Arvinder Kaur and son Harendra Singh at their residence in Chandigarh on Sunday. Arvinder Kaur told SIT that her husband and his two colleagues were murdered on November 1, 1984 when she and her son were at their Kidwai Nagar residence. Some other friends of her husband had informed her about the murder of her husband and his two friends. Later, she migrated to Punjab along with her son, said sub inspector Suraj Pratap Singh of SIT. The SIT sources further informed that the members had also visited Ludhiana on Thursday and recorded the statements of the family of another victim. “We had visited Ludhiana and recorded the statements of two families. One Tajinder Kaur narrated to the SIT team the ordeals she and her family members had faced 36 years ago,” said an SIT member. “Her husband was shot during the anti-Sikh riots in Kanpur,” he added. At least 127 people were killed in separate pockets of Kanpur on October 31, 1984 in the aftermath of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination. The state government had constituted a four-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe the circumstances that led to riots in Kanpur. As per SIT sources, so far five witnesses have recorded their statements. The SIT members who are in Punjab to record the statements include sub inspectors Suraj Pratap Singh, Punit Kumar and Sunil Kanaujia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-visits-chandigarh-to-record-statements-of-victims-wife-son/articleshow/79711724.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 14, 2020||Pune||Traffic snarls down by 17% in 2020: TomTom report||Pune: The city’s traffic congestion was down by 17% in 2020, largely aided by a strict lockdown for more than two months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Dutch traffic management firm TomTom said in its annual traffic index report covering more than 400 cities globally. Pune ranked 16th in 2020, with congestion being at 42%, a significant improvement from being the fifth most congested city in 2019. Mumbai turned out to be the most congested Indian city in 2020, ranking second overall, with Moscow being the most congested city in 2020. “The data showed that traffic in Pune was almost back to the January 2020 levels by the end of December as economic activity picked up and people returned to work,” said Werner van Huyssteen, India general manager, TomTom. “This drop in traffic is due to the pandemic,” said Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagarik Manch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-snarls-down-by-17-in-2020-tomtom-report/articleshow/80258916.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 14, 2020||Allahabad||Man, elderly woman found dead||Prayagraj: A man and his elderly mother were found brutally murdered at their home in Saray Deena village under Soraon police station in trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj on Sunday morning. The deceased Dharma Devi (55) and Surendra Pasi alias Tiddu (22) were residents of Saray Deema village. SP (trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal said that two police teams are working on the case and two persons have been detained for interrogation. Police said that the victims were the only ones inside the house on Saturday night when they were killed. The murders came to light on Sunday morning when a girl arrived the victims’ house to fetch milk and found their bodies. Police said that Dharma Devi’s elder son used to live in the neighbouring Sikandarpur village, while she lived with with her two other sons Surendra and Mahendra. On Saturday night, Mahendra had gone to a wedding and Dharma and Surendra were alone at their house. Mahendra told the police that his family was at loggerheads with their neighbours over a land dispute. Police have detained two men of the neighbouring family for questioning. Police said that the attackers used bricks and sticks to kill the woman and her son. It appeared that their only intention was to kill the two. The bodies have been sent for a postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-elderly-woman-found-dead/articleshow/79711632.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Allahabad||Two 20-bed hospitals totreat Magh Mela visitors||Prayagraj: Visitors to Magh Mela would be able to seek treatment at two 20-bed hospitals that the health department plans to set up on the venue of the fair when it is organised in January next year. The department would also set up five medical units for visitors. Chief medical officer (Prayagraj) Dr Prabhakar Rai said that the health department has chalked out an elaborate plan for medical facilities that would be available for devotees coming to the Magh Mela. “The department will set up two 20-bed hospitals in Jhunsi and Quila Ghat road. Apart from these, there would be a medical unit set up in each of the five sectors of the Mela ground.” The health department has also planned to set up a Covid static booth in every sector for conducting tests. “If any visitor tests positive for novel coronavirus, he/she would be immediately shifted to a Covid hospital in the city. An adequate number of medical and paramedical staff would be assigned duties for the Magh Mela,” the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-20-bed-hospitals-totreat-magh-mela-visitors/articleshow/79711561.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Drive against illegal structures: 113 buildings sealed in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Even as illegal structures have mushroomed in Greater Hyderabad and officials turning a blind eye, the neighbouring Nizampet Municipal Corporation cracked the whip on illegal constructions and sealed 113 buildings in the last few days alone. The civic body spread over 88 square km area has identified 1,001 unauthorised buildings in Nizampet, Bachupally and Pragatinagar areas. To send a strong message to the builders and developers, the town planning staff have pasted ‘X’ ribbon on the buildings and a flexi with a warning that “this building is sealed under section 181 of the Telangana Municipalities Act for carrying out the construction unauthorisedly” so that gullible people would not purchase flats and space in such buildings. B Gopi, Nizampet municipal commissioner, said the corporation had written to the registration and stamps department not to register illegal properties and requested the Telangana Southern Power Distribution Company Limited and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board not to provide power and water connections to such properties. “These measures were taken mainly to send a strong message to errant builders and developers,” Gopi told TOI. While attaching the list of unauthorised structures, he said: “Registration authorities should not register any building or structure without production of sanctioned plan approved by the municipality as per the Telangana Municipalities Act, 2019.” Officials admit that Nizampet, Bachupally and Pragatinagar have turned into hub of illegal constructions in the past 10 years due to their proximity to the IT corridor and Hi-Tec City. All these areas were separate gram panchayats till they were merged to form Nizampet Municipal Corporation in April 2019. “When these were gram panchayats, builders and developers took permisssion for ground+ two floors and raised two to three illegal floors. We have identified 1,001 such structures through field inspections, RTI applications, grievances and also court cases,” Nizampet assistant city planner Vijaya Sri told TOI. The civic body has also taken up a drive for removal of encroachments on the roads simultaneously. Officials who worked in the municipal administration department earlier said there were vigilance reports on the unauthorised structures in Nizampet and Bachupally but no action has been taken on the reports. Meanwhile, some public representatives have asked the Nizampet commissioner to remove the seals on the buildings as some of them had applied for regularisation of illegal floors under the building regularisation scheme in 2015, which is pending in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drive-against-illegal-structures-113-buildings-sealed/articleshow/79711550.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s free-vaccine pledge has opposition crying foul||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition parties hauled Pinarayi Vijayan’s announcement to provide free Covid-19 vaccination in the state to the election commission terming it a violation of the model code of conduct in place for the local-body election. State election commissioner V Bhaskaran said he has received complaints and a decision will be taken after a detailed verification. UDF, which first approached the poll panel, said the CM made the announcement ahead of the third phase of the election to woo voters. “It is nothing but an attempt to influence voters. Even the Centre has no clarity on availability of vaccines in the country. The announcement made by the chief minister is a clear violation of the model code of conduct as prescribed by the election commission,’’ said UDF convener M M Hassan. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said there was no emergency situation prevailing in the state for the CM to make such an announcement. “The chief minister made this announcement minutes before the culmination of the public campaign for the third phase of the local-body polls. His sole purpose was to influence voters,’’ said Chennithala. Congress deputy leader in the assembly, K C Joseph, filed the complaint on behalf of the UDF. BJP state president K Surendran also filed a complaint with the election commission. “It is a clear case of violation of the model code of conduct in place in the state. Moreover, the Centre has already made it clear that Covid-19 vaccines will be made available free for everyone in the country. Then what was the point in the chief minister making such an announcement now. It was made to influence voters,” he alleged. As per the model code, governments cannot make any announcements in terms of new projects or schemes. If any such announcement has to be made in an emergency situation, then the government will have to take the prior permission of the election commission. Opposition parties said the CM made the announcement without the prior consent of the poll panel and that there was no emergency situation prevailing in the state that necessitated such a declaration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cms-free-vaccine-pledge-has-opposition-crying-foul/articleshow/79709917.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Code of conduct in place for Gram Panchayat polls||AMRAVATI: The model code of conduct has come into effect in the entire district from Friday in view of January 15 Gram Panchayat polls. Collector Shailesh Naval said that since 553 out of total 840 GPs are going to the polls, the code of conduct is for the entire district. He added that 4,896 members will be elected from 1,823 Prabhags on January 15. Nominations will be accepted from December 23 onwards with December 30 being the last day (except govt holidays). Scrutiny will be done on December 31. The last day to withdraw nominations is January 4. Polling will be held on January 15 from 7.30am to 5.30pm. Counting will take place on January 18. The electoral roll of September 25, 2020 will be valid for this poll. After objections and suggestions are taken into consideration, the final electoral list will be displayed on December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/code-of-conduct-in-place-for-gp-polls/articleshow/79712424.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: KTC electric bus launch pushed to next year||PANAJI: After touting the entry of electric buses in Goa which were to be operated by the Kadamba Transport Corporation limited (KTC), the ambitious initiative seems to have hit a tiny roadblock. Anticipating delivery of these vehicles in mid-December, the KTC had initially scheduled the launch of the buses on Goa Liberation Day while Christmas was also being looked at in case of a delay. Now January 2021 is being circled on the calendar for the launch. Prolonged monsoon and a delay in setting up charging stations was also being pointed as the reason for the delay. “The work for building a charging station has taken off at the Margao depot. Once they’re in place, the buses will arrive. But the cables for these charging stations are to be constructed underground. The prolonged rains delayed the laying down of the cables,” KTC managing director, Venancio Furtado said. The charging stations for these vehicles were expected to be operational at major KTC bus stands by January 2021 through Goa Energy Development Agency (GEDA). In addition to this, fear of a poor response has also left the KTC apprehensive of launching the buses immediately. “The passenger load factor is already very low on our regular buses owing to the pandemic, especially during slack hours. If there are no passengers riding the electric buses during such hours, our earnings will come down and we will be in loss,” a KTC official said. KTC has placed an order for the electric vehicles (EV) under the second phase of the FAME India scheme (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles in India), initiated by the ministry of heavy industry to assist the state in purchasing electric buses. In September, minister for transport Mauvin Godinho had said that 25 of the buses are going to be operational in Goa by December-January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-electric-bus-launch-pushed-to-next-year/articleshow/79711542.cms||Nida Sayed
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Covid patients losing cashless benefits due to insurance companies, say hospitals||Nagpur: Many Covid-19 patients had to spend hours more in hospital, even after getting discharge, just because their cashless claims were not settled by insurance companies. Many had to pay substantial amount to the hospital after the insurance company rejected a major part of the claim citing various technical reasons. Though patients blame treating hospitals in such cases, city hospitals released a statement on Sunday blaming insurance companies for this mess. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) has written to divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar that insurance companies are creating unnecessary hurdles in releasing cashless benefits for Covid patients. “Health insurance companies are trying to extract their pound of flesh by arbitrarily decreeing that patient should have been treated in general ward or at home on OPD basis. This creates unwanted acrimony with relatives at time of discharge,” reads the statement by VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat, secretary Dr Alok Umre and convener Dr Anup Marar. Hospitals have claimed that they had started cashless benefits after an assurance by divisional commissioner in a confidence building meeting held during peak of Covid-19. So, they have complained to the divisional commissioner and requested him to direct insurance companies in this regard. “Private hospitals are already charging patients capped prices as per government directives. Even this less amount on credit basis is causing financial strain on us. Additionally, the fleecing by health insurance companies is adding salt on our wounds,” said Dr Anup Marar. “Ethical discretion of placing incoming Covid patients at home or in general bed or in the ICU lies with the doctors only. Hence, neither hospital administration nor health insurance companies have the right to opine on placement of patients and their treatment,” said Dr Umre. Dr Ashok Arbat said, “Private hospitals had initially avoided provision of cashless benefit to avoid just such unwanted confrontation related to billing at the time of discharge. In a meeting with divisional commissioner, we were told insurance companies will provide immediate sanction and will clear bills on priority. Respecting his words, we commenced admission of health insurance patients with provision of cashless benefit.” While the divisional commissioner’s office is yet to reply, a senior official from a leading health insurance company said the companies have their own mechanism of settling claims and they cannot be directed to settle claims bypassing their process. “All companies and TPAs follow IRDA rulings. Covid-19 claims are complicated as compared to non-Covid illnesses. Hence, patients need to pay some amount,” he said. Docs: Make uniform format for NMC Covid queries During the pandemic time, private hospitals are facing various queries by NMC officials who visit them often regarding billing enquiries. Hospitals have now written to the municipal commissioner and requested a uniform format of billing related enquiries. According to doctors they are being punished for serving people. “The regular visits of NMC officials seeking details are like persistent hammering. These officials keep changing stance on queries related to bills of Covid patients. This is taking a toll and affecting day to day working in private hospitals,” reads the letter signed by VHA officials. “A uniform policy and clarity on format of queries must be communicated to all NMC officials deputed to various Covid hospitals. This homogeneity will go a long way in streamlining process of information collection,” the statement concludes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-patients-losing-cashless-benefits-due-to-insurance-companies-say-hospitals/articleshow/79710530.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: 92% panchayats online, 12 remain to go digital||PANAJI: Of the 191 panchayats in Goa, 177 have their own websites while two are in the process of going live. Only 12 panchayats are pending completion of making their services available online. “So far, we have not heard of any other state that has a website for each panchayat. In big states, the number of panchayats is in thousands. In terms of connectivity and remoteness, it’s tougher for them to go online,” a panchayat’s officer said. Once the website is in place, online services can be given digitally. All forms can be downloaded from home, filled up and then submitted to the panchayat. There are plans to provide a payment gateway provision on these websites as well, so that citizens can pay house tax and light tax online. Issuance of birth and death certificates can also be easily done through these websites. This is also in pipeline. “Births registered from 1971 onwards, are available with the respective panchayats and currently the respective panchayat’s secretary issues a manual copy when the residents personally visit the panchayat. Soon, people can go online to download the form, scan the birth or death report and send it to us after making the online payment,” the officer said. Among the surprising names that fall under the bracket of pending villages are that of Taleigao – which has slowly developed over the past decade almost to the likes of mirroring a small town. Other villages include Santa Cruz, Tivim and Goa Velha among others (see infographic). TOI had reported on November 17 that all 191 panchayats in the state will have online services. Chief minister Pramod Sawant who then launched the services had said that all 191 village panchayats will be able to avail of common online services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/92-panchayats-online-12-remain-to-go-digital/articleshow/79711554.cms||Nida Sayed
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Fog delays trigger jam in Kolkata airport parking bays||KOLKATA: Bad weather at Patna and Dhaka airports last week led to several flights being diverted to Kolkata airport. On the two days when the airport had to accommodate the additional planes, it nearly ran out of parking space. Faced with the crunch situation, the airport operator has decided to expedite the work on additional parking bays after the delay caused by the lockdown. “Work on 10 additional parking bays had started early in the year but was held up for months due to the lockdown. Work has resumed again following Unlock. We are now trying to expedite work and make good the time lost so that the job can be completed with least time over-run. Once these additional bays are available, it will ease the situation somewhat and we can start work on more parking bays. But the timelines have been pushed back by over six months due to the disruption,” an airport official told TOI. Altogether, Rs 350 crore had been earmarked for development of 40 additional parking bays and extension of a taxi track. The project, to be developed in phases, was scheduled to get completed in 2024. Now, the revised timeline for the project completion is 2025. Apart from the 10 parking bays that have been taken up in the first phase, work has also commenced on extension of taxi track F. “We had awarded the job for Rs 128 crore for development of 19 parking bays. In addition, Rs 122 crore is being spent for taxi track extension that will increase runway efficiency and enhance safety,” airport director Kaushuk Bhattacharjee said, adding that the first 10 bays will be ready by next year and the rest by 2022,” airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said, adding that once the first phase is over, the work order for 21 more parking bays will be awarded. Apart from making space by relocating offices and hangars and demolishing buildings, the airport authorities plan to utilize land available to the east of the runway for the new parking bays. The new additions will take the parking bay count at Kolkata airport by end of 2025 to 105, up from 65 bays at present. With 70%-80% flights operational post lockdown at present, there are several bays that are perpetually occupied by planes. In addition, there are two Boeing MAX aircraft that have remained grounded since March 2019, occupying additional parking bays. This has left the airport very little maneuverability in terms of parking space. Demand for parking bays at the airport has been on the rise in the past decade following its emergence as a hub. At present, nearly all parking bays except three that have to remain vacant to accommodate flight diversions are occupied through the night. The airport has had to turn down airline requests for night parking slots so that they can operate early morning flights out of Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fog-delays-trigger-jam-in-city-airport-parking-bays/articleshow/79710575.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Probe if Naxalites are part of farm agitation: Ramdas Athawale||NAGPUR: Ramdas Athawale, Union minister of state for social justice, has supported railway minister Piyush Goyal’s statement that the farmers’ agitation has been infiltrated by Naxalites and demanded that central government should probe this aspect. Addressing media here on Sunday, Athawale, however, said that he did not agree with Union minister Raosaheb Danve’s claim that the agitation was sponsored by Pakistan and China. "This is not the view of the government," he added. Athawale said farmers should not demand repeal of the three farm laws. “We are not closing agricultural produce marketing committees (APMCs). If any farmer wants to sell his produce in APMC, he is free to do so. However, if somebody is fetching a higher price elsewhere, he should have the choice of selling there. This is the only way to increase income of farmers," he added. According to Athawale, farmers could demand some amendments in the laws and the government was ready to accommodate their demands. Turning to politics, Athawale said that NCP leader Praful Patel was right in saying that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar was insulted by Congress in the past. "Despite having vast experience, Pawar was not made the Prime Minister. He was not invited for important meetings. All party laws were ignored to make Sonia Gandhi the Congress president. Now if Congress does not have a proper candidate, it should make Pawar the party president," he added. Athawale also appealed to Pawar to join the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by Narendra Modi. On state politics, the RPI leader said that an alliance of his party and BJP would win the municipal election in Mumbai. "Sena and NCP are likely to have an alliance. They will not take Congress together. However, if they do there will be so many rebels that it will benefit BJP and RPI," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/probe-if-naxalites-are-part-of-farm-agitation-athawale/articleshow/79712426.cms||Ashish Roy
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Water bills to reduce for 35,000 families in 12 Mohali sectors||MOHALI: The Mohali municipal corporation (MC) is all set to pass on the water tariff parity, giving benefit to approximately 35,000 families of 12 sectors in Mohali by Rs 3.7 per kiloliter. The MC will take over the water supply from Gmada starting January 1. Residents of sectors 66 to 69, 76 to 81 and sector 88 have been paying 5.5 times more water tariff as compared to the MC rates.Residents of these sectors had knocked the doors of the court and the matter is now listed for next hearing on January 4. However, sources in the Mohali MC said the civic body is all set to take over the water distribution and billing from January 1 onwards before the Punjab government notifies the date for holding the MC elections. SAD activists have welcomed the move, but termed it another juggle by the Congress-led state government. According to a senior officer in the MC, the proposal has already been approved by the Punjab local government department. He said, “We had sent the proposal, which has been approved and we will be implementing it by January 1 onwards.” Former Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi said, “This will be big relief for residents of 12 sectors. Cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has got approval from the Punjab government. The facility will be forwarded to residents from January 1onwards.” SAD councillors Satvir Singh Dhanoa, Surinder Singh and BJP councillor Shinderpal Singh said, “This is another juggle by Congress for staking claims of the struggle, which we have been fighting for. Congress is also using the same as election tool as they will be implementing the benefit just before the notification of dates for the MC elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/relief-for-mohali-residents-as-mc-to-supply-water-from-jan-1/articleshow/79709929.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chronic fatigue is a common symptom in post-Covid patients: PGI||CHANDIGARH: Chronic fatigue has been found to be the most common symptom among the post-Covid-19 patients from the PGI centre. The centre is mentoring patients from CMC Ludhiana, PGIMS Rohtak and KIMS Srinagar. The institute has registered 700 patients as part of the Indian Council and Medical Research (ICMR) trials for post-Covid-19 registry since October. However, doctors at some of the hospitals have been seeing post-Covid-19 syndrome in patients with variety of problems, including neuropathy, hair loss, lung fibrosis etc. But at the same time, after two to three months, patients have recovered from these complications. “We have been screening patients who were discharged from the PGI October onwards. Most of them have been complaining of chronic fatigue. But it is too early to attribute this to Covid-19 infection,” said an ICMR representative at the PGI. The ICMR has slotted 100 centres in the country for compiling a repository of such data to understand the overall trend, treatment, symptoms and post-Covid-19 complications. “This is a novel virus. Thus nothing has been known about it. So this registry will help us in preparing a data for policy interventions,” said the researcher. For neurologists, the most common problem in the recovered patients was neuropathy—abnormal sensations in hands or feet or motor weaknesses in gripping etc. These patients were those, who were on ventilators, while a few asymptomatic patients also reported of the symptoms. “There is a hypothesis that when protective antibodies are generated as a response to the virus, there is a molecular mimicry that produces similar antibodies, but which acts against the nerves. However, it is a temporary effect,” Dr Amit Shankar, neurologist at a private hospital. Same is for Covid-19 pneumonia patients, who also recovered after a few-week time. Dr A K Mandal, senior pulmonologist at a private hospital, said, “For those with Covid-19 lung, we stopped using antifibrotics drugs in October as we started observing that the lungs were clearing off from fibrosis on its own. The fibrosis due to Covid-19 has been different from what we have been seeing conventionally. This fibrosis is progressive in nature and so it is a misconception that the lung damage due to the virus is permanent as lots of patients have been recovering to normalcy.” Also, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has also started post-Covid-19 care clinic from Saturday as more patients have been coming after recovery with diverse complaints. “We will try and evaluate what kind of problems such patients have been suffering from. They shall be treated accordingly,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal at the GMCH-32.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-chronic-fatigue-is-a-common-symptom-in-post-covid-patients/articleshow/79709924.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||15-20,000 students to attend school in Nagpur rural today||NAGPUR: After almost nine months, schools in rural Nagpur will reopen on Monday. The local education department expects anywhere between 15,000-20,000 students to return to classrooms. Schools within city limits, however, shall remain closed till January 3. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said preparations were on track to reopen schools. “My officials at taluka level have been in constant touch with schools. We have been trying to keep track of how many consent forms have been received by schools. Based on that its seems that up to 20,000 students might attend schools,” said Vanjari. This figure may change drastically because just by sending consent form, parents are under no obligation to actually send their kids to school. Schools too are prepared for the academic session to begin in physical mode. Ritu Sharma, principal of Delhi Public School (Kamptee Road), said, “All the arrangements are done and logistics in place. We sanitized the entire campus, from classrooms to labs to public utility places. Adequate arrangements for handwash have been made.” Since only students from Std IX-XII are coming, and that too not all, schools do not foresee any problem in handling the kids. The education department has started supplying sanitization material to schools, free of cost. Many schools have received sanitizers, spray machines and temperature checking devices. Some schools have also been handed out posters, which talk about safety precautions to be taken and the importance of social distancing. SN Sahu, principal of Podar International (Besa), said they have informed students about precautions to be taken. “We have instructed them to follow all safety norms. We will have thermal check, handwash station, sanitization, pulse oxymeter etc. Also, social distancing will be followed and seating arrangements revised,” said Sahu. As per the guidelines issued by the state government, schools will be following staggered classroom schedule. For this classes for Std IX, X, XI and XII shall begin and end at half-an-hour gaps. Only those teachers will resume duty on Monday whose RT-PCR tests have come negative. As of now, there is no compulsion on students to get tested. In entire Vidarbha, Nagpur was the only district where schools had not reopened yet. On December 9, Nagpur district collector Ravindra Thakare had issued orders for reopening of schools in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-20k-students-to-attend-school-in-nagpur-rural-today/articleshow/79710614.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 14, 2020||Agra||Minor sisters sexually assaulted by neighbour in Firozabad||Agra: A 50-year-old man was booked in Firozabad district for alleged sexual assault of two minor sisters, 6 and 8 years old, on Sunday. The two children were found in a cane field near their home under Ramgarh police station on Saturday evening. Meanwhile, the accused neighbour of the victims managed to escape. Medical examination of the children, however, has not concluded sexual assault, police said. Father of the victims said, “My daughters were playing outside the house. Ramu persuaded them and took them to a nearby cane field. On hearing the cry, villagers went to the field and found my daughters. Their clothes were removed. Ramu who lives near our house sexually assaulted my daughters. He is absconding. I have filed a complaint at the police station and want justice for my daughters.”Additional superintendent of police, Mukesh Chandra Mishra, said, “On the basis of the complaint received from the father of the two girls, an FIR has been registered at Ramgarh police station under IPC section 354 (assault or criminal force to female with intent to outrage her modesty) and Pocso act. The accused will be arrested very soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/minor-sisters-sexually-assaulted-by-neighbour-in-firozabad/articleshow/79710630.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Srinagar||Chronic fatigue is a common symptom in post-Covid patients: PGI||CHANDIGARH: Chronic fatigue has been found to be the most common symptom among the post-Covid-19 patients from the PGI centre. The centre is mentoring patients from CMC Ludhiana, PGIMS Rohtak and KIMS Srinagar. The institute has registered 700 patients as part of the Indian Council and Medical Research (ICMR) trials for post-Covid-19 registry since October. However, doctors at some of the hospitals have been seeing post-Covid-19 syndrome in patients with variety of problems, including neuropathy, hair loss, lung fibrosis etc. But at the same time, after two to three months, patients have recovered from these complications. “We have been screening patients who were discharged from the PGI October onwards. Most of them have been complaining of chronic fatigue. But it is too early to attribute this to Covid-19 infection,” said an ICMR representative at the PGI. The ICMR has slotted 100 centres in the country for compiling a repository of such data to understand the overall trend, treatment, symptoms and post-Covid-19 complications. “This is a novel virus. Thus nothing has been known about it. So this registry will help us in preparing a data for policy interventions,” said the researcher. For neurologists, the most common problem in the recovered patients was neuropathy—abnormal sensations in hands or feet or motor weaknesses in gripping etc. These patients were those, who were on ventilators, while a few asymptomatic patients also reported of the symptoms. “There is a hypothesis that when protective antibodies are generated as a response to the virus, there is a molecular mimicry that produces similar antibodies, but which acts against the nerves. However, it is a temporary effect,” Dr Amit Shankar, neurologist at a private hospital. Same is for Covid-19 pneumonia patients, who also recovered after a few-week time. Dr A K Mandal, senior pulmonologist at a private hospital, said, “For those with Covid-19 lung, we stopped using antifibrotics drugs in October as we started observing that the lungs were clearing off from fibrosis on its own. The fibrosis due to Covid-19 has been different from what we have been seeing conventionally. This fibrosis is progressive in nature and so it is a misconception that the lung damage due to the virus is permanent as lots of patients have been recovering to normalcy.” Also, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has also started post-Covid-19 care clinic from Saturday as more patients have been coming after recovery with diverse complaints. “We will try and evaluate what kind of problems such patients have been suffering from. They shall be treated accordingly,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal at the GMCH-32.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/pgi-chronic-fatigue-is-a-common-symptom-in-post-covid-patients/articleshow/79717444.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Congress back to winning ways in Rajasthan municipal body elections||JAIPUR: After a relatively poor showing in the recently concluded panchayat and zila parishad polls, the ruling Congress roared back when results of elections to 50 municipal bodies were announced on Sunday. While Congress won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, independents came second winning 595 wards, while rivals BJP had to settle for third winning 549 wards. Among other contenders, BSP won seven wards, Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPM) and Communist Party of India (CPI) two each, and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) one ward. Reacting to the results, CM Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “My heartiest congratulations and best wishes to all the candidates who have won the municipality and municipal council elections. I express my gratitude to the people of the state who reposed confidence in the Congress party, leading to its victory. I thank all the Congress workers for their hard work and congratulate them on the victory.” Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said that his party was set to form its boards in 41 municipal bodies, while BJP is expected to form the board in nine municipal bodies. “BJP’s blatant lies of sweeping local body polls have been exposed yet again. In the municipal body polls, our party has won 619 seats, while BJP managed to win only 549 seats. In 17 bodies, we are forming our boards without any support, while in the remaining 24 bodies, we will form boards with the support of independents. Most of them were strategically fielded by us,” said Dotasra. BJP state president Satish Poonia said that the civic poll results have gone against the ruling Congress. “Both BJP and the independents constitute for over 60% seats which means the mandate has gone against the Congress. Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra has attempted to mislead by claiming his party’s victory in the polls,” said Poonia. The elections for the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20. Of the total municipal bodies, 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils went to polls. The 12 districts that are going to polls are Alwar, Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Ganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli and Sirohi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-back-to-winning-ways-in-raj-municipal-body-elections/articleshow/79711556.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Bitten by ‘lady bug’, Cherthala native makes one for himself||KOCHI: Rakesh Babu, a 29-year-old ITI graduate from Cherthala, has always dreamt of buying a Volkswagen Beetle since childhood. But as he grew up and realised he won’t ever be able to afford the famed ladybug-shaped vehicle, he decided to make his own Beetle at home. And after over seven months of tinkering with metal at his father’s welding workshop, and spending around Rs 40,000, he has succeeded in making a smaller but a working model of the Beetle powered by an old bike engine. The pictures and videos of the self-made car, which can carry two people and move at a maximum speed of 60kmph, have sparked a social media buzz. Most of the materials for making the car were collected from scraps. The frame was welded using steel pipes and the body was made using galvanized iron sheets. Babu used the steering set of an old Tata Iris minivan and gave it a facelift to look like Volkswagen. The windshield was made using transparent polycarbonate sheet and the seats were upholstered with a little leather touch. Just like the original model, the engine is placed at the rear side and it has a self-start button. There is kick-start option too and a lever is fitted on the right side. “I have always been fascinated with cars and bikes but most of them cost a fortune. I have not gotten a chance to have a close look at a Beetle. So, I depended on its pictures to make the design. I had to reduce the size to cut the cost and to balance the weight with the engine power. I tried to make it look as close as possible to a Beetle,” said Babu. The tyres are of an auto-rickshaw and the shock absorbers were taken from an old scooter. As the bike engine did not have a reverse gear, Babu made his own reverse gearbox. The car, which features LED lights, can move both forward and backward on four gears and the modes can be changed by pulling a lever. “The car can cover only 30km with one full tank of petrol. I managed to keep the costs down by using scrapped items. I had to rely on arc welding as we didn’t have gas welding facility at the workshop. So, the welding part was a bit difficult. There is no permission to drive the car on the road,” Babu said. Babu has also made a smaller working model of a Yamaha RX100 bike using the motor of a chain saw machine during the lockdown. “It is powered by the 30cc engine of the tree-cutting machine and it cost me around Rs 7,000 to complete the work. I chose the engine because it sounds like the real RX100,” said Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bitten-by-lady-bug-cherthala-native-makes-one-for-himself/articleshow/79709943.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 570 Covid cases, four deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 573 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths, taking the total caseload to 2,77,724 and the death toll to 1,493. With a constantly improving recovery rate now stable at 96.71%, the number of active cases in the state are on a decline. Currently, the state has 7,630 active cases, while 2,68,601 patients have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection. The case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is currently 0.53%. This is better than the country average of 1.5% CFR. Even in terms of recovery rate, Telangana is slightly better off as compared to the country average of 94.9%. On Saturday, 47,186 tests were conducted across the state. Telangana has so far completed 61.3 lakh tests, while the state has reached the figure of 1,64,661 tests per million population now. Of these, nearly 90% of the tests have been conducted in government-run labs and testing centres. GHMC area recorded 127 new cases. This was followed by 67 cases in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 58 cases in Rangareddy, 33 cases each in Khammam and Warangal Urban districts, while all other districts recorded new cases except Wanaparthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-570-covid-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/79711560.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver murdered over affair, buried at Hasmathpet||HYDERABAD: An auto rickshaw driver, who went missing a week ago, was found to be murdered and buried in a burial ground under Alwal police station limits on Sunday. Alwal police said that Srikanth Reddy, 32, was allegedly murdered by Kanakaraju, a building contractor, who strangulated him to death using a rope. Later, the accused Kanakaraju shifted his dead body to Hasmathpet burial ground late in the night, where Srikanth’s dead body was buried. “In the burial ground, Kanakaraju, with the help of four others, buried the body of the victim. The accused informed the staff at the burial ground that the deceased is an orphan and he had a natural death. As the staff were convinced, they could successfully bury the victim’s body,” Alwal inspector A Gangadhar said. As the victim was missing, his family members had registered a missing complaint with the police and raised suspicion on Kanakaraju, who was taken into custody for investigation. It was during the interrogation that the accused disclosed Srikanth Reddy was already dead and he had killed him. Based on the information given by him, the victim’s dead body was exhumed in the presence of revenue authorities. The accused allegedly said that he killed Srikanth Reddy since the victim had developed an illicit relationship with a woman, with whom he was already in a relationship for the last several years. In the past, the accused had allegedly warned the victim to stay away from her but the auto driver allegedly continued to maintain a relationship with her. Now the police have taken five persons, including the prime accused Kanakaraju, into custody. The missing complaint was converted into a murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-murdered-over-affair-buried-at-hasmathpet/articleshow/79711578.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||MTDC to take over 7 tourism complexes owned by FDCM||NAGPUR: With the forest department asked to focus on its core job of conservation and protection, it is handing over seven resorts to Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), which will make them commercially viable by offering packages. The seven resorts and tourism complexes to be handed over to MTDC include Kolara and Mohurli near Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), Chandrapur, Pitezari complex near Nagzira in Gondia, tourism complexes at Bor in Wardha and Sillari in Pench, lodge and boating facility at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) at Borivali, log hut at Karnala in Raigad, and Shivneri complex at Junnar, Pune. The decision of the Maharashtra tourism ministry has left forest officials fuming, as they fear the mandate of MTDC may not be the same as that of the forest department. MTDC managing director Ashutosh Salil said, “All these complexes are not in the core area and the forest department is already offering them to tourists.” The decision was taken on September 10, at a meeting chaired by tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray in the presence of forest minister Sanjay Rathod, principal secretary Milind Mhaiskar, MTDC MD Ashutosh Salil, and other officials. FDCM is in a hurry to handover the resorts to MTDC. Sources said FDCM has stopped bookings for tourists after December 31 at its complexes in NNTR, Bor, and Tadoba. The FDCM canter at Tadoba will also stop operations, and used for the upcoming Indian Safari at Gorewada Zoo. They said the forest department itself doesn’t want to operate these resorts as hospitality is not its cup of tea. However, a section of forest officials feels that these complexes were built in blatant violation of Forest Conservation Act (FCA) 1980. As per the FCA, ecotourism is a non-forestry activity and needs central government nod, but these complexes were built violating laws. “Now, it has to be confirmed whether these complexes can be handed over for commercial corporation,” they said. Salil says these tourism complexes will be run on the lines of jungle lodges and resorts run by Karnataka Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC). “We are not taking over any of the guesthouses in the core area. We will upgrade these resorts after evaluating their status and existing facilities and deliver the best hospitality,” he adds. When asked about any monetary deal with the forest department, Salil said, “The complexes are being taken on revenue sharing basis and the modalities will be worked out soon. An MoU will also be signed with FDCM. The resorts will be taken over for a 30-year period.” The tourism ministry move will hit the livelihood of over 50 local families. Many will lose jobs with the closure of resorts. “Last month, when we went to FDCM officials to demand a hike in salaries, we got the shock of our lives on hearing about the closure,” said a section of employees. However, Salil says, “We will employ all locals in these resorts post-renovation by giving them hospitality training. It has also been decided to provide a level playing field to MTDC by giving quota for jungle safaris, and other attractions like nature trails, cycling, bird watching etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mtdc-to-take-over-7-tourism-complexes-owned-by-fdcm/articleshow/79712432.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sewage overflow, stink irks residents||CHANDIGARH: Residents of Hallomajra are angry due to blocked sewage line, which has led to accumulation of sewage water. This has further spread a foul smell in the area since past three days. The area where sewage water has accumulated has around 50 residential flats, which accommodates around 1,000 people. Arvind, a local resident, said, “This is not for the first time that the residents of Hallomajra are facing such issues. We have complained to the officials of the MC, but all in vain. The foul smell is affecting the environment.” Sunil, a local resident, said, “We have been complaining regarding the issue to the officials concerned, but nothing has been done.” On the other hand, MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “The matter has been sorted out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sewage-overflow-stink-irks-residents/articleshow/79709933.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||RPF books 9 e-ticketing agents from Maha, MP||Nagpur: Combined squads of Railway Protection Force (RPF) Central Railway and South East Central Railway conducted raids at different places in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, rounding up nine touts and seizing e-tickets worth Rs 3.74 lakh. This year, 48 e-ticketing touts have been booked by RPF and many tickets seized. The ticketing agents, using fake IDs, had been providing e-tickets to passengers against commissions. The joint team, following specific information, conducted raids at Ballarshah, Chandrapur, Wardha, Nagpur and Ajni in Maharashtra while actions were initiated at Betul and Amla in Madhya Pradesh. Fourteen live e-tickets were seized during the action, besides a large number of old tickets. RPF team seized nine old tickets from Swati Chandaramnani from Jaripatka. Around a dozen live tickets were seized from Ramanand Mistri and Shivanand Vishwakarma during a raid conducted at their outlet in Chandrapur. Fifty nine old e-tickets too were found in their possession. RPF have registered offences against the ticketing agents at different posts under the Railways Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpf-books-9-e-ticketing-agents-from-maha-mp/articleshow/79710688.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops knock off big-vehicle syndrome in fatal accident probes||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police are following a standard operating procedure (SOP) in all fatal road accident case investigations and charging the accused with culpable homicide not amounting to murder for causing such mishaps despite knowing that their negligent driving may cause harm to others. Police are applying Section 304 (ii) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC if the accused has committed one of the dangerous violations while causing the road accident, including, signal jumping, wrong side driving, drunk driving, driving without licence or under-age driving. In addition to this, in fatal accidents, Cyberabad police are also charging vehicle owners if they give their vehicle to a person without a driving licence and co-passengers in fatal drunken driving cases for not preventing the offender from driving the vehicle despite knowing that he or she was under the influence of liquor. In the Sunday morning fatal accident at Wipro circle, the car driver clearly violated rules by jumping the red signal. Another car stopped at the signal, but the man driving victim’s car overshot the red signal and ended up in the accident, additional DCP (traffic) Ch Praveen Kumar Reddy said. Gachibowli inspector Srinivas said blood samples of the victims and the driver of truck have been collected. Though truck driver’s breathlyser test result showed that he was sober, police to double-check it have sent his blood sample for lab analysis. “We have removed the big vehicle syndrome out of the equation while investigating the road accident cases and charging the accused. After analysing CCTV footage, site inspection, vehicle inspection by MVI, examining witnesses and analysing blood alcohol content of both the parties wherever possible, we are charging the person who caused the fatal accident under Section 304 (ii) if they have knowingly committed a serious mistake like signal jumping or drunk driving or driving without licence,” Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said. “People should understand that in such cases, victims also will not get insurance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyberabad-cops-knock-off-big-vehicle-syndrome-in-fatal-accident-probes/articleshow/79711606.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Leopard scare in college, forest staff put up cameras||HYDERABAD: Panic was rife in the IT corridor of Gachibowli after rumours of a leopard being sighted inside Roda Mistry College of Social Work and Research Center were doing rounds since Saturday evening. Soon after one of the security guards of the college claimed to have seen a leopard attacking a dog which was sleeping on the premises, the staff alerted the forest department officials, including the Chilkur range officer and a section officer along with anti-poaching staff. They inspected the area and set up trap cameras. However, an extensive search of the place did not show any indication of pug marks, leopard scat or any other clue to prove that a big cat was lurking in the area. The trap cameras which were retrieved from the site on Sunday morning recorded only dogs and monkeys on the first night. With this, the forest department officials suspect that a dog could have been mistaken for a leopard. “It is a habitat with heavy vegetation and a place where a big cat can easily hide. We informed our senior officials as soon as we received information about the leopard being sighted and they directed us to lay a few camera traps. Camera traps were set up on the same evening and we went through the images the next morning,” said G Prathima, Chilkur forest range officer. “One of the stray dogs caught in the camera is quite bigger than an average stray dog, which could have been mistaken for a big cat,” said Prathima. Prathima added, “But we do not want to take any chances. We will leave the camera traps and continue to monitor the area for three of four more days to be sure.” Last year, in a similar incident, camera traps were set up in University of Hyderabad campus in Gachibowli for several days after a security guard claimed to have seen a leopard. However, the forest team did not find any signs to indicate the presence of the leopard in the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-scare-in-college-forest-staff-put-up-cameras/articleshow/79711629.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Sharp rise in bank accounts operated by women||NEW DELHI: The number of bank accounts that women not only hold but also operate themselves has increased dramatically over the past five years, data from the 5th National Family Health Survey (2019-20) shows. In 10 states and union territories, 80-90% of women account holders run their accounts themselves. Even in Nagaland, which is at the bottom of the 22 states and UTs covered by the NFHS, 63.7% of women account holders operate their accounts. The change since NFHS-4 in 2015-16 is significant. In Bihar, for instance, the number of women operating their bank accounts rose from 26.4% to 76.7%. In Karnataka, from 59.4% to 88.7%. In Assam, from 45.4% to 78.5%, and in Gujarat from 48.6% to 70%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); When it comes to property ownership, the results are a mixed bag with the percentage of women property owners rising sharply in Karnataka between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5, but also falling in Assam and Bihar. However, women now make up a significant number of mobile phone users. The share of women phone users ranges from 91.2% in Goa, down to just under 50% in Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. In Sikkim, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Nagaland, Mizoram, Ladakh and A&N Islands, 80-89% of the women surveyed are mobile users.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Property ownership data in the latest NFHS reflects a wide variation across states and UTs. In terms of women owning a house or land alone or jointly, Ladakh is at the top of the list with 72.2% women, followed by Karnataka (67.6%), Telangana (66.6%) and Meghalaya (65%). In Manipur, Jammu & Kashmir, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Bihar and Sikkim, 53-58.4% of women own property.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The percentage of women property owners increased from 51.8% to 67.6% in Karnataka, from 50.3% to 66.6% in Telangana, and from 27.2% to 42.6% in Gujarat. But in Tripura it crashed from 57.3% to just 17.2%. In Assam also, the percentage of women property owners is down from 52.3% to 42.7%, while in Bihar it has dipped slightly from 58.8% to 55.3%. The share of women property owners dwindles to less than a third in Kerala (27.3%), Nagaland (26.9%), West Bengal (23.2%), Goa (23.2%), Himachal Pradesh (23.1%), Maharashtra (22.9%), Mizoram (20.8%), Tripura (17.2%) and A&N Islands at the bottom (15.8%). The survey covers women aged 15-49 years across 17 states and five UTs and provides estimates on 131 key indicators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharp-rise-in-bank-accounts-operated-by-women/articleshow/79712517.cms||Ambika Pandit
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Elephant tramples man, son to death||COIMBATORE: A wild elephant trampled a 49-year-old man and his 29-year-old son to death at Gudalur in the Nilgiris district on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as A Prasanth and his father Anandraj of Kolapalli near Cherambadi in Gudalur. Anandraj was former panchayat union councillor in Kolapalli. According to forest officials, Prasanth was on the way to his home around 6pm with his friends when they stumbled upon the elephant. Since it was dark, they noticed the animal only after getting very close to it. They started running helter-skelter, but Prashanth was attacked by the elephant. His friend informed Anandraj and forest officials. While villagers were scared to go to the spot fearing the elephant, Anandraj rushed to the place with a friend. As feared, the elephant was at the spot and fatally attacked Anandraj. Forest and police officers visited the spot and retrieved the bodies. This is the fourth elephant attack in Gudalur this month. The last one was reported on Friday, when a 60-year-old man was killed near Cherankod. The elephant attacks have sparked fury among the residents, who urged the forest department to take steps to prevent elephant intrusion into tea gardens and residential areas. The traders in Pandalur have decided to down shutters for a day to press the demand. Meanwhile, in Coimbatore district, a man survived an elephant attack in Sirumugai range with fractured bones. Another man suffered severe injuries in a bear attack in Valparai. Forest officials said that Raju, 75, a native of Trichy residing at Seniyappa estate in Valparai, had stepped out of the house around 6am on Sunday when the bear attacked. Though he managed to escape, Raju suffered severe injuries. He is undergoing treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-tramples-man-son-to-death/articleshow/79710719.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Bata store manager swindles Rs 2L, held||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a 28-year-old Sukrawarpet resident on Saturday for swindling Rs 2.12 lakh from a Bata showroom at Ramanathapuram here.The arrested person has been identified as M Anish Mohan, who was working as manager of the showroom on Trichy Road. Mohan was appointed as manager of the showroom on September 12, 2019, complainant R Satheeshkumar, Bata’s senior district manager, said. “He had to remit the cash to the company on a daily basis and submit stock accounting every fortnight. The shops used to be audited once in three months by independent auditors. On January 1, a Bengaluru-based auditing company audited the shop at Ramanathapuram. Due to Covid-19, the shop was closed from March 24 to May 31. The auditing company audited the store for the period of September 23, 2019 to September 29, 2020, and found that Mohan had sold Bata articles to customers but did not remit the money to the company’s account. He misappropriated Rs 2.12 lakh by fabricating documents.”Police remanded Mohan in judicial custody. He was booked under Section 403 and 408 of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bata-store-manager-swindles-rs-2l-held/articleshow/79710720.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||One killed as lorry rams bike from rear at Kukatpally||HYDERABAD: A person who was travelling on a bike died after it was hit by a lorry from behind in Kukatpally on Saturday night. Kukatpally police said that they came to know about the mishap after a motorist, on seeing the victim lying in pool of blood, contacted dial-100. When the local patrolling team reached the spot, the victim was already dead. During the investigation, police found that the lorry hit the bike from the rear side and the victim died. The lorry went over the shoulder of the victim. A case was registered under Section 304-A (negligence causing death) of IPC. Police are on the lookout for the lorry driver. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-killed-as-lorry-rams-bike-from-rear-at-kukatpally/articleshow/79711662.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Jacobite attempts to enter churches lead to tension||KOCHI: Members of Jacobite faction of Malankara Church on Sunday attempted to enter 50-odd churches that were taken over by Orthodox group to conduct prayers, leading to unrest with police blocking them at church gates. Jacobites on Sunday marched to the churches that were taken over from them in Mulanthuruthy, Piravom, Vadavucode, Kattachira, among others around 9am after concluding the Sunday mass at their present churches. In most churches, police closed the gates before their arrival, preventing them from entering. Police blockade led to protests which lasted till around 12.30pm in most churches. Jacobite Church alleged that police resorted to force at Martha Mariam Church at Kandanad when their members entered the cemetery of the church for prayers. Sleeba Paul Vatavellil, priest trustee of Jacobite Church, said the faction was allowed to conduct prayers at churches in Mudavoor and Vadakara in Ernakulam district. “We were denied entry at all other churches. We will strengthen our protests in coming days and will attempt to enter the churches on next Sunday as well,” Fr Sleeba said. The church has been organising a series of protests demanding that an ordinance be passed to prevent the take-over of the churches. “So far we have lost 52 churches and we have over 600 parishes left. It is our responsibility to protect our churches,” Joseph Mar Gregorios, metropolitan trustee of the church said at Mulanthuruthy Marthoman Church. As the next step in the protest campaign, the Jacobite faction would conduct a rally from Wayanad to Secretariat Thiruvananthapuram from December 15 to 29. A mass petition seeking ordinance to protect the rights of the Jacobite faction would be submitted to the CM and governor on December 29. From January 1, a satyagraha would be staged in front of the Secretariat as well, Jacobite faction said. Meanwhile, the Orthodox faction has condemned the move of the Jacobites alleging that their attempt was to disrupt the existing peace at the parishes. “The Orthodox church has not restricted or blocked any faithful from entering the churches. They are using prayers as a weapon to conduct rites and protests and it cannot be allowed,” Orthodox Church said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacobite-attempts-to-enter-churches-lead-to-tension/articleshow/79709967.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Dense fog, chill make presence felt, met dept says day temp will go back to 20s||Ludhiana: Dense to very dense fog is expected in Ludhiana in the next two days even as residents had to grapple with sudden chill that arrived in Ludhiana on Sunday. Met department predicts dry weather in the city for a week. A met department official at Chandigarh said if very dense fog appears, the visibility might drop to below 50 metres in city and if dense fog is there, the visibility might fall below 200m, but remain above 50m. He added that due to dense fog, Sunday morning, the visibility had dropped to 200m. Sunday was a cloudy day mostly in Ludhiana, but the temperature dropped quite a bit, making people huddle over fires or wrap themselves in woollens. According to the met department, the maximum (day) temperature in city was recorded at 13.7 degrees Celsius, which was eight degrees less than normal. On Saturday, the day temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at 21.9 degrees, which was around normal. The minimum (night) temperature in city on Sunday was recorded at 10.5 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees more than normal but 1.1 degrees less than a day before. Meanwhile, met department website predicts that day temperature will to rise to 23 degrees till Wednesday and then fall to 22 degrees till Friday, whereas night temperature is expected to fall to 4 degrees till Thursday and then rise to 5 degrees a day after. “It was sunny yesterday, but today it turned cold quite suddenly. Till now we were not using heating appliances, but today we had to, to beat the chill. Also, we have unpacked warm blankets and are using those even during the day. We had to drink tea many times to keep body warm apart from wearing many layers of warm clothes,” said Harmeet Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar. Mothers of small children had to ensure that their children do not step out in the cold. “I made my five-year-old son wear many layers and stopped him from going out, as I feared that he might catch cold outside,” said Harpreet Kaur, a homemaker of Pakhowal road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dense-fog-chill-make-presence-felt-met-dept-says-day-temp-will-go-back-to-20s/articleshow/79709958.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Women entrepreneurs reap rich dividends from weekly market||Coimbatore: Until March, K Vijaya, a member of narikurava community, used to travel more than 15 kilometres from Athipalayam in SS Kulam block to Cross Cut Road in the city on Sundays to sell the wire and bamboo bags she made. But policemen and shopkeepers on the busy road often shooed away street vendors like her.Today, Vijaya sells her wares at the weekly Mathi market set up by the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women (TNCDW) at Town Hall. “By organizing the market, the corporation has not just helped us to resume our business, but also restored our dignity,” she told TOI.Along with 16 narikurava families, Vijaya is a member of Thenkoodu self-help group. To improve the livelihood of the SHG members, TNCDW has been organizing the market on Sundays between 7am and 7pm. The members sell saris, cold pressed oils, wheat and ragi flour, bangles and earrings, snacks, vegetables, eggs and bags they make. “Last week, we sold products worth over Rs 1,000,” Vijaya said. “The lockdown had sounded the death knell for our business. We managed to sell a few bags with the help of our husbands. But now I am relieved.”TNCDW has been organizing the market for the last two weeks, assistant project officer S Sudha said. “SHG members are eager to do business here. On Sundays, as many as 26 SHGs from 13 blocks bring their products to the market. We allow only those SHGs who make products on their own,” she said. “The products are sold below the market price. We ensure the quality of the products before the vendors are allowed to set up stalls. We received an overwhelming response from buyers this week.”The weekly market has given her business a boost, said S Parimaladevi, leader of Siva Sakthi SHG at Kinathukadavu, who has been selling flours of grains like wheat, ragi and green gram for the last two years. “Until recently, we were selling only to retailers and could sell only 50kg in each category a month. But we sold more in the last two weeks. We are also getting wholesale orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/women-entrepreneurs-reap-rich-dividends-from-weekly-market/articleshow/79710727.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Slump in business, stock broker in Secunderabad ends life||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old stock broker allegedly committed suicide by jumping from his apartment compelx at West Marredpally in Secunderabad on Sunday morning due to depression. The victim, R Vikram, 32, along with his wife, their two children and his mother were staying at Tejaswni Arcade apartment. At about 10.30am on Sunday, Vikram jumped to death from the terrace of the five-storied building, police said. According to Marredpally sub-inspector Ravi Kumar, the stock broker had been upset for the past two weeks about the slump in the stock market business. “Family members said that Vikram was upset about not doing well in stock trading. He was undergoing treatment for depression and during the past few days, he told the family members that they have no use of him in their lives,” the SI said. There was no suicide note and Vikram’s mother Vasanta also mentioned in the complaint that her son committed suicide due to depression triggered by poor performance in stock trading business, the SI said. A case was registered under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slump-in-biz-stock-broker-ends-life/articleshow/79711687.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Barren lands transformed into urban forests||COIMBATORE: A piece of barren land in the middle of Muthalipalayam village in Muthugounderpudur panchayat has been converted into a food forest over the course of four years, thanks to the massive tree plantation scheme launched the district rural development agency (DRDA). DRDA had set up an 11-bed nursery in the village in 2016 to grow 12,000 saplings. After two years, the agency established a Miyawaki forest that has 500 fruit tree saplings, 2,400 nochi plants and 350 saplings of other trees on 3.75 acres with the help of workers engaged in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. “Initially when we decided to plant the saplings, people discouraged us, saying the soil was infertile. They are now surprised that we managed to successfully plant and maintain the trees. We spent Rs 29 lakh to turn the area into a green zone, of which Rs 27.96 lakh was used to pay the workers,” panchayat secretary P Karthikeyan told TOI. The mini forest now has trees like guava, pomegranate, lemon, almond, custard apple, prickly custard apple, pencil bamboo, rosemary, sandalwood and magilam. “Fruits from the orchard are given to the workers who are maintaining the forest. We are distributing the saplings grown at the nursery to other panchayats and public for free. We have distributed over 24,315 saplings,” Karthikeyan said. DRDA had decided to implement the Miyawaki method after struggling for years to protect the saplings planted along the roads under the tree plantation scheme. Between 2017 and 19, the agency set up Miyawaki forests at six villages Somaiyampalayam, Vadakkukadu, Pilichinampalayam, Malaiyadipalayam, Palathurai and Muthalipalayam – that have over 17,500 trees. “Under the scheme, we have been planting saplings in Miyawaki style in vacant panchayat lands, park sites and along water bodies. The forests have 60% hard wood trees, 30% fruit trees and 10% flowering plants. While the fruit trees attract birds, flowering plants attract honey bees that act as pollinators,” DRDA project director J Rooban Sankar Raj said. “The Miyawaki style has a high success rate as we protect the saplings. When the saplings were planted along the roads, it was difficult to protect them from cattle and people.” The Miyawaki forest at Palathurai village provides shelter to substantial flora and fauna, said Madukkarai block coordinator V Ramakrishnan. “We have been spotting a lot of honeycombs in the vicinity. More birds, especially peacocks, are frequenting the village, which has become a lot more cooler.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/barren-lands-transformed-into-urban-forests/articleshow/79710721.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Victim called family hours before death||HYDERABAD: Twenty-four-year-old Pavan Kumar, who is one among the five youngsters who died in a road mishap at Wipro junction on Saturday late night, came to Hyderabad from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, just a week ago to take training for IELTS exam, as he was planning on going abroad. Pavan, an engineer, called his family at around 9.30 pm on Saturday. That was the last call he made to his family, who received the information about the mishap in the wee hours of Sunday. Gachibowli police found that CCTV footage from the hostel, which shows these five youngsters coming out of the building before their outing. Times ViewGHMC and traffic police should take a relook at the design of major traffic junctions, particularly in the IT corridor. Many road junctions were designed long ago and they require updation to meet increased traffic demand. All road engineering defects should be rectified to make traffic junctions safer for motorists. Road intersections should be widened where necessary. Speed reducers should also be planned, if speed breakers are not feasible on arterial roads.Minutes before the mishap, one of the deceased took a photograph of his friends sitting on the footpath, which was later uploaded on social media. Following the mishap, the tipper driver Deepender Singh was made to undergo breath analysing test, which came back negative. He also had driving license. As a result, police decided not to book any case against him and prima-facie concluded that it was due to the alleged negligence of the car driver that the mishap took place. Officials said that Bharadwaj, one of the other deceased, had returned to city three months ago. He’d gone to his native place Vijayawada when the lockdown was imposed and returned to Hyderabad and rejoined his workplace, which is an MNC. “During the weekend, we generally ask Manohar to come to our house in city in the night. Late in the night, when I called him, his phone was switched off. In the morning, we found out about the accident from the police,” Sri Harsha, Manohar’s cousin, said. After finding out about the accident, several colleagues and hostel mates of the deceased reached the mortuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/victim-called-family-hrs-before-death/articleshow/79711716.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Joka Metro skirts school bottleneck with route tweak||KOLKATA: RVNL has tweaked the Joka-Esplanade Metro’s design at Ekbalpore after St Teresa’s School raised land acquisition objections. Thanks to the design change, less land will be needed from the school’s playground to build one of the entries to the proposed Khidirpur (Kidderpore) station. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) is tasked to build most of the Metro projects that are under way. But, Metro Railway operates the city’s rapid transit system and is the umbrella organization for all the under-construction corridors. On November 1, Metro Railway issued land acquisition notices for the underground the Mominpur-Esplanade section. The proposed land requirement from the school on 72 Diamond Harbour Road was 492sqm. Most of it was from St Teresa’s playground where one of the stations entry points has been planned. “The design of the station’s entry has now been changed so that less land is sliced from the playground,” a senior RVNL official said. There are four entry points to the proposed Khidirpur station that will come up near Alipore Bodyguard Lines. One of the station entries will be in front of St Teresa’s School. Sister Pranita, acting principal, said, “Almost half of our playground would be gone along with a part of the garage. So, we wrote to Metro, seeking time. We will be happy if our school is spared.” Sister Pranita added, “Some officials visited us. A meeting was held. They promised to reduce the land requisition. But no formal letter has come from the Metro authorities.” RVNL is also doing away with the station’s emergency exit that would have taken 72sqm from the school’s garage. The perpendicular design of the station’s entry has been changed. The station will now run parallel to school building. This way, instead of 417sqm, 315 sqm of the playground will be acquired. “The entry has been shifted away from the school, closer to main road. A part of the construction will be underground, covered and returned back to the school. Effectively, only 225sqm of land will be taken,” an RVNL engineer said. Another entry point will come up at the St Thomas’ School grounds. A parcel from the CMRI Hospital courtyard will be also be acquired. The acquisition notice, under section 7 of the Metro Railways (Construction of Works) Act, 1978, covered these two private properties as well, along with the Calcutta Diocesan Association, Mary Cooper’s Old-age Home, a guest house and an apartment building. The land-holders were asked to file objections to the acquisition within 21 days of the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/joka-metro-skirts-school-bottleneck-with-route-tweak/articleshow/79710735.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records most Covid-19 cases in a week in last 2 months||DEHRADUN: With 490 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Sunday, the coronavirus tally reached 82,429 in Uttarakhand. Last week, the 39th week of Covid-19 outbreak in Uttarakhand, the state witnessed 4,366 new cases, the highest figure for a week in the last two months. The number of active cases and infection rate, last week, were also the highest in the last two months. Meanwhile, the recoveries remain stagnated at about 2,500-to-3,000 per week for the past six weeks. According to the health department, among the 490 new cases found on Sunday, the maximum of 202 infections were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 79 in Nainital, 50 in Udham Singh Nagar, 46 in Haridwar, 25 in Pithoragarh, 24 in Chamoli, 23 in Pauri, 14 in Tehri, 11 in Uttarkashi, nine in Rudraprayag, six in Champawat, and one in Almora. On Sunday, Mortar village in Mori block of Uttarkashi was declared as a containment zone after seven people tested positive for Covid-19. “The state also recorded four coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday. So far, 1,355 Covid-19 patients have died in the state and the case mortality rate, till Sunday, was 1.64%. Also, with 396 patients recovering from Covid-19 infection, the total number of cured cases in the state shot up to 73,818,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation tracking Covid-19 scenario in state), said, “The state tested 94,675 Covid-19 samples between December 6 and 12, the highest so far. With this, the state managed to test over 15 lakh Covid-19 samples.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-most-covid-19-cases-in-a-week-in-last-2-months/articleshow/79709969.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Goodshed Road closed after portion caves in||Coimbatore: Police on Sunday closed the Goodshed Road near Avinashi flyover in the city on Sunday after a portion of the road caved in. No one was injured. “Around 11.30am, a portion of the road caved in. As we were watching, the hole had started to expand to a few more inches. Fortunately, no vehicles were using the road at the time,” Balakrishnan, a commuter, said. The road connects Avinashi Road with Marakadai area through an underpass and a lot of vehicles, particularly two-wheelers, use the service road daily. Alerted by the public, police officers rushed to the spot, blocked the road and directed the vehicles to use the flyover. Shortly, corporation officials came to the spot to identify the reason for the damage and to carry out the restoration work. A statement from the corporation said the road caved in because of the sewage leaking through the damaged underground drainage pipeline that was laid decades ago as part of an old UGD scheme. Using two earthmovers, restoration work is being carried out at the spot, the statement said. Zonal assistant commissioner Mahesh Kanagaraj and other officials inspected the spot. Meanwhile, several motorists had stopped their vehicles on the flyover to get a view of the hole on the road. Two police officers were deployed at the spot to ensure the uninterrupted traffic movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/goodshed-road-closed-after-portion-caves-in/articleshow/79710723.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||MVA stay also covers conversion of leased nazul lands to freehold||Nagpur: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has imposed stay also on policy allowing freehold status to nazul leasehold lands (conversion of occupancy class-II to class-I) located in Vidarbha. The decision will also affect the ongoing process of giving ownership rights to people from Sindhi community in Khamla and Jaripatka who were allotted nazul lands. TOI on Sunday had reported about Uddhav Thackeray-led government’s stay on policy framed by Devendra Fadnavis-led government to give freehold status to government-owned lands leased out under the Maharashtra Land Revenue (MLR) code by recovering premium. These lands are called as collector’s land in Mumbai and MLR lands in other parts of the state. The officials from the collector office had said the decision will not be applicable for nazul leasehold lands. But revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat told TOI on Sunday, “The order issued on December 10 for immediate implementation of stay was for all lands owned and leased out by the government. The order is applicable also for nazul lands.” Thorat said, “Stay was imposed because after review it was found that the policy was not benefiting needy people. The earlier government’s order had several anomalies and some people were taking undue advantage of it. The earlier order also indirectly affected the government's exchequer or revenue collection. Therefore, a temporary stay has been imposed. The government will study the policy,” he said. Over 25,000 nazul lands are located in few districts of Vidarbha. Of these, 11,000 are in the city. These lands are in posh localities like Dhantoli, Ramdaspeth, Kachipura, Gadga, Dharampeth, Shivaji Nagar, Indora, Jaripatka etc. Big residential and commercial complexes have come up on these lands. The government had leased out 90% of these lands after recovering 100-110% of ready reckoner value in 1906, and between 1971 and 1975. Also, nazul lands were leased under the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code. Therefore, though nazul lands are government owned and leased, they are different from MLR lands. Also, MLR lands were leased out by taking concessional rates. Citing demand from owners of nazul lands, the Fadnavis-led government on March 2, 2019, had issued a notification to give freehold status by taking premium of 5% for residential and 10% for commercial. Fadnavis, now leader of opposition in assembly, said, “The stay is a direct attempt to undermine the people of Vidarbha. After the records were bifurcated from CP & Berar, the Madhya Pradesh government made all lands class-I but the same was not done in Vidarbha. When I was CM, decision was taken to convert nazul lands from occupancy class-II to class-I.” The previous government had issued another notification to give ownership documents to Sindhi community as well as freehold status without taking any premium. “The stay will also hamper interest of these people and other migrants who were given lands here through settlements in lieu of properties they had to leave back in Pakistan,” said Fadnavis. Builder Virendra Kukreja, also an office bearer in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), condemned Thorat’s statement that stay will also be applicable to nazul lands. “Stay order referred to notification dated March 8, 2019, issued for MLR lands. A separate notification was issued for nazul leasehold lands on March 2, 2019. We will challenge it in court and launch agitation, if needed,” he said. Kukreja, joint treasurer in city BJP, added, “Agitation will be launched if stay is imposed on nazul as well as lands of Sindhi community people. Government seems to be eyeing some gains through the stay. It will not be tolerated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mva-stay-also-covers-conversion-of-leased-nazul-lands-to-freehold/articleshow/79710732.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 170cr allocated to restore Noyyal: Minister||Coimbatore: Even as the farmers agitation in New Delhi echoed in the form of sporadic protests in Tamil Nadu, the ruling AIADMK and ally BJP continued their efforts to woo the farming community. Addressing the farmers at a meeting to review works to restore river Noyyal in Coimbatore on Sunday, state local administration minister S P Velumani said that Tamil Nadu had made the highest allocation for agriculture in the state budget in the country this year. “Rs 11,894 crore was allocated for agriculture in budget 2020 – 21,’’ he said, adding that the state also bagged the Skoch award for best practices in agriculture. Velumani said that the state was witnessing a second green revolution with expansion of agricultural land, improvisation of farming techniques, disbursement of farm loans and subsidies for equipment and ensuring better quality seeds. “Since he is a farmer, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is implementing schemes aimed at welfare of farmers,’’ Velumani said. River Noyyal, which was the lifeline of farmers in Coimbatore in the past, was ruined over the years, Velumani noted adding that the AIADMK government has come up with a Rs 230 crore scheme for restoration of the river. “Out of total allocation, Rs 170 crore would be spent in restoring the river in Coimbatore district,” he said. Once the restoration is done, one lakh acres of land in Kinathukdavu, Singanallur, Thondamuthur and Sulur will benefit, he said. Besides, groundwater will grow in several other parts of the district, he said. Out of 23 check dams across Noyyal, 18 are being restored under the project while five have already been restored under other schemes. Meanwhile, BJP cadres conducted a campaign titled ‘Farmers friend Modi’ across the district to explain the salient features of the three new farm laws introduced by the Centre. The campaign was led by president of the wing Selvakumar and the district general secretary, Anand in Aliyar. Pamphlets containing the highlights of the three Farmers Acts and the schemes launched by Narendra Modi were distributed to the farmers and the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-170cr-allocated-to-restore-noyyal-minister/articleshow/79710741.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Man attempts suicide at police station||Coimbatore: An autorickshaw driver attempted suicide on the premises of Podanur police station in the city by immolating himself with petrol and setting ablaze.However, A Sowkath Ali, 32, from Vellalore, was rescued and admitted to a private hospital with 60% burn injuries.  Ali, who was in an inebriated condition, was picked up by the Podanur police in the city for public nuisance after he fought with one person named Sathish at Vellalore. His autorickshaw was also taken to the police station. He was let off around 6pm and was advised by police to get back his autorickshaw from the station after paying the fine amount on Monday.Around 8.30pm, he came to the police station and poured petrol and set him ablaze. He suffered 60% burn injuries. Police personnel admitted him in a private hospital where he received first aid. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-attempts-suicide-at-police-station/articleshow/79710744.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Biz revival on back of new Majerhat bridge||KOLKATA: Ten days into the reopening of new Majerhat bridge, smile has finally returned to the faces of small businessmen and shop owners on both sides of Diamond Harbour Road between Majerhat and Kidderpore. Their business was hit after the collapse of the bridge. Now, they are happy that many of their old customers are coming back to their shops while driving down the old routes. “I had some dedicated customers from Behala and New Alipore, who used to come to my workshop for car repairing and servicing on their way to or from office while travelling along DH Road. But ever since the bridge collapsed, they took other routes and stopped visiting my workshop. So, my business took a hit. A week into the reopening of the bridge, several of my old customers are back,” said Dulal Pal, owner of a car repairing workshop at Mominpore. A few blocks away from Pal’s garage stands ‘Kala Da Dhaba’, a popular eatery for the drivers of goods vehicles and taxis. The eatery had almost run out of customers in the last two years and three months since the collapse of the bridge. “No truck was plying on this route. The taxi drivers and app-cab drivers who had become frequent customers also stopped coming. After the new bridge was thrown open to traffic, our business has been flourishing,” said Nabakumar Jana, an employee of the restaurant at Mominpore. For fruit sellers at Kidderpore, many customers were motorists from Behala, New Alipore and Joka. “I used to pass the Kidderpore crossing to take the Hide Road-Brace Bridge route to reach Behala, but the journey was so taxing along the dusty road that I didn’t feel like halting to buy fruits. From last week onwards, I have started buying fruits from my old seller,” said Kaushik Basu, a resident of Behala Pathakpara. The bridge had collapsed on September 4, 2018, killing three people. Two others who were injured died later, taking the toll to five. But the bridge collapse had a larger impact as it disconnected several lakhs of residents in Behala, New Alipore, Joka and a large portion of South 24 Parganas from the rest of the city. Some other roads, including the Bailey bridge at New Alipore, were developed to facilitate traffic but it could never ease the pain, which was only healed after the reopening of the new bridge earlier this month. “The bridge collapse led to many cars plying along New Alipore. But the roads were so congested that it was impossible for someone to stand and have a cup of tea,” said Shambhu Ghosh, a tea seller on Nalini Ranjan Avenue in New Alipore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/biz-revival-on-back-of-new-majerhat-bridge/articleshow/79710750.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 14, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn floats retender for stray dog sterilisation overlooking SPCA||Trichy: Trichy corporation has floated a retender inviting NGOs to take up the sterilisation drive for stray dogs after a similar tender floated by the civic body found no takers. With a majority of NGOs unwilling to take up the responsibility citing inadequate compensation, the retender is expected to yield no results. However, the corporation’s move overlooking the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) in Trichy, constituted to take up such sterilisation drive, has surprised the animal welfare activists.While the civic body on October 4 called a tender inviting AWBI-recognised NGOs to carry out stray dog neutering drive in the city, a few NGOs had shown interest. But the NGOs sought the Corporation to catch the stray dogs from streets while agreeing to carry out the animal birth control surgery. However, the corporation did not agree to the condition, leaving the sterilisation drive a non-starter for over a year now.The animal birth control centre (ABC) in Konakkarai, established at Rs 93 lakh, too has remained unutilised since August 2019. “Compensation cost of Rs 700 per dog for sterilisation is inadequate. For the conditions laid out by the civic body, no NGO would agree to take up the responsibility,” M George, a representative of an AWBI-recognised NGO said. Trichy corporation sources said that they cannot catch the stray canines and added that NGOs must take up that responsibility alongside carrying out the neutering .While the civic body has given time till December 18 for the fresh round of selection process to resume animal birth control through an NGO, the availability of SPCA is ignored. “One of the purposes of creating SPCA was to take up animal birth control drive. SPCA can sterilise around 200 dogs per month by using Konakkarai ABC shelter,” G Ramakrishnan, honorary animal welfare officer, AWBI said. However, corporation sources claimed that they were confident of finding a suitable candidate through the retender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-floats-retender-for-stray-dog-sterilisation-overlooking-spca/articleshow/79711717.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Arvind Pandey, Terai farmers meet Union agri minister; extend support to farm laws||Dehradun: Uttarakhand education minister Arvind Pandey met Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar at the latter’s residence in New Delhi on Wednesday. During the meeting, Pandey extended state government’s support to the recently-enacted farm laws. A few Terai farmers, who accompanied Pandey from Uttarakhand, also supported the three farm laws in the meeting. Incidentally, when the farm bills were passed in the parliament in September, 2020, Pandey had taken out a few rallies in support of the laws in his constituency Gadarpur (Udham Singh Nagar). The support to the contentious laws from Pandey’s constituency is being considered vital as Gadarpur falls in the Terai region of Uttarakhand, hailed as the rice bowl of the state. This region has the highest population of farmers in the state. Meanwhile, a large section of Terai farmers in Uttarakhand continue to protest against the three farm laws while demanding their roll back at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/arvind-pandey-terai-farmers-meet-union-agri-minister-extend-support-to-farm-laws/articleshow/79709973.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Man booked for raping minor||Coimbatore: The city police registered a Pocso case against a 22-year-old man on charges of raping a 17-year-old girl. The youth is absconding. However, police arrested his parents for arranging marriage for their son with the minor girl and they were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday.The youth from Peelamedupudur was working as a lathe operator in an industry at Palladam in Tirupur district. He used to wait at a bus stop at Singanallur to board a bus to Tirupur where he noticed the 17-year-old girl who was studying second year in a private polytechnic college at Sulur. They fell in love in January and exchanged their numbers. On October 9, the girl left her house informing parents that she was going to the college to pay fees. However, the girl eloped with the youth and got married in Tirupur. Later, the youth took the girl to his house at Peelamedupudur. Meanwhile, the Peelamedu police registered a girl missing case and rescued the minor girl on Saturday.Based on the complaint from the mother of the girl, the east all-woman police registered a case against the youth for rape and his parents were booked under sections 16 and 17 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Police arrested his parents on Saturday and remanded them in judicial custody.The girl was sent to a home for women and the youth is still absconding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-booked-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79710746.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||5,561 register for PSTSE, 4,379 for NMMS, 4,376 for NTSE, exams postponed||Ludhiana: A total of 5,561 students have registered online to appear for Punjab State Talent Search Exam (PSTSE), 4,379 for National Means and Merit Scholarship NMMS, and 4,376 for National Talent Search Exam (NTSE). The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) have postponed the NMMS, PSTSE and NTSE which were scheduled to be held on December 12 and 13. PSTSE, which is conducted annually by the state government for students of classes VIII and X to provide financial help, will now be held on December 19. NTSE (stage 1), a national level scholarship exam conducted for Class X students and NMMS, a centrally sponsored scheme for Class VIII students, will now be held on December 20. According to the council, the time, roll number, and centres will remain the same. New admit cards will not be issued. This move by the council will give extra time to students to prepare for the exam. Students who qualify for the NTSE, become eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs 15,000 (Rs 1,250 per month) for classes XI, XII , and Rs 2,000 per month at the undergraduate level. The students who qualify NMMS exam become eligible for Rs 12,000 per annum (Rs 1,000 per month) scholarship for four years from Class IX to XII. Those who crack PSTSE, get Rs 200 every month till the completion of Class XII. The district education department (secondary) has set up 26 centres to conduct PSTSE. The exam will be conducted between 10am and 1pm and a total of 5,561 students will appear. Of this, 2,703 students are from Class X and 2,858 of Class VIII. Sanjeev Taneja, district mentor for maths, said, “Covid-19 safety measures will be strictly adhered to. The school principal has been asked to make the necessary arrangements. We had got the rooms sanitised and had made proper seating plans to ensure social distancing. According to instructions, 18 to 20 students can be accommodated in a room, depending on the size, and it must be ensured that social distancing measures are strictly adhered to. School heads have been asked to coordinate with each other if they require extra staff or furniture to conduct the exams.” As many as 18 students have scored above 90% in the second NTSE mock test, the results for which was declared on Saturday. In the first mock test held on December 3, 14 students had scored above 90%. Surprisingly, students who scored above 95% marks in the first test, were unable to maintain their score. Two students of Government Senior Secondary School, Cemetery Road, who had scored 99% in the first test, was not ranked among the top 50 in this time. In the test held on December 3, eight students of Government Senior Secondary School, Tahli Sahib, scored above 90%. But, even they have not featured in the top 50 list of the second exam. Priya, a student of Government High School, Mattewara, topped the second practice test with 199 out of 200. She had scored 92% in the first test. As many as 13 students of the same school ranked in the top 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5561-register-for-pstse-4379-for-nmms-4376-for-ntse-exams-postponed/articleshow/79709961.cms||Mehak Jain
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Lankan don death case hits wall||Coimbatore: Investigations into the death of Sri Lankan underworld don Angoda Lokka, who allegedly died of sudden cardiac arrest in the city in July, have hit a wall as the crime branch-criminal investigation department (CB-CID is still waiting for samples from the Sri Lankan government to conduct forensic tests.“We had sought details including DNA samples and fingerprints from the Sri Lankan government. As authorities there are focused on Covid-19 prevention measures, we are yet to get the details. Only when we get the details, we can legally verify if the deceased was Lokka,” CB-CID inspector general of police K Shankar told TOI.The search for Lokka’s aide Chanuka Thananayaka has also not been successful, the officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lankan-don-death-case-hits-wall/articleshow/79710749.cms||A Subburaj
December 14, 2020||Goa||Covid facility returned to IIT-Goa with iPhones, laptops stolen||PANAJI: At the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, when designated hospitals were overflowing with cases, the government took over four hostels of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, at Farmagudi to house asymptomatic patients. However, when the four hostels, with a capacity of 340, were handed back to the institute last month, it ended with the South Goa collector getting an FIR filed by the police as the premises were found vandalised and students’ belongings stolen. Sources said that preliminary investigations have estimated a loss of Rs 15 lakh to IIT and Rs 15-18 lakh to students. “There are reports of some iPhones, laptops and tablets belonging to the students having been stolen,” an official said. “IIT informed us that in March, students had to leave the hostel premises in a hurry due to the sudden Covid-19 outbreak, and many had left their belongings behind. The students had given a declaration to the institute of the belongings left behind. The work of comparing the declaration and determining the personal loss to students in on.” “As per the institute, the four hostels with 80 rooms are only one-and-a-half years old. But when inspection of the damage was carried out, they looked anything but new. There were paan marks on the walls. Bathroom sinks were broken, and light fixtures stolen. In at least 40 rooms, the furniture was moved around,” said a state official involved in the inspection of the premises. He added that the state government has assured compensation for the losses suffered by the institute. Officials also found cupboards and study table drawers having been forced open by breaking the locks or tearing apart the iron exterior of the furniture. “Some furniture was also moved out in the rain, and has started rusting as a result,” said a source. “A room with sports and music equipment has been broken into and vandalised. There was trash lying everywhere, including several empty liquor bottles. Food has also been left behind to rot inside the rooms.” The hostel premises have been left in need of major repair works due to the vandalism, making the rooms uninhabitable if IIT wants to allow students back on campus now. The institute is set to hire another premises where its students will be put up till the repair is completed. There are also fears that passports and certificates of students’ educational qualifications stored in the cupboards could have gone missing or been tampered with. “Some doctorate students were allowed to leave their vehicles parked inside the campus. These vehicles too have been damaged. The rear view mirrors of the bikes have been stolen, and the seats slashed with blades,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-facility-returned-to-iit-with-iphones-laptops-stolen/articleshow/79711746.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar likely to get fish-surplus tag soon||PATNA: With a record production of 6.42 lakh metric tonnes in 2019-20, the state has attained almost self-sufficiency in fish reproduction and is soon likely to become a fish-surplus state. Official records show that the state produced 40,000 metric tonnes of fish more than the previous fiscal (2018-19). “With the adoption of modern technological innovations, production is likely to increase manifold in the coming years,” said special secretary-cum-director of state fisheries Dharmendra Singh. Giving details of the strategies being adopted by the department to enhance fish production in the state, Singh said that fishermen are being granted as high as 90% subsidy in purachsing feed and seed for fish production. Culture-based fisheries have increased the production considerably in recent years, he said. He further pointed out that selection of suitable species of fishes for largescale production has also led to the production growth. Farming of Pangasius fish (best known as basa), which has picked up in the districts of Kaimur, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Nalanda, parts of Patna, Gopalganj, Siwan, Saran, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur has contributed greatly to the quantum jump in fish production. “Pangasius fish culture also gives better productivity level. Against around three tonnes of production in one hectare of waterbody in case of farming of Indian carps such as rohu, basa gives 20 tonnes to 40 tonnes per hectare,” Singh added. However, Patna University zoology department teacher D K Paul observed that Bihar is still far behind in fish production as comapred with other states. The per capita annual consumption of fish in Bihar is 7.7 kg per person, less than the national average of 10 kg and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-recommended 11.2 kgs. Despite abundant aquatic resources in terms of about 3,200 km of rivers, 100,000 hectares chaurs and floodplain wetlands, 9,000 hectares of oxbow lakes or mauns, 7,200 hectares of reservoirs and 69,000 hectares of ponds and tanks, fish supply is short of demand in the state. “Development of resources with the adoption of available technologies can bridge this gap, by at least doubling the production from the present level of production. New developed technologies like monoculture, polyculture, induced breeding and integrated fish farming should be adopted for enhancing the production in the state,” Paul added. PU zoology department head Arbind Kumar said that the state is also likely to be benefited from the Rs 20,050 crore-Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) launched in September this year in 21 states, including Bihar. The scheme aims at doubling fisheries exports, creating more employment opportunities and boosting income of farmers. Under this scheme, many facilities have been introduced in Patna, Purnia, Sitamarhi, Madhepura, Kishanganj and Samastipur districts of Bihar. “The PMMSY will ensure new infrastructure, modern equipment and access to new markets to fish producers and improve avenues for increasing income apart from farming,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-likely-to-get-fish-surplus-tag-soon/articleshow/79710238.cms||B K Mishra
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||150-bed base hospital to be set up for Kumbh Mela||HARIDWAR: A 150-bed fabricated hospital with cardiac and burn units will be established in Haridwar specifically for the Kumbh Mela. The facility will be used as a base hospital for the religious fair. A sum of more than Rs 2 crore will be spent on the structure, officials said. Additionally, more than 30 small structures will also be installed in different sectors, which will be used as primary health care centres. Besides, the mela administration will also build a 1,000-bed hospital to tackle Covid-19 infections during the mega fair. At present, the Mela Hospital, built for Ardh Kumbh fair in 2004, is being used as a dedicated Covid-19 facility by the district administration. Mela health officer Dr Arjun Singh Sengar told TOI, “A 150-bed hospital will be made in Pantdeep sector, close to Har-Ki-Pauri. Around Rs 2.50 crore will be spent on the project. The facility will have a cardiac unit, burn unit, and emergency ward. At least 20 beds will be reserved for the VIP patients in the hospital.” Dr Sengar further said that at least 500 beds will be arranged for the Kumbh fair. The mela administration has also sent a proposal to the government for providing 500 doctors, including 58 specialists and 450 staff nurses with 350 pharmacists for the Kumbh Mela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/150-bed-base-hosp-to-be-set-up-for-kumbh-mela/articleshow/79709978.cms||MS Nawaz
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Dharmapuri accident: Truck driver arrested||DHARMAPURI: Hours after the complete mayhem on Thoppur ghat road on Salem-Bengaluru National Highway, where a speeding container truck crashed into 12 cars, a minivan, a truck and a bike, killing four and injuring seven others, police arrested the truck driver in the early hours of Sunday. The Thoppur police identified the accused as Qutbuddin, 32, of Jharkhand. A police officer said the driver was hiding in a nearby forest, fearing arrest. Pravesh Kumar, district superintendent of police, said they were questioning the truck driver to know what caused the accident. “We don’t know whether he had dozed off at the wheel. He was driving fast and it Sseems he had lost control over the vehicle.” He said transport department officials were checking the truck for a possible brake failure. Pointing out that the stretch has sharp curves and inclines, Kumar said some drivers were in the habit of driving the vehicles on neutral mode to save fuel. “It is difficult to control a vehicle when driven on neutral mode. There is also a possibility that the truck might have been on neutral mode when the incident occurred.” The SP said while the driver was speeding the truck, he hadn’t crossed the speed limits as the truck was equipped with speed governor. The Thoppur police, meanwhile, took the driver to the Dharmapuri government medical college and hospital for Covid-19 testing. “We will lodge him in the Salem Central Prison after getting the test report,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dharmapuri-accident-truck-driver-arrested/articleshow/79710754.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kozhikode||UDF, LDF cross swords over ‘poll malpractices’||KOZHIKODE: The issue of bogus voting and election violence in Kannur reared its head again with UDF and LDF accusing each other of fielding persons accused of such wrongdoings as candidates to local bodies. Addressing a news conference on the eve of the final phase of LSG polls, Congress leader K Sudhakaran fired the first salvo alleging that three LDF candidates have a history of casting bogus votes. Sudhakaran released video footage which he claimed shows A Seema, LDF candidate in ward three of Ramanthali panchayat, M T Sabitha who is contesting from Cheruthazham panchayat and K Saritha casting bogus votes. “I challenge chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to exhort party workers not to indulge in violence and bogus voting this time. If this is ensured you will see a change in the election outcome,” he said. Sudhakaran said if CPM continues to indulge in violence, Congress will think of forming a ‘people’s alliance’ to protect democracy in the district. “All parties opposed to the CPM’s undemocratic attitude would be part of the platform,” he said. On whether BJP would also be part of the ‘janadhipathya samrakshana vedi’, he said details are yet to be thrashed out in the UDF. Sudhakaran said political consideration is the only criterion for appointing poll officials in Kannur and they help CPM carry out election malpractices. “There are laws to prevent bogus voting, but the political affiliation of officials comes in the way of implementing them,” he said. Responding to the Congress allegation, CPM released a photo of IUML’s K M Abdul Samad, who was allegedly caught while casting bogus votes in Puthiyangadi. He is the UDF’s candidate from Madayi panchayat. CPM’s district secretary later told a news conference the UDF is raising the issues as an excuse for the impending electoral humiliation. “They usually raise the issue only after elections, but this time they did it earlier reading the public sentiment,” Jayarajan said. He said UDF’s claims are doomed to fall flat. The new allegations stem from their frustration, he said. The CPM leader alleged that there are complaints that UDF workers collected voter IDs and Aadhar cards of LDF sympathizers to prevent them from voting. “I am told that police and election commission officials have received such complaints,” Jayarajan said. It may be recalled the election commission had assured the high court of steps to prevent bogus voting and impersonation in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. The court had observed that the undertaking given by the commission and the state government should be adhered to strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/udf-ldf-cross-swords-over-poll-malpractices/articleshow/79709984.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Trucks biggest polluters among vehicles, causing foul air at night, says survey||KOLKATA: Thousands of goods vehicles are entering the city after 9pm and making exit in the morning, leaving behind a dirty trail of noxious fumes to suffocate the city. The pollution that peaks during the night stays hanging at breathable height longer during the day with thermal inversion during the winter refusing to disperse it up in the atmosphere. The PM2.5 and PM10 source apportionment study of the city’s ambient air has labelled goods vehicles as the biggest polluters among vehicles. Vehicles are the second biggest contributor to PM2.5 (25%) in winter, while 49.5% of PM2.5 pollutants come from goods vehicles. Significantly, air quality experts have identified finer particulate matter as one of the biggest causes of premature human deaths. According to the study carried out by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), 49% of PM10 and 49.5% of PM2.5 emissions are from goods vehicles. According to the transport department sources, much of the pollution is caused by goods vehicles coming from outside during the night time. Significantly, the movement of goods vehicles is allowed in the city after 9pm till 6am next day. “The night-time pollution goes up sharply, leaving the early morning ambient air of the ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ category. But most of the students go to school around this time and are forced to inhale the foul air, so are the morning walkers, who clearly lose a few days of their lives believing that morning walk will make them fitter and better,” said environment crusader Subhas Datta. The NEERI source apportionment study was the fallout of his long drawn battle in the NGT on the falling air quality of the city. Datta said the goods vehicles just go unchecked as hardly any emission checking activity is carried out at night. It is particularly suffocating during the winter when the pollutants hang low in the atmosphere. Since cent per cent of these goods vehicles are diesel driven, the danger to human health is imminent. “A diesel fume has as many as 24 types of carcinogens. No wonder, why Kolkata emerged as the nation’s lung cancer capital,” said Suman Malik, clinical director, radiation oncology of Narayana Hospital. “We need a far more stringent check on these goods vehicles,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, a green activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trucks-biggest-polluters-among-vehicles-causing-foul-air-at-night-says-survey/articleshow/79710756.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Petrol would be Rs8 cheaper if additional VAT is removed||Nagpur: The price of petrol, which touched Rs90.85 a litre on Friday in the city, could have been Rs8 to 10 less, had the government reduced burden of additional value added tax (VAT), levied from time to time to tide over specific crises. The taxes were never reversed, even after the crisis situation normalized.The latest addition was of Rs2.12 in May 2020 to deal with Covid. TOI, with the help of Vilas Salpekar, managing committee member of Federation of All Maharashtra Petroleum Dealers’ Association (FAMPEDA), calculated rates of both petrol and diesel in the city.The calculations show that even as base price of diesel is higher than that of petrol, the latter is costlier due to extra taxes. This is because diesel is no longer subsidized.It was seen that additional VAT was charged at Rs10.12 a litre in case of petrol and Rs3 for diesel. Additional VAT is the tax that is levied in times of crisis. Sources said even after the crisis has ended the tax has been continued. Had earlier additional VAT been removed, and then only Covid VAT levied, petrol price would still have been cheaper by Rs8.According to the calculations, base price of petrol that reaches the depot at Nagpur comes to Rs28.03. The additions include freight, excise duty, dealers’ commission, VAT, additional VAT and tax collected at source.For diesel, the base price at depot comes to Rs29.01, and after all the additions, the final rate payable by the consumer came to Rs81.06 for Friday. This includes integrated road development cess of 65 paise on petrol and Rs1.85 on diesel levied for Nagpur.The rates vary slightly between retail stations of different companies. The price is slightly lower in outlets outside the municipal limits due to lower VAT being levied.The basic VAT is charged at 26% on petrol within the city limits and 25% outside. Its 24% and 21% respectively for diesel. The additional VAT is same.Salpekar calculated the base rate through reverse calculation. The dealers’ invoice has the bulk rate with central excise added. Other taxes are mentioned below to calculate the final retail price.For example, in petrol, the latest invoice shows price of Rs61,381 odd per thousand litres of petrol. This comes to Rs61.31 per litre, and after deducting the central excise it come to Rs28 odd a litre — which is the base price. Again after adding all the taxes, including excise and dealers’ commission, the retail price comes to Rs90.85. It goes the same way for diesel too.The base rate covers the initial price and the cost of transporting the petroleum from the depot at Mumbai to Nagpur. As the taxes remain same, the rate changes whenever the base rates are revised. In November end, the base rates were at Rs27 a litre for petrol, making it slightly cheaper.“The rising rates, however, do not bring any benefit to the dealers. The dealers have been demanding revision in commission since more than two years with letters sent to the PMO too. There has been no response yet,” said Salpekar. The commission is fixed at little over Rs3 a litre on petrol and Rs2.14 for diesel, he said.Traders activist BC Bhartia said, “If on one hand government wants anti-profiteering laws for businesses, then why should it not pass on the benefit to public by reducing taxes when not needed.”Rates TablePetrol (rate per litre)Basic Price: Rs28.03Freight: Rs0.37Excise Rs32.98Commission Rs3.33VAT (26%) Rs15.96Additional VAT Rs10.12TCS Rs0.06(tax collected at source)Total: Rs90.85 (for Friday)Diesel (rates per litre)Basic Price: Rs29.01Freight: Rs0.34Excise Duty: Rs31.83Commission: Rs2.14VAT (24%): Rs14.69Additional VAT: Rs3TCS: Rs0.05 Total: Rs81.06||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petrol-would-be-rs8-cheaper-if-additional-vat-is-removed/articleshow/79684977.cms||Shishir Arya
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: One dead, 5 hurt after pickup vehicle falls into gorge||UTTARKASHI: A 21-year-old man was killed and five others, including two minors, sustained injuries after the pickup vehicle they were traveling in fell into a 150-metre-deep gorge from Kandari road at Naugaon region of Uttarkashi district on Sunday morning. According to TOI sources, a pickup vehicle with six people on board was going towards Damta from Godin village on Sunday morning when the accident took place. One of the passengers — identified as Godin village-resident Vijay Das — died on the spot, whereas five others — 42-year-old Surat Das, 32-year-old Rohit, 24-year-old Neetu, seven-year-old Avantika, and one-year-old Kanishka — sustained injuries in the accident. Soon after, rescue forces reached at the spot and sent all injured persons to the community health centre at Damta for treatment. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “Doctors have referred three critically injured persons to a higher medical facility. Meanwhile, the body of the deceased was sent for postmortem examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-dead-5-hurt-after-pickup-vehicle-falls-into-gorge/articleshow/79709985.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 14, 2020||Salem||Dharmapuri accident: Truck driver arrested||DHARMAPURI: Hours after the complete mayhem on Thoppur ghat road on Salem-Bengaluru National Highway, where a speeding container truck crashed into 12 cars, a minivan, a truck and a bike, killing four and injuring seven others, police arrested the truck driver in the early hours of Sunday. The Thoppur police identified the accused as Qutbuddin, 32, of Jharkhand. A police officer said the driver was hiding in a nearby forest, fearing arrest. Pravesh Kumar, district superintendent of police, said they were questioning the truck driver to know what caused the accident. “We don’t know whether he had dozed off at the wheel. He was driving fast and it Sseems he had lost control over the vehicle.” He said transport department officials were checking the truck for a possible brake failure. Pointing out that the stretch has sharp curves and inclines, Kumar said some drivers were in the habit of driving the vehicles on neutral mode to save fuel. “It is difficult to control a vehicle when driven on neutral mode. There is also a possibility that the truck might have been on neutral mode when the incident occurred.” The SP said while the driver was speeding the truck, he hadn’t crossed the speed limits as the truck was equipped with speed governor. The Thoppur police, meanwhile, took the driver to the Dharmapuri government medical college and hospital for Covid-19 testing. “We will lodge him in the Salem Central Prison after getting the test report,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/dharmapuri-accident-truck-driver-arrested/articleshow/79718848.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||English booster clubs in govt schools to organise virtual ‘stars get together’||Ludhiana: After organising virtual get together of teachers under the aegis of English booster clubs (EBC), now a virtual ‘stars get together’ will be organised at block level in different districts till December 28. EBC, the education department’s new initiative at government schools, has been getting good response from teachers and students. They are enthusiastically taking part in various activities being organised. Chander Shekhar, state resource person (English and social studies) said the activities being organised under the aegis of EBC in different schools as well as block and district level had been proving a boon to students, helping them hone language skills. “The EBCs have been motivating students to come forward and show curiosity to learn the language,” he said, while adding that the students’ speaking competency had improved and they no longer possess any shyness or anxiety while conversing in English. In ‘stars get together’, 16 to 20 students belonging to classes IX to XII and their guide teachers from each block across the state will participate. They will speak on different topics. The duration of speech will be 45 to 90 seconds. District resource persons, district mentors, block mentors and block master trainers will organise the event at block level in their respective districts. District education officers (DEO), both secondary and primary, will preside over. The deputy DEOs (secondary and primary), DIET principals, BPEOs, DMs, DRPs, PPDCs, media coordinators will also be invited to join the event as special guests. The participants will be honoured with appreciation certificates by the DEO concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/english-booster-clubs-in-govt-schools-to-organise-virtual-stars-get-together/articleshow/79709965.cms||Mehak Jain
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||3 held for stealing yarn worth Rs 1.7L from garment unit||Coimbatore: Three people have been arrested for stealing yarn worth Rs 1.75 lakh from a garment unit at Kamarajar Nagar on Perumanallur Road in Tirupur district. Police have recovered the stolen yarn from the trio.The Tirupur North police identified the accused as R Harikrishnan, 20, of Kamarajar Nagar, M Gowtham, 28, of Theni district, and P Rajesh, 34, of Madurai.An investigation officer said Rajesh and Gowtham, along with Pandi, a native of Chennai, had approached Sivakumar, who runs a garment unit on Perumanallur Road, to buy some machines.“While the transaction was valued at Rs 8.50 lakh, the trio paid an advance of Rs 3 lakh last month and promised to settle the remaining amount within 60 days. The three were residing in rental rooms in the district,” the officer said. The trio, however, called off the deal and asked Sivakumar to return the advance amount. Sivakumar sought some time to repay the same and asked them to wait until he sold the machines.Gowtham and Rajesh decided to steal the machines from the garment unit, while Pandi tried his best to dissuade them from doing that, but in vain. “Meanwhile, Gowtham and Rajesh, along with Harikrishnan, a disgruntled employee of the unit that hadn’t paid him for more than two months, stole yarn worth Rs 1.74 lakh, 400kg banian clothes and the digital video recorder of CCTV cameras on December 3 when Sivakumar wasn’t in the unit,” the officer said.Sivakumar lodged a complaint with the Tirupur North police, who registered a case under Section 381 of the Indian Penal Code on December 4 and formed a special team, which nabbed the trio on Saturday. All the three have been remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-held-for-stealing-yarn-worth-rs-1-7l-from-garment-unit/articleshow/79710752.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||1 killed as truck rams bike from behind in Salem||Salem: A 23-year-old man was killed after a truck rammed his bike near Masinaickenpatty on Salem-Chennai National Highway on Sunday while he was on his way to appear for the written examination for the recruitment of Grade-II police constables, jail wardens and firemen.Police identified the deceased as M Periyannan, of Dharapuram Kattuvalavu village near Omalur in the district. After completing Class XII, he had been preparing for the Grade-II recruitment examination.According to a police officer, the examination centre that was allocated to Periyannan was a private arts and science college at Ramalingapuram on the NH. “When he neared Masinaickenpatty around 7.30am, the truck hit his bike from behind. Periyannan was thrown off from the bike and his head hit the parapet wall on roadside. He died on the spot.”When alerted, police sent the dead body to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.The officer said they had registered a case and launched a manhunt for the truck driver, who escaped from the accident spot. The truck, he said, was heading to Chennai from Salem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-killed-as-truck-rams-bike-from-behind-in-salem/articleshow/79710755.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||Superspreading events need to stop: AIIMS chief||PANAJI: India needs to take a cue from Europe and US and keep its guard up till a vaccine is rolled out in the country, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said. “If we let our guard down, if we have crowds, if we don’t maintain Covid appropriate behaviour, if we are promoting super-spreading events, the virus will return and it will also infect a large number of people,” Guleria, a pulmonologist, said, adding that it’s a matter of “a few months” before vaccinations begins. He was speaking via video conferencing at the Manohar Parrikar Vidnyan Mahotsav. Guleria’s advisory comes just a day after the state conducted zilla panchayat elections where Covid-19 safety norms were flouted. Many voters were seen with their face masks below their chin and violating social distancing norms. “We already know that there is a significant number of our population that is susceptible. It is not as if we have achieved the so-called herd immunity and therefore I think that at least for the next few months we must be very careful and have aggressive Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Guleria said. Talking about the Centre’s strategy to stem the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Guleria said that AIIMS has tied up with states and even foreign nations to disseminate best practices while also conducting research with several scientific institutions. He said that AIIMS had set-up a Covid-19 research committee to encourage studies on Covid-19 and 63 research projects have been sanctioned and funded. “We still don’t have a bio-marker or prediction model which can help us to tell which individuals will go from mild to severe intensity except for the fact that we do know that those who are elderly and those who have comorbidities tend to have a worse outcome,” the AIIMS director said. The doctor did offer a ray of hope saying that the country is on the verge of defeating the pandemic. “We have a vaccine which should be available in the early parts of next year. It would be really unfortunate that because of not having Covid appropriate behaviour we were to lose a close family member of ours at this point in time when we have a cure or a treatment available just a few months away. I think this is the time to be very aggressive because we know that now the end is here,” Guleria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/superspreading-events-need-to-stop-aiims-chief/articleshow/79711766.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||Zilla parishad results today to reveal political pulse of rural Goa||PANAJI: Rural Goa’s verdict will be unraveled on Monday, when the ballot papers of the nearly 4.5 lakh people who voted on Saturday for the state’s two zilla panchayat bodies are taken up for counting. Starting 8am, six centres in North Goa and nine in South Goa will see counting commence. Although the results of the zilla panchayat polls will in no way alter the political contours of the state, they will reveal the pulse of rural Goa and help assess the popularity or otherwise of political parties ahead of the assembly elections just 13 months away. The ZP polls are also being seen as a major test for chief minister Pramod Sawant to prove his mettle in leading the state to elections, as this is the first local body elections BJP is contesting under his watch. Both BJP and Congress have exuded confidence of winning both bodies. While Congress hopes the anti-government sentiments over the three contentious Centre-funded projects would translate into votes in its favour, BJP said that the protests will have no impact on its electoral fortunes. The opposition parties had tried to make political capital of the protests with a view to keep the issues burning till the 2022 assembly elections. “The results of the ZP elections are important for both the ruling party as well as opposition as, it will set the ball rolling for the assembly election,” a political observer said. Goa goes to polls in the first quarter of 2022. Going by the turnout and the efforts put in by ruling MLAs, including ministers, political observers say indications are that BJP has an edge over its rivals. What lends an advantage to BJP is its robust strength of 27 MLAs in the 40-member legislative assembly. Congress has just five MLAs and MGP one. AAP has no representation in the House. BJP is likely to post a better performance in North Goa than in South Goa, where Catholic-dominated Salcete constituencies continue to pose a challenge for the saffron party to make inroads. However, voter turnout was low in Salcete, where BJP fielded candidates in only two constituencies — Davorlim and Guirdolim, while backing independents in the rest, as a strategic move. Political observers have their eyes riveted on voter behavior in Salcete — will BJP’s strategy to back independents succeed? Or will Congress be able to retain its traditional bastion? The relatively low turnout in Salcete has kept poll pundits guessing. The election had recorded a 56.8% turnout, a nearly 10% decline from polling figures of the 2015 ZP polls. 200 candidates — 104 in North Goa and 96 in South Goa — had contested the 48 ZP constituencies. North Goa and South Goa ZP bodies have 25 members each. In South Goa, elections were held only for 23 seats, as BJP won Sancoale unopposed and the election in Navelim was countermanded on account of the death of a candidate. For the first time, all major political parties in the state (except Goa Forward Party) contested the ZP polls. In 2015, when the ZP election was held for the first time on party lines, only BJP contested officially. This time, BJP is contesting in 41 constituencies and Congress in 37, followed by AAP in 20, NCP and MGP in five each, and Rashtriya Samaj Paksha in one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-results-today-to-reveal-political-pulse-of-rural-goa/articleshow/79711778.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Coimbatore||DVAC officials raid brake inspector’s house||Salem: A day after the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) sleuths seized Rs 24.15 lakh and gold ornaments weighing 117 sovereigns from the car of a brake inspector attached to the regional transport office (RTO) in Virudhunagar, a raid was conducted at the officer’s house in Salem on Sunday.A source hinted that DVAC officials led by ADSP Chandramouli have seized documents, cash and jewelleries from the house of the 38-year-old vehicle inspector Kalaiselvi, of Sundamottur village near Elampillai in the district.The source said Virudhunagar DVAC officials had conducted a surprise check at Satrasettiyapatty vilakku check post area on Saturday and seized cash and gold from Kalaiselvi’s car.Virudhunagar DVAC officials altered their counterparts in Salem who searched Kalaiselvi’s house on Sunday. “The seized items would be sent to Virudhunagar DVAC office at the earliest,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dvac-officials-raid-brake-inspectors-house/articleshow/79710757.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Suffered Rs 437 crore hit due to staff rampage in Kolar unit: Wistron||BENGALURU: Saturday’s violence at Wistron’s Kolar plant, where it assembles iPhones, has caused Rs 437-crore losses, estimates made by the firm in its complaint to police and labour department said. It is estimated that the losses are primarily due to the theft of thousands of iPhones (allegedly looted from the unit during violence), damage caused to the assembly line and the factory. Condemning the two-hour violence, state labour minister Shivaram Hebbar told TOI that the losses caused to the company were ‘unacceptable’. “We are all for labour welfare, but taking the law into one’s hands cannot go unpunished,” he added. According to the government, the dispute between Wistron and the contract labourers has been going on for the past three months. Govt orders company to pay workers in 3 daysThe labour minister said Wistron had contracted six subsidiary companies to hire as many as 8,900 people at the Kolar unit. “Besides these labourers, the company had 1,200 permanent employees. With no registered trade union and the violence unleashed primarily by contract labourers, the labour department will assess what went wrong,” he added. Industries minister Jagadish Shettar said the violence was, perhaps, fuelled by miscommunication between Wistron, the contractors and the employees. “What we hear is that the company had made payments to the labour contractors, who delayed payments to the employees. This is being verified,” he said. Hebbar said the labour department has issued notices to Wistron, asking the firm to pay the dues in three days. “Employees must be paid salaries — whether it comes from Wistron or labour contractors,” he added. Shettar said the Karnataka government’s chief secretary and principal secretary (industries) were talking to the parent firm in Taiwan. “We’ll make all efforts to allay fears of the industry and ensure the culprits are booked,” he said. Sources said the Kolar superintendent of police will also probe whether the violence was a premeditated effort aimed at destroying the company’s property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/suffered-437crore-hit-due-to-staff-rampage-in-kolar-unit-wistron/articleshow/79712567.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
December 14, 2020||Trichy||Protection gives jumbo boost for Azhagarkoil||TRICHY: The declaration of Azhagarkoil elephant sculpture in Ariyalur district as a protected monument by Tamil Nadu archaeological department will help the unexplored destination to gain tourist attention. The protected monument tag will bring infrastructure development to the centuries-old historical site such as roads and lights, apart from improving the socio-economic status of the locality. Located about 6km from the iconic Gangaikonda Cholapuram temple near Jayankondam, Azhagarkoil was one of the entrances to the then capital of Cholas. A gigantic sculpture of an elephant with an intricate design of ornaments adorning the mammal made of traditional brick and lime mortar mixture was erected to greet the visitors arriving at Azhagarkoil that once served as a frontier. The sculpture standing at a height of 47ft is one of the largest elephant sculptures in the state. Though the state archaeology department terms that the sculpture could have been built in the 16th century, archaeology enthusiasts claim it could be much older, dating back to the period of Cholas. “Apart from reviving the historical monument and paving way for future archaeological excavation, the locals will get an opportunity to tap tourist footfall for economic growth,” said R Komagan, Gangaikonda Cholapuram development council chairman. “Protected sites of archaeology department will get fund every year to develop basic amenities. The site will be mapped among other protected monuments,” said K Sridharan, deputy director (retired), state archaeology department. The state archaeology department already has 92 protected monuments including three in Ariyalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/protection-gives-jumbo-boost-for-azhagarkoil/articleshow/79711763.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Behala kid critical but responds to treatment: Docs||KOLKATA: The condition of the 15-month-old child, who was admitted to SSKM Hospital after she fell down almost 40 feet from the terrace of a four-storey building in the Behala-Paikpara area on Saturday, was stated to be extremely critical by doctors on Sunday. Her father, Subhas Chandra Panda (41), had a fatal fall from the same spot while trying to save her daughter, with whom he was playing near the parapet of the terrace. The child’s mother and elder brother were present at the hospital while their other family members returned from Puri. However, doctors have given some ray of hope to the family and cops. “Doctors said that though the child is in a critical condition, she is responding to the treatment,” said a senior police officer. Cops said the parapet had scratch marks suggesting that the child’s father had tried his best to hang on and prevent his fall. “Given such marks, this is an accident and there is no possibility of any suicide attempt. The Parnasree police are trying to ascertain the exact sequence of events that led to the accident. If required, we will take the help of forensic experts. We suspect that the child might have fallen due to several situations. There is a possibility that she was trying to catch the plastic ball and fell over the low-height parapet. There is also the possibility that the child had tried kicking the ball close to the parapet and then tripped over,” said an officer. However, the statements of the victim’s neighbours like Putul Das and Sudipta Mukherjee will be important in the case, according to the police. “They told us that Panda was always a daredevil. He would often climb the cornice and try to clean up his AC machine. On some days when he would play on the terrace with his daughter he would let her sit on the 2.5 feet high parapet. He would also lean out of the parapet and watch people moving downstairs. We are probing whether he was negligent while attempting similar things on Saturday,” said an officer. “A plastic ball has been recovered from the terrace. So far no foul play has been found and no complaint was lodged,” said DC (Behala) Syed Waquar Reza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/behala-kid-critical-but-responds-to-treatment-docs/articleshow/79710759.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||PAUTA elections to be held on Dec 20, nominations by Dec 17||Ludhiana: Punjab Agricultural University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) elections will be held on December 20. The election will be held for 11 posts, including president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, treasurer and six councillors from the main campus. The nominations may be filed in the office of the returning officer, J S Deol, professor of agronomy for the election. S S Hundal and G P S Dhillon are assistant returning officers. It should be at least one from each college, (if otherwise not represented) and two each from outstations (north and south regions with Chandigarh-Ferozepur dividing line) and one each from research and extension side. Last date for filling of nominations is December 17, 12 noon. The nominations can be withdrawn till 11am on December 18. Teachers can exercise their voting right between 10.30am and 2.30pm on December 20, after which the votes will be counted and the results are expected to be announced after 3.30pm during the annual general body meeting on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pauta-elections-to-be-held-on-dec-20-nominations-by-dec-17/articleshow/79709972.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Staffers back out of pact; buses to get police cover||BENGALURU: The strike by transport employees is set to continue on Monday after negotiations with state representatives collapsed. The failure stemmed from the government’s reluctance to fulfil the employees’ primary demand that they be brought on the government’s payroll. As CM BS Yediyurappa and other ministers got into a huddle in the night, transport minister Laxman Savadi said it has been decided to use police help and run buses using employees who are ready to return to work. “We will use private buses too. Whoever obstructs employees will face action,” he added. KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation asked all staff to return to work. Protesters were misled by farmer leader, says CMEarlier, representatives of over 1.2 lakh protesting employees from four staterun bus corporations, including KSRTC and BMTC, on Sunday agreed to a truce after the government’s assurance of looking into a majority of their demands. Deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, who holds the transport portfolio, announced bus services will resume late Sunday night Chandrashekhar, a leader of the protesting employees who participated in the talks at Vidhana Soudha, thanked the government, offering the impression that an amicable agreement had been reached. Bus services at depots across the state resumed at 6.30pm. There was a U-turn once Chandrashekhar reached Freedom Park where the protesting employees have been staging a hunger strike since Sunday morning. An overwhelming majority of the workers refused to back down on their demand of being offered the privileges, incentives and status of government staff. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa, while urging the workers to get back to work, said: “While the workers’ leaders had agreed to call off the strike after the government agreed to meet many of their demands, they have now, misled by farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar, gone back on their word .” “We suspect there could be vested interests at play. Our priority is to protect the interest of the commuters... I’m meeting the CM again, and will soon announce any new decisions we may take,” Savadi said. Earlier, the government agreed to meet most of the demands put forth by the striking employees except that of bringing them under government payroll. “We have made it clear that the government cannot consider the demand of imparting government-employee tag to the RTC employees. The government is not in a position to convert the employees of any board or corporation into government employees because of the Covid-19-induced economic slowdown. However, we have agreed to meet most of the demands and they have agreed to call off the strike. Buses will start plying from Sunday night,” Savadi had said. Among the demands the government agreed to meet were hiking salary in accordance with the 6th Pay Commission’s recommendation, withdrawal of not-issued-not-collected cases filed against conductors for not issuing ticket to commuters, Arogya Sanjeevini health insurance cover for all employees, Rs 30 lakh exgratia for the families of those who succumbed to Covid-19, reduction of training period for new employees to one year, setting up of a committee to address the complaints about harassment by higher officials and introduction of HRMS to automate the HR department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/staffers-back-out-of-pactbuses-to-get-police-cover/articleshow/79712569.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka leaves decision on Vidyagama to court||BENGALURU/MYSURU: Faced with an opinion from the grassroots that Vidyagama, the continuous learning programme for government schoolchildren, should be resumed, the state government is set to leave the final decision to the Karnataka high court which is hearing a PIL on the matter. The state government is expected to file a response about the resumption of Vidyagama with the court on Monday. The court will hear the matter on December 17. “We are discussing the issue. No decision has been taken yet. The HC had asked us for our opinion and we will file it on Monday. The decision will be based on the HC ruling,” said V Anbukkumar, commissioner for public instruction. Most DDPIs want Vidyagama resumedThe department had sought responses from the deputy directors of public instruction (DDPIs) in the districts in the matter. Official sources said most DDPIs want Vidyagama resumed. The high school teachers’ association wants reopening of schools for class 9 and 10 students and Vidyagama classes on campus for class 8 children. The Mysuru DDPI confirmed recommending reopening of Vidyagama instead of starting schools straightaway. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga said he had submitted a report in this regard to the commissioner of public construction after collecting the opinion from block resource persons and block education officers of Mysuru South, North, T Narasipura, Hunsur, Periyapatna, Nanjangud, HD Kote and KR Nagar. “Though online classes are regularly conducted for high school students, primary school students are missing out due to the suspension of Vidyagama. As Covid-19 cases have reduced in the district, there is no problem to restart the Vidyagama classes adhering to all safety and social-distancing norms,” he said. About 170 teachers and department staff who had turned positive for Covid-19 have returned to work in Mysuru district, he added. Citing resumption of the economic activities, Panduranga, has said in his report that it is not time yet to reopen primary schools. After schools shut down due to Covid-19, the state government had launched Vidyagama under which teachers could meet children outside school campuses in small groups and continue classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-leaves-decision-on-vidyagama-to-court/articleshow/79712572.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka leaves decision on Vidyagama to court||BENGALURU/MYSURU: Faced with an opinion from the grassroots that Vidyagama, the continuous learning programme for government schoolchildren, should be resumed, the state government is set to leave the final decision to the Karnataka high court which is hearing a PIL on the matter. The state government is expected to file a response about the resumption of Vidyagama with the court on Monday. The court will hear the matter on December 17. “We are discussing the issue. No decision has been taken yet. The HC had asked us for our opinion and we will file it on Monday. The decision will be based on the HC ruling,” said V Anbukkumar, commissioner for public instruction. Most DDPIs want Vidyagama resumedThe department had sought responses from the deputy directors of public instruction (DDPIs) in the districts in the matter. Official sources said most DDPIs want Vidyagama resumed. The high school teachers’ association wants reopening of schools for class 9 and 10 students and Vidyagama classes on campus for class 8 children. The Mysuru DDPI confirmed recommending reopening of Vidyagama instead of starting schools straightaway. Mysuru DDPI Panduranga said he had submitted a report in this regard to the commissioner of public construction after collecting the opinion from block resource persons and block education officers of Mysuru South, North, T Narasipura, Hunsur, Periyapatna, Nanjangud, HD Kote and KR Nagar. “Though online classes are regularly conducted for high school students, primary school students are missing out due to the suspension of Vidyagama. As Covid-19 cases have reduced in the district, there is no problem to restart the Vidyagama classes adhering to all safety and social-distancing norms,” he said. About 170 teachers and department staff who had turned positive for Covid-19 have returned to work in Mysuru district, he added. Citing resumption of the economic activities, Panduranga, has said in his report that it is not time yet to reopen primary schools. After schools shut down due to Covid-19, the state government had launched Vidyagama under which teachers could meet children outside school campuses in small groups and continue classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ktaka-leaves-decision-on-vidyagama-to-court/articleshow/79712789.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Farmer associations are disassociating themselves from agitation as govt is explaining benefits of new farm laws: Madan Kaushik||Dehradun: Uttarakhand cabinet minister and state government’s spokesperson Madan Kaushik on Sunday said that several farmer associations across the country have disassociated themselves from farmers’ agitation after the central government was able to explain the benefits of new farm laws. The minister, in a press conference held as a part of BJP’s pan-India movement to shed light on the three recently-enacted farm laws, added that the government is ready to give a written assurance on MSP (Minimum Support Price) to the farmers and that other issues will also be resolved soon. Speaking to media persons at BJP headquarters in Balbir Road, Kaushik said that the Opposition parties and many other organisations are “simply misleading farmers who are protesting against the new farm laws. This is why, the BJP is reaching out to farmers and our party workers shall go door-to- door to explain the laws to them.” Accusing other Opposition parties, including the Congress, of tricking farmers, Kaushik said that the new farm laws introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given real freedom to farmers. “The three laws enacted by the Modi government will make farmers self-sufficient and increase their income. The Congress and other Opposition parties protesting against the agricultural laws were in favour of these laws before 2014. But today, the attitude of Opposition parties has towards the same laws and their campaign to mislead farmers is very unfortunate,” added Kaushik. When asked as to why are the farmers agitating if the laws are good, Kaushik said that farmers from just a few states are protesting and there is no agitation in states like Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, and Maharashtra. He also maintained that the government is speaking with farmers’ bodies and that there will be a solution to all their problems very soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmer-associations-are-disassociating-themselves-from-agitation-as-govt-is-explaining-benefits-of-new-farm-laws-madan-kaushik/articleshow/79709988.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 14, 2020||Goa||Exams for first, second year students via online mode||PANAJI: While exams for final year students of BA, BSc and BCom programmes will be held in the physical mode starting from January 4, the exams for first and second year students in online mode will begin from the same day. “The question papers shall be sent to the students through any of the following platforms: Google Classroom, Moodle, Email, WhatsApp, etc, at 10am. Students may either type the answers electronically or write down the answers and then scan/photograph and upload the answersheet,” the Goa University has told colleges. The university has said that students will have to upload their answersheets latest by 1pm. Colleges will have to retain printed copies of the answersheets for record purposes, GU has stated. “Examination for the first/second year shall be conducted in online mode only. The duration of the examination shall be two hours for 30/40 marks respectively. In the case of examinations of 120 marks, the paper shall be set for 40 marks and scaled up to 120 marks,” Goa University has told colleges in a circular issued on December 11. Only one question paper will be set per subject by each college, GU has said. “There will be only two questions for these exams. Question no. 1 shall have 8 questions of 2 marks each out of which students will answer any 5 questions. Question no. 2 shall have 6/8 questions of 5 marks each, out of which the students will answer any 4/6 questions. Subjects such as accounts, costing, maths, statistics may have 6 questions of 10 marks each of which students will answer any four,” the University circular states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/exams-for-first-second-yr-students-via-online-mode/articleshow/79711795.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||Karnataka supply hit, Goa beef shops shut||PANAJI: With Christmas just a fortnight away, people were concerned to find beef shops closed over the weekend. Meat traders in Goa have shut shop since Saturday after suppliers of fresh beef from Belagavi, Karnataka, could no longer provide them with the red meat. To ensure that supply is not hit further, traders and other stakeholders are seeking the intervention of chief minister Pramod Sawant. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill (2020) was passed in the Karnataka assembly on December 9 without a debate. However, on December 10, the Karnataka government deferred the enactment of its controversial anti-cow slaughter bill until the next legislature. Some meat traders held a meeting with Fr Savio Fernandes, executive secretary of the Council for Social Justice and Peace, a wing of the Goa Church, and Fr Maverick Fernandes, director of Caritas Goa, to discuss the issue. "We extend our support to the meat traders. We had a meeting with them and will submit a memorandum to the government on this issue," Fr Savio said. President of the Quraishi Meat Traders’ Association, Anwar Bepari said, “We have already drafted the letter and are waiting for the ZP elections’ counting to end, to meet the CM and discuss the issue.” Bepari added that the meat traders who sell fresh beef have been forced to down their shutters after suppliers couldn’t sell them the meat. TOI had reported on Saturday that Goa is dependent on cattle from Belagavi for its beef requirements and traders are apprehensive that their businesses may suffer if the anti-cattle slaughter bill is passed. According to the bill, there will be a complete ban on the slaughter of cows in Karnataka. It proposes stringent punishments to those held for smuggling, illegal transportation, atrocities on cows and slaughtering them including imprisonment of minimum three years up to seven years and a minimum Rs 50,000 penalty which could be extended to Rs 5 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-supply-hit-goa-beef-shops-shut/articleshow/79711791.cms||Nida Sayed
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Wife, supporters of deceased Dalit activist demand CBI probe into his death||Haridwar: A day after four persons, including two minor girls, one of whom allegedly accidentally fired the shot that killed Dalit RTI activist Pankaj Lamba, were arrested for the 50-year-old’s death, his wife Jyoti said she is not happy with police “theory”. She demanded a CBI investigation into the case, which she said was a plotted murder and not a freak accident. Meanwhile, Dalit leaders held in meeting in Haridwar on Sunday and demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh and a government job for Lamba’s next of kin. Dalit leader CP Singh told TOI, “There was a criminal conspiracy behind what we believe was the murder of Pankaj Lamba. We demand that the government set up a CBI inquiry into the case and arrange for compensation and a job for the bereaved family.” Lamba had filed several RTIs, on the basis of which a special investigation team (SIT) had been formed on the orders of the HC to investigate siphoning off of funds meant for SC/ST students in the state. Owners of many colleges, besides officers of the social welfare department have been arrested so far by the SIT in connection with the scam. Between 2011-12 and 2016-17 — before the scam was uncovered — the social welfare department is believed to have released over Rs 7,200 crore as scholarship money for SC/ST students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wife-supporters-of-deceased-dalit-activist-demand-cbi-probe-into-his-death/articleshow/79710003.cms||MS Nawaz
December 14, 2020||Trichy||MLA reaches out to farmer hurt in roof collapse||Trichy: Help has come finally for the family of a 50-year-old farmer in Alangudi in Pudukottai district, who sustained injuries after the roof of his house made of asbestos sheets collapsed on him recently. Alangudi MLA Siva V Meyyanathan came to the farmer’s place on Sunday and offered financial assistance and promised to sanction a solar-powered greenhouse through the district administration. The officials also have now come reached out to Ramalingam and offered to help him. Ramalingam, 55, was living in a tile roofed house with his wife and two children when the Gaja cyclone ravaged his house two years ago, bringing down the roof. He had then escaped unhurt during the accident. He had applied for assistance from the district administration to repair his house. While no aid was sanctioned for him, he along with the help of his neighbour covered the roof with asbestos sheets. However, bad luck struck a second time when the asbestos sheet collapsed on him while he was fast asleep due to the heavy rain last week. Ramalingam was rushed to a nearby hospital for first aid while his family members stayed in neighbour’s house. “It could have been fatal if the sheets had collapsed on his head or chest,” said G Prabakaran, Ramalingam’s neighbour. Prabakaran sourced some money along with a few others but it the amount will not be sufficient to restore the extent of damage caused to the house. Prabakaran said that Ramalingam should have been sanctioned with a solar powered house from the district administration but it never happened despite repeated requests. Ramalingam while thanking the MLA and others who had helped him awaits assistance from the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mla-reaches-out-to-farmer-hurt-in-roof-collapse/articleshow/79711812.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Goa||Increased footfalls, haphazard parking becoming nightmare for visitors to Mapusa’s admin complex||SALIGAO: With a number of government offices housed in the lone administrative complex building at Mapusa, the area is proving to be a traffic nightmare for citizens, who visit the complex to get their work done. Residents demand that the state government should expedite work on the new building, which was planned to be constructed under the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC), with better parking facilities. The administrative complex at Mapusa currently houses the offices of the deputy collector, the mamlatdar, the PWD, commercial tax officer, land survey, among others. This results in citizens from across Bardez taluka visiting the premises. Over the years, the footfalls at the complex have increased significantly, along with the vehicles frequenting here, and the space is now becoming congested. Citizens also said as the structure is old, the elderly and disabled who visit the premises face accessibility issues. A citizen John Lobo said a new and better designed government complex in Mapusa is the need of the hour. “If the new complex is constructed, all other government offices spread across Mapusa can also be brought under the same roof. This complex can have better planned parking area and save citizens the trouble of dealing with the haphazard parking at the current complex as well as at other government office spread across Mapusa. Farmers have even given some land for the benefit of construction of a new government complex but this project is yet to see the light of the day,” Lobo said. Citizens said there are not enough personnel posted at the existing complex to ensure that the available parking space is utilised better with systematic parking of vehicles. The GSIDC had recently floated a tender to construct the long-planned new government complex opposite the old Asilo building. As per the plan, the first floor was to house chambers for five mamlatdars, with provision to store records and a pantry. The second floor was to have five courts for mamlatdars, a mutation section and a room each for the court clerk and advocate and a revenue section. “If a new government complex is being constructed, it should be planned in a manner that all the different offices can be housed here, rather than constructing a new building to accommodate only few of the offices,” said another Mapusa resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/increased-footfalls-haphazard-parking-becoming-nightmare-for-visitors-to-mapusas-admin-complex/articleshow/79711841.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Trichy||7 years on, BDU gets UGC nod for distance edu courses||Trichy: Bringing to an end a deadlock spanning seven years, Bharathidasan University (BDU) has secured University Grants Commission’s approval for its distance education programmes. Distance education programme are a major source of revenue for the university which is presently reeling under fund crunch. Though the university could not get the mandatory nod from the commission’s distance education bureau (DEB) in its previous attempts, it has been offering the programmes in the last few years, attracting a rebuke from DEB in September. BDU’s centre for distance education (CDE) advertised its programme on July 19 and even extended the last date for submitting applications till September 31. The university then halted admission and chose to wait till it gets approval from DEB. Category – I institutions don’t need DEB approval but BDU doesn’t come under it. “The university gained minimum eligibility to offer distance education programmes in April 2019, but DEB delayed the process of opening its portal to submit application for approval,” said a senior university official. Desperate to seek approval, BDU officials including registrar G Gopinath and CDE director in-charge A Ilangovan visited DEB office in Delhi and offered clarification. The portal was later opened in October and BDU could apply for it and subsequently get the nod. Confirming the communication from DEB on getting the approval, a senior official from BDU said they are awaiting final orders. This has been long due though BDU was qualified for approval, he said. “Besides securing A+ grade in NAAC assessment, BDU has managed to be among the 100 top universities of the country over the last three years. These being the minimum eligibility, DEB delayed opening of its portal for submitting application for approval which led to the delay,” he said. The relief for the university comes amid a worsening financial situation to the extent that staff had in July asked the university administration to rethink about recruitment. The university had exhausted its general funds while corpus funds were utilised to disburse salary to staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/7-years-on-bdu-gets-ugc-nod-for-distance-edu-courses/articleshow/79711827.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Row erupts over management of Nainital’s Sherwood College, alma mater of film star Amitabh Bachchan||Nainital: A row has erupted over control of the management of Nainital’s Sherwood College — alma mater of some of the most famous personalities in the country like Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan and Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw — as it was alleged that the newly-appointed interim principal of the school was not allowed to enter the campus on Saturday. The interim principal, Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel along with police personnel and members of the diocese of Agra (the body which administers the school) was kept waiting at the gates which were locked. A notice was pasted outside that no one will be allowed inside the campus without a Covid-negative certificate and the staff members refused to open the gates, citing the incumbent principal’s orders. The controversy comes as the existing principal, Amandeep Sandhu, refused to leave his post despite the diocese of Agra appointing Emmanuel as the new interim principal. Sandhu was suspended by the Agra diocese in October over allegations of financial irregularity and Emmanuel, who was formerly with St Joseph’s College was appointed in his place. However, speaking to TOI Sandhu termed the allegations fictitious while adding that Emmanuel was appointed by the Bishop of Agra but the principals are not appointed by him. “Bishop of Agra has nothing to do with the society that runs Sherwood College. The society’s name is Sherwood Diocesian society. It is registered at Haldwani. Its chairmen have been Bishop of Lucknow or Bishop of Delhi. At the moment there is no chairman and the Bishop of Agra certainly has no authority over this society.Therefore the appointment is completely wrong,” Sandhu said. Emmanuel however stressed that the Bishop of Agra is the chairman of the society and that they had the court order yet they were now allowed into the school campus. “The Bishop of Agra is the chairman of the society and we have the court order as well. However we were still not allowed into the college. We will approach the court once again and take necessary steps,” he said. Earlier, too, a day after being appointed interim principal in October, Emmanuel had tried to take over charge but was denied entry in the school. He had then approached the Uttarakhand high court which last week decided that police protection be given to the interim principal although the order did not direct Sandhu to hand over the charge to Emmanuel. Meanwhile, on Emmanuel’s complaint, police have booked Sandhu along with over 60 others from the school on charges of rioting (section 147) and criminal intimidation (506). According to police the Sandhu and others have also been charged with section 504 (wrongful restraint) and section 341 (provocation to to breach public peace) of the IPC. Sandhu however said that he was not even at the gate and therefore booking him under these offences is wrong.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/row-erupts-over-management-of-nainitals-sherwood-college-alma-mater-of-film-star-amitabh-bachchan/articleshow/79709522.cms||Prashant Jha
December 14, 2020||Trichy||Farmers to lay siege to Raj Bhavan||Trichy: The All-Farmers Associations’ Coordination Committee has decided to lay a siege to Raj Bhavan on December 18 demanding the withdrawal of the three agriculture laws. Speaking to reporters, committee president P R Pandian has appealed to the farmers to participate in the agitation in large numbers. Pandian condemned Union food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal’s accusation that the leftist and Maoist elements had infiltrated into the movement. He demanded the minister to withdraw his accusations and take steps to revoke the laws immediately. Protest in support of the farmers in Delhi has been spread across the state. The Union government should listen to the appeals made by the farmers. Otherwise farmers have no option but to intensify agitations, he said. Several farmers will participate in the siege to the Raj Bhavan, which would commence at 10 am, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-to-lay-siege-to-raj-bhavan/articleshow/79711842.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||SOP for Somvati Amavasya released, senior citizens & kids below 10 years advised to stay at home||Haridwar: The district administration released the SOP (standard operating procedure) for Somvati Amavasya bathing festival on Monday. In the order, senior citizens, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years have been requested to observe the festival at home. Also, Kumbh Mela police and local police have been directed to maintain social distancing on the banks of the Ganga in Haridwar. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “All Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government will be followed during the bathing festival. The mela area has been divided into 10 zones and 37 sectors and sufficient police force has been deployed for the festival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sop-for-somvati-amavasya-released-senior-citizens-kids-below-10-years-advised-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/79710024.cms||MS Nawaz
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Two cops on Maa naka check hit by speeding car||KOLKATA: Two cops, posted for naka checking at the Park Circus end of Maa flyover, were injured after being hit by a speeding car in the wee hours of Saturday. The cops, Chandan Kumar Bagchi, assistant sub-inspector of Beniapukur police station, and Sujoy Sarkar, a constable of east traffic guard, were rushed to the CNMC Hospital. While Bagchi escaped with minor scratches Sarkar suffered fractures and was shifted to a private hospital in the Park Street area. This was the third such incident that happened in less than three months. Almost 40 hours after the incident the police were still trying to trace the driver of the car that had hit the cops and analysed CCTV grabs. “Bagchi and Sarkar were standing at the Park Circus end of the flyover for night duty and their main task was to prevent bikes from taking the flyover. Around 2.15am, a white hatchback, running at a high speed in a negligent manner, hit the duo and sped away. It seems that the driver was behind the wheels of the hatchback under the influence of alcohol. He thought that he might be stopped at the naka check, so he sped the car in a reckless manner,” said a police officer. Several cops posted on duty at the Maa flyover and AJC Bose flyover intersection said the spot was witnessing a spurt in accidents. On November 28, a sergeant from east traffic guard, Subhajit Ghosh, was severely injured when an app cab allegedly hit him. In September, a 23-year-old man, who had bought a second hand bike and taken out his friend on a tour to south Kolkata, lost his life in a bizarre accident on the flyover. Rider Asim Mondal and his pillion rider Tarak Sardar (24) had first dodged cops and then injured an officer and were hit by a vehicle while riding in the wrong direction||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-cops-on-maa-naka-check-hit-by-speeding-car/articleshow/79710791.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 14, 2020||Trichy||Over 1L attend grade-II police exam in central districts, Madurai||Trichy/Madurai: Over 72,000 candidates appeared for grade II constables, jail warders and firemen exam in 70 centres in the central region, while in Madurai 34,680 appeared for the exam. In the central districts, the examination was conducted in Trichy, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. with police authorities making elaborate security arrangements for the written test. In Trichy district, 14,930 candidates including 2,310 women and 1 transgender wrote the examination in 26 centres. In Thanjavur, 13,685 candidates including 2,719 women and 2 transgenders appeared for the exam. After inspecting the examination centres in Trichy, Commissioner of Police, Trichy city J Loganathan told reporters that elaborate security arrangements were made with around 2,000 police personnel been deployed at the examination centres. As per the norms, candidates are allowed till 11 am to enter the examination hall, he added. In Madurai, as 4,500 police personnel were deployed for examination work in 42 centres in the city and rural areas. Police said that 37,405 people had applied for the examination, which includes 31,682 male candidates and 5,723 female candidates. Out of them 2,662 male and 63 women candidates did not turn up. Madurai SP Sujit Kumar conducted inspections at various centres including Lady Doak College in the city. The temperature of the candidates was checked and they were asked to sanitize their hands before entering the exam centres. Police also ensured that all of them were wearing masks. No electronic items including electronic wrist watches were allowed to be carried inside exam halls. Police personnel were stationed in strategic places to guide candidates to their respective exam centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-1l-attend-grade-ii-police-exam-in-central-districts-madurai/articleshow/79711870.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Pune||Cops help firm get back Rs 3.14 lakh||Pune: A medical equipment manufacturing firm based in the city had lost Rs3.14 lakh to fraudsters in a man-in-the-middle (MITM) cyber attack on October 26. The Pune police has recovered the amount from a bank in Kowloon City, China. The Pune firm had placed an order with a company in China for supply of oxygen meters. It had received an e-mail, purportedly sent by the Chinese company, raising a $4,200 invoice and seeking transfer of money to a specific bank account mentioned in the mail. The Pune firm made the transfer believing the mail as a genuine communication but realized later that it had fallen victim to an MITM attack. The firm lodged an FIR on November 5 and police investigation revealed that the account was with a bank in Kowloon City. The police immediately wrote to the Chinese authorities to freeze the bank account and have recently secured the money. A police team, comprising of senior inspector Rajkumar Wakchaure and assistant inspector Sachin Gawate, contacted their Chinese counterparts and communicated with the bank after establishing the money trail electronically. The authorities as well as the bank agreed with the Indian officers and froze the account. Deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Bhagyashri Navatake said, “MITM attacks generally target business houses instead of individuals because in business transactions, the amount is on the higher side. Many companies have design software programmes to avert MITM attacks. However, along with software programmes, the companies must ensure physical verification, for minute changes in the invoices or account numbers, before effecting any transactions.” “In this particular case, the amount was transferred by the company office bearers after receiving an invoice from the Chinese company. It could have been averted if a phone call had been made to the Chinese company before transferring the sum,” Navatake said. Between January and November this year, the cyber police have registered as many as 20 MITM attack cases. The amount involved in these transactions ranges between Rs2 lakh and Rs60 lakh. In 2019, the city police had registered 19 such cases and in some instances the transaction amount was about Rs1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-help-firm-get-back-rs-3-14-lakh/articleshow/79710794.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man held with 4 kg cannabis||UTTARKASHI: Local police arrested a man with nearly 4-kilogram cannabis (hashish) on Saturday night in Dharasu town of the district. Police have also impounded the vehicle used for smuggling. According to TOI sources, police team was on routine checking at Pipalmandi area of Uttarkashi district on Saturday night when they seized 3.840 kg cannabis from a person, who has been identified as Ravi Kumar, a resident Panipat in Haryana. Station house officer (SHO) of Dharasu, Vinod Thapliyal, said, “We have booked the accused under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.” Meanwhile, superintendent of police (SP) Pankaj Bhatt announced a reward amount of Rs 2,500 to the police team which nabbed the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-with-4-kg-cannabis/articleshow/79709527.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Year’s 1st chilly spell after Dec 16: Met||KOLKATA: Temperature is set to dip in Kolkata after December 16 as the northwesterly wind gets revived. The impact of snowfall in the Himalayas will be felt in the city once the northwesterly carries in the chill, said the Met officials on Sunday. The cool spell could last for four or five days. On Sunday, Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 16.3°C. “The mercury is set to slide and this will be the first chilly spell in Kolkata. There has been a heavy snowfall in Kashmir and the impact is going to be good. We expect the mercury dip to 12°C-13°C between December 17 and 19. The spell could last for a few days,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director, GK Das. So far the lowest temperature recorded in the city is 15.4°C. Last week, the mercury had shot up to five degrees above normal in Jammu and three notches higher than normal in Delhi. It cut off the flow of the northwesterly wind carrying in chill to Kolkata and south Bengal. As a result, the minimum temperature in Kolkata had been hovering around 17°C-18°C since last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/met-years-1st-chilly-spell-after-dec-16/articleshow/79710796.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Activists organise ‘Tweet storm’; nearly 4k tweets within 2 hours against U’khand govt decision to denotify Shivalik Elephant Reserve for airport expansion||Dehradun: Environmentalists from across the country came together for a “tweet storm” on Sunday in an attempt to stop the plan to chop down a portion of Shivalik Elephant Reserve, the lone jumbo reserve in the state, in order to make available land for the Doon airport. In a span of two hours — from 5pm to 7pm on Sunday — around 3,500 tweets, tagging the PMO, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union minister of environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar and others, were posted. Tweets with hashtags #SaveThanoForest# and #SaveThano incorporated slogans like “economy without ecology will not last”) as well as memes, all seeking to make the point that an additional airport terminal should not come at the price of irreversible damage to the environment. After TOI first broke the news on September 30 that the state government was planning to raze around 10,000 trees to make available land for airport expansion, the move has been triggering protests across the state. Chipko-like protest marches took place at the site of the proposed terminal, virtual campaigns were launched to stop the plan and several lawyers from across the country approached Uttarakhand high court, seeking to reverse the state’s decision. Veteran environmentalists also lent support to the online campaign initiated on Sunday. Chandi Prasad Bhatt, Padma Bhushan awardee and Gandhi Peace Prize winner, told TOI, “It is good to see the youth worried about the future. They are raising their voice when needed, just like we did. Development at the cost of the environment should be unacceptable. We survive only if the forests survive.” Thirteen-year-old green activist Ridhima Pandey from Haridwar, who recently featured in ‘BBC top 100 inspiring and influential women’, and was part of Sunday’s protest, said, “This ‘tweet storm’ is to show that all of us are united against this step of the government (of chopping down the elephant reserve). Our authorities should act responsibly and stop diverting forest land for non-essential concrete projects, like the Dehradun airport expansion. This project is going to do irreversible damage to the entire state as it will open gateways to all the 12 forest divisions for infrastructural works.” Dr Aanchal Sharma, a city-based dentist, whose complaints led the PMO to ask chief wildlife warden JS Suhag to take “necessary action” in the deforestation case, tweeted, “Chopping down 10,000 trees for an airport expansion project means ‘chopping all its beings’ from elephants to butterflies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/activists-organise-tweet-storm-nearly-4k-tweets-within-2-hours-against-ukhand-govt-decision-to-denotify-shivalik-elephant-reserve-for-airport-expansion/articleshow/79709541.cms||Shivani Azad
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Despite Covid restrictions, jungle safaris, stays in Corbett full till mid-Jan but hotels in Nainital & Mussoorie report low bookings for X-mas, New Year||yyyyyyyNainital/Mussoorie: Even as resorts and safaris in Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) are fully booked till mid-January, hoteliers in hill stations like Nainital and Mussoorie say that the Covid pandemic has hit bookings for Christmas and New Year at their properties. Ramnagar Hotel Association president Hari Mann said that only 15% bookings have been made so far for Christmas while the booking percentage for New Year was hardly 25%. “Almost all hotel owners are complaining that the bookings have never been this bad at this time of the year,” he added. The hoteliers alleged that lack of clarity on Covid-19 guidelines has made matters worse with most tourists choosing to stay away since they were apprehensive about being tested for Covid-19 at border checkpoints. Uttarakhand Hotel Association president Sandeep Sahni said, “Bookings were going on briskly till the third week of November. However, the news that Covid-19 testing will be made mandatory for those visiting Nainital and Mussoorie, and the ongoing farmer agitation has severely impacted the business. Although new queries are coming in, people are a little hesitant to confirm the bookings now.” “There should be clarity on whether testing is mandatory for entry to Mussoorie and Nainital, and whether it is in line with the SOPs issued by the Centre,” he added. In a similar vein, Nainital Hotel and Restaurant Association secretary Ved Sah said, “The festive season this year is perhaps the worst ever. The repeated changes in the guidelines are only making matters worse. There is unnecessary panic among the tourists. Over the last few days, I have received several queries about these guidelines and most people are still waiting for clarity.” Incidentally, despite the popular hill stations reporting low advance bookings for the festive season, all the stays inside CTR remain fully booked till mid-January. A Corbett official said that even the safaris are completely pre-booked for Christmas and New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-covid-restrictions-jungle-safaris-stays-in-corbett-full-till-mid-jan-but-hotels-in-nainital-mussoorie-report-low-bookings-for-x-mas-new-year/articleshow/79709534.cms||Prashant Jha
December 14, 2020||Pune||Rural Pune sees 50% rise in illegal sand smuggling this year||Pune: Illegal sand mining has seen a sharp rise along the Indrayani, Ghod and Mula-Mutha rivers in the rural parts of Pune district between January and October this year. In this period, 145 cases were registered, compared to 78 cases last year. A total of 91 cases were registered in 2019, police said.AS many as 323 people have been arrested in this 145 cases, a steep increase compared to the 184 held under similar charges last year. Curiously enough, illegal sand mining appears to have thrived despite the lull in real estate activity for a large part of this year because of the coronavirus pandemic, especially the pea lockdown period of March-June. Pune rural superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said the numbers were higher this year as the revenue department did not grant licences of float tenders for sand mining in the rivers. “In such a situation, any person digging sand from river basins is considered to involved in illegal sand mining,” Deshmukh said.Deshmukh said there was a huge demand for sand, especially from the construction industry in Pune city and its suburbs, while supply was limited. “Sand has become precious as there was no auction this year. This has made excavating sand from riverbeds an attractive proposition for many, as it provides an easy profit. This is why the cases are higher this year,” he explained. A senior officer said police were not only taking action against those involved in illegal sand mining, but also seizing sand-laden trucks. “We are taking stern action, including destroying boats and equipment used for such activities, as well as registering cases,” said Deshmukh.“Our teams focused on Daund, Shirur, Indapur and adjoining areas. In all, during the March-October period, we have registered 106 cases and arrested 255 men,” he said. Deshmukh said destroying boats used for illegal sand mining was an effective tactic. “It hit them hard,” he said, adding that illegal sand mining had a side effect. “This causes an increase in procurement of firearms by the miners, which poses a danger,” he said. A revenue officer said it was not feasible to to keep an eye on the rivers across the district. :Our teams monitor the rivers by conducting spot visits. We are also planning to use technology in the future to prevent such activities,” the official said.GfxYear/cases/arrests2019/91/1842020/145/323(Till October-end)Between March and October 2020106 cases255 arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-pune-sees-50-rise-in-illegal-sand-smuggling-this-year/articleshow/79710799.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Abducted criminal murdered||Pune: A 22-year-old history-sheeter, who was abducted by his old accomplices on Friday night from Talawade, was found murdered in Shirgaon near Talegaon Dabhade on Sunday. The Chikhali police have taken two suspects into custody for the murder of Sachin Chaudhari, while six others are still absconding. Sub-inspector of the Chikhali police Vithhal Badhe told TOI that Chaudhari and the suspects were part of the same gang. “The suspects had some dispute with Chaudhari over money,” Badhe said. “One of the suspects revealed that Chaudhari was murdered and his body was thrown into the river near Shirgaon,” Badhe said, adding that Chaudhari’s body has been recovered from the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/abducted-criminal-murdered/articleshow/79710802.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Trichy||Postponing exams may have lasting impact on students in higher classes||Trichy: The decision of the school education department to postpone examinations may leave a lasting impact on students in government school as a majority of them are already cut-off from academic activity.School education minister K A Sengottaiyan, on Saturday, had informed the decision of the state government to postpone half-yearly exams for government school students. As quarterly exams were also postponed in September, teachers say that the examinations are unlikely to happen when schools continue to remain closed. This has been affecting students in the higher classes who may not be ready to face annual examination directly, if the state government decides to do so. “The state government needs to come out with a clear plan on managing the examination of students, especially when no classes have been conducted for them right from the beginning of the academic year,” said K Murthy from right to education forum, Tamil Nadu.“There is no examination for students till Class 8 and they can be trained once the schools reopen. But students from class 9-12 will be at the receiving end as they don’t have access to online classes nor are they doing self-study at home. While we are fearing Covid-19, schools need to reopen for higher classes considering their future, through integrated efforts from the school education department ensuring all the necessary precautionary measures,” he said. “In the absence of examination, students find no need to study at home with textbooks or even watch Kalvi Tholaikatchi,” said a head master of a government school. While schools are likely to reopen in January, many of the students are unlike to turn up, say teachers. Students in the higher secondary classes have started going for work and are refusing to take books even if they are insisted by teacher over phone, said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/postponing-exams-may-have-lasting-impact-on-students-in-higher-classes/articleshow/79711900.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Not ‘Sting Rajya’, AAP can bring ‘Ram Rajya’ to U’khand: Sisodia||Sisodia in Haldwani on SaturdayNainital: Taking potshots at chief minister TS Rawat and ex-CM Harish Rawat, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia who was on a 2-day visit to Uttarakhand, said that the people of the Himalayan state don’t need ‘Sting Rajya’ and instead they deserve ‘Ram Rajya’, in a veiled reference to the covert operation which allegedly uncovered horse-trading of MLAs during the presidential rule in the state in 2016. He also promised free electricity and water to everyone in the state if the party is elected to power in the 2022 assembly elections. Addressing a press conference in Haldwani on Saturday, Sisodia said that the party would fight all 70 seats in the state to bring about the ‘Kejriwal model’ of development implemented in Delhi. “If we can provide free water and electricity in all of Delhi, we can do it in Uttarakhand too. Trivendra Rawat has been the chief minister of the state for over three years now. I challenge him to list five areas where he has brought about development. I am ready to debate on these issues,” he added. The Delhi deputy CM’s visit comes in the wake of the party’s attempt to find a foothold beyond Delhi and mobilise support. He also took stock of AAP’s election preparedness in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-sting-rajya-aap-can-bring-ram-rajya-to-ukhand-sisodia/articleshow/79709547.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Trichy||Woman suffers bullet injury near Trichy’s army shooting range||Trichy: A 35-year-old woman was injured after she got hit by a bullet on her thigh while she was grazing cattle near a shooting range near Manapparai in Trichy district on Saturday. The incident occurred after the woman accidentally entered the shooting range where the army personnel from 13th Garhwal Rifle Regiment (Bengaluru) of the Indian Army were undergoing ammunition training. According to police, the woman identified as S Nallammal, a native of Veeramalaipalayam in Veerapur, has been admitted to a private hospital in Trichy.The army personnel usually engage in shooting training at the Veeramalaipalayam shooting range near Manapparai. A total of 193 army personnel have been engaged in training from December 3 till December 20. On Saturday, Nallammal entered the shooting range area at around 7 pm in search of one of her cows which were grazing in the Veeramalai area. She was hit by a bullet that was allegedly fired from the training camp and sustained an injury on her thigh. On hearing her cries, villagers reached the spot and took her to a hospital.The district administration had warned the villagers not to trespass the range between 7.30 am and 5.30 pm during the training days. However, police said that the incident took place at around 7 pm. Based on the information, deputy superintendent of police, R Brindha and Manapparai inspector rushed to the spot and conducted an investigation. When contacted DSP Brindha told TOI that the condition of the victim was stable and further inquiries were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-suffers-bullet-injury-near-trichys-army-shooting-range/articleshow/79711924.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three cops injured in attack at Juhapura||Ahmedabad: Three cops of Vejalpur police station suffered injuries when they were allegedly attacked by 11 persons including four women during a wedding procession on Sonal Cinema Road in Juhapura area of the city late on Saturday night. An injured cop identified as constable Yashpal Chandansinh filed a complaint of assault and unlawful assembly against 11 persons out of whom three men were arrested late on Saturday night. Chandansinh states in the FIR that he along with three other cops of Vejalpur police station were implanting night curfew and patrolling in Juhapura when the incident took place. He said he saw that some men in an autorickshaw and others on two scooters were screaming and creating nuisance at around 9.30 pm on Saturday. When he stopped them, they began arguing with the cops that they were part of a wedding procession and that they were celebrating. The cops told them to go peacefully as the curfew was already imposed there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-cops-injured-in-attack-at-juhapura/articleshow/79711922.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Cellphones & scooter worth Rs 49k stolen||Pune: Unidentified persons in the early hours of Saturday entered an unlocked house in Walhekarwadi in Chinchwad and stole two cellphones and scooter, collectively worth Rs49,000. Assistant inspector of the Chinchwad police Abhijit Jadhav told TOI that Abhijit Jadhav and his brother, both students and living in the house, had forgotten to lock their rooms before going off to sleep. In another incident, gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 1.7 lakh were stolen from a locked flat in Bavdhan. 241 burglaries in Pimpri Chinchwad till Nov As many as 241 burglaries have been registered with the Pimpri Chinchwad police between January and November this year, of which 90 have been detected. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said in the year 2019, around 348 burglaries were registered, of which 122 were detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cellphones-scooter-worth-rs-49k-stolen/articleshow/79710806.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Standoff at Sherwood as old principal refuses to leave||NAINITAL: A row has erupted over control of the management of Nainital’s Sherwood College — alma mater of some of the most famous personalities in India like Bollywood superstar Amitabh Bachchan and field marshal Sam Manekshaw — as it was alleged that the newly-appointed interim principal of the school was not allowed to enter the campus on Saturday. The interim principal, Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel, along with police personnel and members of diocese of Agra (the body which administers school) were kept waiting at the gates which were locked. A notice was pasted outside that no one will be allowed inside the campus without a Covid-negative certificate and the staff members refused to open gates. The controversy comes as the existing principal, Amandeep Sandhu, refused to leave his post despite the diocese of Agra appointing Emmanuel as the new interim principal. Sandhu was suspended in October over allegations of financial irregularity and Emmanuel was appointed in his place. Speaking to TOI, Sandhu termed the allegations as fictitious. “Bishop of Agra has nothing to do with the society that runs Sherwood College. Currently, there is no chairman of the society and the Bishop of Agra has no authority over this society.So the appointment is wrong,” he said. “The Bishop of Agra is the chairman of the society and we have the court order as well. Still, we were not allowed inside college. We will approach the court once again,” Emmanuel said. Earlier too, after being appointed interim principal in October, he had tried to take over charge but was denied entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/standoff-at-sherwood-as-old-principal-refuses-to-leave/articleshow/79712630.cms||Prashant Jha
December 14, 2020||Pune||Tenants struggle with rent hike owing to pay cuts||Pune: People living in rented accommodation in the city are finding it difficult to deal with the hike in rent owing to pay cuts faced by many for most part of the year. In March, the government had announced no increase in rent and other protection against tenancy termination for six months till September 25. Now that life is returning to normal, landlords are demanding an increase in rent. “The owner of our flat had been patient with us throughout the lockdown. But according to our two-year contract, our rent was supposed to increase from August. Due to the pandemic, we have had a tough year financially. We have requested him to delay the hike by a few more months till January or February when, hopefully, our pay will be restored, but he is getting anxious now,” said Sumit Patel, a resident of Undri. Suhail Ahmed, who lives in a rented apartment in Kharadi, said, “We are making ends meet somehow. To add an increase of rent to the budget will be an extra burden for us. There is no job security nowadays and people are being given pink slip left, right and centre, so I cannot afford the increase in rent and have requested my landlord to renew the contract with the current rent amount.” While some landlords have relaxed the clause of a 10% increase in rental contracts, others find themselves in a financial bind. “Just like businessmen are dealing with losses, we are, too. The rent we collect is our only source of income, and the 10 % increase can make a world of a difference to us,” said Pratibha Kamble, property owner who has rented her flat in Kharadi. Vaidhehi Bhede, a real estate agent, said, "Pune is a city with a high concentration of population which has come for work or study from other states, and most of them live in rented houses. Landlords have also suffered losses and their income has taken a hit due to tenants not being able to pay rent during the lockdown. While I have negotiated with many of them to be patient, there is no excuse now for tenants not to pay what they had agreed upon as things have slowly returned to normal."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tenants-struggle-with-rent-hike-owing-to-pay-cuts/articleshow/79710807.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||50,000 vacancies in Telangana to be filled soon, says K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: On a day the TRS government completed two years in office in its second term, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao announced that vacancies in teaching, police and government departments would be filled soon. He said that job notifications would be issued soon. The CM, who arrived here on Sunday after his three-day Delhi tour, directed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to collect the data. “The primary information suggests there are about 50,000 vacancies in various departments. We have to fill them up. Teachers and police have to be recruited in thousands. Collect details about vacant posts in teaching field, police and other departments. Calculate how many employees are needed for each department. After getting the number of vacant posts, notifications to fill up these vacancies should be issued,” the CM instructed the chief secretary. The unemployed youth and the opposition parties have been demanding that the government fill all the vacancies in the government sector. Earlier, the government had informed on the floor of the assembly that thousands of posts were filled and that the process to fill remaining posts was getting delayed due to court cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50k-vacancies-in-state-to-be-filled-soon-says-kcr/articleshow/79711955.cms||Roushan Ali
December 14, 2020||Pune||RTO switches to tablets for learner’s licence test||Pune: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) has started using hand-held tablets instead of holding oral examinations for procurement of learners’ licence in different talukas. An RTO official said that with the use of tablets, the time taken for each test had reduced and the test itself has become more precise. “Each month, camps are held in different talukas, where people can come and get their learner’s licence. The talukas are located far off and the camps help facilitate the process of procurement of a learner’s licence without having to travel all the way to the Pune RTO. People have to register and get an online appointment by going to the Parivahan portal. Until last month, the tests were taken orally, but now candidates have to use hand-held tablets to appear for the test,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, Pune. Another officer said that based on the population of the taluka, the number of camps and daily appointments are assigned. “At each camp, we look at around 150 daily appointments. The earlier test process involved just randomly asking the candidate some questions on traffic awareness, safety and identification of traffic signs. The idea was to ensure whether the candidate knew the traffic rules or not. Questions like what would one do on seeing a stop light at a traffic signal or what would one do in front of a pedestrian crossing, etc, were asked. If the RTO inspector conducting the test felt that the candidate has knowledge, the licence would be issued. Things have changed now and there are a set of 15 questions with options and the candidate has to get at least nine of them right in order to pass,” the official said. At the Pune RTO office, a similar system is practised and candidates must sit in front of a computer and answer a series of questions that appear on the system. The answers to at least nine questions have to be correct in order to pass the test. “Our inspectors explain how to use the tablet. Moreover, practically everyone has got a smartphone now so using a tablet isn’t difficult for most applicants. Since the introduction of the device, the test has become more precise,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-switches-to-tablets-for-learners-licence-test/articleshow/79710820.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 14, 2020||Meerut||Forces which benefitted by exploiting farmers are now fueling unrest in country, says UP CM||Meerut: Forces which thrived by exploiting the farmers for decades are now trying to provoke them to create anarchy in the country, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday in Meerut, just 60km away from UP-Delhi border where protests against the new agriculture laws are taking place.“The unity and integrity of this country is being challenged by these forces, which are using farmers as a means to achieve their target. It is not acceptable,” he said.The chief minister also recalled former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s alleged remark made in 1985 to buttress his claim. “Rajiv Gandhi had said that only 15 paise of every rupee sent by the Centre reaches farmers,” the CM said at a rally, while asserting that some people still want that era to persist. The CM inaugurated the newly-constructed state-of-the-art central library at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Agriculture and Technical University in Meerut. He reached after a delay of over two hours as his helicopter could not land due the bad weather conditions. He came to Ghaziabad and later took a road route to the venue in Meerut. While addressing the gathering at the event, chief minister Adityanath highlighted several public welfare schemes and ongoing infrastructure development projects, especially in western Uttar Pradesh. “In collaboration with the Centre, a new option of Metro Rail, Rapid Rail Transit System (RRTS) at a cost of ₹ 32,000crore is coming up which will connect Meerut to Delhi. A proposal has also been sent to extend it from Meerut to Muzaffarnagar,” he said.“Our government has decided to build an additional lane for Kanwar pilgrims along the Gang Nahar canal and has earmarked Rs 600crore for it," the CM said.Towards the end of his address, CM Adityanath sent warning in his distinct style to people taking laws in their hands.“We have said this clearly to police that farmers greet here with ‘Ram Ram’. The word ‘Ram’ should be used twice. And criminals trying to breach security and harass our women should be sent on the journey of ‘Ram Naam Satya Hai’ (words spoken during the last rites),” the CM said. He also laid the foundation for 88 developmental projects worth over Rs 350crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/forces-which-benefitted-by-exploiting-farmers-are-now-fueling-unrest-in-country-says-up-cm/articleshow/79710061.cms||Piyush Rai
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA initiates soil testing for high-rise building zone||Dehradun: The Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) and the railway land development authority will soon begin the process of soil testing for developing areas near Dehradun railway station as a high-rise building zone. Experts from IIT Roorkee visited Dehradun on Sunday to identify spots for conducting the soil testing. Professor Satyendra Mittal from the civil engineering department of IIT Roorkee, in a meeting with the officials from MDDA, identified the spots for collecting the soil tests. Once the experts from IIT submit their report, the construction work as per the master plan will be initiated. Meanwhile, officials from MDDA said that works under railway station redevelopment projects are underway.  The project will help reduce traffic snarls in the areas close to the railways station and also include the revamping of the railway station. The project aims to provide new facilities to the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-initiates-soil-testing-for-high-rise-building-zone/articleshow/79710041.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 14, 2020||Meerut||Tractor-trolley driver killed, five injured as car rams parked vehicle||Bijnor: A tractor-trolley driver was killed and five others sustained injuries after a car rammed into the parked vehicle in Bijaura area on the Delhi-Lucknow highway here due to dense fog on Saturday night. Police said the wooden logs laden tractor-trolley was on its way to Hapur from Hasanpur area in Amroha when the driver came down the vehicle parking it on the roadside near Bijaura area to tighten the rope holding the wooden logs on the trolley. As the visibility had dropped due to the dense fog, a car coming from the same direction rammed into the parked tractor-trolley, crushing the driver between the two vehicles, said police, adding that the driver, Rihan, a resident of Firozpur village, died on the spot. Police, meanwhile, rescued all the five occupants of the car and they were admitted to a private hospital in Meerut.Hasanpur station house officer RP Sharma said Rihan died on the spot while five occupants of the car — Deepak Chauhan, Ravi, Rajeev, Manasi and Ruchika , all from Ghaziabad — sustained severe injuries and were admitted to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tractor-trolley-driver-killed-five-injured-as-car-rams-parked-vehicle/articleshow/79710064.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: 25-year-old poses as police officer, arrested||PUNE: The Wanowrie police arrested an Ahemdnagar resident (25) on Saturday night from Ramtekdi on the charge of posing as a police officer. The suspect, Bhausaheb Mahadev Goykar, was wearing a police uniform and riding a two-wheeler with his wife riding pillion. He was intercepted by a police patrol team after Goykar picked up an argument with a retired constable. The retired constable questioned Goykar after he became suspicious of the latter’s uniform. It was a different colour as well. Goykar said he was a sub-inspector. They got into an argument, following which a police patrol team arrived.  Goykar was taken to the police station for further questioning. An officer said, “Goykar produced a fabricated ID card, which mentioned he was inspector of a cell in the police force, which did not exist.” Ahiwale said Goykar, who is HSC passed, wanted to become a police officer. “His wife is an engineering graduate. Before marriage, he told his in-laws he was a police officer. However, the truth was out later and his wife lived separately in Ahmednagar. Around three months ago, he informed her he was selected as a police officer and they both recently started living together. They came to Pune on his bike on Saturday as his wife had to give an exam on Sunday,” he said. Police registered a case against him under relevant sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/25-year-old-poses-as-police-officer-arrested/articleshow/79710823.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fatal fall kills cleaner after truck brushes against crane||Pune: Crane cleaner Arvindkumar Lalbachchan Yadav (20) lost his life due to a fatal fall on the road after a speeding truck brushed against the crane, while attempting to overtake it on Garware bridge in Deccan early on Saturday morning. The Deccan Gymkhana police said Yadav was seated on an open portion of the crane, which was on its way to Goodluck chowk. The truck dashed the crane from the rear while trying to overtake it. Yadav lost his balance due to the impact and fell on the road. He died of severe head injuries, police said. Crane operator Rajkumar Yadav (32) of Pimple Gurav lodged a complaint with the police. The police are searching for the truck involved in the accident. Sub-inspector Jaywant Jadhav of Deccan Gymkhana police station said, “The crane services were hired by a contractor of the Pune Metro Project for some work on the Karve road section. After completing the task, the crane was heading towards Pimple Gurav when the accident occurred.” “The truck left the spot within a minute and nobody noticed how Yadav fell down,” Jadhav said. “We are studying the CCTV footage which but the registration number is not properly visible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fatal-fall-kills-cleaner-after-truck-brushes-against-crane/articleshow/79710822.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Met predicts dense fog, maximum temperature dips by 6 degree Celsius||MEERUT: The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dense fog this week in Meerut as the district’s maximum temperature dipped by six degree Celsius on Sunday. There was a dip in mercury in the district after the city received rainfall on Saturday morning. “The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Sunday in Meerut were 17.7 degree Celsius and 11.6 degree Celsius, respectively. While the maximum temperature was six degree Celsius below the normal temperature, the minimum temperature was four degree Celsius above normal,” Brij Mohan, Met in-charge, Meerut, said. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded on Sunday was 95% and 76%, respectively. There was no rain recorded on Sunday. The district recorded 7mm rainfall on Saturday. “Dense fog is predicted this week and temperatures will dip to as low as eight degree Celsius. The locals should brace for more cold,” Mohan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/met-predicts-dense-fog-max-temp-dips-by-6-degree-celsius/articleshow/79710062.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 14, 2020||Meerut||Two men arrested for raping seven-year-old in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Two men were arrested on Sunday morning in Muzaffarnagar’s Budhana area for allegedly raping a seven-year-old girl living in the neighbourhood. Speaking with reporters, Girija Shankar Tripathi, deputy superintendent of police, Budhana, said the two men, Akram and Asif. allegedly lured the girl to an isolated spot on Friday evening and raped her. She returned home in blood-soaked clothes and narrated her ordeal to her family. They alerted police. The girl was admitted to hospital for treatment. Now, her condition is stable, he added. Akram and Asif were arrested from a bus stand while trying to flee, police said. They have been booked under section 376D (gang rape) of the IPC and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Further investigation is on in the matter and action will be taken accordingly, said Tripathi. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-men-arrested-for-raping-seven-year-old-in-mngr/articleshow/79710065.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 14, 2020||Meerut||Cops in UP’s Muzaffarnagar dusting off & digitizing all beat diaries, including those from British era||Muzaffarnagar: Apart from checking crime, policemen in Muzaffarnagar are also busy scouring its history. All the thanas in the district are delicately dusting off old beat registers, some dating back to 1906, to laminate, preserve and digitize them.As the name suggests, the beat register or village crime notebook (VCNB) contains records of crime in each thana, along with crucial information jotted down by station in-charges.Integral part of any police station’s record, they are passed on from one station in-charge to the other, offering them a glimpse into the region’s crime records and providing all the information needed for policing the region. Also known as register number 8, there are over 600 of them across all the police stations of the district.“With the time, these old registers were gradually decaying. They might have been completely destroyed. To prevent this loss and preserve rich historical heritage, we embarked on preservation of all the records in the district through twin methods-- physical preservation of each page of the notebooks, and then their digitization,” said Abhishek Yadav, senior superintendent of police (SSP).“By laminating each page, we will ensure VCNB’s longer lifespan and protection from weather, water, mishandling and wear and tear. We will make a repository for all such records at the district-level at the SSP office,” the officer said.According to police sources, as many as 604 VCNB registers are being maintained in 21 police stations across the Muzaffarnagar district. All details of these registers are being stored in the computer and pages are being laminated.Some of these VCNBs are quite old.At Muzaffarnagar’s Kotwali police station, a VCNB, written in Urdu, has more than 100 years of record of the adjoining villages.VCNBs also have information on the area's population and their break up on religious lines, information on arms license holders, the names of village chiefs, political personalities and also that of criminals active and inactive.Anil Kaprwan, station house officer (SHO) of Nagar Kotwali police station, said, “We have 34 VCNBs. These records are very important and useful for every new SHO. Other registers like ‘number four’ are closed every ten years sent to the record room, but VCNB is always available at the police station.”According to paragraph 646 of police regulation, this is a confidential record, which is kept under the watch of a police inspector.Additional director general of police (Law and Order) of UP, Prashant Kumar, said, “The step by the local SSP merits appreciation. These records are very old and their preservation must be done on high priority at every police station of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-dusting-off-digitizing-all-beat-diaries-including-those-from-british-era/articleshow/79710059.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 14, 2020||Meerut||Demolish dilapidated school bldgs, auction debris by Dec 31, edu officials told||Meerut: The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered the education department to identify dilapidated school buildings, demolish them and auction the debris and whatever can be retrieved. The auction must be conducted under the supervision of a dedicated team headed by the basic shiksha adhikari. It was necessary to demolish the dilapidated buildings to ensure the safety of the students, the order said. “All the basic shiksha adhikaris are instructed to see that dilapidated school buildings are identified, and the demolished building’s leftover and debris are sold in an auction. The team should comprise basic shiksha adhikari and zila panchayati raj adhikari,” said Renuka Kumar, UP additional principal secretary. The demolition and auction must be completed by December 31 or else action would be taken against those found guilty, Kumar added The state authorities should be informed about the action taken on a regular basis, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/demolish-dilapidated-school-bldgs-auction-debris-by-dec-31-edu-officials-told/articleshow/79710060.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Techie strolling with kin on Vetal Tekdi robbed of Rs 7,000||PUNE: An IT professional from Bavdhan, who had gone for a stroll with his wife, four-year-old daughter, and sister-in-law near the quarry on Vetal Tekdi, was threatened by a man with a broken liquor bottle and robbed of Rs 7,000 around 11.30am on Saturday. The victim later lodged a complaint with the Chatushrungi police. There have been several incidents of people being accosted, robbed and threatened in the past while on their walks on Vetal Tekdi and the surrounding hillocks, prompting the Pune police to issue warnings, intensify patrolling, and nab the offenders. When contacted, the victim told TOI that he usually visited the hillock in the early morning hours when there are many people going up or down the hill. “On Saturday, we went to Vetal Tekdi a little late, around 11am as I had some work to complete. There was no one except for the four of us on the hillock. We reached a spot near a quarry on the top around 11.30am. We noticed two men near the water. Both of them appeared drunk, and we ignored them,” he said. After a while, he said, one of them approached him and struck up a conversation. “He told me that he knew where I was working, and all of a sudden grabbed me from behind. He then pulled out a broken liquor bottle from the pocket of his trousers and threatened to stab me. The person then demanded money or liquor from me. I told him, I had Rs500, but he demanded more money.” The techie said he was concerned about the safety of his family. “I did not want my daughter to see something that would affect her badly, so I gave him Rs500 more. The man did not stop at this. He snatched my wallet which contained Rs7,000 and fled towards a small path leading to a nearby colony. The other man was not to be seen there. We immediately left the spot. On the way, we alerted a couple and a group of three students who were climbing the hillock,” the victim said. He then contacted the police control room. Two marshals from the Kothrud police reached the hillock and took the techie back to the spot. They brought him to the Erandwane police chowkey. He was then advised to approach the Chatushrungi police station. “The Chatushrungi police were cooperative. They too came with me to the spot. They told me to share a detailed description of the duo. I then went to the police station and filed a complaint application,” the techie added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-strolling-with-kin-on-vetal-tekdi-robbed-of-rs-7k/articleshow/79710839.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||With rise in chill, price of egg jumps to Rs 6.50/piece||KOLKATA: The price of egg, which dropped to Rs 5-Rs 5.50 per piece in late November has again swung back to Rs 6-Rs 6.50 per piece, due to the demand-supply gap owing to lower production of eggs in Andhra Pradesh. Egg price may rise further if the gap continues to widen. The metropolitan Kolkata consumes 1 crore eggs per day. Rest of Bengal consumes 2.5 crore eggs a day. But the supply of eggs from Andhra and Telangana dropped to 80 lakh per day from 1 crore. Bengal produces almost 2.5 crore eggs. With the onset of the winter chill, the consumption of eggs has gone up substantially and even the shortage of nearly 20 lakh eggs has left the gap yawning. “The wholesale price of an egg hovers around Rs 5.1. In bulk supply, a lot of eggs get discarded as they are found to be broken or rotten. So, the retail price of an egg can not be set below Rs 6 per piece,” said Madan Maity, secretary of West Bengal Poultry Federation. “A short supply of sea fish has also led to a heightened demand for eggs. The supply of eggs of country chicken from Midnapore, South 24 Parganas and Nadia has been low, widening the demand-supply gap even more. With the demand rising steadily, retailers also refuse to lower the price,” said Narayan Pradhan of Gariahat market. Calcutta Egg Market Association’s Raman Saha said, “The demand for eggs has risen sharply with the onset of the winter chill. Moreover, cake production requires a lot of eggs. Moreover, cake production at bakeries goes up substantially in December. Hence, the demand for eggs also rises. All these factors collectively have impacted the retail price. We hope that the egg price stabilizes by the end of January.” Maity said supplies that are currently down by 25%-30% will be restored within the next couple of months as the chicken population increases. Also, with exports still an issue, a major crisis in the availability of eggs is unlikely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-rise-in-chill-price-of-egg-jumps-to-rs-6-50/piece/articleshow/79710851.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Buddhadeb’s condition improves||KOLKATA: Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s condition improved further on Sunday. He was “alert and communicated verbally and otherwise”. Admitted to Woodlands Hospital last Wednesday, the 76-year-old is now on intermittent non-invasive ventilator support. All his vital parameters remain normal and Bhattacharjee could be released very soon, said the hospital. His prognosis is very good, according to doctors. He remains on antibiotics, steroids and other supportive medication but his breathing distress has eased considerably. The septuagenarian is being able to breathe even without support. “We plan to introduce him to a soft diet soon. Treating doctors are keeping constant vigil on his health situation and taking appropriate measures from time to time,” said Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu. The ex-CM is being treated by a medical board which includes consultant pulmonologist Koushik Chakraborty and Soutik Panda, critical care consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buddhadebs-condition-improves/articleshow/79710845.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||Physical exam held for school students under two central govt schemes||PANAJI: Around 3,000 students from across Goa had registered to answer the State Level National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) for Class X students and National Means Cum Merit Scholarship Scheme (NMMS) Examination for Class VIII students for 2020-21. The exam was held on Sunday across 15 centres. However, a low turnout was seen at some of the centres as against the registered students, possibly owing to the pandemic. The examination began at 9am and ended at 1.30pm. Wearing of face masks was made mandatory for students due to the pandemic, in addition to putting other SOPs in place to ensure safety of students. The exam was conducted by the State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT). “I was initially afraid to come for the exam for the fear of infection. But when I came to my exam centre at GS Amonkar High School at Mapusa, I saw that there was good arrangement. Two benches were left vacant between two students, besides leaving benches on your either side too vacant. Thermal scanning while entering the premises was also carried out,” said a Class X student Rohan Tari. Ten or fewer students were accommodated in each class to ensure safe distance between students. NTSE is a scholarship programme conducted by NCERT, as a part of their National Talent Search Scheme launched way back in 1963 with an objective to identify talented students and encourage them to pursue higher education. Students who clear the exam are awarded a scholarship amount. The candidates who wish to give NTSE exam in Class X must have cleared Class IX examination from a recognized board with a minimum of 60% marks. Similarly, the NMMS is conducted every year by under a central government programme, usually in the month of November, for the students studying in class VIII of government and aided schools. The candidates must be studying in Class IX after getting promotion from Class VIII with a score of at least 55% or equivalent grades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/physical-exam-held-for-school-students-under-two-central-govt-schemes/articleshow/79711958.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Five die as car jumps red signal, rams into tipper in Gachibowli||HYDERABAD: Five youngsters, who were hostel mates, died after their car jumped the signal, took a sudden right and crashed into a tipper at Wipro junction in Gachibowli in the early hours of Sunday. The tipper despite applying brakes dragged the car to a distance and overturned. Police confirmed the car driver overshot the signal. Gachibowli police said software engineer K Santosh (25), animation designer C Manohar (23), P Bharadwaj (20), N Roshan (23), both software professionals, and K Pavan Kumar (24), unemployed were from AP and staying in Madhapur. Based on tipper driver’s complaint, a case was booked under IPC Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) against the car driver. At 2.48am on Sunday, the five were travelling in a car, driven by Santosh, from IIIT-Hyderabad towards Gowlidoddi. At Wipro junction, despite the signal being red, the car turned right and crashed into a tipper coming from the opposite. The car got crushed and the tipper toppled over after dragging it some distance. Except Bharadwaj, all others died on the spot. Bharadwaj succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment. The tipper driver, Deepender Singh, escaped with injuries. “As of now, we don’t know where they were heading in the car since all the five members died. We are trying to find out through different means,’’ Gachibowli inspector R Srinivas told TOI. The accident was caught on CCTV and the footage went viral on social media. Officials said famillies of all the five youngsters, who were from different parts of Andhra Pradesh, were informed about the accident by police in the wee hours of Sunday. Police said the CCTV footage showed the tipper had the right-of-way as he had green signal for the vehicle at the junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-die-as-car-jumps-red-signal-rams-into-tipper-in-gachibowli/articleshow/79711960.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata book fair pushed back, March date likely||KOLKATA: The International Kolkata Book Fair will not fail book lovers of the city and will be organized a little later than usual. The organizers, Publishers and Booksellers Guild, have decided against cancellation of the Salt Lake venue and has just postponed the “booking”. The original booking had been for a fortnight from January 27. It has now been proposed that the book fair be postponed till March 2021, though the final decision will be taken by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is the chief patron of the fair that is in its 45th year. The state gave its nod to all district book fairs that will start from December 15 and will continue till February 15. This enthused the Guild to decide against the cancellation of the venue, said the organizers. The state government has released a calendar for the district book fairs that will start with Katwa in East Burdwan, followed by Asansol in West Burdwan and then in Kalimpong on February 11. A slew of Covid-related protocols will be followed at these fairs to maintain social distancing and sanitization to prevent the spread of infection. Several other fairs are also starting in the city. The Guild authorities recently held a meeting with the Bidhannagar fair ground (Salt Lake Central Park) officials and to discuss basic matters related to the fair. The ground will soon see Tant Mela (handloom fair) and Bidhannagar Mela, both of which are very popular. These two fairs will be held with strict restrictions and will serve as a preparatory test for the book fair as the latter gets thousands of visitors over a fortnight. “A nod from the CM and directives on how the book fair should be organized this year are awaited,” said Sudhangshu Dey, general secretary of the Guild. “Crowd control inside the book fair would be a tough job,” Dey asserted. It was, however, decided that there will be no foreign participants in the book fair this year. Many countries participate in the event every year, who come with their leading publishers and best-selling publications. “Bangladesh was slated to be the theme country this year, but we are not sure if we will be able to go ahead with that,” Dey said. State libraries minister Siddiqullah Chowdhury has devised a unique way of controlling the crowds at the district book fairs. The fairs will close after every one hour to see that the first batch of people who have entered, have left the fairground. “This repeated opening and closing of the gates will automatically ensure crowd control. We are allotting Rs 5.5 lakh extra to each district book fair for sanitization, mask distribution, etc,” he said. The rent of each stall has been halved. The state government will organize an additional book fair in the city, which would be different from the one organized by the Guild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-book-fair-pushed-back-march-date-likely/articleshow/79710853.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 14, 2020||Goa||BJP chief postpones Goa visit||PANAJI: After BJP national president J P Nadda tested positive for Covid-19, his two-day visit to the state has been postponed. Nadda was scheduled to arrive in the state on December 20 as part of his nationwide visit after taking over as a president of the party. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that the next date of Nadda’s visit is yet to finalised. During his visit, Nadda was scheduled to meet party booth-level workers, attend mandal meetingand office bearers meetings. The national BJP preisent was supposed to meet the committee members of various morchas, MLAs, ministers and interact with BJP karyakartas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-chief-postpones-goa-visit/articleshow/79711962.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||Goa records lowest daily Covid cases since July||PANAJI: Even as one more Covid related death was reported, the state recorded its lowest daily infections in five months. Daily infections that have been hovering over 100 during the past fortnight, dropped to 57 on Sunday. This is the lowest daily count for the state in 160 days. It last recorded such a low count way back on July 6 with 52 cases. Average daily infections in July stood at 148. This rose to 371 in August and 530 in September and fell to 329 in October and 145 in November. TOI on Saturday reported that Goa’s positivity rate dropped to 3%, the lowest since June. Even as cases are on the decline, a 61-year-old female from Mapusa died after eleven days of admission at Goa Medical College. The patient with diabetes and hypertension, developed Covid pneumonia and died of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and sepsis. Cumulative deaths in the state stand at 707, while the total Covid cases is 49,362. A total of 101 patients recovered over the past 24 hours and 20 new hospitalisations were reported. Seven persons opted for home isolation. Margao urban health centre has 119 active Covid cases, while at Porvorim the tally has dropped to 88 followed by Candolim with 64 cases and Curchorem with 50 cases. Active Covid cases are down to single digits in three health centres, Marcaim (8), Sanguem (5) and Marcaim (3). The state’s recovery rate is 96.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-records-lowest-daily-cases-since-july/articleshow/79711961.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three cops injured in attack at Ahmedabad's Juhapura||AHMEDABAD: Three cops of Vejalpur police station suffered injuries when they were allegedly attacked by 11 persons including four women during a wedding procession on Sonal Cinema Road in Juhapura area of the city late on Saturday night. An injured cop identified as constable Yashpal Chandansinh filed a complaint of assault and unlawful assembly against 11 persons out of whom three men were arrested late on Saturday night. Chandansinh states in the FIR that he along with three other cops of Vejalpur police station were implanting night curfew and patrolling in Juhapura when the incident took place. He said he saw that some men in an autorickshaw and others on two scooters were screaming and creating nuisance at around 9.30 pm on Saturday. When he stopped them, they began arguing with the cops that they were part of a wedding procession and that they were celebrating. The cops told them to go peacefully as the curfew was already imposed there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-cops-injured-in-attack-at-juhapura/articleshow/79711959.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Rajkot||Man booked for abetting kin’s suicide||RAJKOT: A father-in-law was booked in Jamnagar on Saturday for abetting suicide of his son-in-law. The man had committed suicide in Umiyanagar on November 13 after he allegedly failed to convince his estranged wife to come back home with him. A friend was also booked for the crime. Police said accused, Nitin Daudiya, father-in-law of Jaideep Jethwa, along with Vishal Daudiya, were booked based on a complaint filed by Jagruti Jethwa, mother of the deceased. Jethwa had consumed poison in garden located nearby his in-laws’ house, said cops. “Jethwa’s wife Nancy walked out on him following a domestic discord and went to dtay at her parental home. On November 13, Jethwa went to his in-laws’ house to convince his wife to return home, but was allegedly threatened by the father-in-law and the other accused of dire consequences if he tried to approach the woman again. ,” said J R Kalotara, sub-inspector with Jamnagar A division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-booked-for-abetting-kins-suicide/articleshow/79710083.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Trust testimony of good Samaritans in road crashes: SC||NEW DELHI: Trust the testimony of good Samaritans who take accident victims to hospitals without any personal motive and despite being aware of the possible harassment as a witness in a criminal case, the Supreme Court has advised high courts and trial courts. The observation came from a bench of Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose last week in a judgment on an accident claims petition arising from a cartruck collision near Ghazipur in UP in March 2009. Four people were grievously injured and one Ritesh Pandey rushed them to a nearby hospital. One of them died and his Sikar-based family claimed compensation from the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, which granted compensation of Rs 16 lakh. The Allahabad HC set aside the compensation, disbelieving Pandey and finding technical flaws in the lodging of the FIR. The entire case hinged on the testimony of witnesses. The HC disbelieved Pandey and said the police, and not him, had brought the deceased to hospital. Writing the judgment, Justice Kant said, “It is commonplace for most people to be hesitant about being involved in legal proceedings and they, therefore, do not volunteer to become witnesses. It is highly likely that the name of Ritesh Pandey or other persons who accompanied the injured to the hospital did not find mention in the medical record. There is nothing on record to suggest that the police reached the site of the accident or carried the injured to the hospital.” The bench said, “ Pandey’s statement acquires significance as, according to him, he brought the injured to hospital. He acted as a good Samaritan and a responsible citizen and the HC ought not to have disbelieved his testimony based on a conjecture. It is necessary to reiterate the independence and benevolence of Pandey.” “Unfortunately, the approach of the court was not sensitive enough to appreciate the turn of events at the spot... Pandey’s statement does not suffer from any evil of suspicion and is worthy of reliance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trust-testimony-of-good-samaritans-in-road-crashes-sc/articleshow/79712632.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 14, 2020||Pune||Revenue slash due to pandemic curbs development activities at zoo by 60%||Pune: Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre, Katraj, has been shut for over eight months due to the pandemic, but people have been lining up at the gate as a search engine shows it’s open.Many people who travel all the way with plans of spending a day at the zoo with family are upset when the guards tell them that it is closed.“People are coming daily to see the animals, but we are not allowed to open yet. We also received a call from a search engine enquiring whether we are open for the public. We are eager to open the zoo following stringent safety guidelines, but the permission needs to come from the government,” said Rajkumar Jadhav, the zoo director.Even with no ticket sales, funds are allocated for maintenance by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). “The revenue collected from the sale of tickets, and from every department, goes to the central treasury at PMC. All the funds are collected and then allocated to different departments. So even though the zoo has been closed since March, daily maintenance work, medical care, feeding etc are going on as per schedule,” he said.The only hindrance is curtailment on developmental activities. “We had to curtail our development projects by 60 %. We had four projects, including construction of the lion encloser, which started last year but they have been halted for the time being. However, some other animal encloser work is still going on,” said Jadhav.He said that there has been no shortage of staff throughout the lockdown as the zoo mostly hires locals. “The only problem we faced during the initial lockdown was procurement of food for the animals. But we worked it out and issued passes to the vendors.”Asked whether lack of crowd has had any impact on animals, Jadhav said it was difficult to observe any signs of change in an animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/revenue-slash-due-to-pandemic-curbs-development-activities-at-zoo-by-60/articleshow/79710900.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||GD Madgulkar’s family will not take part in protest over delayed memorial||Pune: The family of late writer and poet GD Madgulkar, who were at the forefront of a movement to build a memorial for the latter, have decided to not be part of the protest demanding the same on Monday, following a recent meeting with Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol. The mayor has assured the family of starting work for the memorial within a month. A group of artists have raised their voice against the delay in building the memorial and will stage a protest at Alka talkies chowk in Pune on December 14, which is also Madgulkar’s birth anniversary. The artists will sing songs written by Madgulkar and recite poems. The programme has been titled ‘ Kavya Jagar—awaking through poetry’. It will also be held at Nashik, Aurangabad, Sangli, among other cities. The Madgulkar family has, however, preferred a wait and watch stand after mayor Murlidhar Mohol assured that the work would begin within a month. The family is now urging the protesters to stay away from the agitation.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had declared the project in 2017 on a 6.27 acre land in Kothrud, envisaging a four-storey building with a 300-seat auditorium, galleries depicting life of the legendary poet and his literary works and other facilities such as parking, cafeteria etc. It even made budget provisions of Rs8.5 crore for this project.Pradeep Niphadkar, a writer and poet, who is spearheading the protest said the agitation would continue. “The declaration of the memorial has been done many times. But, the actual work has never been started. So, we will continue to raise our voice until the works actually starts,” he said.Sumitr Madgulkar, the poet’s grandson, said they were looking forward to the commencement of the project. “The assurance has come from the mayor. We wish to respect the promise given by him and hope that the work will begin soon,” he said. Madgulkar added that they welcome any programme in the memory of the poet. But, it should not be treated as a protest. The recitation of the poems could be done as an effort to keep the poet’s memory alive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gd-madgulkars-family-will-not-take-part-in-protest-over-delayed-memorial/articleshow/79710885.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Dehradun||Fresh spell of snowfall lashes Badrinath and other higher reaches of U’khand||Dehradun: A fresh spell of snowfall lashed higher reaches of the hill districts of Uttarakhand on Sunday while the foothills received light showers, causing a drop in the mercury across the state. The high altitude areas, 2,800 metres and above, in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Pithoragarh districts received snowfall. On Sunday, Badrinath town and surrounding hills got covered with a snow blanket. Snowfall was also witnessed in Mayala Top, Devban, Khandba, Mundali and Vyas Shikhar regions of Chakrata town in Dehradun district. “High altitude areas in Chamoli and Rudraprayag received a fresh spell of snowfall. Chakrata in Dehradun district also witnessed snow activity,” said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. Light rainfall occurred in isolated places in Pauri, Dehradun, Pantnagar, and Tehri. According to the regional meteorological centre, Kotdwar, Rikhnikhal, and Thailisain regions in Pauri district received 10 mm each rainfall. Meanwhile, the MeT office on Sunday issued an orange alert of dense to very dense fog in the plains, especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, along with the plain regions of Pauri and Nainital district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fresh-spell-of-snowfall-lashes-badrinath-and-other-higher-reaches-of-ukhand/articleshow/79710117.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 14, 2020||Pune||Over 30 lakh MSEDCL users opt for SMS service||Pune: More than 30 lakh power consumers from the Pune zone have opted for the SMS service of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). The service provides information about consumers’ monthly power bills, any power failure in the area and units consumed, among others. In the Pune civic limits, Kothrud, Shivajinagar, Rasta Peth, Ahmednagar road, Padmavati, Parvati and Bund Garden divisions there are 16.04 lakh power consumers, who have subscribed to the SMS service. In the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, the number of such consumers is 6.71 lakh. Almost 97% of total consumers in the area have opted for the service. The Pune rural circle too is not far behind when it comes to opting for the information service. 7.38 lakh consumers have registered from Mulshi, Manchar and Rajgurunagar divisions. Around 1.24 lakh consumers from the Pune circle have not registered for the service so far, which includes 1.11 lakh consumers from the non-agriculture category and around 12,000 from the agriculture category. Consumers, who have not yet registered their mobile number can opt for the service by dialling the call centre number 1912 or toll-free numbers 18001023435 and 18002333435.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-30-lakh-msedcl-users-opt-for-sms-service/articleshow/79710903.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Expect cloudy skies and light rain this week in Pune: IMD||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department on Sunday forecast that the city would experience less cold with cloudy and overcast weather conditions for the next few days. The winds — the westerlies, the easterlies and the southerlies — have influenced weather conditions over all regions, including Madhya Maharashtra, which include Pune district at the moment, met officials said. “Due to this wind pattern, cloudy condition will remain over the state. North Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan and Goa will receive light to moderate rainfall till Wednesday,” a senior IMD Pune official said. On Sunday, the city experienced cloudy and overcast conditions from morning. Minimum temperatures were likely to remain around 18°C till December 17 in Pune and neighbouring areas. Both minimum and the maximum temperatures over many parts in the state would hover above normal, the met officials said.  Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 18.7°C and 19.4°C minimum temperatures, which were above normal by 7.5 degrees Celsius and 6.4 degree Celsius, respectively. “This trend will continue throughout the week, especially with the minimum temperatures,” the official said. The state has not experienced consistent cold weather conditions in this season, so far. “In last fortnight, two cyclones — Nivar and Burevi — formed in Bay of Bengal, had brought in moisture content over the southern peninsula region and over Maharashtra. This phenomenon had an impact on maximum and minimum temperatures,” the official said. However, IMD’s Extended Range Forecast indicated the cold conditions were likely to resurface over the state only after December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expect-cloudy-skies-and-light-rain-this-week-imd/articleshow/79710908.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||1 in 3 people in Telangana obese: Survey||HYDERABAD: Nearly one-third of the males and females in the state fall in the category of obese as per the latest findings of National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 Phase 1. Additionally, nearly half the population is malnourished— either overweight or underweight —taking into account the ones with low Body Mass Index (BMI) rates. As per the survey, 30.1% women in the state are either overweight or obese, having a BMI of more than 25. Taking into account the 18.8% of underweight women, a total of 49% of women are malnourished. In case of men, 32.3% are obese while 16.2% are underweight, together accounting for 48.5% who fall in the category of unfit population. As compared to the previous survey, where 51% of women were in the malnourished category, the number of women now in the category has slightly reduced to 49%, while that of men has increased from 46% to 48.5%. Experts attribute this to contributing factors such as wrong eating habits, high consumption of junk food, lack of exercise and genetics. Food delivery apps and lack of playgrounds are further pushing up childhood obesity, which is then carried forward to adulthood. “Increased preference for junk food, fermented food and tinned food is seen which has resulted in a shift in the eating habits. Lack of exercise in the recent days due to the lockdown too has been a contributing factor,” explained Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Telangana. He added that at least 20% of childhood obesity cases are carried forward to adulthood. Meanwhile, obesity also has a direct correlation with diabetes and hypertension, both of which are found to be high among the population. According to the survey, 18% of men and 14.7% women had high blood sugar levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-in-3-people-in-t-obese-survey/articleshow/79710887.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 14, 2020||Goa||Govt will encourage students to pursue science, undertake projects for Goa’s development: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: The state government will encourage students to take up study in science and to undertake projects that will contribute to Goa’s development, said chief minister Pramod Sawant after inaugurating Manohar Parrikar Vidnyan Mahotsav on Sunday. “Science, technology and innovations are pillars of human progress. Parrikar, being an alumni of IIT Bombay emphasised on these pillars and achieved substantial progress in the field in Goa,” Sawant said.  Sawant said to encourage teachers and university faculties to undertake research, a dedicated fund is allocated to support such projects. “Travel grants are being provided to teachers and researchers to attend seminars, symposiums and workshops both within and outside the country. This has helped many teachers to exchange ideas and learn from international experts,” he said. Science and technology minister Michael Lobo said by organising this event, the government wants to inculcate scientific temper and love for science, technology and innovation in the minds of young students and the general public at large. “My department has formulated schemes for the benefit of students, researchers from schools to university wherein the government gives grants in aid to organise science workshops, seminars and supports projects related to the curriculum requirement of polytechnic and engineering colleges in the state,” Lobo said. Chairman of the organising committee of Manohar Parrikar Vidnyan Mahotsav, Jose Manuel Noronha in his message to children said that the only thing to remember is “I know that I know nothing”. “If we begin with we know nothing then we begin to learn something,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-govt-will-encourage-students-to-pursue-science-undertake-projects-for-states-devpt/articleshow/79711967.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune student wins fine arts award in special category||Pune: A student of fine arts from the MIT Art, Design and Technology University, Joyon Mazumdar, won the coveted National Bal Shree Award in creative art in the special category recently.Mazumdar, who has an amputated right hand, paints with his left hand. He started drawing as a hobby in Class V and now wants to make a career as an illustrator or a graphic designer. “During the competition, we were given topics on the spot, and mine was global warming. My painting depicted a barren land with a small boy who is trying to catch a drop of water to quench his thirst while numerous hands could also be seen doing the same. The entire globe was visible in the water droplet,” said Mazumdar who is currently a second-year student in Bachelor of Applied Arts at the MIT-ADT University. Another MIT-ADT university student Sumit Prajapati also bagged an award for creative art - general category. “Competing at the national level was very exciting. In the first round, my painting was of a cricket stadium, while in the second, I had shown the scene of a roadside dhaba. In the third round, my picture depicted a railway station.” said Prajapati, a first-year undergraduate student. Prajapati wants to open a painting academy for students who want to pursue a career in applied arts field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-student-wins-fine-arts-award-in-special-category/articleshow/79710934.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Monthly vehicle registrations at RTOs nearly at pre-Covid levels||PUNE: After six months of steady growth, vehicle registrations at the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad road transport offices (RTOs) are nearly at pre-pandemic levels as per latest figures. Before the coronavirus pandemic struck, nearly 23,500 vehicles were registered at the Pune RTO in January while just over 15,000 vehicles were registered in Pimpri Chinchwad. In November, the figures stood at 21,076 and 14,052 at the two RTOs. RTO officials said the steady increase in registrations, especially since August, was an indication that the market was slowly getting back on track and that people were starting to loosen their purse strings. “A decent number of two- and four-wheelers were purchased during the recent festive season. While the rate of commercial vehicles registered is still low, we should get back to pre-Covid levels in the next two months,” a Pune RTO official said. “The commercial and public transport vehicle segment too is slowly picking up. By March next year, we expect this segment to show a lot of improvement,” the official added. According to the RTO data, registrations were at their lowest during the peak lockdown period of April and May. In April, just 1,071 vehicles were registered at the Pune RTO (down from 20,778 in March), and a meagre 244 were registered at the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO (14,106 in March). It got worse in May — 658 registrations in Pune and 962 in Pimpri Chinchwad. The next two months saw a marked improvement, with around 6,000 vehicles in Pune and about 4,000 in Pimpri Chinchwad being registered. “The period between August and November was very good in terms of revival. Compared to September and October, registrations increased by around 58% at the Pune RTO and 43% at the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO. There was a further 40% growth by November,” the official said. Officials said registrations during festivals like Dasara and Diwali were surprisingly good. “The combination of several establishments being reopened and the pandemic easing contributed to the growth. Schools are likely to open next year, and more offices will also start functioning. We expect that to further increase the registrations,” another RTO official said. In 2019, around 2.44 lakh vehicles were registered at the Pune RTO and 1.49 lakh at Pimpri Chinchwad. This year, until December 12, around 1.43 lakh vehicles in Pune and nearly one lakh vehicles in Pimpri Chinchwad have been registered. “We always expected the annual registration numbers to drop due to the ongoing pandemic. However, if we look at the monthly growth, we might end the year in a better state than expected. It all boils down to the registration of commercial vehicles now,” another official said. THIS YEAR, SO FAR Month/Pune/Pimpri Chinchwad January/23,436/15,157 February17,049/11,276 March/20,778/14,106 April/1,041/244 May/658/962 June/5,933/3,782 July/6,367/4,640 August/11,436/8,134 September/10,797/7,577 October/16,812/10,424 November/21,076/14,052||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monthly-vehicle-registrations-at-rtos-nearly-at-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/79710944.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two Reds gunned down in encounter on Andhra border, search on for rest||VISAKHAPATNAM: Exchange of fire between security forces and Maoists in the wee hours of Sunday resulted in the killings of two militants of whom one was a woman. The encounter took place in the Singavaram forest area under Malkangiri district of Odisha, on the border of Visakhapatnam district on the Andhra Pradesh side. Security forces seized one Insas rifle and one SLR along with a few rounds of bullets among other materials which also included some Maoist literature. The encounter spot is a few kilometres away from the place where Maoists had killed 37 Greyhound personnel at Ellampaka near Balimela in 2007. According to sources, Special Operations Group (SOG) forces and District Voluntary Force (DVF) acted on a tip-off and raided the area where the Maoists were camping. On seeing the security forces, the Maoists opened fire. An hour-long encounter ensued and two guerillas were killed while others managed to escape from the area. Of the two slain Maoists, one is suspected to be area committee member (ACM) Mahesh alias Sunil or Malla (29) from Gangluru in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district. The details of the woman cadre are yet to be confirmed. Security forces have intensified combing operations in the area to nab the escaped militants. Police in Andhra Pradesh have alerted security forces on border areas about a suspected intrusion by Maoists into the forest areas of Visakhapatnam close to the encounter spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-reds-gunned-down-in-encounter-search-on-for-rest/articleshow/79709704.cms||Siva G
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 10,000 visit Borra Caves on Sunday, highest this year||VISAKHAPATNAM: A total of 10,661 people visited Borra Caves on Sunday, the last in Karthika Maasam. On December 6, the APTDC earned a revenue of Rs 6 lakh from nearly 9,000 tourists. This is the highest single-day footfall so far in 2020, said B Gowri Sankara Rao, manager at Borra Caves, adding that AP Tourism Development Corporation earned a revenue of Rs 7,51,790 on Sunday, also the highest this year, despite Covid-19 fears and limited transport. “We generally close the spot at 5 pm, but this Sunday we gave an exception and allowed tourists till 7 pm. Within one hour between 6 pm and 7 pm, we earned a revenue of Rs 80,000 by allowing nearly 1,400 visitors. This was also a record in APTDC’s history despite all hurdles placed by curbs to control the pandemic,” Sankara Rao told TOI. Almost all tourist spots in the district are receiving a large number of tourists against expected footfall, said another tourism officer. Sankara Rao said while the Railways restarted the Visakhapatnam-Araku train from December 18, no provision has been made for a stop at Borra Caves.Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said they will consider the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-10k-visit-borra-caves-on-sunday-highest-this-yr/articleshow/79709741.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||CM to visit Polavaram today to review progress of work||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will visit Polavaram project on Monday and take stock of the progress of the works. The chief minister wanted the project to be completed by December 2021 and release water starting from Kharif, 2022. After inspecting the project works, the chief minister will review the progress of various packages and deadlines fixed for each work. The chief minister will spend close to three hours at the project site to take up micro-level review. The irrigation authorities and the top executives of the project contractor, Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil), are ready with status reports to brief the chief minister. The chief minister had recently announced in the assembly that he would inaugurate the project. Notwithstanding the financial constraints faced by the state government, the chief minister directed the irrigation department and contractor not to slowdown the work citing the clearance of the bills or any other technical issues. The chief minister directed irrigation special chief secretary Dr Adityanath Das to coordinate with the finance department to see that all the issues related to pending bills are cleared to keep the project going. Following the chief minister’s instructions, a delegation comprising finance minister Buggana Rajendranath, irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav, Dr Das and finance principal secretary SS Rawath camped in New Delhi for about a week in New Delhi to get clearance for the revised cost estimations for Polavaram project. The fate of the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package depends on the Centre granting its approval to revised estimations which were cleared by Polavaram Project Authority. The delay in taking up the R&R works by the previous TDP regime had hampered the overall progress of the work. The R&R works achieved 41 percent progress and completing at least another 40 percent is mandatory to store water in the dam. With deadlines fast approaching, the government has directed district administration to focus on completion of R&R works to evacuate people from areas to be inundated after the storage of water from next December. The state government would require at least Rs 28,000 crore to complete the R&R works in the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-visit-polavaram-today-to-review-progress-of-work/articleshow/79709684.cms||Samdani MN
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Foreign agencies are funding Oppn to instigate farmers: Yogi Adityanath||MEERUT / LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the Opposition was being funded by foreign agencies to hatch a conspiracy and instigate farmers to protest against new farm laws. Addressing a public rally after laying the foundation stone of 88 projects worth Rs 325 crore in Meerut and inaugurating an agriculture exhibition and hi-tech central library at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Agriculture University, Yogi said: “The Opposition can’t see farmers getting prosperous. Some people are making anti-India statements in the name of farmers’ movement.” Appealing farmers to stand with the integrity of the country, Yogi said the solution lay in dialogue, not protests. Attacking the Congress, he said the grand old party could never comprehend that the vexed issues of Ayodhya and Jammu & Kashmir could be solved. “Instead of being thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for bringing in pro-farmer policies, they are inciting farmers,” he said, adding that people with vested interests were endangering the unity, security and integrity of the country by using innocent farmers and they would be dealt with a heavy hand. The CM maintained that the new farm laws were essentially aimed at doubling the income of farmers, according to them the freedom to sell their produce anywhere they want and keeping their ownership of land and crop intact. Praising farmers, especially those from west UP, the CM termed Meerut as the land of revolutionaries which has contributed a lot to the country since Independence. “The state government is committed to ensuring the development of the region,” he said, highlighting the Rs 32,000 crore Rapid Rail project between Delhi and Meerut. The CM said the safety of girls was his government’s top priority and crime against women would not be tolerated. “Behen betiyon ki suraksha mein sendh lagane waalon ka hoga ‘Ram naam satya’ (those indulging in crimes against women will have to run for their lives),” Yogi said. The CM reached after a delay of over two hours as his chopper could not make landing due to the prevailing weather conditions. He returned to Ghaziabad and later took a road route to the venue in Meerut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/foreign-agencies-are-funding-oppn-to-instigate-farmers-cm/articleshow/79711974.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vadodara||Two quacks arrested in Gujarat's Dediyapada||VADODARA: Two quacks were nabbed in Dediyapada of Narmada district during a raid by the health department. Medical officer of the public health centre of Sejpur had received information that a few people are practising medicine in Dediyapada’s main market despite not having any medical degree or certificate. Based on the tip-off, the officer and police raided clinics being run by Milton Thakur and Narottam Mandal. Thakur had even installed a banner outside his clinic claiming that besides common illnesses like cold and fever, he also treated skin, dental and sexual diseases. “The duo is practising in Dediyapada for five years. While Thakur is from West Bengal, Mandal claims that he is a a native of Madhya Pradesh,” said sub-inspector A R Damor of Dediyapada police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-quacks-arrested-in-dediyapada/articleshow/79710044.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD launches Gudiko Gomatha in Karnataka||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman Y V Subba Reddy launched the Gudiko Gomatha programme in Karnataka on Sunday. After offering prayers at Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Bengaluru, Subba Reddy donated a cow and a calf to the temple on behalf of the TTD under the Gudiko Gomatha programme. Speaking to media, Subba Reddy said Andhra Pradesh CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had advised the TTD to initiate measures to protect indigenous cattle breeds across the country, following which the TTD launched the Gudiko Gomatha programme. “We have already launched the programme at Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Kakinada and have extended it to Karnataka today,” added Subba Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-launches-gudiko-gomatha-in-karnataka/articleshow/79709754.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Winter bookings proceed despite second wave apprehensions in Andhra||VISAKHAPATNAM: Despite the state government preparing for a second wave of Covid-19 from mid-January, the travel agents’ body has decided to go ahead with bookings for travel packages for the peak tourism season in the state between December and February. However, travel agents are also putting in place measures for their clients if the situation worsens or the Centre or state governments issue restrictions on movement of tourists. “The second wave is an apprehension right now. So we would be continuing with our bookings for January, February and March. Our business was almost zero during the three to four months of lockdown and right now there is no point in thinking negative on the basis of apprehensions,” president of Tours and Travel Association of Andhra, K Vijay Mohan, told STOI. Travel agents are planning to issue vouchers with a one-year validity to their clients should cancellations take place at the eleventh hour owing to movement restrictions. “Airlines would give a return or a voucher to be used by the passenger. As far as the land package is concerned – like accommodation and transfers – we would issue vouchers. Guests can redeem the voucher and opt for the same package at a later date within a year,” Vijay Mohan said. Since November-end, agents in the state have started designing incoming packages while keeping in mind the Covid-19 protocols. The packages include measures like accommodations in star hotels, only day tours and no night stays at small towns where accommodation infrastructure is not up to the mark and big cars even for a couple to maintain proper social distancing. In fact, travel agents are also drawing up lists of clean and hygienic eateries where guests can safely eat while on their tour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/winter-bookings-proceed-despite-2nd-wave-apprehensions/articleshow/79709760.cms||Arpit Basu
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Improved institutional delivery reduces child & infant mortality rates in Bengal||KOLKATA: Improved institutional delivery in Bengal in the past half a decade has led to a sharp fall in infant and child mortality rates, the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) for 2019-20 says. The female sex ratio at birth has also improved — and interestingly — more female children were born in rural Bengal homes than in urban Bengal. The total fertility rate — children per women — has dipped. The state, which has fared marginally better in providing adequate diet to children aged six to 23 months, still faces the challenge of malnutrition. Neonatal mortality rate (NNMR) has fallen to 15.5 per 1,000 live births in the latest survey released on Saturday. In NFHS-4 for 2015-16, Bengal’s NNMR was 22. Infant mortality rate (IMR) has dropped to 22 from 27.5 in this same five-year-period, while under-5 mortality rate (U5MR) has dropped to 25.4 from 31.8. Interestingly, NNMR is lower in rural Bengal than urban Bengal. In other indices, urban, has done better due to more health care reach. The sex ratio at birth for children born in the last years of the survey, shows that 973 female children were born per 1000 male children. This was 960 in the 2015-16 survey. The NHFS-5 data shows while this sex ratio of children at 921 was low in urban Bengal; in rural Bengal this was as high as 993. One factor which, experts believe, is linked to this a better literacy rate among women. The female population above six-years, who have been to school has increased in the last half-a-decade but women who had been to school for more than a decade has increased sharply — this figure is now 47.6% in urban Bengal and 25.9% in rural Bengal. The total fertility rate — children born to a woman — has also dipped from 1.8 in 2015-16 to 1.6 in 2019-20. Another factor, which shows marked improved is institutional delivery in Bengal. Mothers who had an antenatal check-up in the first trimester has sharply increased from 54.9% in 2015-16 to 72.6% in 2019-20. Mothers, who have consumed iron folic acid for 100 days when they were pregnant, has also increased. In the past half-a-decade, pregnant mothers, who had consumed it for 180 days has increased over five-fold from 6% to 30.8%. Public health facilities played a key role in the sharp increase in institutional births in Bengal from 75.2% in 2015-16 to 91.7% in 2019-20. Due to this, births attended by a skilled health care personnel have also increased from 81.6% in 2015-16 to 94.1% in 2019-20. Several troubling facts are also borne out by the NFHS-5 for states, including Bengal. In Bengal children age 6-23 months receiving an adequate diet has increased to 23.4 % in 2019-20 from 19.6 % in 2015-16. Children age 6-59 months who are anaemic has increased sharply to 69% from 54.2 % five years back. There has also been an increase in children under five years who are stunted and who are severely wasted (weight-for-height). More children under 5 years underweight (weight-for-age); and overweight (weight-for-height) children have doubled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/improved-institutional-delivery-reduces-child-infant-mortality-rates-in-bengal/articleshow/79710969.cms||Saibal Sen
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pilgrims in Andhra have to follow Covid-19 guidelines||VISAKHAPATNAM: Covid-19 protocols have affected pilgrim congregations in the state this year. Devotees, particularly those who have taken ‘deeksha’ such as Ayyappa and Bhavani, will have to carry a Covid-19 negative test certificate on pilgrimage and cannot participate in mass gatherings, rituals or ‘bhiksha’, according to officials of the endowment department. AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) and Raliways authorities have not registered any bookings for trains and buses to Sabarimala this year. APSRTC deputy chief traffic manager K Venkata Rao said, “This time no single bus was booked for Sabarimala as on date. We used to book at least 10 buses by this time.” When contacted, the railway spokesperson of Waltair division of East Coast Railway, said “We are not operating trains for Kerala for Ayyappa devotees this year. Till Sunday, no train was announced and operated.” Raju Swamy, head of Sri Chandan Perumal Peetam at Simhachalam said due to Covid-19 the number of people who took the Chandana Deeksha of Lord Narasimha Swamy this year was much lower compared to last year. “Simhachalam temple authorities also announced certain rules and restrictions for those who have taken ‘deeksha’,” Raju Swamy said. Ayyappa Swamy Deeksha representatives K Srinivasa Rao said this is the first time they have received a poor response for ‘deeksha’. “They even stopped bhiksha for Swamijis this year. Every time there is a large Annadanam programme for Swamis,” Srinivasa Rao said. Every year, nearly one lakh people from north-coastal Andhra Pradesh take ‘deeksha’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pilgrims-have-to-follow-covid-19-guidelines/articleshow/79709718.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 14, 2020||Pune||Many teachers on edge of virtual fatigue, but put up a brave front||Pune: Suhasini Mulay has been a science teacher for over 30 years, overcoming several challenges in her career. But, this year was nothing like ever before, and beyond her worst dreams. After nearly nine months of online education, teachers like Mulay are feeling the weight of extended screen time. From getting students to be attentive to sitting in one place for several hours, educators have been stretched. Preparing for the next day’s teaching, assessing papers, and work from home has put them through the severest of challenges. For Mulay, from getting used to teaching on screen in a closed room and sitting in a chair for hours without getting up for a stroll as is possible inside a classroom, to constantly keeping a watch on the school’s cellphone applications for notifications on assessment papers submitted by her students, her teaching hours have been stretched beyond her limits. Amidst all this, her family life has gone topsy-turvy. She said she has continued day after day, month after month with support from her husband and children. “My daughter-in-law helps me with technology tricks and takes care of the kitchen chores in the first half of the day when I am taking online classes,” Mulay said. She said like her, there are hundreds of other teachers who have adjusted their lives to online teaching, against all odds. Attention For Maths Needed Many are not thrilled about online teaching. “We are stressed out staring at the screen, and at the same time ensuring that students understand what we teach and trying our best to keep them attentive throughout the 40-minute session,” Vaishali Kore, a mathematics teacher, said. Most teachers said the online teaching method was more taxing on their minds where responding to simple queries by students was not the same as in face-to-face teaching. Some teachers said they missed the classroom stroll in between breaks and a majority of the day they were occupied with planning the sessions. Teachers Became Learners Principal Bharti Bhagwani of GG International School in Pimpri said the teaching community needs a big pat for their phenomenal skills of adaptability and creativity, and for putting up with the new normal in these past 8-9 months. “The stress that each teacher has gone through to ensure learning continues has been extreme. I have seen my teachers work round-the-clock,” she said. “They were not used to looking at screens constantly, neither were they acclimatized to using technology 24X7, yet their passion made them leave no stone unturned,”she added. Finding A Quiet Place Barnali Majumdar, an English teacher at Orchids The International School in Tathawade, said her entire family's work and education moved online, and the struggle was to find a quiet place to be able to teach. “The biggest constraint is for those of us who live in small homes. The unstable internet connections makes uninterrupted teaching more difficult. Our school encourages us to take 10-minute breaks between each class. It helps to some extent. We also receive videos and presentations with the lesson plan, reducing our burden,” she said. However, despite all this, sacrifices have to be made. “Students need us more now than every before due to the impending final exams. This puts us in a difficult position,” she added. Stress Management Helps J Kaur, a teacher at the Air Force School in Chandannagar, said she had a hard time adjusting to the new techniques. “It was stressful to look at the screen continuously while teaching. It took some time to adapt to technology. At one point, I considered resigning. However, I realized nothing is impossible if we persist. Besides that, keeping students engaged and calm in these times is our responsibility. I attended webinars on stress management and found that every person had to face challenges in their lives," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-teachers-on-edge-of-virtual-fatigue-but-put-up-a-brave-front/articleshow/79710973.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Man steeped in debt stages own murder||Lucknow: Acting on an SOS from a man about his missing brother’s last location on a highway near the Hardoi-Shahjahanpur distrct border, police were jolted into action and zeroed in on the spot only to find a near-charred human dummy tied to the seat belt inside a blue-tint car with a Navi Mumbai registration number. A forensic unit was swiftly dispatched to preserve the crime scene in Shahabad village, followed by a Hardoi police team comprising ASP, Kapil Singh Dev, two deputy SPs and four separate police teams late Saturday. The man, who installed his dummy to stage his own murder was neck-deep in debt and was later tracked down and arrested in Haryana, said police. Forensic teams did not find any bloodstains in the vehicle, but portion of the front seat and the blanket-wrapped dummy was found partially burnt. Cops found the dummy clothed in jeans, T-shirt and a pair of socks rolled on its plastic foot. Two pair of clothes and a bag was also recovered from the rear seat. ATM cards, Aadhar card, and an ID of a private company seized from the car helped police identify the man who tried to stage his own murder as Sachidanand Pandey, originally a resident of Azamgarh, said SP, Hardoi, Anurag Vats. The officer said the missing report was lodged by one Dayananda Pandey, who claimed to be Sachidanand’s brother. “Our surveillance unit and special operations group tracked down Sachidanand in Rohtak, where he was arrested late Saturday. A team has been dispatched to bring him to Hardoi for questioning,” the officer said. SHO, Shahabad, Shivshankar Singh, said on basis of preliminary investigations, it was found that Sachidanand drove 2,000km after beginning his journey from Mumbai. He entered Surat and then reached Uttar Pradesh via Jaipur and then was caught in Haryana. “We studied his case history and found he lost his job during the pandemic-induced lockdown and was trapped in debt. And this forced him to stage his own killing,” said Singh. Senior police officers said, Sachidanand will squeal during interrogation and we will come to know his real story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-steeped-in-debt-stages-own-murder/articleshow/79711981.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Surat||DNH to appoint ‘Bicycle Mayor’ to promote bicycling among citizens||Surat: Union territory (UT) of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) has embarked on a mission to promote bicycling amongst its residents.The DNH administration in association with BYCS India has begun the process of appointing its ‘Bicycle Mayor’ for the Silvassa city for a period of two years for transforming it into bicycle-friendly city.The Silvassa Smart City Limited (SSCL) under the DNH administration has invited applications from eligible candidates from Silvassa for being the Bicycle Mayor. The last date for submitting application is December 20. Dr Apurva Sharma, CEO, SSCL said, “The Bicycle Mayor has to be a cycling enthusiasts and a community-driven change maker. He or she will act as a catalyst in transforming Silvassa into a bicycle-friendly city. The elected Bicycle Mayor will get an opportunity to work with citizens, BYCS India and BYCS global network.”According to Dr Sharma, DNH is the first union territory to appoint a Bicycle Mayor. It will be the responsibility of the Bicycle Mayor to push cycling culture in Silvassa, share cycling stories via social media and motivate people to take up cycling.“Our initial focus would on forming bicycle clubs in schools and colleges to create awareness on benefits of cycling among youths, to have cycle tracks and cycling stations across the city,” he added.BYCS, formerly known as Cycle Space, is a Dutch organisation based in Amsterdam working towards the goal of a world where 50% of all city trips are by bicycle by 2030. For this BYCS is coordinating with various cities for forming a Bicycle Mayor network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dnh-to-appoint-bicycle-mayor-to-promote-bicycling-among-citizens/articleshow/79710156.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||VHP’s temple crowd-funding drive from Makar Sankranti||Lucknow: More than four months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation of the proposed Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has chalked out a massive public outreach programme from Makar Sankranti (January 15) to crowd-fund the project. Top VHP sources said, its cadre will fan out across the country to collect funds from as many as 55 crore people, almost half the population of India, in 4 lakh villages. A senior VHP functionary told TOI the drive would be carried out for 44 days and culminate on February 27, which coincides with Magh Poornima and birth anniversary of Sant Ravidas. VHP national spokesperson, Vinod Bansal confirmed the launch of the crowd-funding exercise and said cadres would carry coupons of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000. Those contributing Rs 2,000 and more would be gifted pictures of Lord Ram and the proposed model of Ram Temple. This is the biggest drive since 1989, when residents of 2.75 lakh villages across the country donated ‘shilas’ (stones) and Rs 1.25 crore was mobilised for Ram temple construction. “We would go back to those villages and tell people their ‘sankalp’ (pledge) is set to be fructify,” Bansal said. Seers have also been directed to reach out to over 1.25 lakh villages to make the drive a success. “This way we would be reaching out to almost half the population of India,” he said. “During his 14-year exile, Lord Ram spent time with various sections of people. VHP has decided to reach out to all communities and seek funds as per their affordability. We want the message of Lord Ram to reach every household,” he said, adding this would also be an occasion to spread ‘Ramatva’ in the country. “The idea is to make people realise that the Ayodhya temple belongs to people of the entire country,” Bansal said. Sources said, VHP has timed the drive with Makar Sankranti, considered an auspicious date in Hindu calendar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vhps-temple-crowd-funding-drive-from-makar-sankranti/articleshow/79711987.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 14, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: GP aspirants offer gifts as bait at wedding venues||HUBBALLI: Wedding halls in rural areas are now turning into a platform for gram panchayat election candidates to woo voters. Benefiting from the development are the newlyweds, who are being showered by goodies by different candidates who try to outdo the other in gifting. Though the couples and their parents are embarrassed to receive costly gifts, they are keeping quiet to avoid the wrath of the aspirants. The only problem for the hosts arises when aspirants, with their followers in tow, visit the venue at the same time. Interestingly, the followers of aspirants keep an eye on the gifts of opponents so they can outdo the same. In the process, the newlyweds are seeing the early arrival of Santa — they are gifted with fans, cots, steel utensils, et al. In line with ‘making hay while the sun shines’, some parents are demand from aspirants whatever they want to give to their daughters. Shashidhar Hugar, vice-president of Gajendragad taluk panchayat in Gadag district, said that aspirants are treating prospective voters to breakfast like never before. “Their next focus is weddings. They are luring the families of the newlyweds en masse by offering attractive gifts. As the GP elections are driven by the caste factor, the gifts are restricted to people belonging to particular castes. Party politics is not a factor here,” he said. Devindragouda Tippanagoudra, former GP member of Katral in Yelburga taluk of Koppal district, said such a trend is seen only in ‘rich GPs’ which enjoy a good revenue collection in the form of property taxes and other cess. “Also, rural voters are smart enough to accept gifts from different aspirants, and cast vote to the one they want. They fear refusing the gifts as doing so will backfire with the aspirants targeting them later,” said Devindragouda, who has seen GP elections for nearly three decades now. Sanganagouda, who married off his daughter in Bagalkot district on December 9, said one of the aspirants offered to gift him whatever the newlyweds wanted. “As we had already bought utensils, cot, cupboard, fan and other items, we told him the bill amount. He happily paid 50% of the bill amount, and this cushioned our wedding-related financial burden. Had we rejected his offer, he would have felt snubbed,” Sanganagouda said. A GP staff in Kalghatgi taluk of Dharwad district said that gifting trend is more where the number of aspirants is more. “If there are only two candidates in a ward, they won’t offer any gifts as they rely on the caste equation. However, some wards have more aspirants — say up to 10 — and the competition compels aspirants to woo voters with gifts for the newlyweds,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gp-aspirants-offer-gifts-as-bait-at-wedding-venues/articleshow/79710164.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Fire NOC & systems not must for buildings up to 24mt||NAGPUR: From existing 15 metre, the state government has increased the height to 24 metre for all buildings requiring fire no-objection-certificate (NOC) and mandatory installation of fire safety systems. For non-residential structures, the norm has been revised from existing 150 sq mt built up area to 500 sq mt. The changes have been made in unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR) which has been implemented in all municipal corporations, excluding Mumbai, from December 3. Earlier, buildings requiring fire NOC were called as high-rise buildings. In unified DCR, the government has continued with title of high-rise buildings and also called them special buildings. An official from NMC Fire and Emergency Services Department told TOI title of special buildings will be applicable for fire NOC and fire safety systems. As per unified DCR, special buildings will mean any multi-storied structure which is more than 24 metre in height measured from ground level. Also, buildings for educational, assembly, mercantile, institutional, industrial, storage, hazardous occupancies, mixed occupancies with built-up area of 500 sq.mt or above on any floor irrespective of height are also special buildings. Corporator Praful Gudadhe, also a builder, said, “Process to obtain fire NOC and installation of systems takes a lot of time and money. The revision is a good move and will boost the realty sector. The city will witness growth in high-rise buildings up to 24 metre (8 floor) instead of 15 metre (5 floor). Nowadays, all builders and societies ensure basic safety systems in buildings. This will be ultimately benefit end users,” he said. Activist Kamlesh Shah alleged government has increased the criteria under influence of builders. “Government has put people at risk. Also, congestion will increase manifold as new norm are expected to encourage high-rise buildings in city. The revisions are also in contravention with National Building Code and Fire Act. Government should recall the decision,” he said. Another activist TH Naidu said majority of flat schemes, commercial, hospital and hospitality buildings will be exempted in new criteria even as fire systems are very important in these structures. “On one hand, the government is relaxing the norms and on other hand not providing sufficient staff and machineries to the fire department. Safety systems prevent and extinguish fires in buildings. Therefore, government should continue with norm of 15 metre for all structures and 150 sq mt built up area for non-residential buildings,” he said. Naidu added one norm cannot be applicable for all cities. “Government brought unified DCR to have similar norms for all cities. Area of plots, width and number of roads, open spaces, congestion, living standards etc of Nagpur is totally different as compared to other cities. New norm might suit Pune, Thane etc, but not Nagpur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fire-noc-systems-not-must-for-bldgs-up-to-24mt/articleshow/79711000.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 14, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University sets up 18 schools after merging its 54 depts||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has set up 18 schools under four different branches. Many standalone departments have been merged in the new schools to bring better academic coordination and administrative convenience. For instance, the bio-medical science department has been merged into the school of health sciences. The university has also appointed heads for these 18 schools. There are 54 departments in the four academic branches, including commerce and management, science and technology, inter-disciplinary studies and humanities. Registrar of SPPU, Prafulla Pawar, said, “The old set up of having a separate department for each subject has now been changed to bring in the school system at the university. It will help in better redistribution of the work force and avoid duplication in research work and teaching.” In 1949, the SPPU had eight departments. The restructuring has happened for the first time, considering global trends. All the existing departments, schools, centres and chairs and units belonging to a faculty have been categorized according to their fields into suitable schools under the respective faculties. Pawar said, “The change will be with new interdisciplinary courses and timetables, and help departments get more resources.” The regrouping of departments into schools will also help in resolving the staff shortage problem to some extent, if not completely, and help get a better NAAC score.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/varsity-sets-up-18-schools-after-merging-its-54-depts/articleshow/79710993.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Minor pupil receives lewd texts on online study app||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Saturday registered an offence against an unknown person for allegedly sending lewd messages to a 13-year-old girl through a teleconferencing application for the past six months. The suspect also e-mailed such messages to the girl’s father and also her school’s principal. The girl’s mother on Saturday approached the police and lodged an FIR when the suspect threatened to kill the girl if she did not end her life. The man has been booked under sections 354-D (stalking), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act. Senior inspector Shivaji Gavare of the Bhosari MIDC police told TOI, “We have initiated the probe. The cyber crime cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police, too, is investigating the case.” “In June the girl had received lewd messages through the application used by her for online classes. She and her parents initially ignored the messages. The sender too deleted the messages,” Gavare said. The police are yet to identify the suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/minor-pupil-receives-lewd-texts-on-online-study-app/articleshow/79711002.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Skeleton case: Specialized forensic team likely to visit Salt Lake house||KOLKATA: A specialized team of forensic science experts are likely to visit the Salt Lake AJ 226 house on Monday, where cops had found a human skeleton, which they suspect is of the 25-year-old businessman and had arrested his mother and younger brother on charges of allegedly murdering and attempting to burn the body at his own home. The mother-son duo is currently in custody of Bidhannagar police as the deceased’s father had alleged the woman had killed and sacrificed his elder son, Arjun, as part of a Tantrik ritual. “A specialized team of forensic officials, including physicists and biologists will visit the house on Monday to dig in more evidence and forensic data essential for further investigation into the case,” said Mukesh Kumar, the commissioner of Bidhannagar City police. On Sunday, a team of detective department officers — after taking over the case from the local police station — visited the house in the afternoon to have a closer look of the crime scene. Officers said there was a prominent burning mark on the marble floor of the first-floor prayer room, where according to cops, the woman had admitted to have set Arjun on fire following his death. Cops have said, there were also stains on the staircase of dragging the partially burnt body till the terrace where from cops had discovered the skeleton. Cops had also found a bloodstained grindstone, which they suspect as the primary weapon. “There are no signs of resistance, which suggests the youth was already dead when he was set on fire,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/skeleton-case-specialized-forensic-team-likely-to-visit-salt-lake-house/articleshow/79710999.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Ramayana era tree cover for mandir campus||Lucknow: Plan to plant Ramayana era trees in the vicinity of the upcoming Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is taking a final shape. After identification of species and go-ahead from the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, finding the apt site for plantation is the next step. “It is now for the trust to identify the site for plantation,” said DFO, Ayodhya, Manoj Khare. The Forest department has planned to plant trees that find mention in Ramayana around the upcoming Ram Mandir to recreate the aura of the Tetra Yug. There are at least 89 species of trees which are vividly mentioned in Ramayana, and can be planted for being shrubs or medium-height species and have a significant presence in the story of Lord Ram and Sita. Many of these tree species are now no longer planted by the forest department in its annual plantation drives and may not be available in the forest nurseries. The trees include Deodar, Mango, Rakt Chandan, Chandan, Saal, Nagkesar, Dhaak, Peepal, Banyan, Ashok, Parijaat, Sita Ashok, Lodh and Agar besides other. Some of them may have to be brought from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ramayana-era-tree-cover-for-mandir-campus/articleshow/79711991.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||After seeing a rise in Covid cases, city records downward trend||Ludhiana: There is some good news for residents on Covid-19 front as after witnessing a rise after the festive season, the number of new cases have seen a downward trend in the last week. The latest health department data suggests that between December 6 and 12, 516 new cases were reported in Ludhiana district. However, between November 22 to 28 and November 29 to December 5, 696 new cases were reported in the district, which were the highest number of new cases reported after October 10. Meanwhile, data of new cases in seven days since July 6 suggests that after reaching the highest value 2,802 cases in the week between September 13 and 19, the new cases in seven days had witness a fall to 523 cases between October 11 and 17 and then dropped to the lowest of 325 new cases in seven days between October 25 to 31. However, after that the number of cases in seven days increased and was 439 between November 1 and 7, then further increased to 610 between November 8 to 14 before reaching 696 between November 22 to 28. After remaining at the same count in seven days between November 29 to December 5, the new cases in seven days dropped to the present value. As per the latest state media bulletin on Covid-19, Ludhiana district with 516 cases was at number three spot in the number of new cases in seven days among the districts of the state with SAS Nagar at number one with 701 cases in the seven days between December 6 to 12. Jalandhar was at number two spot with 604 new cases between the same time. Tarn Taran had the lowest number of new cases in seven days among the districts of the state as just 15 cases were reported from that district during the same time. The health department authorities said that various parameters are improving. “It is a good sign that various parameters related to Covid-19 pandemic are improving, but we still need to be cautious. We request the residents to follow norms related to Covid-19, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, etc.,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga. Many residents said that the authorities need to be strict with the enforcement of norms related to Covid-19. “It is quite shocking that majority of the people who are seen in markets are not wearing masks and even social distancing norms are being ignored. Authorities need to enforce norms if people are not following those so that second surge doesn’t come in Ludhiana,” said Amarjeet Kaur, a city resident. She added that if authorities are a bit strict in enforcement of norms, loss of precious human lives due to Covid-19 can be prevented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-seeing-a-rise-in-covid-cases-city-records-downward-trend/articleshow/79711006.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 14, 2020||Surat||Free health check-ups for migrant workers of powerloom units||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) and the powerloom weaving associations in the city have jointly organised a series of health check-up camps for the migrant workers employed in the powerloom units across the city starting from Sunday. Chairman of public health committee of SGCCI, Dr Parul Vadgama told TOI, “Migrant workers are vulnerable to host of diseases due to their living conditions. In times of Covid-19, workers tend to avoid going to the hospitals or clinics fearing coronavirus. Thus, we have decided to go their doorstep for their health screening and diagnosis.” “A team of expert doctors including physicians, chest specialist, ophthalmologist, dermatologist, dentist, ENT etc. will provide consultancy to the workers. If any of the workers are found suffering from disease, they will be referred to the private hospitals or New Civil Hospital (NCH).” The health check-up camp will begin from the Pandesara GIDC on Sunday. Later, it will be held at Ved Road, Varachha, Bamroli, Udhana, Sachin, Udhana-Magdalla, Katargam etc., covering the migrant workers in the textile industry.SGCCI has tied up with the NCH for supplying free medicines and treatment to the migrant workers suffering from various ailments. Ashish Gujarati, vice-president, SGCCI told TOI, “It has been observed that the migrant workers take over-the-counter medicines for minor ailments like cough, cold, fever etc. and avoid visiting general physicians. Though the Covid-19 cases in powerloom sector are very less, we decided to screen the workers in the medical camps.”Gujarati added, “The powerloom unit owners have shown the willingness to bear all the medical expenses of their workers who are found suffering from serious illness during the medical camp.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/free-health-check-ups-for-migrant-workers-of-powerloom-units/articleshow/79710200.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Agra||State government orders probe into Agra plantation scam||Agra: Following orders of the state government, Agra municipal commissioner has constituted a two-member committee to probe alleged malpractices in the plantation drive conducted in the city in 2019. Last month, municipal councilors had complained to the state government that a large number of saplings shown in records were never sown during the plantation drive. Since 2018, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) has been carrying out a plantation drive before monsoon every year. In 2019, AMC claimed to have planted 26,000 saplings on river Yamuna banks at Hathighat. But these were washed away when the river water level rose, civic officials said. The councilors claimed the saplings were not planted. Civic body officials knew the river water level would rise in monsoon and chose the spot as a cover-up. Ashok Nagar councilor Rajesh Prajapati said, “A private firm was assigned responsibility to plant the saplings, protect them with tree guards and take care of proper growth of the saplings for three years. The firm failed to fulfil its job but no action has been taken. We had sent a complaint to the state government regarding the plantation scam in Agra.” Following the state government orders, municipal commissioner Nikhil Tikaram has constituted a two-member committee comprising additional municipal commissioner Vinod Kumar and chief engineer BL Gupta to investigate the plantation work done in the city. Mayor Naveen Jain said, “Complaints regarding malpractices in plantation work have been received from the councilors. The matter will be investigated and suitable action will be taken against those found guilty. Payment to the firm will not be made in case the targeted number of saplings have not developed in different parts of the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/state-government-orders-probe-into-agra-plantation-scam/articleshow/79709635.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Stray dog thrown off terrace, dies||PUNE: The Sangvi police on Saturday registered an offence against an unknown person for killing a seven-month-old stray dog by throwing him from the terrace of a building at Sudarshannagar in Pimple Gurav. Farinjahan Shaikh (23) of Sudarshannagar has lodged an FIR with the police. The police said an offence has been registered under section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stray-dog-thrown-off-terrace-dies/articleshow/79711009.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Married’ 14-year-old girl rescued, five arrested||KOLKATA: When the cops were approached by Childline about two teenagers being married off in the Girish Park area, they had not expected to come across a child — barely in her teens — leading a life of a homemaker at her in-laws residence. The cops have finally rescued the 14-year-old girl and registered an FIR under Sections 9 and 10 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Sources claimed, the actual marriage had taken place during the lockdown to try and keep the administration in the dark. During lockdown, the state has received a total of 198 complaints out of which 134 were found to be true. However, according to Childline sources, this might just be a tip of the iceberg with at least 11 attempts made in the city alone to marry off minors. While such cases do get reported, police said the age of the minor — one of the youngest in recent memory — has left them worried. “The FIR-named accused person Ranbir Singh being the male adult groom aided and abetted with other FIR-named accused persons and conducted a child marriage,” the FIR stated. All five persons, including Singh, have been arrested so far. “We found that there were two issues — either the parents are too poor and they believe getting their child married will relieve them of their responsibility or the girl herself would run away thinking of a bright future. Ever since the lockdown, we have been stressing on four points, deciding on a penal action, deciding a standard operating procedure, developing synergy among stakeholders like police, NGO and the administration. In the case of cities, the local clubs can report such incidents,” said a member from the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/married-14-year-old-girl-rescued-five-arrested/articleshow/79711014.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||India’s best tech brains to oversee temple foundation||AYODHYA: A special committee comprising India’s top engineers has been constituted to supervise laying of pillars of Ram temple, which hit a hurdle due to presence of loose sand below. Despite hiccups, the temple Trust recently announced laying of the foundation by next week. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya BJP MLA Ved Gupta, said, “Temple construction committee chairman Nripendra Mishra has constituted an eight-member expert panel comprising members from country's top engineering institutes, including IITs and CBRI for laying the temple foundation.” A notification for setting up the expert engineers’ panel was issued on Sunday. Former IIT-Delhi director V S Raju will head the panel, which will include N Gopal Krishnan, director CBRI Roorkee, S R Gandhi, director NIT Surat, T G Sitaram, director IIT-Guwahati, B Bhattacharji, Prof Emeritus IIT-Delhi, A P Mull, advisor TCI, Manu Santhanam from IIT Madras and Pradipta Banerjee from IIT-Bombay. “The Trust constituted the expert committee for review and recommendation on foundation design to ensure longevity considering geotechnical issues, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/indias-best-tech-brains-to-oversee-temple-foundation/articleshow/79712021.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Curfew extension dashes hopes of holding NY party||Ludhiana: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s orders of continuation of night curfew in the state till January 1 have jolted a blow to the hospitality industry and residents. Due to no change in the 10pm deadline of night curfew, the plans to organise New Year parties in the city have been jeopardised. According to those associated with the hospitality industry, the decision has led to majority of the queries related to New Year eve parties getting cancelled and the existing bookings too being put on hold. Both businessmen and residents are demanding that exemption be given in timings for the New Year. Shiv Shankar Rai, general secretary of Punjab Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said, “After many cancellations of marriages and other functions due to night curfew, New Year eve parties were our last hope of generating business. As everyone was anticipating that after December 15 night curfew will be lifted and some people had already made bookings for parties at hotels, banquets, restaurants and private farm houses. But two days back, Punjab government had ordered the continuation of the night curfew till January 1, which means that on December 31 too the night curfew will start at 10pm. As per the existing guidelines, all hospitality industry units will have to shut down by 9.30pm. So, under such circumstances there is no point of organising any New Year party and as a result the existing bookings have either been cancelled or put on hold by the hosts, who are now in a dilemma.” Rai added that, “When the government has already restricted the number of people attending an indoor function to 100 per function, then the night curfew timing should be changed at least on December 31, so that the residents can celebrate this occasion and the hospitality industry too can get some business after months of facing crisis.” According to Amarveer Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, Ludhiana, “The decision to continue the night curfew on December 31 has led to cancellation of queries for New Year parties in the city. It is a genuine problem as parties continue till midnight, so how can a New Year party supposed to end at 9.30pm. Moreover, unlike marriages, no one can organise such a party in the day.” According to Sanjeev Arora, a businessman from Civil Lines, “A week back we had booked a banquet hall of a hotel for New Year party for couples and even deposited advance, thinking that after December 15 the night curfew will be lifted. We had even started making plans about the games and other activities for the party. But in the wake of the state government deciding to continue night curfew, it is impossible for us to go ahead with our planning and we have cancelled the party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/curfew-extension-dashes-hopes-of-holding-ny-party/articleshow/79710196.cms||Mohit Behl
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Institutional, C-section births up in Telangana: NFHS||HYDERABAD: Institutional deliveries have increased from 91.5% to 97%. Similarly, Caesarean section (C-section) deliveries have gone up too from 57.7% to 60%, according to the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) survey. This, despite the focus on reducing C-section deliveries by the state government. The report also stated that 81.5% of births in private sector hospitals and nursing homes were C-section deliveries. The number has gone up from 74.5% during the previous survey, while C -section deliveries conducted in the state-run facilities too jumped from 40.3% to 44. 5%. However, most other parameters related to maternal health have shown improvement. These include mothers having antenatal check-ups in the first trimester, mothers whose last birth was protected against neonatal tetanus, consumption of iron and folic acid during pregnancy, registered pregnancies and receiving post-natal care. Meanwhile, institutional births have gone up from 91.5% during the previous survey (NFHS-4) in 2015-16 to 97%. Nearly 50% of these were recorded in state-run healthcare facilities as per the report. “This shows that only 3% of the deliveries in the state are happening outside medical facilities, mostly at homes. Increase in institutional deliveries in the presence of trained medical personnel go a long way in reducing maternal mortality. That is why there is a lot of focus on increasing institutional deliveries,” a state health department official said, adding the private sector was pushing the C-section delivery numbers high.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nfhs-institutional-c-section-births-up/articleshow/79711001.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttamnagar residents rue sewage spill||SECUNDERABAD: In a bylane on Road No. 10 in Uttamnagar Colony in Malkajgiri GHMC circle where some 20 families reside, sewage water overflows round the year. This is a common sight in some of the bylanes in Uttamnagar Colony but the issue has not been addressed by the officials concerned. The residents’ innumerable pleas to the civic authorities and elected representatives to rectify the problem have fallen on deaf ears. Members of the Uttam Nagar Colony’s residential welfare association (RWA) continue to do the rounds to the GHMC office to get the problem resolved but in vain. “We had raised the issue in the recent GHMC polls when the contestants came to our houses while campaigning. But, a solution to the foul smell and overflowing sewage water has not been found till now,” K Raghavendra Rao, general secretary, Uttamnagar Colony RWA, told TOI. Residents said the open drainage was flooded in the recent rain and blocked. A member of RWA, K Venkat Rao, said the residents were forced to live in unhygienic conditions for the last several months. The RWA is demanding the authorities to lay a new sewerage pipeline to prevent overflowing of the water in the bylanes. GHMC sanitary wing official Nagaraju refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttamnagar-residents-rue-sewage-spill/articleshow/79711018.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||Food supplies for protesting farmers in Delhi border cut off in UP's Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Calling it an "unlawful activity", police and local administration in UP's Pilibhit stopped two tractor-trolleys full of food supplies and other relief materials from leaving for the Delhi-UP border on Saturday night. The food materials, blankets and quilts were all for the protesting farmers.Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav called it "unlawful activity" and said that the “administration cannot allow it".The farmers were violating the restriction imposed in the area against the gathering of five or more persons under section 144 of CrPC, he added. Countering the claims, farmers asked, "How can sending food supplies be unlawful?"Pilibhit sadar circle SDM Avinash Chandra Maurya refused to comment on whether it was "unlawful activity" and the decision to stop the farmers' supplies was a "local one" or had come from the state government.Reacting angrily, the president of UP-Uttarakhand Sikh Organisation, Jasveer Singh Virk, said, “The farmers' protest is a peaceful battle against the three farm laws. This is our legitimate right. The act of stopping the relief materials for farmers in the cold winter is highly condemnable."Virk added that he will talk to top officials in the UP government for uninterrupted food supplies for the protesting farmers.Farmers - Gurpreet Singh, Gagan Deep Singh, Manpreet Singh and Manjinder Singh - from Seramau North village, said they were moving from Puranpur tehsil area when the cops stopped them from travelling any further.The Sikh community forms a large population in Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri and Shahjahanpur. With over 3.5 lakh Sikhs, mainly into farming, this place is also called a "mini-Punjab".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/food-supplies-for-protesting-farmers-in-delhi-border-cut-off-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/79709670.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||MC to take action against CLU defaulters in zone C||Ludhiana: Continuing with their ongoing drive against the defaulters, the civic body is planning to start a sealing drive against the defaulters for recovery of change of land use (CLU) dues in zone C area. Earlier, it had served as many as 200 notices for the same. The officials claimed that enough time had been given to the defaulters for clearing the dues, but neither they cleared the dues, nor they gave any reply to the notices. The notices were served to establishments on Gill road, cycle market and Sua road (in front of GNE College). The civic body had kicked off the drive to recover the pending CLU charges in August from zone D area. As the officials had started serving the notices, a hue and cry had been raised in the entire city. Not only the opposition parties, but also the leaders from the ruling party raised objections over this decision. However, the officials did not budge and continued with their drive. While confirming the same, assistant town planner of zone C Satish Kumar said, “We have served the notices to the defaulters and the time is almost over, so now we will start a sealing drive. If people will clear the dues we will spare them, otherwise there will be strict action against them.” He said the CLU drive was going on in other parts of the city as well. The illegal commercial activities give rise to traffic and parking problems on the main roads. These commercial establishments are not planned accordingly and parking space is not designated near these places, so when people park vehicles, traffic jams take place. Even on main roads many illegal commercial activities are going on in the entire city. Survey of illegal colonies to take one week Akali Dal councillor Jaspal Giaspura in the MC general house meeting on November 10 had complained against mushrooming of illegal colonies in zone C area and inefficiency of the civic body officials was also highlighted. The officials of the building branch had started a survey of illegal colonies in Giaspura, Lohara and Daba area. They claimed that it would take one week more to complete this survey and after that they would either demolish the illegal colonies or recovery would be done from defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-to-take-action-against-clu-defaulters-in-zone-c/articleshow/79710211.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Counselling for law admission to begin today||HYDERABAD: Counselling process for admission into three-year LLB, five-year integrated LLB and two-year LLM course offered by varsities in the state will commence from Monday. According to a press release issued by the convenor of Telangana Lawcet/PGLCET, candidates have to upload the scanned copies of original certificates for preliminary certificate verification. Total 21,559 candidates have qualified in the Lawcet/PGLCET-2020. As per the notification, candidates can register and verify their certificates from December 14-22. Physical verification of special category certificates by slot booking will be held from December 19-22. The list of registered candidates will be declared on December 24 following which candidates can exercise web-options from December 26-27. “Candidates have to pay non-refundable processing fee of Rs 800 and Rs 500 in case of SC/ST candidates towards registration-cum-verification process which has to be paid online,” read the notification. The list of provisionally selected candidates will be prepared college-wise and placed on the website on December 29. Candidates have to report to their allotted college from December 29-31 and classwork will begin from December 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/counselling-for-law-admission-to-begin-today/articleshow/79711037.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||STF nabs agent for hacking rail ticket booking||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) on Sunday arrested a travel agent in Basti for duplicating IRCTC software and booking train tickets illegally. The accused, Saddam Husain Ansari (30), holds a diploma in computer science. The team recovered 243 used tatkal tickets, two tatkal tickets for a journey in the days to come, a mobile phone, two laptops and other items. Deputy superintendent of police, STF, Deepak Singh said Hussain used specialised softwares to bypass genuine procedure. Singh said genuine booking website has an option for auto fill-up of details so that time can be saved when it opens for Tatkal bookings at 10 am for AC coaches and at 11am for sleeper class. “Ansari used several low-grade softwares and shared it with other operators and agents so that they can fill details and keep it ready and upload it the moment the site opens for booking,” he said. He charged Rs 50 on every ticket booked through his software. Singh said Ansari used to install different software extensions in laptop and used it to bypass Captcha (a challenge-response test to determine that the user is not a machine) and used to autoread one-time password (OTP) needed at the time of online booking within 60 seconds. “Booking of tatkal ticket at the counter consumes 1.30-2.30 minutes but with low-grade softwares the gang members used to do the work faster,” said Singh. The officer said a WhatsApp group found in Ansari’s phone had 24 members who used the same softwares to book tatkal tickets. “They are based in Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala, Bihar and Delhi. A case has been registered against Ansari at Lucknow cyber police station,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-nabs-agent-for-hacking-rail-ticket-booking/articleshow/79712044.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: PRC to submit report on pay revision this month||HYDERABAD: After much delay, the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) is set to submit its report on pay revision of employees to the government this month. If the report is validated, the pay hike might be implemented in April 2021. Sources said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao might meet the government employees and explain the state’s financial position. “The state government’s financial situation is not good for implementing PRC in a big way. It could be around 30%, but even that will add another Rs 1,300 crore burden on the exchequer,” the sources said. If the pay hike is implemented, it will be the first in the state after its formation. The issues of interim relief, enhancement of retirement age and PRC are pending with the government. “We are hopeful that we will get some benefit in tune with the financial condition of the state,” a state government employee said on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prc-to-submit-report-on-pay-revision-this-month/articleshow/79711043.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 14, 2020||Surat||Worker killed with 36 blows of iron rod in Gujarat||SURAT: A 23-year-old man was arrested for allegedly beating his co-worker in an embroidery unit to death with an iron rod following a quarrel at Bhagyodaya industrial estate in Puna on Saturday morning. The deceased, Ram Kumar (28), was working in the embroidery unit with another co-worker when he had a spat with the accused, Dharmendra Yadav (23), who used to sleep outside the unit. Few days ago, the unit owner had sacked Yadav from the job and had told the staff members strictly not to allow him inside the unit. Police said that Yadav was suffering from depression and that he had lost his mental balance. Following the tiff with the deceased, the accused pulled out the iron rod and started hitting him with it. Kumar ran out of the unit. However, he slipped on the road and collapsed as he was hit multiple times on the head and other parts of the body. V U Gadariya, inspector with Puna police station, told TOI: “The accused looked mentally disturbed from his appearance and talks. He got angry when the victim told him not to enter the unit as he was fired by their boss. This irked the accused so much that he attacked the victim with an iron rod. The victim was hit about 36 times with the rod, and the entire incident was captured on the CCTV camera.” Gadariya added: “The accused has been arrested and has been sent for the mandatory Covid-19 test at the New Civil Hospital. He will be produced before a court on Monday. A case of murder has been registered against the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/worker-killed-with-36-blows-of-iron-rod/articleshow/79710218.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: University scholars seek more time to submit thesis||HYDERABAD: Research scholars in several universities are in a fix as the six-month grace period granted to them for final submission of their theses concludes on December 31. While the University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked universities to grant an extension till June 30, 2021, state and central universities in Telangana are yet to adopt the guidelines. Research scholars rue that the grace period has not been fruitful as many universities are yet to allow them to return to the campus. “Return of research scholars from science departments began only in October and the sixth and fifth semester PhD scholars and fourth semester MPhil scholars of humanities, social sciences and SN School have not yet returned to campus. Practically, the given grace period has not been fruitful as most scholars could not utilise this period,” said Abhishek Nandan, president, University of Hyderabad (UoH) students’ union. Following the recent UGC notification, research scholars have now sought further extension of six months to submit their theses, till June 2021, and expedite the process of return to campus, especially from non-science departments. “Due to the lockdown, we were not allowed to be on the campus. Due to this, we did not have access to the library and could not gather adequate material to finalise our theses. We must get an extension where we are allowed to return to the campus,” said A Murali, research scholar at Osmania University. The UoH and the OU authorities are now in the process of adopting the UGC guidelines. “We do intend to adopt the UGC guidelines. The controller of examination will issue a notification in a day or two adopting the UGC guidelines by listing down the repercussions it will have on student registration, fee payment and other aspects for the next academic year,” said Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson, UoH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/university-scholars-seek-more-time-to-submit-thesis/articleshow/79711039.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Existing infra adequate for phased vaccination: Experts||PUNE: A Covid vaccine rollout in snatches is unlikely to pose a challenge for India, a country with vast experience in mass vaccination programmes such as Pulse Polio and Mission Indradhanush, experts have said. Raj Shankar Ghosh, senior advisor (vaccine delivery) at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (which is working with the Union health ministry) said existing cold storage capacity will be adequate for phase-wise deployment of a shot that needs 2 to 8°C for storage.  ‘Gap assessment’ is key, Ghosh said. “India has done gap analysis of its cold chain network. Covax — a worldwide team-up to ensure access to anti-Covid tools and vaccines — and internal resources will be used to fill gaps. In terms of gaps in human resource, states will pull in more vaccinators from the public and private sectors.” The expert added, “India’s strength lies in our experience with large vaccination programmes. The ability to innovate among frontline workers and programme managers at the planning level has helped to overcome many obstacles.” Hyderabad-based public health expert Leo Vaz underscored the pivotal role played by auxiliary nurse and midwives (ANMs). A back-of-the-envelope calculation explained how much India will go on to rely on these workers — described as the backbone of the public healthcare system — for Covid vaccinations. “From our 2.39 lakh ANMs, the government wants to dedicate 1.5 lakh to Covid vaccination. If every ANM vaccinates 30 people daily, we can expect to cover over 10 crore people in a month. The high-risk population of 30 crore (that will need 60 crore doses) can then be covered in about seven to eight months,” Vaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/existing-infra-adequate-for-phased-vaccination-experts/articleshow/79711054.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Roti, kapda & makaan. But no water... until now||NEW DELHI: For 15 years after being sent to the resettlement colony of Savda Ghevra in northwest Delhi, Nazmeen struggled for potable water. Allotted a plot of 12 square yards, she had to build a new house for herself in a place that lacked basic amenities like lanes, electricity connections and tapped water. Her daily kilometres-long expeditions with other women to haul water home is now coming to an end. The residents of Savda Ghevra have finally begun receiving water connections through Delhi Jal Board. “When we were relocated here, this entire area was barren. It was almost like an agricultural expanse, lacking all civic infrastructure,” recalled the 43-year-old Nazmeen. “While we somehow managed to create houses and roads for ourselves, water was a huge problem. We were forced to walk kilometres to fetch water.” In 2007, DJB started sending water tankers to the locality, but the people, mostly women, had to queue up for several hours to get enough water to drink and bathe. According to the locals, things began to change in 2008 when the women formed a community action group (CAG) to represent the colony and approach the government for access to basic amenities. Veena Bharadwaj, coordinator at Mahila Housing Trust, an NGO which began working with the women in 2007 and has been a part of the change in the area, explained that such groups were created in many localities to empower women and drive social change locally. “The initial priority for Savda Ghevra CAG was to get the community toilets, sewage lines, water pipelines and electricity,” Bharadwaj said. “The CAG began to approach the government, and slowly things started moving. Today, legal water connections are finally being provided to the house owners.” Bharadwaj revealed that the approvals for getting water connections were completed in March, but the lockdown delayed things after that. “Only after the relaxation of the lockdown did the process resume and water connections began to be installed. Piped water will greatly improve the quality of life in Savda Ghevra,” she said. Zarina, a CAG member, said after the resettlement process, it took her several years to begin working again. “How can you go to work when you have to stand in a queue and wait for the water tanker for hours or walk long distances even for basic necessities?” she asked. But Zarina, who stitches clothes for a living, said changes gradually came to the colony. “Now, a water connection for each household, especially during Covid times, will reduce the need to go out of the house,” she said. The area still lacks a sewage connection, and the women are working on it. “The colony has community toilets, and sewerage will follow, enabling houses to have toilets,” said Anamika, who works at a shoe store. She recalled losing everything after the eviction and having to start life afresh in a difficult place. “Something as basic as a water connection means we don’t have to fight and struggle each day for water,” she smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/roti-kapda-makaan-but-no-water-until-now-15-years-on-resettlement-colony-of-savda-ghevra-starts-getting-water-connections/articleshow/79712071.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rebuild Kerala Initiative fails to make much progress||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government’s much-flaunted Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI), that was launched immediately after the floods of 2018, has failed to make any substantial progress even after two years of its launch. As per figures of state planning board, the percentage of expenditure in RKI which was nil in 2019-20, is moving at a snail’s pace in the current financial year too. In 2020-21, with only under four months for completion of the fiscal, RKI has spent only Rs 153.37 crore of the Rs 1,000crore earmarked for the initiative, amounting to just 15.37% (till December 9). The components under RKI for which funds were allocated in the ongoing fiscal includes reconstruction of roads of local self-governments (LSGs), livelihood support, reconstruction of PWD roads and bridges and reconstruction and maintenance of public buildings. The government earmarked Rs 250 crore for each of these four sectors. Of them, Rs 151.5 crore was spent in the livelihood support category that forms 60.6% of total fund earmarked for the sector. For roads of LSGs, the expenditure is just Rs 1.9 crore, i.e. a meagre 0.76% of total outlay. In the other two sectors, no money has been spent yet, as per the planning board’s figures. Though the same amount was earmarked for all four sectors in the last fiscal, the expenditure was nil. Even though RKI has not made any progress on the reconstruction front, it has been in the news for ignominious reasons. The government received Rs 1,779.6 crore from the World Bank as first instalment towards RKI on September 4, 2019, with the condition that the money should be transferred to RKI within seven days of receiving it. But it was spent on salaries of state government officials. This year, amid the financial crunch due to Covid-19 and irrespective of its negligible physical achievements, the government allocated Rs 1 crore for advertisement charges and consultation fee on behalf of RKI. RKI had run into controversy last year when it decided to hire a private space outside the Secretariat campus for its office and spent Rs 88 lakh for furnishing it, when enough space was available on the government premises. The chief minister had supported the decision of RKI in the assembly, and had said that RKI is not part of Secretariat and it would need its own infrastructure for planning, liaising and executing its programmes. Finance department sources said that the results of RKI may not be visible immediately as it is a long-term strategy to rebuild the state, taking into consideration international examples, in a three-pronged manner. “The first level is to find areas where investment is required and complete it in a time-bound manner. Strengthening institutions and improving efficiency of employees is the second level, and making changes in the state’s policies by considering climatic changes is the third. All these will materialize only in the long run,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rebuild-kerala-initiative-fails-to-make-much-progress/articleshow/79710234.cms||KP Saikiran
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Telangana CM heading towards Narendra Modi-front’||HYDERABAD: Congress MLC T Jeevan Reddy on Sunday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao pushed the state into a debt trap in the last seven years with the overall debt of the state government likely to reach Rs 3 lakh crore soon. Referring to the TRS government completing two years in office in its second term, the Congress MLC said the chief minister has failed to even ensure regular vice-chancellors were appointed to the universities in the state. On chief minister seeking national status for Kaleshwaram project, the Congress leader said it was surprising that KCR was seeking national status after announcing that the project has been completed. “KCR had announced the formation of a federal front. But the way he met PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, it looks like he is heading more towards Modi-front,” Jeevan Reddy alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-heading-towards-modi-front/articleshow/79711046.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Gang selling mobile handsets sans IMEI numbers busted||Lucknow: Barabanki police on Sunday busted a gang of criminals from Nagpur who used to visit villages in swanky cars and dupe people by selling them mobile phones without IMEI numbers. Senior officials said despite the fact that no mobile phone can connect to any cellular network if it does not have an IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) number, the seized handsets had proper connectivity. As such phones may pose a threat to country’s security, cops have decided to inform the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) about the seizure for detailed probe. Police arrested three people – Devraj Anand, Rameshwar Taywade and Radheyshyam Rao – after the residents of Behadpurwa village in Kursi informed senior officials that a person from Maharashtra was trying to sell mobile phones to them. A police team rounded up the gang members and found that the mobile phones being sold by them did not have IMEI numbers. At least 52 mobile phones (without IMEI numbers), Rs 35,000 cash and a sedan, with a Nagpur registration number, worth Rs 12 lakh were recovered from them. SP, Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi said, “In 2012, the government of India had issued a circular stating that no mobile handset without an IMEI number will operate on any mobile network in India.” He said the accused men informed the police that they purchased such mobile phones from grey markets in Mumbai. “The gang has been running the racket for last three years. They purchased phones without IMEI numbers and used the bodies of branded phones which cost them Rs 300-500 to make it look original. They then pasted stickers bearing fake IMEI numbers. The gang sold these phones at Rs 10,000 per piece, claiming it to be original handsets,” said Chaturvedi. “We will inform IB and RAW about such practice as this may pose a threat to national security. If a phone does not have an IMEI number, it cannot be traced and call details cannot be procured. The central agencies will probe as to how cellular networks were running on such handsets,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gang-selling-mobile-handsets-sans-imei-numbers-busted/articleshow/79712061.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Agra||Aligarh doctor dies after falling into pit dug by civic body||Agra: A 45-year-old doctor, Rajeev Kumar Gupta, died on Sunday morning after falling into an open pit dug by the municipal corporation workers to lay underground an pipeline in Aligarh’s Mahendranagar area. Police registered an FIR under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against six persons, including the municipal commissioner, mayor and irrigation department officials on the basis of a complaint filed by the deceased’s family at Sasni Gate police station, said city circle officer Sudesh Gupta.The deceased’s wife, Rashmi Gupta, said Dr Gupta had gone out to buy milk when the tragedy happened around 6 am. He fell into a 4-ft-deep pit, she stated in the FIR. The CCTV footage of the incident also shows that he slipped after losing his balance while trying to take out his bike that had got stuck on the broken road. Locals rushed him to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Local residents staged a protest against the civic body, accusing it of gross negligence while carrying out digging of the roads across the city and not repairing them properly, thus posing a risk to the lives of people. The deceased’s relative, Madhubala Gupta, an RSS office bearer in Aligarh, said the civic body workers filled up the open pits after the accident to save themselves. “Such incidents can happen with anyone. Police should have taken strict action against the civic body workers,” she said. The government should provide financial assistance to the family, along with a job to the deceased’s kin, as the family is not economically sound, she added.City magistrate Vineet Kumar said Dr Rajeev Gupta died due to head injuries after falling into the pit. He said, “Jal Nigam workers had dug up the road to lay an underground pipe.” Dr Gupta is survived by two daughters -- Mansi (18), Nayansi (17) -- son Pushkar (15) and wife Rashmi, who is a teacher. His elder daughter is deaf and dumb and the younger one is preparing for MBBS. Dr Gupta was preparing to celebrate his 22nd wedding anniversary on Monday, said his relative. He was a BUMS doctor and had a clinic at Babri Mandi. The board in the clinic mentions Dr Gupta as a skin and child specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-doctor-dies-after-falling-into-pit-dug-by-civic-body/articleshow/79709690.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s scheme benefits 3.5L girls, achieves 70% target||Lucknow: The state government has managed to achieve 70% of the target set for the implementation of its ambitious Scheme for Adolescent Girls (SAG), which seeks to improve nutritional, health and development status of girls between 11 and 14 years of age. The target has been achieved within months after the scheme, which currently covers 53 districts, was rolled out in the state. The scheme was launched in February this year. A government spokesman said the scheme has reached out to 3.5 lakh adolescent girls, as against the target of 5 lakh in a year. The scheme seeks to provide girls with opportunities to learn life skills, go back to school, gain better understanding of social environment and become productive members of the society. Under the scheme, food containing grains like millet, wheat, corn, black gram and desi ghee is provided to girls as supplementary diet. In 22 districts, they are provided daliya and laddoo premix every month. They are also being given tablets of iron, calcium, folic acid and Vitamin C. In view of Covid-19 restrictions, the scheme is being carried out with the support of self-help groups which are facilitating door-to-door services through Anganwadi workers who have been distributing ration like rice, pulses, lentils, skimmed milk powder and desi ghee. Over 1.6 lakh Anganwadi centres and more than 22,000 mini Anganwadi centres of 987 schemes under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) are being successfully operated in the state, focusing on the all-round development of children (aged between six months and six years), pregnant women and midwives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-scheme-benefits-3-5l-girls-achieves-70-target/articleshow/79712064.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP youth wing launches drive to update addresses in Secunderabad Cantonment||SECUNDERABAD: The BJP youth wing on Sunday launched a drive in Secunderabad Cantonment to check and update addresses in key documents such as Aadhaar card, voter ID card, ration card and passport. Though Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) officials had completed a new house numbering project of 60,000 properties, including residential and commercial, in 2016, the officials could not set up camps to update the existing and old house numbers to add new house numbers. As a result, some families still have old house numbers mentioned in their key documents issued by the state and central government agencies. The issue came to light after revenue officials conducted an enumeration survey of flood-affected victims for distribution of Rs 10,000 relief. “The disbursement process was done based on the victims’ Aadhaar card details having old house numbers,” a revenue official said. “Inititally, we had launched this drive in SCB ward No. IV. We will set up camps in each ward with UIDAI officials for updation. After the updation is complete people can apply for important documents with new house numbers” Secunderabad Cantonment BJP leader G Shravan Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-youth-wing-launches-drive-to-update-addresses-in-cantt/articleshow/79711051.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Freight loading in Hyderabad division improves||HYDERABAD: The freight loading of South Central Railway (SCR) in Hyderabad division has shown significant improvement during the current financial year by loading 1.06 MTs, which is nearly 60% more than the freight loading during the same period of the previous financial year. Also, for the third consecutive month, the zone has recorded freight loading of 9.3 MTs during the month of November 2020 compared to the loading of 8.9 MT recorded during November 2019. According to the officials, turmeric was loaded from Nizamabad to Bangladesh this year for the first time. The new traffic started this year also includes iron ore and quartz chips from Veldurti station, maize from Nizamabad station and boiled rice from Kaukuntla. In total, about 0.847 MTs of foodgrains were transported this year, which is almost double during the same period last year. Last year, SCR transported 0.435 MTs of foodgrains by November. “SCR has taken special interest and monitored the zonal freight loading and conducted regular review meetings with all the departments for better coordination in maintaining the growth in the freight segment. The movement of freight trains has also been given due importance and regularly monitored at all levels,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya. The average speed of freight trains in November was around 50 kmph, which is an improvement of 85% when compared to 27 kmph registered in the same month last year. This apart, the Hyderabad division facilitated freight customers for loading in mini rakes — 20 wagons instead of full rake of 40 wagons— which further enhanced the loading in transportation of maize, iron ore and stone chips to major destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/freight-loading-in-hyd-division-improves/articleshow/79711048.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Wedding called off after groom’s friends drag bride to dance floor||BAREILLY: A wedding was going on smoothly all according to the plan at a village in Uttar Pradesh until the bride was dragged to the dance floor by some of the groom's friends. Her kin fiercely objected. It led to a heated argument. And what seemed to be a perfect wedding, turned ugly. The wedding was called off. Police were asked to intervene. The bride's family lodged an official complaint. As a settlement, the groom's parents had to shell out Rs 6.5 lakh. Earlier, on Friday, the bride and her family had arrived in Bareilly in style. They were preparing for a grand ceremony. There were a few initial anxious moments, though. Some inebriated guests were involved in cheap thrills. His family was also looking for more dowry, the bride’s cousin said. After the quarrel, it was all over. The bride decided to return home. "I respect her decision. I cannot force her to marry a person who doesn’t respect her," the bride's father said. The bride's family belongs to Kannauj district. And the groom is from a village in the Bithri Chainpur area. Both the groom and bride are post-graduates. A common relative acted as the go-between for the wedding. “I was involved in preparations when guests from both sides started misbehaving. But, no one misbehaved with the bride. The groom doesn’t even drink,” a visibly upset intermediary said, blaming guests from both sides for the "dance" incident. Bithri Chainpur SHO Ashok Kumar Singh explained, “The wedding has been called off. The woman’s family had given a dowry complaint. No FIR was registered since it is an issue between two families. They reached a settlement." In a last-ditch effort, the groom’s kin on Sunday tried to convince the other side to re-arrange a simple wedding, but the bride refused. "The groom’s friends misbehaved with my sister. In our family, we don't allow women to dance in public," the bride's cousin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wedding-called-off-after-grooms-friends-drag-bride-to-dance-floor/articleshow/79709697.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vaccine trial: Families, friends unite to get jab done in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Call it a trial by solidarity or trust to sail together — Sola Civil Hospital officials said that citizens often come in small groups of three to five for the Covaxin trial shots. They include family members or a group of professionals, including doctors. Dr Parul Bhatt, professor and the head of the medicine department at GMERS Sola Medical College, said that over 300 volunteers have been administered the shot. Dr Bhatt is also the principal investigator of the vaccine trials. “Several volunteers come in groups. Perhaps people feel safer together,” she said. “They believe they can check on each other for any adverse effects, or reckon that follow-ups with the hospital will be easier.” Dr Bhatt added: “A positive peer influence also works as sometimes the volunteers spread the word about the vaccine trials.” Dr Bhatt said that the volunteers have come from almost all social strata and varied backgrounds — ranging from housewives to doctors. While Amdavadis form a major chunk of the volunteers, some are from Gandhinagar. Those associated with the process said that news about vaccine development accounts for the majority of the frequently asked questions (FAQs) including side effects, commercial availability, comparison with other vaccines, and suitable candidates. “We tell volunteers that it’s a trial vaccine — in form of a 0.5ml injectable whole virion. The first shot is of the vaccine whereas the second one is a booster dose,” said Dr Bhatt. “The impact can be assessed two weeks after both the doses. So far, we have not recorded any side effects — swelling, redness, itching or fever 24 hours after the shot can be expected, which are temporary in nature.” Dr Bhatt added that the initial results of the nationwide trial will determine whether the vaccine will be available for a wider population. Vaccines being developed across the world work on different methodologies, said experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccine-trial-families-friends-unite-to-get-jab-done/articleshow/79712073.cms||Parth Shastri
December 14, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Correct messaging key in fight against rumours, say health experts||PUNE: Combating rumours, misinformation and ensuring minimal disruption of routine health services will be key challenges during the vaccine rollout in the state, health experts have said. The specialists called for a robust communication plan to ensure citizens have the right information on the vaccines. “We should have adequate communication material printed and disseminated in time,” said Sanjay Patil, vice president of Indian Medical Association’s state unit. Patil said, “Identifying vaccinators from government and private sectors can minimize disruption of routine immunization services during the Covid vaccination programme.” Experts added that mapping human resources across departments — that could be deployed for vaccination sessions, verification of beneficiaries and crowd management — will be equally important. “The whole vaccination campaign has to be monitored closely and rigorously,” said public health expert Sanjiv Kumar, chairperson of the Indian Academy of Public Health and Indian Alliance of Patients Group. “Any adverse event can derail the whole process. So, all such events must be dealt with promptly and accurately, including briefings for the media,” Kumar said. The Covid vaccination plan will involve transport, storage and distribution on an unprecedented scale. Kumar said, “We are aiming at numbers and age groups never reached before in a vaccination programme. You can get a vaccine to a vaccination site, but it is the target population that needs to turn up for the shots. This requires massive social mobilization. We need to involve everyone — from local government officials, religious leaders, residents’ associations, local leaders, civil society organizations and other volunteers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/correct-messaging-key-in-fight-against-rumours/articleshow/79711060.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 14, 2020||Pune||Winter blues for those suffering from depression||PUNE: Winter is a tough time for those dealing with depression, anxiety and other mental health issues. The season will be even more difficult with the added stress of the pandemic, said psychologists. Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), caused by the onset of winter due to factors such as reduced sunlight, change in one’s body clock, and a general gloom, is fast becoming a major concern. Psychologist Sushmita Ganguly said, “SAD is not to be taken lightly. It is a result of a chemical imbalance in the brain as it produces more melatonin, a hormone that helps you sleep, and less serotonin, a neurotransmitter that regulates your mood. This imbalance can deeply aggravate underlying mental health conditions and thus demands proper care. Symptoms can range from feeling gloomy, losing interest in activities, changes in appetite and sleep patterns, fatigue, difficulty in decision-making and can be as severe as having suicidal thoughts.” Ashutosh Sehkaria, a clinical psychologist, said, “It is true many were suffering from disrupted sleep patterns, fatigue and mood swings due to prolonged lockdown, they must be wary whether condition is getting worse with temperature drop.” “A popular treatment is phototherapy where you project your body to bright light to help sync your body clock. Relaxation techniques such as meditation and yoga are also effective,”said Ekta Singh, psychologist. Good food and exercise can bring not just the body, but also the mind back to health. Pragati Bapat, a psychologist, said, “It is vital to keep a check on your diet. food. Talking to your therapist, psychologist or psychiatrist will help find right course of treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/winter-blues-for-those-suffering-from-depression/articleshow/79711069.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Surat||NGT raps pollution watchdog in Dadra for disobeying its orders||Surat: National Green Tribunal (NGT) has rapped the Pollution Control Committee (PCC) of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), Diu and Daman for violating its orders and not allowing an to operate his unit to manufacture fly ash blocks and bricks in Silvassa’s Kherdi.A principal bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel on December 9 directed the chairman of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to take act against the erring officers of the PCC and remedial action immediately to ensure that the unit, whose activity falls under the ‘Green Category’, to start operations in the territory.The NGT’s rap follows the PCC’s inaction in restarting the unit in Silvassa, despite three orders passed by the NGT since September 2019.Platinum ACC Blocks Private Limited, a company manufacturing fly ash bricks and blocks since 2018 at Silvassa’s Kherdi village was given closure notice by the PCC on May 2019 stating that the unit was set up violating provisions of Water Act, 1974 and Air Act, 1981.The PCC further observed that such an industry falls under the red category and it should be located within the locality of thermal power plants or near cement plants to avoid hazardous transportation of fly ash by road.The company’s chairman Dilip Kadivar, however, filed an application with the NGT on September 19, 2019 stating that utilisation of fly ash does not come under red category industry. A joint committee comprising CPCB and PCC was formed by the NGT. The CPCB filed a report on November 27, 2019 concluding that fly ash export, transport and disposal facility falls under ‘green category and that fly ash bricks and blocks also falls under the ‘green category’.On January 17, NGT passed an order directing the PCC to harmonise the categorisation of industries in compliance of modified directions issued by the CBCB under ‘red, white and green category”. However, after the PCC failed to take remedial action, NGT forwarded a copy of the order to the advisor of the Union Territory, Daman Diu and Dadra Nagar Haveli to consider action against PPC’s erring officer on September 14, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ngt-raps-pollution-watchdog-in-dadra-for-disobeying-its-orders/articleshow/79710239.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Agra||31 fresh Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 9,851||Agra: At least 31 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 9,851. The patients included two staffers of the district hospital. Besides, there were three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and one kidney patient. Also, 78 Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Out of the 9,851 cases reported in the district, 94.8% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 382 on Saturday, to 335 on Sunday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.5%. So far, 9,347 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/31-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9851/articleshow/79709705.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Archeology: HC seeks info on vacant teaching posts||Madurai: Madras high court has sought response from universities in the state over teaching posts lying vacant in archeology and allied courses due to which the courses were reportedly not being conducted properly. Deputy director of state archeology department R Sivanandam submitted that archeology courses are available in Tamil University in Thanjavur and University of Madras, Chennai, and more students were interested in archeology and epigraphy. There are prospects for students in the department as well as in ASI. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi suo-motu impleaded the registrars of the universities as respondents and sought response as to whether the teaching posts have been filled and how many were vacant. The judges said that with regard to the appointment to be made in the archeology department, it was stated that examinations were conducted, results were published and the postings would be made soon. The judges said the salary of Rs 5,000 given to caretakers of monuments, which are treasures of the nation, is less. Hence the judges directed the government to consider increasing their salary and pass necessary orders before December 17.The judges sought response from the Centre as to when permission would be granted for excavation at Keeladi, Adichanallur, Sivakalai, Kodumanal, Mayiladumparai, Korkai and Gangaikonda Cholapuram for which the state archeology department had sent proposal to ASI. The case was adjourned to December 18. The court was hearing a PIL plea filed by S Kamaraj who sought to carry out archaeological excavation at Sivakalai in Tuticorin district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/archeology-hc-seeks-info-on-vacant-teaching-posts/articleshow/79711074.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Over 100 acres reclaimed at Vagamon and Munnar||IDUKKI: In a major anti-encroachment drive, the revenue department on Sunday took over around 100 acres of usurped land at Vagamon and Munnar. The revenue department officials, who took over the land based on a high court order, said 17 acres usurped by Tall Tree Resort group at Pothamedu in Munnar and 79 acres encroached upon by a Kochi resident, Cyril P Jacob, were among the land holdings reclaimed by the government. The land at Pothamedu was encroached upon by furnishing fake title deeds and comes under survey numbers 231, 241 and 243. Jacob had usurped the government land at Uluppuni near Vagamon about 10 years ago. Later, he transferred the land holdings under the name of a hotel and resorts group. Three cottages were constructed and plans were on to construct several more. The encroachers used the 24 title deeds issued in the names of 16 persons to take over the land holdings. During a verification drive, the title deeds were found to be issued for other plots, Idukki district collector H Dinesan said. “It is one of the most major encroachment drives carried out in recent times. The revenue department will continue such actions,” said the collector. “The appeals filed by the encroachers were rejected by the district collector in 2010. The Tall Tree Resort group then moved the land revenue commissioner, which dismissed their claims. They then approached the high court, which again refused to entertain their pleas and issued a directive to the collector to take over the land,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan. The revenue department had taken over a resort and the land at Anayirangal near Munnar owned by Vellukunnel Jimmy Zakaria in October after finding that the title deeds of the properties, covering around 3.68 hectares, were forged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/over-100-acres-reclaimed-at-vagamon-and-munnar/articleshow/79710246.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Pandemic delays new poll rules for housing societies||PUNE: Cooperative housing societies are waiting for the government to publish new rules for management committee elections, though the draft rules were submitted last year. The Federation of Cooperative Housing Societies (FCHS) said it suggested modifications in the draft rules to allow elections to be conducted in societies with fewer than 250 members last year. FCHS chairman Suhas Patwardhan, who was appointed by the state government to help frame of the rules of the Maharashtra Cooperative Act, said, “We have been regularly following this up with the state government. I believe all the procedures have been completed and the rules are ready to be published. We are not aware of what the hold up is, but the government is saying that they will be published soon. We don’t have a specific time frame, though,” Patwardhan said. He said housing societies would not be able hold elections till they have the rules. “Though elections are a mere formality for smaller housing societies, it is still an important process,” he added. In many housing societies, the same set of residents has been serving on the management committee for the past two or three years, although there were few complaints. “We have had the same people running the managing committee of our society for three years. We do not think anything will change when we are allowed to hold the elections. Residents are happy with the current management,” a managing committee member of a single-building housing society in Kondhwa, which has fewer than 250 members, said. A member of a similar housing society in the NIBM Road area said there were additional responsibilities on the office-bearers due to the pandemic this year. “We had to be extra vigilant in implementing the rules so that residents are safe during the pandemic, and our efforts have been appreciated. Our office-bearers will most probably remain the same, even when the new set of rules are published and we hold the election,” the member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-delays-new-poll-rules-for-housing-societies/articleshow/79711072.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Surat||Consumer Court raps contractors for leaving a house incomplete||SURAT: Observing it to be a case of of deficiency in services and unfair trade practices, the Navsari District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission ordered two construction contractors to either finish their incomplete work or pay the complainant Rs 2.15 lakh with seven percent interest from July 2018. Complainant Baldev Patel, 55, a resident of Nogama village in Chikhli taluka of Navsari district, had given a contract to Vinod Patodiya and Akshay Patodiya to construct his house for Rs 10 lakh. According to the case, the house, spread over 38 feet in length and 11 feet wide, was to be built with ground plus one floor in Nogama village. Patel entered into a written agreement with the contractors in 2017 for the construction work and had also paid Rs 9 lakh as the work progressed. However, according to his complaint, the contractors did not complete their work and demanded payment of the remaining amount when he contacted one of them. The contractor allegedly told him that he would have to pay Rs 1 lakh first, or otherwise they would not finish the work. Patel then carried out an estimate of the expenditure of the remaining work including plaster, plumbing, water proofing, toilet, windows, water connections and colour which came out to be Rs 3.15 lakh. As he had only Rs 1 lakh to pay as per the agreement, Patel lodged a complaint against the contractors with the consumer court demanding Rs 2.15 lakh for leaving his house incomplete. “Going through the evidence, we believe that by not completing the work, the contractors were deficient in their services and indulged in unfair trade practices. So, we order them to complete the remaining work or failing to do so, they will have to pay Rs 2.15 lakh to Patel with seven percent interest effective from July 2018,” court ordered. The court also ordered the contractor duo to pay Rs 2,500 to the complainant as compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/consumer-court-raps-contractors-for-leaving-a-house-incomplete/articleshow/79710270.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||‘Biz applications on Nivesh Mitra only’||Lucknow: UP chief secretary RK Tewari has instructed various departments to issue government orders prohibiting offline acceptance of entrepreneurs’ application The directive comes amid complaints of some departments accepting offline applications, compelling entrepreneurs to personally visit departmental offices to submit hard copies of required documents. Tewari said that the practice was unacceptable and contrary to state government’s commitment to improve ease of doing business in UP. He said that the processing be done online on a single window portal, Nivesh Mitra. The chief secretary categorically warned of taking strict departmental and disciplinary action in case the practice persists. He issued direction to additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries of all related departments to ensure that application of entrepreneurs for obtaining various clearances to run their business or industrial units must be accepted exclusively online without permission. Tewari asked the ACS and principal secretaries to review the compliance of these directions on monthly basis and penalise any officer found in violation of the same. The departments have been asked to share a copy of the government order with the `Invest UP’ by December 31. Additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar stated that as an important component of improving ease of doing business in the state, 2,35,492 clearances had been issued through the single window portal Nivesh Mitra within the specified time lines since the launch of new system in February 2018 by PM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biz-applications-on-nivesh-mitra-only/articleshow/79712066.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Pune||Post-Covid care facilities get poor response as patients prefer pvt docs||Pune: Post-Covid management centres in the district, aimed at addressing the health complaints of those who recovered from the contagion, have found few takers. As per Pune Municipal Corporation data, just 187 people have been examined till December 10 at the three facilities in its limits, while the centre, proposed to be set up at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, has yet to become functional. “We are waiting to procure cardio-respiratory equipment to from the corporate social responsibility funds,” YCMH dean Rajendra Wabale said, adding they must have checked only 5-10 people for post-Covid complications. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had said they expected 10-15% of recovered people to approach these facilities. PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said they observed that many recovered patients prefer post-Covid care at the hands of their family physicians. Pune zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad said they had 29 centres. “We have clear instructions on treating a Covid-positive patient, but no information about treating recovered patients,” Prasad said, adding they refer such cases to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. “So far, we must have referred over 3,000 patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/post-covid-care-facilities-get-poor-response-as-patients-prefer-pvt-docs/articleshow/79711070.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid vaccine: 40,000 health workers first in line in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has identified and readied a list of 40,000 healthcare workers in the city, who will be vaccinated in the first phase. Civic body officials have also identified 50,000 front-line workers who will be vaccinated in the second phase. The corporation has begun a survey in the city to identify people above 50 years who will be vaccinated in the third phase. The survey will conclude by the end of next week, after which the exact figure of people to be vaccinated in the third phase will be ascertained. Officials said that around 15% of the city population is in the age group of above 50 years. The city population according to 2011 Census is 55.7 lakh. The health department is also scanning the voters’ list to identify people aged 50 and above. This will then be matched with the data of the survey teams. The officials said they are ensuring no one above 50 is left out. The officials said that the AMC has a total of 100 ice-lined refrigerators which can store about 150 vials. “The exact storage cannot be estimated as one never knows which vaccine will be coming and how many vaccines will be there in one vial,” an official said. “These ice-lined refrigerators are available at each of the seven zones in the city. Also, another 20 of these refrigerators will be supplied shortly by an agency. In case of emergency, the AMC will also take help of private agencies for storage of the vaccines and talks are already on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/40000-health-workers-1st-in-line/articleshow/79712063.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Agra||Protesting arrest of farmer leader, women block Yamuna Expressway||Agra: Protesting the arrest of farmers’ leader Rambabu Kateliya late night, almost a dozen women blocked the Yamuna Expressway near milestone 62 in Mathura’s Naujheel area on Sunday by putting stones and bushed. They, however, opened the blocked after police personnel convinced them that “Kateliya was not arrested and had been called for a dialogue with police and administrative officers”. They withdrew their protest only after speaking to Kateliya over a video call. The traffic on the Yamuna Expressway was disrupted for a few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/protesting-arrest-of-farmer-leader-women-block-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79709734.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Integrated offices in 2 divisions to boost depts’ coordination||Lucknow: The state government will set up integrated divisional offices in Gorakhpur and Varanasi as a pilot project for better coordination between different government offices associated with the divisional commissioner. While Varanasi is the parliamentary constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gorakhpur happens to be the home turf of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. In a letter to divisional commissioners of Varanasi and Gorakhpur, principal secretary (housing and urban planning) Deepak Kumar said a detailed project report (DPR) should be prepared at the earliest to get the project fast-tracked. The development authorities in two cities would be the nodal agencies for the execution of the project. A government spokesman said all officials attached to the office of divisional commissioner would sit in one complex for better coordination and speedy disposal of revenue cases and development projects. “Many offices are old and located in rented buildings. Some of them are in a dilapidated state,” a senior official said. He said committees had been set up in Varanasi and Gorakhpur under the chairmanship of divisional commissioners of the two cities. The committee will have district magistrate, chief engineer (PWD), deputy registrar general and additional director (treasury and pension) as members. The committees will draft the plan for approval by state-level committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/integrated-offices-in-2-divisions-to-boost-depts-coordination/articleshow/79712072.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: 669 discharged, 7 people succumb in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The trend of more people recovering from Covid-19 than those testing positive for the infection in Pune Metropolitan Region continued on Sunday. As per a report issued by the district health office, 669 people were discharged till 8pm on Sunday, while 648 new cases were reported. With this, a total of 3,34,428 patients have recovered in PMR since the first case was reported in March, while the progressive tally (total number of positive cases reported) has gone up to 3,52,232. At 294, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas accounted for the highest number of daily cases, while Pimpri Chinchwad reported 169 cases. The rural areas (147), municipal council limits (29) and cantonments (9) together reported 185 cases. PMC limits also had the highest number of recoveries, with 317 discharged patients. As many as 112 patients in Pimpri Chinchwad, 147 in the rural parts, 75 in municipal council areas and 18 in cantonment limits were discharged. In the same 24-hour window, seven people succumbed to the virus — two each in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and the rest from the rural parts of the district — pushing PMR’s death toll to 8,619. As of Sunday, there were 3,092 being treated in various hospitals across the region and 6,260 people under home quarantine. As per data available with PMC, 800 patients in its jurisdiction were being treated with oxygen support; 387 patients were in a critical condition, of whom 224 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/669-discharged-7-people-succumb/articleshow/79711077.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Like Sabarmati, corona current splits Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Like the course of the Sabarmati, the flow of Covid cases splits the city’s east from the west. The western part of Ahmedabad — areas from Ashram Road to Sardar Patel Ring Road — recorded an increase of 53 active cases from December 11 to 13. In the same period, the number of active cases in the east declined by 73. The AMC data reveals that in the period in question, there has been an increase of 25 active cases in Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Vastrapur, Ghatlodia and Chandkheda. At the same time, Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura, and Bopal registered a rise of 16 cases. Navrangpura, Paldi, Naranpura, Vadaj, and Sabarmati areas reported an increase of 12 cases. The AMC data reveals that the sharpest decline in cases, of 35, was seen in the central zone comprising Khadia, Dariapur, Shahpur, Jamalpur, and Shahibaug. A drop of 24 cases was noted in Viratnagar, Nikol, Gomtipur, Odhav, Vastral, and Amraiwadi. AMC officials said that even the Aarogya Setu data shows that the majority of infected people are in Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Navrangpura, South Bopal, Prahladnagar, and Anandnagar. The officials said that the west’s figures suggest that people who tested positive outnumber those discharged. The officials said that since Diwali, the areas in the west have shown a spike in corona cases. The officials said that one of the reasons for imposing the night curfew was that people in the posh precincts used to gather at hangouts at night. Even before the curfew, shops and eateries had been ordered to shut by 10 pm in the west. The officials said that in August and early September, the city’s West, North West, and South West zones accounted for about 60% of the total active cases. On Sunday, of the 2,530 cases in Ahmedabad, the west clocked 1,356 — that is, 54% of the active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/like-sabarmati-corona-current-splits-the-city/articleshow/79712074.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 14, 2020||Pune||PCB plans to recruit 35 Asha workers for NUHM||PUNE: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has decided to recruit 35 Asha (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers to ensure that benefits of the National Urban Health Mission (NUHM) reach the population living in its limit. “As per NUHM guidelines, one Asha worker should be in-charge of about 2,000 people. About 70,000 people live in PCB limits hence we are recruiting 35 Asha workers,” said Dr VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer at PCB. Each ward will get at least four such workers once they enrol for the job by next month. The workers would play a major role in various drives and surveys that would be carried out at regular intervals in the future, Gaikwad added. “Since the workers would be residents of the cantonment, they are expected to be connected with the local population. The workers can convince people more confidently than any other health staffer. As such, there are many roles these workers can perform in the future,” said PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar. “Hiring Asha workers is necessary to implement various health schemes effectively. They will not only create awareness among people but also encourage them to participate in NUHM drives, exercises, etc. In August-September, when Covid-19 cases were rising, our health workers faced several difficulties in gathering information about people’s health as they didn’t have direct acquaintance with them. With the presence of Asha workers we would not face this situation,” said a senior health official at the PCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-plans-to-recruit-35-asha-workers-for-nuhm/articleshow/79711075.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur MP Azam Khan’s close aide Alay Hasan walks out of jail gets bail||Rampur: A close aide of former UP minister and Rampur MP Azam Khan, Alay Hasan Khan, a retired police officer, was released from jail on bail by the Allahabad high court. Hasan was arrested at Rampur collectorate in August, moments before he was to surrender before a magistrate in connection with a land grab case. Rampur jail superintendent P D Saloniya said, “Hasan was released on Friday evening after the high court granted him bail.”A total of 54 cases of cheating and land grab have been registered against Hasan — a retired circle officer of Rampur police — at different police stations in Rampur. Police said in most of the cases, including two registered against him last year, he was a co-accused with Azam Khan, who is lodged in Sitapur jail along with his wife and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-mp-azam-khans-close-aide-alay-hasan-walks-out-of-jail-gets-bail/articleshow/79709732.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Kumari Kandam Excavation: HC seeks report from MSU on infra||Madurai: Madras high court has sought response from Manonmaniam Sundaranar University on the infrastructure facilities available for carrying out preliminary studies on offshore excavation on Kumari Kandam.A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said that it has been brought to the knowledge of the court that during 2003-2004, the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) conducted offshore excavation at Mamallapuram. The judges observed that even after one-and-a-half decade, the result was not published. The judges sought response from the central government as to when the result would be published.Taking cognizance of the fact that offshore excavation has become defunct the judges sought response from the central government on the steps taken to do offshore excavation in the country.The judges said that there are two departments - Marine Sciences Department and Marine Geo Technology Department - at Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in Tirunelveli. The judges directed the university to file a report on the infrastructure facilities that are available for carrying out a preliminary study on offshore excavation on Kumari Kandam.Orissa Balu, who has been appointed as amicus curiae by the court, submitted that he along with S M Ramasamy, retired vice-chancellor of Gandhigram Rural Institute who is presently the consultant for Poombukar project in Bharathidasan University at Trichy, will do the preliminary study on Kumari Kandam. The judges directed them to file a report on the study and adjourned the case to December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kumari-kandam-excavation-hc-seeks-report-from-msu-on-infra/articleshow/79711076.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kozhikode||CM’s statements against central agencies out of fear: K Surendran||KOZHIKODE: BJP president K Surendran said that the statement by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan against central agencies and the move to write to the Prime Minister against them was an open challenge by the head of a state government against the rule of law. Addressing mediapersons here on Sunday, Surendran said that the statements by the chief minister against central agencies probing the gold smuggling case and other cases were borne out of the fear and anxiety about the probe reaching him, cabinet ministers and the assembly speaker. “The statement by chief minister on Friday was a lament of a wrongdoer. The move to write to the Prime Minister against the agencies asking for their recall is ridiculous. If chief minister thinks that he can drive away central agencies from the state using threats, it won’t succeed,” he said. He said that it was the CM who wrote to the Prime Minister seeking central agency probe into the gold smuggling case and now he himself is against the agencies and is demanding their recall after the investigation turned against him. The BJP state president alleged that efforts are on to use investigating agencies in the state including the police, vigilance and the jail department to scuttle the gold smuggling case. “In the guise of probing the complaint raised by gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh that she was facing threats inside the jail, efforts are being made by the state agencies to interrogate her inside the jail and to obtain favourable statements,” he added. Surendran said that chief minister has conducted blatant violation of poll code by announcing on the last day of campaign that the state government would provide Covid vaccine free of cost to the people of the state. He said that Congress had organized joint rallies with Jamaat-e-Islami in Malabar to mark the end of campaigning. He said that the tie-up of Congress with Jamaat-e-Islami is going to cost the party dear in the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cms-statements-against-central-agencies-out-of-fear-surendran/articleshow/79710274.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||No need of special court to deal with rowdies, says HC||Madurai: The Madras high court has observed that there is no need for a special court to deal with rowdy elements as the state government had enacted a law to curb such people. The court was hearing a petition filed by K K Ramesh, who sought the constitution of special courts to deal with rowdy elements in all districts and also wanted the police to file a final report against them within 30 days. Rejecting the relief sought by the petitioner, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the state government had enacted the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Cyber Law Offenders, Drug Offenders, Forest Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Sand Offenders, Sexual Offenders, Slum Grabbers and Video Pirate Act, 1982. People with bad antecedents are detained as goondas and Tamil Nadu is a state where more detention orders have been passed against rowdy elements. The judges noted that the police also had a mechanism to monitor such elements by opening a history sheet as per Police Standing Order 746. However, speedy investigation and trial were required for an effective criminal justice system. The court said higher officials must monitor investigation periodically and guide the officers to complete investigation within a stipulated time. Higher officials are also expected to sensitize the IOs about provision under Section 167(2)(a) CrPC which enables hardcore criminals to come out on statutory bail due to delay in investigation As regards filing of final report against rowdy elements within 30 days, the judges observed that when CrPC prescribes a procedure and time limit for filing it, the court cannot entertain the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-need-of-special-court-to-deal-with-rowdies-says-hc/articleshow/79711079.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||Ophthalmologist suspended after video of demanding bribe from patients goes viral||Pilibhit: An ophthalmologist posted at the district government hospital in Pilibhit was suspended on Saturday evening by chief medical officer Dr Seema Agarwal for allegedly demanding Rs 300 from patients for providing them free medical services at the hospital after a video of the incident surfaced. The CMO said during the suspension period, the ophthalmologist, PP Singh, will remain attached to her office. Additional chief medical officer Dr Harpal Singh ordered an inquiry into the matter and based on the outcome of the probe, further action would be taken, added the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ophthalmologist-suspended-after-video-of-demanding-bribe-from-patients-goes-viral/articleshow/79709745.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Pandemic rate touches plateau, Covid graph tapers to July tally||Lucknow: In a sign of the pandemic rate touching a plateau, number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh dipped below 20,000 on Sunday. The state clocked 19,729 active cases with the graph tapering to the July 20 tally. However, the health department sounded a caution, asking people to remain vigilant through the winter when the caseload could soar again. Additional chief secretary (health), Amit Mohan Prasad, said, active cases have come down due to strict enforcement of Covid protocols with people’s cooperation. Of 19,729 active cases, at least 8,929 are in home isolation. “Precaution is must for next two months, especially for those with breathing problems,” he said, reiterating that infection rate may have come down, but it still exists. Prasad said, control over active cases may be attributed to rigorous testing and in last 24 hours, as many as 1,56,023 tests were conducted taking the total number of tests done in the state since March to over 2.14 crore. The state recorded 1,441 fresh Corona cases with 16 people succumbing to the virus in last 24 hours. A maximum of 209 cases were detected from Lucknow, followed by 152 from Ghaziabad. Of 16 deaths, six were reported from Lucknow. The current recovery rate was pegged at 95% with 1,770 people getting discharged from hospital in last 24 hours. More than 5.37 lakh people have been discharged from hospital. Prasad said, people should not only seek help from Covid command centre, but also from e-sanjeevani portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-rate-touches-plateau-covid-graph-tapers-to-july-tally/articleshow/79712079.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Soon, city police stations to get an Aarogya Vatika||Lucknow: An ‘Aarogya Vatika’ will be set up in all police stations of the city so that its medicinal and aromatic plants can keep everyone healthy. The announcement was made during the Navbharat Times’ ongoing ‘Aarogya Vatika’ campaign under which a garden of medicinal plants was set up in a park in Mahanagar on Sunday. Police commissioner DK Thakur was the special guest on the occasion. He suggested that an Aarogya Vatika should be set up in every police station of the city. Mahanagar residents appreciated NBT’s initiative and said that it has helped them in gaining knowledge about the health benefits of various plants. If you are interested in getting an Aarogya Vatika set up in your locality, then drop a mail at nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-city-police-stations-to-get-an-aarogya-vatika/articleshow/79712085.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rajasthan girl left in the lurch by ‘Facebook friend’ rescued||AHMEDABAD: The story of Bina (name changed) (21) reminded the counsellors at Abhayam 181 of countless earlier accounts. The native of Pali in Rajasthan, Bina had left her home to meet her Facebook friend in Ahmedabad. However, when she reached Ahmedabad, she woke up to the rude realities of life when she nearly fell prey to molestation after her so-called ‘friend’ refused to meet her. According to the Abhayam counsellors, the girl had reached Gita Mandir bus depot at 2 am on Sunday. “She told us that she was regularly chatting with a friend, named Nirav, online. Nirav also made video calls showing her his residence and car. He would invite her to visit him. Agreeing, she left home without informing her family. When she reached the city, she called the youth. He told her to wait till the morning,” said a counsellor. Meanwhile, on the pretext of providing her a room for the night, a man took Rina up to Kankaria. As she grew suspicious of his intentions, she forced him to stop and started shouting for help. A group of Home Guards jawans nearby heard her cries and rescued her, while the man managed to flee. “The girl was sent to her distant relative’s residence in the city. Meanwhile, the friend did not respond to repeated calls from her and our team. She would leave for Rajasthan on Sunday evening,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raj-girl-left-in-the-lurch-by-fb-friend-rescued/articleshow/79712067.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court absolves man of stalking charge||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has dismissed a plea seeking prosecution of a man for allegedly stalking and insulting the modesty of a woman. It was alleged that the man had not only texted but also harassed her by phone calls. Additional sessions judge Naveen Gupta, however, referred to the allegation observing that, during the alleged 21 days, the man had called her 46 times with one chat extending to 405 seconds. The court considered this aspect in the light of the fact that neither the woman nor her parents mentioned the phone calls in the complaint, on the basis of which the FIR was registered. “The phone calls lead to infer that the complainant and accused were in frequent communication. Further, the court cannot assume anything with respect to conversation done between them during the said calls,” the court said. The state prosecutor had contested the order of a magisterial court that had discharged the man. He argued that the court didn’t take into account the statements of the woman and her parents, which, he added, established that he was a habitual stalker. The trial court underlined that, apart from the text messages, no specific allegation was made against the accused. “Prima facie no offence is made out against him. Accordingly, he stands discharged in the present case,” it had held. The state filed a revision against the discharge order, giving a list of time, date and duration of phone calls, ranging from 2-405 seconds, in the trial court. It was alleged that the man had sent several messages to the woman in 2011. It also came on record that, after she complained to her parents, the man promised not to repeat it. When he didn’t stop, she approached the cops. The state sought prosecution of the man under IPC section 354-D (stalking) and revision of his discharge under section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman). The man, in his defense, argued that he was in a relationship with the woman and the messages did not have any objectionable words that could outrage her modesty. The court pointed out that the police hadn’t explained why the woman waited till March 12, 2011, to lodge a complaint when the man had already made 14 calls to her on February 10, 2011. It found “no prima facie case” against the man under Section 354-D IPC, besides being in agreement with the trial court when it came to his discharge under IPC section 509.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-absolves-man-of-stalking-charge/articleshow/79712089.cms||Aamir Khan
December 14, 2020||Surat||Surat: Yazdi Karanjia to take his Parsi comedies on digital global tour||SURAT: The Gujarati diaspora in Canada are set to get entertained with two Parsi laugh riots performed by members of Surat-based Karanjia Arts, but with a catch — the plays will be staged virtually amid the pandemic conditions. Parsi theatre legend and Padma Shri awardee 84-year-old Yazdi Karanjia, who has dedicated his life for the performing art, will also play the lead role in one of the two plays — ‘Parsi Harishchandra’. The Karanjia family, known to be the guardians of Gujarat Parsi Theatre, have kept the hilarity rollickingly alive for the past seven-odd decades with their stupendous performances. All the characters in both the plays are performed by the entire Karanjia family itself. Two comedies — Mungi Stree and Parsi Harishchandra — have been performed by the Karanjia family for Canada-based ‘Friends of Gujarat and Gujarat Abroad’ (FGGA) and especially in the digital form for the Gujarati diaspora overseas. “Before the global lockdown, they (FGGA) had invited us to perform in Canada, which got scuttled owing to the pandemic. So, the Gujarati diaspora group asked us to recreate the two comedies digitally for them. We rented an auditorium for the rehearsal of the two plays for more than one month before shooting them with three cameras from different angles and converting it into a digital mode,” Farzan Karanjia, director of both the the plays, told TOI. “This will be the first group of Surat to showcase their play digitally in Canada. ‘Mungi Stree’ will be released on December 26 while “Parsi Harishchandra’ will be released January 1, 2021 in Canada. Initially, both plays will be released for the group before it is released on OTT platforms,” he added. Talking to TOI, Yazdi Karanjia said, “This was a very different experience for all of us who were so long used to doing live performances. Our purpose is to make people laugh, even if the medium has changed. We did our best to adept. Karanjia family will never be away from the state, no matter what scenario is.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/yazdi-to-take-his-parsi-comedies-on-digital-global-tour/articleshow/79710279.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Senior excise official, assistant caught taking bribe, Rs 75,000 seized||TUTICORIN: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) caught an official in the rank of deputy collector and his office assistant red-handed and seized Rs 75,160 from them at Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district on Sunday. According to the DVAC, the seizure was made based on an information that assistant commissioner (excise) G Sugumar and his office assistant Anthony Raj were collecting bribe from Tasmac shops in Tiruchendur area. A surprise check was conducted by a DVAC team led by deputy superintendent of police Herbert Dharmaraj when the official and his assistant were collecting ‘mamool’ from a Tasmac shop at Kurumbur and seized the unaccounted money from them. The seizure included Rs 61,160 in the possession of Sugumar and Rs 14,000 with Anthony Raj. The duo was picked for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sr-excise-official-assistant-caught-taking-bribe-rs-75000-seized/articleshow/79711082.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||139 fresh cases in southern districts, 82 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 139 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Sunday. The deaths were reported in Theni and Tenkasi districts. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 82 new cases taking the tally to 72,125, which include 733 active cases. The region recorded no deaths maintaining the toll at 908. Madurai recorded 32 fresh cases, the highest in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (29) and Dindigul (20). Five districts have recorded less than 10 cases each. Ramanathapuram (3) recorded the lowest, followed by Tenkasi (4), Theni (6), Tirunelveli (6), Sivagangai (7), Tuticorin (14) and Virudhunagar (18). Kanyakumari is the 4th district in the region to cross 16,000 cases. Active cases in the region marginally dipped to 1,163 from 1,185 on Saturday. Three districts recorded less than 50 active cases each. Ramanathapuram (25) has the lowest, followed by Tenkasi (36) and Sivagangai (49). Theni (64) is the only other district in the region with less than 100 active cases. Madurai (275) has the highest number of active cases in the region. It is also the highest for Madurai in the last 24 days. Among the eight central districts, Thanjavur is on top in reporting fresh cases as it recorded 17 new cases on Sunday taking the tally to 16,723. Tiruvarur recorded 15 fresh positive cases, while Trichy reported 14 new cases taking the tally to 10,677 and 13,744. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Karur (13) , Nagapattinam (12), Pudukottai (9), and Ariyalur (2), while Perambalur recorded no case on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/139-fresh-cases-in-southern-districts-82-in-central-region/articleshow/79711081.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Baraatis search entire night, fail to locate bride’s house||VARANASI: A bridegroom went with his baraat from Azamgarh to Mau for his wedding ceremony scheduled for December 10, but found the bride's address missing and her whereabouts unknown. Braving the chill, he and his relatives scoured the streets for the bride's residence through the night and finally returned home fuming. The groom's family vented their anger on the woman who played mediator in the marriage. They nabbed her and held her hostage on Saturday night, triggering a high-pitched drama at Kotwali police station. The woman claimed she was misled and duped by the girl and her family. Senior SI Shamsher Yadav said, "The groom's family levelled serious allegations at the woman, who brought the marriage proposal. We gave them an opportunity to solve the dispute. Late Saturday, the matter was resolved and they agreed not to lodge an FIR against her." The family came in contact with a woman from Chhatwara area, who agreed to arrange the boy's marriage. She came with a proposal from a girl in Mau. Both families later gave consent to the wedding. The youth's family members did not visit the girl's residence when they fixed the date of marriage and paid Rs 20,000 to the bride's family for booking a band and lights for the wedding, the groom's mother said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/baraatis-search-entire-night-fail-to-locate-brides-house/articleshow/79712640.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Gang kills youth in his house||Madurai: A 22-year-old man from Madurai city was hacked to death by an unidentified gang at his house on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as C Karthick, 22, from Kalimuthu Nagar in Ponmeni. Police said that a few cases including a murder case were pending against him. Karthick was at his house on Sunday morning. A gang, which came on bikes, entered his house. On seeing them he ran towards the terrace in a bid to escape. But the gang followed him to the terrace and attacked him. He died on the spot in a pool of blood. The gang managed to escape before his family members rushed there after hearing Karthick’s screams. After an alert, a police team rushed to the house and conducted an inquiry. A case was registered and investigation is underway.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-kills-youth-in-his-house/articleshow/79711085.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||‘DGP did not meet head of customs probe team’||KOCHI: Amid allegations that the state police chief had a secret meeting with the customs house commissioner in Kochi, sources with the commissionerate of customs (preventive) said on Sunday it was not the customs commissioner in charge of the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case who met the DGP. “Reports are coming out from various corners that the customs commissioner, heading the department probing the gold smuggling case had a meeting with the DGP. The commissioner of customs (preventive), Sumit Kumar, who heads the customs unit which busted the racket involved in the smuggling of gold through diplomatic channel, has not met with any such official,” said a senior official with the commissionerate of customs (preventive). KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran had said on Saturday that DGP Loknath Behera had a secret meeting with Customs House commissioner in Kochi recently. He alleged that the meeting that lasted for 90 minutes was part of a conspiracy to sabotage the customs probe into the gold smuggling case. Sources with the commissionerate of customs (preventive) said the Customs House commissioner has nothing to do with the probe which is being investigated by the customs preventive u unit. Meanwhile, sources with the city police commissionerate said the commissioner had invited Customs House commissioner Mohd Yousaf for a lunch on Friday. “They know each other and he was invited for a lunch when the state police chief visited Kochi. The meeting took place at Safe House, Ernakulam, near Central Station. It is not unusual for senior officials to meet up with other department heads in the city,” said the source with Kochi city police, adding that the meeting had no connection with the smuggling case as none of the officials present during the meeting were involved in the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dgp-did-not-meet-head-of-customs-probe-team/articleshow/79710301.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Acid attack accused caught in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Two men accused of throwing acid on a woman and her three minor children on Friday in Madhavpura police station area were held from Junagadh town by city police. The accused were identified as two brothers Vijay Dantnaim 25, and Ajay Dantani, 23. They were tracked by their phone locations. The accused, cousins of the woman’s husband, unleashed the vicious attack over a property feud, states the woman, 30, whose three kids aged 14, 10 and 8 respectively are still hospitalized. According to the complaint, about six years ago the woman’s husband had bought their Madhavpura house from his father’s brother, Mohan Dantani, for Rs 3 lakh. “The complainant has alleged that Mohan’s sons Ajay and Vijay kept pressuring her and her husband to vacate the house,” said a police official. According to the complaint, when the woman’s family was sleeping, Ajay threw acid from an open window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acid-attack-accused-caught/articleshow/79712384.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Kamal questions rationale behind building Rs 1000cr new Parliament complex||Chennai/Madurai: Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to spell out the rationale behind constructing a new Parliament building for about Rs 1,000 crore “when half of India is hungry due to loss of livelihoods triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic”. He was speaking to reporters in Chennai before leaving for Madurai to launch his political campaign. Comparing its proposed construction to that of the Great Wall of China, he said “thousands of people perished” during its construction, but the dragon nation rulers said the wall was to 'guard' the people. Asked whether MNM will join hands with ‘Aanmeega Arasiyal’ (referring to actor Rajinikanth’s preference for spiritual politics), Kamal said, “Let me reiterate. Alliances will break up and new alliances will emerge. That’s all I can say now.”Later, addressing cadres at Madurai to set off the campaign for the 2021 assembly election, the actor-turned-politician promised to make Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu if they came to power. Kamal said it was former chief minister MGR’s dream to make Madurai great. “I am an extension of MGR and I will take up the job of making Madurai great again. It is time to dump those who failed to make MGR’s vision come true,” he said.In the last 50 years the cultural city has gone to ruins at the hands of corrupt politicians. He could see only bad roads, stagnating sewage and rain water and piling garbage when he went around the city. “There will be jallikattu in January in Madurai. In May, there will be fights with corrupt people. I am ready for it and you should also be ready for it,” he said. “Youths should join our party. Those who have already joined should go door-to-door to reach out to people,” he said.As for the party’s election manifesto, ideology and strategies, he said the only answer for all these questions is honesty. “Corrupt politicians have stashed thousands of crores in shell companies in foreign nations. If they stop stealing, there will be enough money to develop three Tamil Nadus,” said Kamal Haasan. Asked about the focus of his party's campaign, he said it was to usher in a totally transformed Tamil Nadu. Answering a question on why he entered politics, he said people of Tamil Nadu celebrated him from the age of five. His did not want to simply thank the people for what they gave him and move away even after seeing poor people struggle. When asked whether he will implement total prohibition, he said it was “a failed concept”. But, private players should be allowed to sell it and not the government which has to concentrate on people’s welfare.Since permission was rejected to address the public on streets, Kamal went around the city and waved at people waiting to see him across Madurai city. Earlier, at Madurai airport, Kamal said permission had been denied for political campaigns at a few places at the last minute, but they would abide by rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kamal-questions-rationale-behind-building-rs-1000cr-new-parliament-complex/articleshow/79711084.cms||V Devanathan
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||UP farmers can renew cane supply tickets online for 4 times||Pilibhit: Sugarcane growers in Uttar Pradesh can now renew their expired supply ticket online for four mes. Till now, this facility was restricted to a single- time only. The expired supply tickets will be re-validated automatically by the department’s ERP (enterprise resource planning) system without needing the famers to re-apply for it. The facility has been extended to farmers under the sugarcane administration’s “ease of doing business” programme aimed at resolving procurement-related problems of cane growers with the application of advanced information technology, said Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry. The re-validated supply ticket will be made available to a farmer within seven days from the date he stops supply of sugarcane to the mill against his supply ticket. The re-validated supply ticket will carry the same serial number as the original ticket but would be marked with ‘H’ (healed) to indicate the re-validation, he said. “Apart from this, farmers waiting in a queue for their cane to be weighed either at the procurement centre or at the sugar mill gate, will be given an additional 12-hour time over the stipulated time limit of 72 hours to supply cane after the issuance of the supply ticket.” Bhoosreddy said. The current system of issuing supply tickets through SMS on farmers’ mobile phones would continue, specifically to ensure their protection from the transmission of novel coronavirus, he added. He appealed to cane growers to ensure they upload their correct mobile numbers in the department's ERP system and keep their message inbox empty in order to receive information about supply tickets, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-farmers-can-renew-cane-supply-tickets-online-for-4-times/articleshow/79709752.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Manjha tripped Metro run over 500 times in 3 yrs||Lucknow: Despite frequent appeals and awareness campaigns, kite flying with Chinese manjha continues to disrupt Lucknow Metro operations. The menace has aggravated to such extent that Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) registered 508 power tripping incidents caused by Chinese manjha in Lucknow in the past three years. Now, UPMRC has decided to opt for ‘third rail’ electrification system for their upcoming projects in the state to check this menace. According to UPMRC, 153 out of 508 power tripping incidents were recorded during the pandemic alone. The most recent disruption came earlier this week when Metro was halted at Indiranagar station for 30 minutes after an entangled Chinese manjha tripped the overhead high tension wire near Vishwavidyalaya Metro station. “We have registered many FIRs but still there is no check on the menace. Causing such disruptions may invite a jail term too but there is no fear among the kite flyers who continue to use Chinese manjha,”said UPMRC PRO Panchanan Mishra. “As a solution, UPMRC engineers have come up with ‘third rail’ system to replace overhead wires for smooth operation of Metro. The third rail or conductor rail is immensely popular in European and American metro system,” he said. In this method, electric power is provided to a train through a semi-continuous rigid conductor placed alongside or between the rails of train track. “The system is expensive but proves cost effective solution in the long run. It reduces power disruptions due to entangled kites with metallic thread or bird,” the PRO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/manjha-tripped-metro-run-over-500-times-in-3-yrs/articleshow/79712104.cms||Arvind Chauhan
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Windblown dust major pollutant in Ahmedabad: Study||AHMEDABAD: A study carried out by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune and Utkal University, Bhubaneshwar, has revealed that Ahmedabad has experienced the ‘permissible’ level of air quality during the lockdown for the first time since Safar started monitoring it in 2017. Track the pollution level in your citySafar (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research) initiative is being run by the Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. The permissible limits for particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM10 are 60 µg/m3 and 100 µg/m3 respectively. To put the figures in perspective, on Sunday evening, only the Navrangpura monitoring station of Safar recorded ‘satisfactory’ air quality. At the airport, the PM10 and PM2.5 levels were at 121 and 104. The figures were 103 and 108 in Bopal, 104 and 86 in Satellite, 112 and 111 in Pirana, and 114 and 78 in Chandkheda respectively. “The role of dramatic reduction in fossil fuel emissions is clearly visible during the lockdown. The minimum share of PM2.5 in PM10 in Delhi and Ahmedabad suggests the influence of wind-blown dust,” the research paper says. While fossil fuel burning (vehicle emission), oil, or wood burning produce PM2.5 particles, the dust from construction sites, landfills, agriculture, industry and windblown dust from open areas generate PM10 particles. To put the size of these particles in perspective, a human hair is 50-70 microns. While PM10 is less than 10 microns in size, PM2.5 is less than 2.5 microns. Jay Mehta, an environmental consultant, said that PM10, even when inhaled, is exhaled by the system and can only cause irritation in nose or windpipe. “But PM2.5 reaches the lungs and can be a health concern – its regular deposits can lead to asthma to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),” he said. “During the lockdown, along with the reduction in vehicular emissions, the emissions from industry had also stopped, giving us a chance to see what the air quality could be without human activity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/permissible-level-of-air-quality-unlocked-for-city/articleshow/79712108.cms||Parth Shastri
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad’s official ranked first for implementing e-prosecution system in UP||Moradabad: Moradabad’s joint director of prosecution Rajesh Kumar Shukla had been judged as the best prosecutor in UP for implementing e-prosecution system. The portal helps the criminal justice system in summoning prosecution witnesses. Shukla was ranked first among 40 prosecutors by the office of the principal secretary, home department of UP. The state prosecution directorate had issued the ranking after shortlisting those who had performed well on the e-prosecution portal. Moradabad’s district court prosecution officer Shahela Shamim bagged the 11th position and assistant prosecution officer Manoj Kumar Tyagi 19th rank. Another APO, Neeraj Mishra, posted in Sambhal, was placed in the 27th position. In 2019 , Uttar Pradesh government had implemented the e-prosecution system, which provides the database of different cases through digital medium and status of different cases with district-wise details. Speaking with TOI, Ramit Sharma, inspector general of police, Moradabad Range, said, “The prosecution officials informed witnesses through SMS the date for their appearance in court. The successful implementation of the e-prosecution system has also helped the courts and the prosecution system in accelerating criminal trials.” Shukla said, “In one year, we have uploaded 29,000 criminal cases of the district on e-prosecution portal. The entire data base of the case helps the prosecution.” He added that 500 cases under the Arms Act had also been uploaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabads-official-ranked-first-for-implementing-e-prosecution-system-in-up/articleshow/79709764.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Farmers find refuge in good faith||NEW DELHI: With Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) setting up six night shelters at Singhu border, more than 3,000 protesters have been accommodated in them. The facilities include quilts, mattresses and medication. The move comes as a saving grace for women, who have been living in unhygienic conditions, as sanitary pads and undergarments have also been made available to them free of cost. “As long as this agitation continues, DSGMC will stand firmly with each protester here. We will do our best to provide facilities in these shelters. What we are standing for is the right reason. So, no matter how much time it takes, we will make the stay here for everyone comfortable,” said Ravinder Kaur, DSGMC member. Kaur added, “We are distributing quilts not just to people sleeping inside the night shelters, but also those who are approaching us for help. Our services are open to everybody.” Another volunteer, Hardeep Singh, said he had been camping at the protest site since the first day and would remain there for as long as it took. “I have grown up seeing seva-bhav from all elders in my family. This is the time for me to give my dues. All materials required for cooking and langar comes to us through trucks. We have planned to stage a bigger protest on Monday, so more quilts, mattresses, medicines and food will be transported here,” he added. “I came here from Chandigarh in my truck along with seven family members. While they are sleeping in the truck, I have come to the night shelter. My health is low, but my spirits are high. I protest all day and come to the night shelter around 8pm when it gets really cold,” said the elderly man. Hardeep claimed that 11 people had died since the protests began. “I would do anything for the cause, but want to sustain for long. That’s why I sleep in the shelter where it is comparatively less cold. The youngsters take care of old people like me. They ensure that we sleep in the night shelters while they stay outside,” he added. Prabhleen Kaur, who came to Singhu border to protest with her husband and sons, said, “Men can bathe in the open, but we can’t do that. Women get their monthly periods, so it has to be ensured that there is no shortage of sanitary pads. The shelter homes give free pads to women. We want to be a part of this movement and don’t want such reasons to stop us from participating in it.” A roti-making machine installed at the site has been making at least 30,000 chapatis through the day to feed the protesters. The farmers’ unions have so far held six rounds of talks with the government. After rejecting the Centre’s proposal to amend the three agri laws, the protesters said they would intensify their agitation by blocking railway tracks to put pressure on the government to repeal the three Acts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-find-refuge-in-good-faith/articleshow/79711089.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Widow of man killed by her kin hangs self||Tirunelveli: The widow of a man who was murdered by her father and brothers ended her life by hanging at a home for women in distress here on Sunday. The victim, Megala, 20, was found hanging in the dormitory of One Stop Centre for women in distress at Palayamkottai in the city. She was admitted at the centre by the police following the murder of her husband S Kaliraj, 25, on Thursday night. Preliminary inquiry by the police revealed that Kaliraj’s father Sankaran is elder brother of Megala’s father Isakimuthu. Both families resided on Sundara Vinayagar Temple street in Old Pettai in the city. The cousins fell in love but their marriage was opposed by both the families as they were related. However the two got married in October 2019. Fearing their families, the couple relocated to another place and shifted back to the city at Shanthi Nagar about six months ago. Kaliraj worked at the office of a cable television operator. On Thursday night Kaliraj was on his bike at Shanthi Nagar when he was hacked to death by a gang. CCTV footage revealed that it was Isakimuthu and his sons Suriyaraj and Thangaraj. “We recovered the blood stained clothes and the vehicle used by the accused for the murder. Two special teams are on the lookout for the accused who are on the run,” Tirunelveli city DCP (law and order) R Saravanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/widow-of-man-killed-by-her-kin-hangs-self/articleshow/79711086.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||5 fishers flee Oman on boat, held in TN||Kanyakumari: Five fishermen from Kanyakumari district and another from Bangladesh working in Oman fled from their employer on a fishing vessel and reached Muttom on Saturday night travelling more than 2,650 kms in eight days. They were detained for questioning by the Colachel marine police and other enforcement agencies. The Indians were identified as L Stephen David, G Joseph Edwin, M Pranjees, S Aldo and S Sahaya Thadeus all from Muttom,. “They were detained for illegal entry for not carrying their passport and visa and for bringing with them a foreign national, who did not have any documents. They claimed that their passports are with their employer, who refused to hand them over,” a marine police officer told TOI. They were booked under sections of The Foreigners Act. South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) general secretary Churchil said the fishermen were employed in the mechanised fishing boat of their sponsor named Abdullah Khamis Ali of Muscat. “They have been fishing in Oman from October 12, 2019. They usually went fishing for four to six days a week and returned to the shores,” Churchil said. The activist alleged that the men were not provided proper shelter on the land, due to which they stayed on the boat when they were at the shore. “He did not pay them as promised and gave them their share only after five or six months,” Churchil said. The marine police said that under these circumstances three fellow fishermen from Kanyakumari complained to the Indian Embassy in Oman, after which they were sent home. “These five fishermen claimed that they asked the employer to send them home as well but he wanted the three others who had gone to India to return first,” a marine police officer said. So, the six men including one from Bangladesh fled from Jelan in Muscat on an old fishing vessel on December 4. Covering more than 2,650 kms they reached the Muttom fishing harbour around 9 pm on Saturday. The marine police said they will be produced before the magistrate for remand by Sunday night. This is the second instance of Indian fishermen fleeing all the way from the Gulf on their employer’s boat. In November 2019, nine fishermen – seven from Tamil Nadu and two from Kerala – covered 3,000 kms from Yemen to Kochi on a fishing vessel in 10 days in their bid to escape from their employer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/5-fishers-flee-oman-on-boat-held-in-tn/articleshow/79711088.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fewer front-line workers have antibodies||AHMEDABAD: They work directly with Covid-19 patients — either at kiosks collecting samples or carrying out rapid antigen tests (RAT), or screening patients with Covid-like symptoms — but the latest sero-survey by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) found that the field staff and those at urban primary health centres (UPHCs) had lower level prevalence of Covid antibodies than the general population or relatives of Covid-19 patients. The survey covered 1,738 healthcare workers (HCWs) of whom 1,737 were in the sero-survey. Of them, 362 were found to have antibodies while 1,346 did not. Twenty-nine were indeterminate, giving a seropositivity rate of 20.8 or 21%. To put this into perspective, of 17,009 samples from the general population, 4,117 or 24.2% were found to have seropositivity, and of 2,038 contact of confirmed cases, 531 or 26% were found to have antibodies, both figures higher than that of HCWs. ‘Seroprevalence among HCW shows lower seropositivity compared to the general population. This may be due to the fact that there are a high number of cases among the general population. Moreover, the HCW included in our study are not HCWs from Covid hospitals but from the field area/UPHC. So these HCW are at lower risk compared to HCWs at Covid hospitals,’ mentioned the report by a team of AMC experts. The report also said that HCWs were found to be better protected. ‘Thus, on one hand, these workers are more commonly exposed to the risk on account of their occupational exposure in the field area, but on the other hand they are better informed, well trained and have access to protective measures,’ the report said. Infected twice, but these doctors kept serving Covid-19 patients Dr Farha Malu from GCRI got infected with Covid twice but that did not deter her. “In the first instance, it was not very severe. The second time, it was back with severity and I also got a skin infection, which required longer treatment,” she said, adding that she’s back to serving Covid patients. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said there are at least three doctors on Covid duty currently who have got infected twice. City-based experts said that the phenomenon needs to be understood in depth to understand the role of antibodies and protection the body gets from IgG and T-cells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fewer-front-line-workers-have-antibodies/articleshow/79712098.cms||Paul John
December 14, 2020||India||Shaadi nixed as groom’s pals drag bride to dance floor||BAREILLY: A wedding at a village in UP was called off after the bride was dragged to the dance floor by some of the groom’s friends. Her kin objected. It led to a heated argument. And what seemed to be a perfect wedding, turned ugly. Police were asked to intervene. The bride’s family lodged an official complaint. As a settlement, the groom’s parents had to shell out Rs 6.5 lakh. Earlier, on Friday, some inebriated guests were creating a ruckus. The groom’s family was also looking for more dowry, the bride’s cousin said. The bride decided to return home. “I respect her decision. I cannot force her to marry a person who doesn’t respect her,” the bride’s father said. “Guests from both sides started misbehaving. But, no one misbehaved with the bride,” a visibly upset intermediary said. Bithri Chainpur SHO Ashok Kumar Singh said, “The woman’s family had given a dowry complaint. No FIR was registered”. In a last ditch effort, the groom’s kin on Sunday tried to convince the other side to re-arrange a simple wedding, but the bride refused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shaadi-nixed-as-grooms-pals-drag-bride-to-dance-floor/articleshow/79712641.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Sand deposit on bridges poses danger for two-wheeler riders||Madurai: A large quantity of sand has been accumulated on the bridges in Madurai city, posing danger for commuters, especially two-wheeler riders as they often lose control on the sandy stretch.The PTR Bridge, Puthupalam, AV Bridge, Sellur Bridge, Arapalayam Bridge, Kamarajar Bridge constructed over the Vaigai play an important role in connecting southern and northern part of the city. Girder Bridge, Palanganatham rail over bridge and Andalpuram rail over bridge and Periyar Bridge are some of the other important bridges.Commuters say that sand gathered on the bridges creates difficulty, as it moves along with strong wind and gets sprinkled on the face of people. It poses threat when two-wheeler riders apply brake on the sand as they often loses balance and falls. Minor accidents caused by sand are quite frequent on city roads and bridges, they say.H Vasanth, a resident of Vilangudi, said, “Roads and bridges are not cleaned periodically leading to accumulation of huge quantity of sand on the Sellur Bridge. Vehicles move fast on the bridge and when they apply brake, two-wheeler riders find themselves in trouble,” he said.V Selvaraj, a biker from Anna Nagar, said that sand gets accumulated in large quantity on both sides of PTR Bridge. Sand is gathered two feet into the motorway on both sides. It is one of the reasons why traffic snarls are reported on the bridge, he said.A police constable posted at Teppakulam said that although traffic snarls on the PTR Bridge has come down ever since the operation of signal in Teppakulam junction was stopped and alternative vehicle movement was introduced. But sand on the bridge still poses danger to commuters.An official from Madurai Corporation said that due to rain they could not carryout cleaning works regularly in the last many weeks. A cleaning drive will be carried out to ensure all roads and bridges are free from sand, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sand-deposit-on-bridges-poses-danger-for-two-wheeler-riders/articleshow/79711090.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Delhi CM using stir for political gains’||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday lashed out at AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying he was exploiting the ongoing farmers’ agitation to further his party’s electoral agenda in Punjab. Amarinder said unlike the AAP government in Delhi, “which had been thriving on Ambani crumbs and touting its power reforms under the Reliance-run BSES as its biggest achievement,” the Congress government in Punjab had neither signed any agreement with Adani Power nor was even aware of the private players’ bidding for power purchase in the state. The Punjab chief minister added that the Kejriwal government in Delhi was “shamelessly notifying” one of the black farm laws on November 23, when farmers were preparing to march to Delhi for protest. Now, they are indulging in theatrics by announcing that they would be sitting on fast in support of the farmers’ hunger strike on Monday, quipped Amarinder. “At a time when our farmers are braving the winter cold on the roads outside your city and many of them are dying fighting for their rights, all you can think of is how to make the most of the opportunity to promote your political interests,” Amarinder said to his Delhi counterpart. The Punjab chief minister also slammed AAP Punjab in-charge and MP Bhagwant Mann saying he was making allegations without verifying facts about the power purchase situation in Punjab. He said Mann was just a comedian who no one took seriously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-cm-using-stir-for-political-gains/articleshow/79712113.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chennai||Summer sorted in Chennai, courtesy monsoon||CHENNAI: At least 479mm rainfall Chennai and surrounding areas received during the two cyclones – Nivar and Burevi – flooded roads, but it also recharged the city’s aquifers and pushed up ground water tables in all zones. And with the reservoirs around the city brimming, Chennai Metro Water Supply and Sewerage Board says it will be able to tide over the 2021 summer without rationing supplies or sending water trucks around the city. “We expect this water to last till the end of next year,” said Metrowater managing director T N Hariharan. On Sunday, the total water stored in the five reservoirs – Poondi, Choolavaram, Redhills, Kannankottai Thervoykandigai and Chembarambakkam – had nearly doubled to 10,311mcft compared to 5,166mcft on the same day last year. “This water in reservoirs alone will last for 10 months,” he said. Water in Sikkarayapuram and Erumaiyur quarries, which help the city during peak summer of drought years, will be kept as reserve, he said. In addition, after nearly five years, all the 15 zones in the city have recorded an average increase of 1.65 metres in the groundwater level since October. Official data show that between November 2019 and this year, there has been an average increase of 1.46m in the groundwater table. Even in areas like Sholinganallur, where there is no piped water supply, the water table has seen an increase of 0.54m. The ground water level which was at 3.44 meters in November 2019 is now at 1.89 meters. The dependence on the two desalination plants in Nemmeli and Minjur, which together can produce 100MLD water, has come down. The production capacity of these desalination units has reduced to 82MLD since November, but will improve, officials said. Despite being a bountiful year, the city’s water managers say they have contingency plans. While several state agencies including the CMDA are planning for infrastructure to maintain resources for a long-term plan to manage water scarcity, Metrowater is working on solutions for judicious use of water. Since November 25, Metrowater has increased water supply to 830MLD from 750MLD. Of this, residents in core areas get 653MLD and those in added areas get 112MLD. “People in the core city areas will get water supply every day for about four to six hours. We have planned in such a way that residents will get water every day but for fewer hours. Residents in added areas will get water supply on alternate days,” Hariharan said. While weathermen forecast the monsoon to bring in more rains, water management experts say the state should take into account the condition of the tanks and water channels before rejoicing. Madras Institute of Development Studies professor S Janakarajan, who specialises in areas of water said: "A majority of the tanks and supply channels are heavily silted. This will reduce their storage capacity by half. Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts are considered one integrated watershed. Tanks in these districts are interlinked. Surplus water from the tank flows into a downstream tank. With silt accumulation in all these water bodies, the water flows from these tanks even after one or two spells of rainfall,” he said. Besides desilting and maintenance, water managers should consider “induced water management, say a few scientists. “For instance, the supply should be 750MLD instead of 830MLD for a few more months every day across all areas. This will ensure minimal tapping of groundwater. This will be an ideal time to store water in reservoirs as evaporation and seepage will be less compared to May or June,” said hydro geologist J Saravanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/summer-sorted-courtesy-monsoon/articleshow/79711091.cms||P Oppili
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Margasira Masotsavalu to commence tomorrow||VISAKHAPATNAM: The annual Margasira Masotsavalu at the Goddess Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple in Burujupet in Old Town will start on December 15. The temple will celebrate the utsavalu in a grand manner as state ministers, MPs and local representatives are expected to attend rituals on the opening day. Darshan of Goddess Kanaka Mahalakshmi will be permitted in adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Devotees wearing masks and those who have booked slots for darshan will be allowed into the temple. Advance darshan slots for Rs 100, Rs 200 and Rs 500 tickets and free darshan slots can be booked at Ambicabagh Seetharama Swamy temple at Jagadamba Junction and Jagannadha Swamy temple in One Town. Before the pandemic, more than one lakh devotees would visit the temple each Thursday. Temple executive officer Jyothi Madhavi said due to Covid-19, the elderly, children below 10 years and physically disabled persons would not be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/margasira-masotsavalu-to-commence-tomorrow/articleshow/79709772.cms||Siva G
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University students take Twitter route to seek rented rooms||LUCKNOW: Left in the lurch, several outstation students of Lucknow University on Sunday took to Twitter, requesting authorities to make arrangement for their accommodation as it has become difficult for them to get rented rooms in the city during pandemic. These students were allotted rooms in the previous session, but could not get the facility in the current session after the on-campus classes resumed a week ago as LU decided to allocate only 30% of the hostel space to ensure physical distancing due to Covid restrictions. A two-bedroom was earlier allotted to two students, but now it has been given to only one with priority to students who have to attend practical classes or do on-campus research. The rest are being encouraged to continue with the online classes. There are 17 hostels in LU with a total capacity of 2,800. So far, only 800 students have been allotted space. Some of the rooms in a few hostels have not been allocated so far because of the ongoing renovation work. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “We have given students both online and offline options for studies and trying our best to accommodate as many as we can in accordance with the Covid protocol. Students should understand that it is for their safety.” However, students said that LU should make some arrangements for them in the present crisis. “We are not getting rented rooms in the city and attending on-campus classes is as important for us as those who have practicals,” said BA honours II student Utkarsh Singh, who has come from Lakhimpur Kheri. BCom II student Alia Khan from Bahraich said: “I am staying with my relatives, who have asked me to move to hostel since I go to the campus everyday and they fear I may get exposed to Covid-19 in LU and bring it home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-students-take-twitter-route-to-seek-rented-rooms/articleshow/79712116.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab’s power deal betrayal with farmers’||Chandigarh: Even as farmers were protesting against central farm laws and corporate houses, the Congress government in Punjab was busy indulging in electricity purchase deals with the Adani group, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann alleged on Sunday. By doing this, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had back stabbed the farmers of Punjab, claimed Mann. Addressing the media in New Delhi, Mann said there was a huge difference between Capt Amarinder’s words and actions. “On the one hand, Amarinder does theatrics to show his opposition to the central farm laws and the corporates and on the other, he is too busy promoting the farm laws and corporate control in the state,” alleged the MP. Signing a deal with the Adani group for the supply of electricity in Punjab showed that Amarinder was acting as BJP’s chief minister and was playing according to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s instructions, he alleged. Mann said when farmers were planning to enter Delhi on November 26, Punjab chief minister struck a power purchase deal with the Adanis behind the farmers’ back. “This deal is nothing more than a conspiracy to break the motivation of farmers because they are trying to pressurise the corporate houses by boycotting their products and services. But their own CM is strengthening their hand by offering them deals in the state,” said the Sangrur MP, while demanding Amarinder’s resignation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-power-deal-betrayal-with-farmers/articleshow/79712115.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Spiritual politics will win: IMK||Tuticorin: Indu Makkal Katchi (IMK) will strive hard for the victory of the spiritual politics alliance in all the 234 assembly segments in the state in the assembly elections, its founder Arjun Sampath has said. “Spiritual politics will win. Rajinikanth should win,” he told reporters in Tuticorin on Sunday after taking part in special prayers for the victory of the political party to be floated by the superstar. “Modi for Centre and Rajini for the state is our slogan,” he said adding that the political scenario has changed in the state and there will be a change in alliances in January. He said spiritual politics has been well received by people in Tamil Nadu who have been long waiting for a replacement for Dravidian politics. IMK will extend unconditional support to Rajinikanth who has brought political revolution in the state, he added.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spiritual-politics-will-win-imk/articleshow/79711093.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Mom of Walayar girls to begin indefinite protest||PALAKKAD: The mother of the deceased Dalit minor girls from Walayar and two other women, kin of victims of alleged torture by police officials who investigated the case will begin an indefinite sathyagraha at Anchuvilakaku memorial in Fort Maidan here on Tuesday. Rani Mariya, mother of Praveen, one of the accused in the Walayar case, and who had committed suicide allegedly due to police torture, will be part of the indefinite protest. Valsala, wife of Narayanan Nair of Kunnamkulam, a victim of alleged police torture, too will join the mother of Walayar minor girls. The sathyagraha is to demand a court-monitored probe by CBI into the alleged rape and murder of the two girls from Walayar. The minor girls were allegedly raped and murdered at their house in Walayar two years ago. Palakkad Posco court had acquitted all four accused for want of evidences and the failure of the prosecution to prove the charges.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mom-of-walayar-girls-to-begin-indefinite-protest/articleshow/79710364.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: High-speed collision of cars leaves 1 person dead||NEW DELHI: One person died after his car collided with another in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri early on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Ankur Chanana, in his mid thirties, who worked as a sales manager with a private bank. He lived with his family in Rohini’s Sector-8, police said. Police received a called about an accident at 3.14am and a team was sent to the spot near Keshopur Mandi flyover in Bhupender Nagar locality. Cops found two vehicles, a Honda City and a Verna, in damaged conditions at the spot. During inquiry, cops came to know that the Honda City was being driven by Chanana at a high speed and had hit the Verna. Chanana succumbed to his injuries. The occupants of Verna, who are residents of Tilak Nagar, also sustained injuries. Chanana’s body will be handed over to his family after postmortem. Police have filed an FIR under Sections 304A and 279 (causing death due to negligence and rash driving) of IPC. The case will be transferred to the motor accident claims tribunal for further investigation. Cops are analysing CCTV footage of the area to establish the sequence of events. The medical examination of the three occupants of the Verna car has been conducted to ascertain if they were driving under the influence of alcohol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-speed-collision-of-cars-leaves-1-person-dead/articleshow/79711102.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||3t turmeric being smuggled to Sri Lanka seized||Tuticorin: Over three tonnes of turmeric that was being illegally smuggled from Tuticorin to Sri Lanka was seized by the Indian coast guard (ICG) on Saturday night. Value of the seized turmeric is claimed to be Rs 5 lakh. The country fishing vessel named ‘Miga Periyavan’ with five crew members on it was spotted by the ICG ship Vaibhav about 51 nautical miles south east of Tuticorin. On searching the boat that was found under mysterious circumstances, the ICG personnel found more than three tonnes of turmeric in 88 bags with 35 kg in each bag. The seized turmeric, boat and detained men were brought to the old harbour in Tuticorin and handed over to the customs department for further investigations on Sunday. The five men were identified as Nagore Meera Shah of Samuvelpuram, Muthuraja of Therespuram and Mukthimuhammed, Valamaideen and Sini of South Narippaiyur in Tuticorin district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3t-turmeric-being-smuggled-to-sri-lanka-seized/articleshow/79711110.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Madurai||HMs seek clarity on reopening schools||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu higher secondary school headmasters’ association, Madurai, has sought clarity from the school education department regarding the date for reopening schools and board exams to avoid confusion among students. According to an official statement from the association, various were resolutions during the general meeting held on Friday in Madurai. The association said that the school education department and state government must clear the confusion by announcing the date of school reopening, schedule of 2021 board exams and details about the new reduced syllabus at the earliest. They also sought direction to soon begin the disinfection and sanitation work in schools for Covid-19 prevention before reopening. The association also welcomed the 7.5% quota for government school students in MBBS and BDS seats and sought to extend the quota to government-aided school students as well. The headmasters also put forth plea for cancellation of 17B orders against teachers who took part in protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hms-seek-clarity-on-reopening-schools/articleshow/79711114.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Banned DDT found in water samples in Andhra Pradesh: NGRI study||HYDERABAD: A research study by the city-based National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) has revealed the presence of banned organochlorine pesticides, DDT and HCH, in the water samples in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. Gajulamandyam region on the banks of Swarnamukhi river was chosen as the study area by the NGRI. Researchers found DDT residues in 63 per cent of groundwater samples in excess of the WHO recommendation for drinking water limits. This affects human health. The study was published in the International Journal of Environmental Analytical Chemistry by NGRI scientists Rama Mohan Kurakalva and Keshav Krishna Aradhi. It gained significance in the wake of several research institutes finding organochlorides and organophosphates in samples in Eluru recently. According to NGRI study, the concentration of HCH (hexachlorocyclohexane) was significant in all water samples. A metabolite of DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane) was found in 68.9 percent and 60.5 percent in surface water and groundwater respectively. “Mean DDT residue levels in groundwater was found in the range of 527.3 ng/L. It exceeded in 63% of samples according to WHO guideline value of 0.001 mg/L for drinking purpose. Similar findings were reported on HCHs and DDTs in surface water and groundwater in other parts of India,” said NGRI scientists. Researchers observed that that knowingly and unknowingly, people are still using HCHs and DDTs that were banned in India. The source of HCHs in surface water and groundwater might be due to the diverse agricultural practices. The present findings indicate that it is vital to develop a reliable monitoring system for organochlorine pesticide residues in water in order to assess any excess concentrations over environmental quality standards and to take appropriate action. Organochlorine pesticides can impair the normal functioning of endocrine systems of human beings and animals The highest concentration levels of HCHs were found at the sampling points of Atturu and Papanaidupet area. Researchers said locals might be using HCHs for agricultural and public health purposes. “Surface water bodies had an average concentration of DDT compounds at 1025 ng/L, 244 ng/L, and 692 ng/L DDE (dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene, DDD (dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane), and DDT, respectively. The highest concentration levels of DDT was found in Atturu area suspected to be used for vector control purposes with commercial formulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/banned-ddt-found-in-water-samples-in-ap-ngri-study/articleshow/79713599.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Banned DDT found in water samples in Andhra Pradesh: NGRI study||HYDERABAD: A research study by the city-based National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) has revealed the presence of banned organochlorine pesticides, DDT and HCH, in the water samples in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh. Gajulamandyam region on the banks of Swarnamukhi river was chosen as the study area by the NGRI. Researchers found DDT residues in 63 per cent of groundwater samples in excess of the WHO recommendation for drinking water limits. This affects human health. The study was published in the International Journal of Environmental Analytical Chemistry by NGRI scientists Rama Mohan Kurakalva and Keshav Krishna Aradhi. It gained significance in the wake of several research institutes finding organochlorides and organophosphates in samples in Eluru recently. According to NGRI study, the concentration of HCH (hexachlorocyclohexane) was significant in all water samples. A metabolite of DDT (dichloro-diphenyl-trichloroethane) was found in 68.9 percent and 60.5 percent in surface water and groundwater respectively. “Mean DDT residue levels in groundwater was found in the range of 527.3 ng/L. It exceeded in 63% of samples according to WHO guideline value of 0.001 mg/L for drinking purpose. Similar findings were reported on HCHs and DDTs in surface water and groundwater in other parts of India,” said NGRI scientists. Researchers observed that that knowingly and unknowingly, people are still using HCHs and DDTs that were banned in India. The source of HCHs in surface water and groundwater might be due to the diverse agricultural practices. The present findings indicate that it is vital to develop a reliable monitoring system for organochlorine pesticide residues in water in order to assess any excess concentrations over environmental quality standards and to take appropriate action. Organochlorine pesticides can impair the normal functioning of endocrine systems of human beings and animals The highest concentration levels of HCHs were found at the sampling points of Atturu and Papanaidupet area. Researchers said locals might be using HCHs for agricultural and public health purposes. “Surface water bodies had an average concentration of DDT compounds at 1025 ng/L, 244 ng/L, and 692 ng/L DDE (dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene, DDD (dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane), and DDT, respectively. The highest concentration levels of DDT was found in Atturu area suspected to be used for vector control purposes with commercial formulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/banned-ddt-found-in-water-samples-in-ap-ngri-study/articleshow/79711117.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Prepaid meters to help Lesa raise revenue||Lucknow: To generate revenue from loss-making feeders catering to high number of power consumers, the Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (Lesa) is set to introduce pre-paid meters to ensure payment for every unit consumed. According to LESA officials, nearly 90,000 consumers haven’t paid their bills ever and majority of them hail from rural parts of the district and densely populated areas within city limits. The highest number of defaulters are from Badgaon, Kakori, Ibrahimpur, Narayanpur, Hussainganj, Amindabad, Daliganj and Babuganj. “Pre-paid meters will ensure that defaulters start paying bill for every unit they consume. Like pre-paid phones, consumers will have to recharge their accounts for electricity supply. From every month’s recharge, LESA will recover up to 10% of pending amount which a consumer has not paid,” said chief engineer LESA (cis-Gomti) Madhukar Verma. “Earlier, we introduced pre-paid meters in Mohanlalganj and it bore positive results and helped us reduce losses. Our team is installing pre-paid meters in the worst performing feeders of Badagaon area. The drive has begun and soon all residential and commercial consumers will be covered,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prepaid-meters-to-help-lesa-raise-revenue/articleshow/79712126.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Bittu to Sukhbir: Capt stir’s hero||Ludhiana: A day after former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal launched an attack on Twitter against Punjab chief minister (CM) Amarinder Singh, Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu defended the CM on Sunday, describing him as the hero of farmers’ agitation. In a tweet on Saturday evening, in which he had tagged Bittu as well, Sukhbir had said, “Union minister Piyush Goyal told Punjab MPs, including Ravneet Singh Bittu and Preneet Kaur, that if he revealed what CM discussed with the Centre they won’t be able to show their face in Punjab. It is clear Amarinder has backstabbed Punjab” Bittu, in a series of tweets, said, “I was quiet till now because we wanted trains to run in Punjab to avoid any loss and Piyush Goyal is the minister for railways, but let me tell you what was said about Captain Amarinder Singh ji , now that you have provoked me. Piyush Goyal said Manohar Lal Khattar is detaining farmers in Haryana and filing FIRs against them, but it’s with Captain Amarinder’s help farmers have stopped toll plazas, Reliance Group’s pumps, trains etc from running in Punjab. With CM saab’s help, the protest became a mass movement.” Bittu also tweeted: “It was also said that on PM’s word, India accepted the farmers ordinance but in Punjab the protest was harboured due to Captain Amarinder. The Centre will stop GST refund to Punjab with rural development fund because of CM’s actions, cause he is not acting in nation’s interset as Khattar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bittu-to-sukhbir-capt-stirs-hero/articleshow/79712124.cms||Mohit Behl
December 14, 2020||Patna||Campaigns for and against farm laws intensify in Bihar||PATNA: The state is set to witness an aggressive campaign for and against the three controversial farm laws enacted by the Centre. While the BJP on Sunday launched its 13-day awareness campaign in favour of the three laws, the state unit of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC) will launch its fortnight-long campaign against the laws on Monday. As part of the BJP’s awareness campaign, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and party’s state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal addressed rallies at Fatuha, around 40km from here. As many as 18 senior leaders of the party, including Union and state ministers, are slated to address rallies and conferences of the farmers at 99 places in the state till December 25. The speakers would raise awareness among farmers on beneficial aspects of the three laws and also tell them about the assurance of the Centre that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue. Meanwhile, AIKCC state incharge and former CPI(ML) MLA Rajaram Singh said their campaign, supported by the likeminded political parties and organisations, would be marked by dharna and fast at 38 district headquarters in the state on Monday. It would be followed by the fortnight-long campaign in the villages and towns where resolutions will be adopted, seeking withdrawal of the three farm laws and proposed electricity Bills, and also the grant of the guaranteed or mandatory purchase of the agricultural produce of the farmers at the MSP rates. The AIKCC campaign will culminate with a march to the Raj Bhavan on December 29. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya is also likely to participate in the Raj Bhavan march. “In Bihar, there are around 25 organisations affiliated to the AIKCC. We appeal to all the political parties and other organisations concerned to support the campaign and also participate in the march to the Raj Bhavan,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/campaigns-for-and-against-farm-laws-intensify-in-state/articleshow/79709789.cms||Abhay Singh
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab police arrested 8,822 drug peddlers till November 30||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab police have arrested as many as 8,822 accused for drug peddling after registering 6,091 FIRs under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in the 11 months of 2020. Out of these, 4,190 arrests were made in 2,438 NDPS cases after the Punjab entered Unlock 1.0 of the phase-wise upliftment of the Covid-19 induced lockdown in June. At the same time, the district police have recovered over Rs 2.10 crore drug money and the anti-drug special task force (STF) has made recovery of over Rs 1.10 crore drug money this year till November 30. Anti-drug STF ADGP B Chandra Sekhar said, “Despite the government’s focus now more on the Covid-19 pandemic as well as farmers’ agitation, our enforcement is going with the same intensity.” He added arrests and drug recoveries have increased a lot as compared to the lockdown period. The Punjab police records reveal that there had been on an average 35 arrests per day under the NDPS Act in the state since April 2017, after the Congress government came to power. A total of 49,512 accused were nabbed by the state police in 38,737 NDPS cases from April 2017 till November 30 this year. Though chief minister Amarinder Singh’s government claims to have gone full throttle to eradicate drugs from Punjab but it has an uphill task in hand since the state is home to nearly 7.2 lakh addicts as per the estimates of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at New Delhi. Professor of psychiatry at the Amritsar Government Medical College Dr P D Garg and founding member of the Swami Vivekanand De-addiction and Rehabilitation Centre at Amritsar, told TOI I that the footfall of drug dependent patients had significantly increased during the Covid-19 lockdown in over 190 OOAT (outpatient opioid-assisted treatment) clinics and nearly 119 private de-addiction centres across the state because of the drug supply breakdown. “However, now the footfall has again decreased to some extent as addicts might be getting their dose through their network like before lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-police-arrested-8822-drug-peddlers-till-nov-30/articleshow/79711112.cms||Sanjeev Verma
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Study tries to assess brick kilns’ impact on air||NEW DELHI: Beyond traffic and stubble burning, another contributor to Delhi’s air pollution is brick kilns located on its outskirts and just outside the borders. However, there’s hardly any database to gauge their actual impact. A study has now found that at least 1,564 brick kilns are functioning in the rural belts of northeast and northwest Delhi and just outside the city’s boundaries. According to Prakhar Misra, a co-researcher of the study, various assessments have been undertaken to measure the impact of factors such as stubble burning, traffic, construction and gaseous emission from thermal power plants on the capital’s air. But though each kiln releases more than 300 microgram/m3 PM2.5 pollutants daily, their impact hasn’t been assessed, he said. Sachicko Hayashida of RIHN from Japan’s Kyoto and at least 20 other scientists from various institutes in Japan and India are now trying to pinpoint their distribution in the national capital region and role in Delhi’s air pollution. Hayashida is the principal investigator of the study. The number of brick kilns was counted using remote sensing technology as even government agencies don’t have the accurate figure, researchers said. The kilns “are located in clusters situated between urban agglomerations of satellite towns — along the floodplain of the Yamuna and secondary roads”, the study reveals. While the floodplain provides access to raw materials such as fine alluvial clayey soil and water, the network of secondary roads is used for transporting bricks, it adds. As per a guideline of Central Pollution Control Board, brick kilns can’t be located next to highways. As bricks are required for construction, kilns are “located close to wherever dense horizontal expansion has taken place, on the built-up edge of the city or in the rural-urban zone where urban growth is taking place”, the study mentions. “Similarly, brick kilns are also located less than 10km from multistorey residential buildings.” While the study hasn’t arrived at any precise emission figure, a rough calculation shows that a single kiln can produce about 40-80 lakh bricks annually by consuming 12,000-tonne soil and 600-tonne coal. “This causes large emissions of PM2.5, black carbon, sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide (CO),” it underlines. S K Dhaka of Delhi University, who is associated with the study, said they “are looking at the local impact on air pollution by these kilns”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/study-tries-to-assess-brick-kilns-impact-on-air/articleshow/79711115.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Hold referendum on laws in 2 states’||Jalandhar: Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira challenged Prime Minster Narendra Modi to hold a special referendum in Punjab and Haryana to peacefully resolve the deadlock over the controversial farm laws. Khaira said a referendum seemed to be the only logical and democratic solution to the deadlock between agitating farmers’ unions and the government. Khaira further stated that he suggested a referendum as the Prime Minister has been “constantly disregarding” huge public outcry and sentiments of Punjab, Haryana and other places on farm laws. He pointed out that even as the PM maintained that the laws were in the best interests of farmers, they were being vehemently opposed. Khaira said PM Modi had reiterated implementation of the “black laws” while speaking at a FICCI platform on Saturday, which exposed the “anti-farmer” mindset of his government. On the one hand, he said, the Union government was holding talks with farmers and on the other, it was campaigning in favour of the farm laws every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hold-referendum-on-laws-in-2-states/articleshow/79712131.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation’s projects hit roadblocks||KOCHI: Implementation of projects in Kochi corporation has met with a roadblock due to various reasons including lack of administrative leadership. As per the government’s instruction, at least 70% of the work should have been completed by December 31, 2020. The administrative committee headed by the district collector is overseeing daily operations only. “One of the reasons for the delay in project implementation was the strike by contractors which lasted for months. After the election process started, officials are overburdened with a lot of duties associated with it. All these contributed to the slow progress of the plan fund project works,” a former chairman of one of the standing committees of Kochi corporation said.  “There is a similar delay in the implementation of own fund projects as well,” he said.  According to the contractors, Kochi corporation owes around Rs 100 crore to them.  “As the corporation failed to disburse the bills of the contractors, they stopped undertaking projects. The local body couldn’t pay the contractors’ arrears due to financial constraints. Similarly, projects designed under disaster management funds also couldn’t be implemented due to the contractors’ strike and other technical reasons. So, relaying of many roads, including Chittoor Road, couldn’t be carried out,” a former councillor said.  It will be by the end of the month that the new administrative council will assume office. Even if tendering of projects is done by the first week of January, it will be difficult for the corporation to complete the works by March 31, 2020. “It was with a vision to ensure proper implementation of plan fund and own fund projects that the state government introduced new guidelines. Had the local bodies followed these instructions, they could have avoided the last-minute rush and designing namesake projects for just spending the maximum amount,” a former member of Ernakulam district planning council said.  Even a couple of months ahead of the civic body polls, some of the councillors have slowed down monitoring of the projects. “Each division which had been a general division became one reserved for women and vice versa this time. So, at least a section of councillors would have decided to leave the responsibility of implementing remaining projects with their successors,” an official with the corporation said. In addition to the instructions given in 2018, the state government had given fresh directives to all the local bodies to expedite the projects implementation in the wake of the legislative assembly elections scheduled to be held in April-May, 2021. Meanwhile, officials associated with the implementation of plan fund projects said that the corporation is first among the six corporations in the state so far as project execution is concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-corps-projects-hit-roadblocks/articleshow/79709784.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 14, 2020||Amritsar||BKU man celebrates daughter’s first birthday on Singhu border||BATHINDA: Farmer organisation BKU (Kadian) district Barnala president Jagseer Singh celebrated the first birthday of his daughter at Singhu border amid ongoing protest on Sunday. At parallel celebrations held by the family at their native village, flags of the farm organisation were dominant. Jagseer Singh, from Chhiniwal village, put up a flex poster over a trailer, writing: ‘Modi ji, main suni tuhade mann ki baat. Hun tusi bhi suno mere papa ate kisana di baat (Modi ji I heard your mann ki baat. Now, you also listen to the voice of my father and farmers).” “As I have been at the Singhu border for the last so many days, I could not find time to be with the family to celebrate my daughter’s first birthday. So I did it at the protest site,” Jagseer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bku-man-celebrates-daughters-first-birthday-on-singhu-border/articleshow/79712141.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Energy Conservation Week begins today||VIJAYAWADA: As National Energy Conservation Week begins today, from December 14 to 20, the government has for the first time announced AP State Energy Conservation Awards in recognition of excellence in energy conservation and energy efficiency in various sectors in the state. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney has directed district collectors to undertake campaigns involving stakeholders. The government has set a target of saving 16,000 million units (MU) in different sectors. Sawhney, who is also chairperson of AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), has written to district collectors to take up innovative awareness programmes explaining the importance of energy conservation. She said the government issued AP Energy Conservation Building Code to implement energy efficiency in real estate. At the same time, the government wants to create awareness among the public, government departments and private sector on the importance of energy efficiency, she said. “Energy efficiency is the cheapest and most immediate way to reduce future energy demand and will help to achieve the objective of cost-effective power. Every family and establishment will benefit from energy efficiency,” the chief secretary said. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said the government has implemented UJALA scheme, LED street lighting programme, Perform, Achieve and Trade scheme, Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC) and other energy efficiency measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/energy-conservation-week-begins-today/articleshow/79709779.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Chill warms up to hit you||AHMEDABAD: With the western disturbance, which had brought in the unseasonal rains for Gujarat, dissipating, the region can expect mercury to drop by 2-3 degrees Celsius after Monday, mentioned India Meteorological Department (IMD) website. The cyclonic circulation over south Arabian Sea and adjoining areas persisted with trough from the cyclonic circulation running south-west Madhya Pradesh. The system gave light rains to some parts of Saurashtra on Sunday. For Ahmedabad, it was a drop of 1.1 degrees in the maximum temperature at 28.2 degrees, whereas the minimum temperature was up by 3.9 degrees than normal at 17.2 degrees. The IMD officials mentioned that on Monday, the minimum temperature could drop to 15 degrees. Across the state, the maximum temperature remained in the range of 26 degrees to 28.8 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chill-warms-up-to-hit-you/articleshow/79712114.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Not liable to pay for Maradu flats: Government in SC||KOCHI: State government has contended in Supreme Court that it is not liable to pay compensation to the owners of the demolished flats at Maradu and that the money it paid as interim compensation as per the court’s order should be recouped. An affidavit was filed in this regard by the chief secretary through G Prakash, the government’s counsel in the apex court. The court will consider the government’s contention in a hearing scheduled on Monday. Government paid Rs 62.3 crore to 248 flat owners following Supreme Court’s directive. Demolishing the flats cost another Rs 3.24 crore. In the affidavit, the government argued that even though it paid interim compensation of Rs 25 lakh to each flat owner as per court’s directive, it is not liable to bear the expense. The government’s own agency had moved SC challenging the construction of flats, it said. The court-appointed committee of justice Balakrishnan Nair said in a report that the builders only paid Rs 4.89 crore so far towards compensation, in place of Rs 61.5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/not-liable-to-pay-for-maradu-flats-govt-in-sc/articleshow/79710370.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Declare doctors losing lives to virus as martyrs: KGMU's Dr Surya Kant||Lucknow: Doctors who have lost their lives while attending to Covid patients should be declared martyrs, professor and HoD, respiratory medicine, KGMU, Dr Surya Kant said on Sunday. Addressing an online programme, Dr Surya Kant said nearly 800 doctors, including 12 from UP and Bihar, died in the country while treating Covid-19 patients. Earlier, the doctor had raised the issue in an article in an IMA journal. “It is a good gesture on the part of the central government that it has started reservation for the kin of martyrs in admission to MBBS course. In the same spirit, the Centre and the state governments should officially declare doctors losing lives during pandemic as martyrs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/declare-docs-losing-lives-to-virus-as-martyrs/articleshow/79712136.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Open book Phase-II: Delhi University students relive their nightmare||NEW DELHI: The second phase of the open-book examinations at Delhi University brought with it the same issues seen in the first phase in July-August. Several students of history, Hindi and a few vocational subjects who appeared for the exam on Sunday complained of not receiving the question papers on time and being unable to upload the answersheet. The university later issued a notice, allowing students an extra hour to upload the answersheets. Mansi Kumari, a history student at DU’s College of Vocational Studies, stated that she was unable to access the portal when she sat down to give the exam at 9.30am. “The website said that there was no exam scheduled today. I then contacted the college administration, who told me to email them the screenshots of my failed attempts to give the exam,” she said. Kumari added that as mock test went smoothly, she didn’t expect to face this issue. Another student, on the condition of anonymity, said that they tried 10 times to access the question papers. “Finally, I had to email my answersheets to the nodal officer,” they said. KK Koul, nodal officer for Hindu College, told TOI that several students stated similar problems. “The problem repeated on Saturday, so we had to approach the university,” he said. The college then asked students who managed to access the portal to send the question paper to their classmates. DU’s exam department issued a notice in the afternoon, accepting that students appearing for the OBE exam are facing problems with the portal. The varsity gave an extra hour the three hours of exam to students to “mitigate the hardships faced by students” in uploading the answer scripts. In case students fail to upload the answers following 4-5 attempts, they’ll have to take screenshots and email them to the nodal officers of their college. “Students should mention the course name, paper code and roll number in the subject line on the email to the nodal officers,” the notification added. DS Rawat, the dean of exam stated the students were informed to email the nodal officers. “We had mailed over 1.5 lakh students on December 10,” he said. The dean claimed that many students were mistaken about their exam dates. “We have several papers for the same course. Some students did not see the unique exam code and got confused regarding their schedule; hence, the portal did not show them their question papers,” said Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-ph-ii-du-students-relive-their-nightmare/articleshow/79711133.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 14, 2020||Madurai||Over 1K school dropouts identified for rehabilitation in Madurai dist||Madurai: The annual survey by Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) to identify and rehabilitate school dropouts across the state has seen as many as 1,073 identified in Madurai district. Though the survey usually covers those aged from 6-14 years, this time, more students were identified as it covered up to those aged 18. The survey is usually done in April-May so that they can be enrolled when schools reopen in June, but this time it was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and was completed by December 10.Data with the district education department shows that though only 848 dropouts were set as target, 1,073 out of school were identified. The district achieved 127% of the target and is ranked first in the state in effective identification of targeted school dropouts. Last year, 800 was the target set, but 873 aged between 6 and 14 years could be identified. The survey under SSA was carried out by teams of block resource teacher educators, special educators and anganwadi workers led by district chief education officer (CEO) R Swaminathan. “There are 120 cluster resource centres with teacher educators in the district led by higher secondary school headmasters who were involved in identifying dropouts in their respective hamlets. This year, we covered dropouts not only in middle school but till higher secondary level. We found that many students drop out after Class X as they are unable to continue to Class XI,” said N Thirugnanam, additional district programme co-ordinator (ADPC), SSA. The details of all those identified are uploaded online to TN-EMIS portal. Out of the 1,073 students, 763 students are so far enrolled in the special training centres for out-of-school children. “It is a continuous process. For all those identified, the reason for dropping out will be identified and it would be ensured that they get the chance to be rehabilitated through non-residential and residential special training centres established for out-of-school children,” said Thirugnanam. Further, through the survey, children of migrants and children with special needs are also identified. In Madurai, a total of 135 out-of-school migrant children were identified, of which 104 have been enrolled in training centres. As many as 80 children from other states who were inbound and 43 outbound children who left for other states were also identified. “There is also a proposal for teaching migrant children in their mother tongue with support of the respective state government. In the case of special children identified, it is useful to ensure that children with special needs, especially those after Class VIII, get the special card for differently-abled with the approval of doctors for getting benefits,” added the SSA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-1k-school-dropouts-identified-for-rehabilitation-in-madurai-dist/articleshow/79711119.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir appoints district observers to strengthen party||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has appointed senior party leaders as district-level observers of the party. The move is aimed at strengthening the party at the grassroots. Assistant observers have also been appointed along with observers. Former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra will be observer of Mohali while Charanjit Singh Brar will be assistant observer. Former minister Tota Singh has been appointed observer of Moga and Manpreet Aiyali will be assistant observer. Former minister and party spokesperson Dr Daljit Singh Cheema will be observer of Ludhiana with assistant observers Surjit Singh Kohali, Indermohan Singh Bajaj and Mohd Udwes. Former revenue minister Bikram Singh Majithia will be observer of Gurdaspur assisted by assistant observers Harmeet Singh Sandhu and Inder Iqbal Singh Atwal. Observers and assistant observers have been appointed in all remaining districts as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-appoints-district-observers-to-strengthen-party/articleshow/79711121.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||LIP farm wing head on notice||Ludhiana: Lok Insaf Party (LIP) has issued show cause notice to its Punjab farmer wing head for allegedly going against the party stand during the ongoing farmers agitation. Sukhdev Singh Chak has been asked to respond within a week. Chairman of four-member disciplinary committee of LIP, Amrik Singh Varpal, said the party had decided to follow the decision of 31-member farmers sangharsh committee and to follow their programme actively. He added that violating the directions of the party, Chak gave arrest in Delhi which had affected the party’s image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lip-farm-wing-head-on-notice/articleshow/79712132.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Panel to simplify non-agriculture property registration in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday constituted a cabinet sub-committee to consult with all stakeholders, including builders and realtors, and prepare policy guidelines to make registration of non-agriculture properties a “simple, easy, comfortable and transparent affair with no scope for bribes”. KCR, who returned to the city from New Delhi after his three-day tour on Sunday, held a review meeting on the issue of registration of non-agricultural properties and formed the cabinet sub-committee. He said the cabinet sub-committee would ensure that none of the officials get discretionary powers to take crucial decisions in the matters of registration. The cabinet sub-committee would be headed by roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy with municipal minister KT Rama Rao, panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, home minister Mahmood Ali and animal husbandry minister T Srinivas Yadav as other members. “Talk to builders, real estate sector representatives and other stakeholders, take their opinion and finalise the policy. Study the problems being faced by people during registrations or at the time of sale of properties in the cities and towns. Find out ways and means to solve them. What should be done to get a better policy? Dwell at length on these issues and submit a report,” the chief minister told the cabinet sub-committee. Stating that the poor have constructed houses without any proper documents and were paying electricity bill, property tax and water bill, KCR said problems were cropping up when such properties were either purchased or sold. There must be a solution to such problems, he said. The chief minister also enquired about the registration of agriculture land on Dharani portal .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-to-simplify-non-agri-property-registration-in-t/articleshow/79711132.cms||Roushan Ali
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||LU mourns demise of its brilliant and cheerful botanist||Lucknow: Well-known biologist and former head of Lucknow University’s botany department, Prof Dinesh Kumar, became the latest victim of Covid-19 when he succumbed to the virus on Sunday morning. Prof Kumar, 73, had been admitted to a Noida hospital after testing positive a few days ago. He had retired from LU in 2010 and was living in the NCR since then with his son. Apart from being the botany department’s head, Prof Kumar also served as the director of Institute of Mass Communication in Science and Technology at the university. He did his MSc from Lucknow University in 1969 and PhD in 1974 before joining the Panjab University. He came back to his alma mater as a teacher in 1977 and taught in LU for 33 years till his retirement in 2010. A devoted academic, he supervised 24 PhDs and published over 50 research papers in international journals. “Apart from being a brilliant botanist, he was a cheerful person, full of positive vibes,” recalled former head and zoology faculty (retd) Prof AK Sharma. Prof Kumar is survived by his wife and two sons, who are based in Noida and Gurgaon. LU teachers mourned the demise of Prof Dinesh who also served as the general secretary of Lucknow University Retired Teachers’ Association and held the various administrative posts in the university. “He was an extremely lively person and a dedicated academician. In the year 2006, he was the proctor when a group of rowdy students had attacked his residence but he didn’t give up and continued with his administrative role,” said Prof Sharma. Prof Vineet Verma, general secretary of LU Teachers’ Association, said, “We have lost a brilliant academician, a good administrator and the finest human being. A condolence meeting will be held at LU on Monday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-mourns-demise-of-its-brilliant-and-cheerful-botanist/articleshow/79712158.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Stage set for more agitations today||BATHINDA: Farm organisations in Punjab, as part of agitations against the recent agricultural laws, will on Monday protest at deputy commissioner offices across the state, Reliance Group shopping malls and petrol pumps, and outside the houses of BJP leaders. Leaders of protesting organisations on Sunday said they would also sit on a hunger strike during the day. However, BKU (Charuni) head Gurnam Singh Charuni announced he would not go ahead with his plan to go on an indefinite hunger strike from December 19. Charuni said activists were ready for protests at all places decided by them. The leaders will sit on hunger strike from 8am to 5pm. The hunger strike will be observed on all state borders of Delhi and everywhere where protests are being staged. Charuni said as per appeals by other farm organisations, he decided to cancel the indefinite hunger strike to be started from December 19. Farm organisations have also decided to ensure more participation of women from December 15 and make arrangements for their night stay on borders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/stage-set-for-more-agitations-today/articleshow/79712153.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Living conditions at night shelters unsatisfactory, finds legal body||NEW DELHI: A raging pandemic and gathering winter chill pose a threat to hundreds of homeless on Delhi’s streets. But a report filed in Delhi High Court by the state legal services committee said many night shelters that offer refuge to the homeless are working in “less than satisfactory” conditions, as women and children are forced to sleep on the floor. The report, prepared by Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA), is based on a random inspection of 54 night shelters and interaction with several inmates. Most of the night shelters visited were found to be occupied far below capacity, even as the report acknowledges the occupants were getting cooked food everyday, twice, during lunch and dinner time. The report said that living conditions were found below satisfactory from the point of view of basic living conditions, especially in the current times when the country is battling a pandemic. “Most of the night shelters were not having any provision to provide basic first aid to the occupants. There is an imminent need for deep cleaning and sanitisation of washrooms in these night shelters which were found to be emitting foul smell. Not only this, due to the pathetic condition of the washrooms, some of the children were also seen urinating in open areas,” it added. Inspection of some of the shelter homes revealed the occupants were sleeping on the floor without even mattresses. “Night shelter at Ashray Grah and Gatividhi Kendra, Ram Kumar Road, Jhandewalan, was found to be overcrowded to an extent that the occupants were found sleeping in open verandahs,” DSLSA said. “The provisions for beddings in the shelter homes of DUSIB were found to be inadequate,” the report informed a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad. Concerned over their plight, the bench has now asked the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to immediately remove the deficiencies. “In view of the fact that winter has set in early in Delhi this year, DUSIB is directed to take all remedial steps at the earliest and file a fresh status report within two weeks,” the bench said, directing DUSIB to improve the facilities available in these shelters. It also took into account submissions by petitioner NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan that though large number of people are living on the streets and their condition is extremely vulnerable given the onset of the winter, the occupancy of several Delhi’s homeless shelters remains well below capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/living-conditions-at-night-shelters-unsatisfactory-finds-legal-body/articleshow/79712239.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Even in 1960s, Punjab had its heart to the Left||JALANDHAR: Though fingers are being pointed at the presence of ultra-Left activists and those linked to Naxal elements at the farmers protest, yet it is nothing new for Punjab. The state has had its tryst with Naxalism. The ideology had reached here as early as 1967. What’s more, the Left movement in Punjab is close to a century old and at one point of time the mainstream Left parties had a considerable presence in electoral politics. Even the elements on the extreme end of the Left idealogical spectrum made serious inroads in Punjab five decades back, only to see a fast erosion within a decade in the base of such organisations. Naxalite movement was crushed in Punjab with elimination of 85 ultra-Left activists, including a freedom fighter turned Naxalite Baba Bujha Singh. Some of those youths who survived when Punjab government crushed the movement later rose to prominence in activism, journalism and literary fields. For instance, late Harbhajan Singh Halwarvi, who remained editor of a prominent Punjabi daily for several years, was saved by Simranjit Singh Mann — then a fresh IPS officer — after latter found that he was put in a police lock up by a particular police officer known for eliminating Naxalites. “Naxalite movement reached Punjab in 1967 as soon as it started. However, it remained mainly among students and intellectuals, and no mass leader joined it. Some CPI and CPM cadres did join in,” says Ajmer Singh. He had joined the movement as a student of in 1967 and then went underground in February 1970, when he was third year student of electrical engineering at Guru Nanak Engineering College. After his arrest in late 1970s, and then being freed by his comrades Ajmer, originally Gobinder Singh, remained underground for 31 years, but by that time he was known as a Sikh activist writer. “Soon after the initial phase of violence by Naxals, it was realised that the path was not correct. From March 1970, the state followed the policy of eliminating Naxalites when Parkash Singh Badal was the chief minister,” he said, adding “it was later that they started organising students under Punjab Students Unions and also formed Naujawan Bharat Sabha, teachers unions and employees unions.” “Jaswant Singh Khalra, who was later eliminated by Punjab police after he blew lid off the hundreds of forced disappearances in 1995, had also joined and raised Naujawan Bharat Sabha in district Amritsar in early 1970s,” he said. “For close to a decade their overground organisations grew while core group remained underground. However, in early 1980s with rise of Bhindranwale, decline started and Operation Blue Star became a turning point. A vertical split took place with one group joining the Sikh side and the other turning against the Sikh militants,” said noted Sikh author Gurbachan Singh, who was also among those who started as ultra-left activists but then turned to Sikh side and worked extensively to expose human rights violations. “I worked in ultra-Left groups from 1972 to mid 1980s. They lost a few of their brilliant minds and cadres to the Sikh movement in 1980s and these were latter who then posed big ideological challenges for them,” said senior Punjabi journalist Major Singh. “The ultra-Left groups later worked extensively among farmers and formed their unions. In this task, former employees also joined and their organisational skills and passion worked. They worked on issues like debt traps, farmers suicides and compensation. Most of their support base remains among Sikh farmers who have not much to do with their ideology,” said Ajmer, adding, “these groups though remain committed to communist ideology but using revolutionary tactics is a thing of the past.” “It has been widely known that over a dozen farmers unions are led by Leftist or ultra-Left groups but they have confined themselves to farmers issues only,” said Major Singh. OLD STORY AND THE NEW TWIST Initially, the Ghadri Babas, who started the Left movement in Punjab were practising Sikhs. “Bhai Santokh Singh who started Punjabi monthly Kirti in1920s, dedicated it to the cause of peasants and workers. He even put a line from Gurbani on it, which was later removed after his death. Akali stalwart Master Tara Singh even wrote his obituary. Later on, the gap between Sikhs and communists kept on increasing but still they were not opposed to each other. In 1980s, mainstream communist parties also lost considerable base among Sikhs and they never recovered. The farmers’ movement has a combination of Sikh spirit and organisational skills of Left groups, which is more a product of circumstances than any design. That is why bitterness is visible between the two sides at times,” said author and commentator Gurbachan Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/even-in-1960s-punjab-had-its-heart-to-the-left/articleshow/79712147.cms||IP Singh
December 14, 2020||Kochi||Coaching institutes in Kochi not to begin offline classes soon||KOCHI: Though permission has been given to open tuition centres, small entrance coaching institutes and computer centres after nearly nine months following the pandemic, the inflow of students is yet to begin. Many centres said that it was difficult to meet even the running cost and now teachers have to do double the work they did earlier as very few students prefer offline class while others want the online classes to continue. Faculties and students are hesitant about conducting offline class fearing the viral infection and the confusion over re-closing the entire centre if anyone turns Covid-19 positive too is affecting the reopening. Teachers said that the classes being divided in online and offline mode will affect the coverage of academic portions. Moreover, restrictions in opening hostels are hindering many major coaching centres to start their offline classes. They said that online classes would be of prime importance in this academic year and all centres are trying to focus on providing their online services. “Though we have opened the centre, Covid restrictions allow only a few number of students in each class. But the operational costs remain the same. It is difficult to manage both online class and offline classes in parallel. As many as 80% parents are not ready to send their children to institutes out of fear of infection . Now, we are only conducting doubt clearing session once or twice a week,” said Arun Viswanath, branch head (Edappally) of Akash Institute. Binoy Joseph, an official of Brilliant Study Centre, said that online classes have to continue and most centres have decided not to start offline classes anytime soon. “The restriction on opening hostels is a major issue. Only a few small-scale coaching centres that have day scholars are conducting offline classes. Moreover, people have accustomed to online education over the past nine months and they find it more comfortable. Chances of starting offline classes will arise only when the government allows schools to reopen,” he said. The availability of faculty is another challenge faced by the centres as most faculties prefer online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/coaching-institutes-in-city-not-to-begin-offline-classes-soon/articleshow/79709790.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana earns Rs 1 crore on first day||HYDERABAD: The slot booking system for registration of non-agriculture properties in Telangana received good response on the first day of its opening, with the state government earning Rs 1 crore. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said that till Saturday evening, 10,509 people booked slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-earns-rs-1cr-on-first-day/articleshow/79711136.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Goa||NIT-Goa students to get loans up to Rs 30 lakh without any collateral||PANAJI: To ensure that students can continue their programme without worrying about finances during the pandemic, the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, has tied up with a centralised bank to help students avail loans of up to Rs 30 lakh without any collateral. “We are happy to introduce our special education loan scheme for NIT BTech students. We are offering loans up to Rs 30 lakh without collateral security/third party guarantee. The present rate of interest is 6.9% without any processing fee,” a letter from the bank to the institute states. NIT Goa director Gopal Mugeraya said the institute wanted to ease the burden on parents during the pandemic. “Many parents may be under financial strain during the pandemic and we did not want the students’ education to be affected due to this. Usually a loan without collateral comes at a high interest rate, but we have arranged for the loan amount at a nominal interest rate,” Mugeraya said. In April, NIT Goa employees contributed a day’s salary each to the Chief Minister’s Covid Relief Fund, besides supporting by providing basic necessities to a group of labourers, whom the government had provided a shelter near the institute campus. NIT Goa has adopted villages to help resolve their core issues, under a central government scheme, and has also been helping government high school teachers improve their teaching of mathematics and science subjects. The NIT director had recently announced that the staffers will be contributing Rs 4,000 each to help provide tablets with preloaded educational content to students of one rural school so that their education is not hampered during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nit-students-to-get-loans-up-to-rs-30-lakh-without-any-collateral/articleshow/79712198.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No let up in traffic at Kommadi Junction in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: Measures launched by city traffic police to ensure smooth traffic flow at Kommadi junction in Vizag city appear to have fallen short of expected results with traffic congestion becoming the order of the day, especially during peak hours. As a stretch of National Highway (NH)-16 in the city passes through Kommadi Junction, vehicular movement at any given time is high at the junction. While there are service roads on either side of the NH-16 stretch at the junction, these roads are narrow and blocked with a large number of vehicles, leading to frequent traffic congestion. Kommadi Junction is infamous for its traffic, with several motorists taking U-turns to cross the road. Further, with a rythu bazaar located near the junction, commuters frequently cross the NH-16 to reach the market. Traffic jams at the junction have become an everyday occurrence and motorists have even been killed at the junction while attempting to cross the stretch, said S Satyanarayana, a resident of Kommadi. “We have been identifying the busiest and most congested junction in the city to find out suitable remedies to mitigate the traffic chaos with the help of local bodies,” said ADCP (traffic) Ch Adinarayana. “We have deployed some police constables to regulate the traffic at the junction, but sometimes the indiscipline of motorists has led to traffic jams,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-let-up-in-traffic-at-kommadi-jn/articleshow/79709783.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 14, 2020||India||In pep talk to businessmen, Nitin Gadkari boasts of family firms’ turnover||NAGPUR: Union minister for transport and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari exhorted local businessmen to think big, adding that his own venture had achieved business of Rs 1,300 crore. He was speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony of a common facilitation centre for auto and engineering industries at Hingna estate of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation on Sunday. “I am sorry to say but the investment of Rs 12 crore for the Centre being set up here is peanuts. It should be at least Rs 200 crore,” he said, adding that the turnover of his business has grown by Rs 200 crore in two years. In 2018, while addressing the foundation day function of MIDC Industries Association, Gadkari had said his sons’ business had touched Rs 1,100 crore. Earlier known as Purti Group, it has now turned into two separate entities, Manas Agro and Cian Agro, which are headed by his sons Sarang and Nikhil respectively. The day-to-day management is with Gadkari’s sons and he is not in the management. A source close to the management said the turnover of the entire group can be at Rs 1,300 crore. The minister also claimed many more achievements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-pep-talk-to-businessmen-nitin-gadkari-boasts-of-family-firms-turnover/articleshow/79712648.cms||Shishir Arya
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM seeks Bharat Ratna for PV Narasimha Rao, Rs 25,000 crore for water schemes||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao returned to Hyderabad on Sunday after his three-day tour to New Delhi, during which he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some Union ministers. The chief minister has sought Rs 25,000 crore central funds for Mission Bhagiratha and Mission Kakatiya projects as recommended by NITI Aayog. He also urged the PM to expedite the release of Rs 5,000 crore towards flood relief to Telangana. During his meeting with Modi, KCR discussed the Covid-19 vaccine, the release of Rs 450 crore under backward districts development scheme, and conferring Bharat Ratna on former Prime Minister, the late PV Narasimha Rao. The CM also met union home, civil aviation and Jal Shakti ministers and urged to them to expedite the release of central funds towards flood relief, the establishment of six airports in Telangana, and to resolve river water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-pv-rs-25k-cr-for-water-schemes/articleshow/79711138.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus claims 2 lives, infects 89||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 89 tested positive on Sunday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 65-year-old man of Bhagat Singh Nagar, who had hypertension, and a 62-year-old man of Lakkar Bazaar.Besides, two outsiders succumbed to the disease and 14 tested positive here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has risen to 934 and that of outsiders to 410. To date, 4,97,196 persons have been tested.Of the 89 new cases, 33 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), eight positive cases’ contacts, 37 from OPD, 10 through tracing process and one healthcare worker.The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count was 23,942 and that of outsiders 3,485.So far, 22,288 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.09% of the total cases.There are 717 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,581.On Sunday, 229 persons were quarantined and 2,616 samples were collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Of the six patients on ventilators, two are Ludhianvis.13 employees of school test +veLudhiana: Thirteen Class IV employees of a school at Jalandhar Bypass tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.The wards of the employees, too, have contracted the virus.The school principal Sister Limsi said, “They are Class IV employees. The school will now remain close.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-claims-2-lives-infects-89/articleshow/79709793.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Highrise next to DU campus gets green nod as panel rejects pollution, privacy concerns||NEW DELHI: An independent committee appointed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given the green signal for the construction of a 39-storey group housing project next to Vishwavidyalaya Metro Station. The committee, in its Rapid Indicative Environment Assessment report, said that while the project would lead to a significant increase in the population density of the ward it falls in, it was not likely to impact the groundwater table or cause significant impact in terms of air pollution. The impact of the project located on Chhatra Marg was examined in a 2km by 2km grid. The members of the panel included officials from CPCB, environment ministry, Central Ground Water Board, School of Planning and Architecture, Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, among other agencies. The site largely falls in Timarpur ward (59.7%) and would lead to an increase in population density by 14%. “An increment of 1,947 people per sq km is anticipated, which is statistically significant and likely to result in alteration in present conditions,” said the report, a copy of which is with TOI. However, all other parameters monitored showed no significant impact to the surroundings, including air pollution, groundwater, wastewater generation, solid waste management, noise pollution, traffic congestion, earthquake resistance and overall compliance. The report stated that the area should see an increase in air pollution through the addition of 615 cars, which should be BS-IV compliant and driven on petrol or CNG. This would result in an increase in CO levels by only 0.25%, hydrocarbon by 0.09% and NOx emissions by 0.1%. Only a marginal increase in the volume-to-capacity ratio would occur on the roads through the additional vehicles. No groundwater would be extracted during construction of the project and DJB would supply water after it was completed. Only 0.002% percentage increase in wastewater generation was expected. Generation of solid waste was expected to increase by only 1.27%, while there would be “minuscule” impact on noise pollution. Since the NGT order on February 10, six meetings were held by the committee, the latest being on December 1. A site visit was carried out on August 17 to verify the submissions made by all parties. Delhi University, however, hit back at the report on Sunday. Bipin Tewari, deputy dean (works) said, “We will leave no stone unturned to reverse this construction as this is an attack on DU’s heritage, value and culture. The matter is sub judice. No study could have been done on congestion and traffic as things were mostly closed during the past nine months of the pandemic. Delhi University is a stakeholder, but it was not consulted while preparing this report.” “How can the committee come out with a report when the matter is pending in court? This is illegal as the report needs to be submitted in court. The next hearing is on January 13,” added Tewari, claiming that in the past few years, the population density around the university had increased, but there had been no improvement in sewerage and roads had not been widened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/highrise-next-to-du-campus-gets-green-nod-as-panel-rejects-pollution-privacy-concerns/articleshow/79711137.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur: Decades-old BR Stadium in state of disrepair||GUNTUR: Neglect and shabby infrastructure greets sportspersons and sports lovers who visit the BR (Brahmananda Reddy) Stadium in Guntur. Sportspersons say garbage is piling up next to a temporary road laid for entry into the stadium. Further, with the onset of the Covid-19 crisis, the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) set up a makeshift rythu bazaar at the BR Stadium for several months. The track and ground were spoiled due to the movement of vehicles inside the stadium during the lockdown. As the Centre eased lockdown restrictions, the GMC shifted the rythu bazaar to the entrance of the stadium a month ago. Although the GMC set up a dedicated rythu bazaar close to the stadium, its decision to continue the vegetable market in the stadium premises has upset many. Sportspersons say that while the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) had failed to keep the stadium in good shape to facilitate the training of budding players, the GMC’s decision has worsened matters by locating the rythu bazaar inside the stadium and the dumping yard adjacent to it. Recently, the GMC started a campaign to keep the city clean by enforcing penalties on small street vendors for littering and threatened to to cut off drinking water supply to homes if residents did not segregate garbage into two bins. “I have received complaints and directed the local sanitary inspector to take action. I will visit the place to take stock of the situation,” said Dr Venkata Ramana, municipal health officer. Another issue is stray dogs roaming on the stadium premises. “The track has been damaged and there are stray dogs as well,” said Swetha, a young sportsperson. Subhani (65), a fitness enthusiast, added that authorities are not taking any action despite the number of sportspersons and fitness enthusiasts who come from Guntur East to practise in the stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/decades-old-br-stadium-in-state-of-disrepair/articleshow/79709792.cms||Samdani MN
December 14, 2020||Delhi||13 weapon traffickers arrested daily since drive started in June: Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Ever since it launched a drive six months ago to hunt down traffickers of illegal weapons, Delhi Police has arrested 13 gunrunners everyday on an average, a data compiled by the department shows. Between June and November, different units of Delhi Police have arrested 2,431 people with weapons. From them, a staggering 1,702 weapons were seized and over 2,000 FIRs were registered, said a police officer. Delhi Police, through a concerted action plan, on directions of Shri S N Shrivastava, CP Delhi, has been able to cr… https://t.co/EeMFd18tFL— #DilKiPolice Delhi Police (@DelhiPolice) 1607851986000The worth of the seized weapons is estimated to be over Rs 35 crore. A basic semi-automatic pistol of 7.65mm caliber sells for Rs 20,000-25000 and the price may go up to Rs 40,000 for a locally made pistol, depending upon its quality. In a bid to curb crime and to bring in the criminal syndicates in the capital to book, Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava had in June issued directions for chalking out a concerted action plan to unearth the illegal arms held by criminal gangs. Since then, not just special cell and crime branch — who are mandated to keep the heat mounted on such syndicates — but local police units, too, started a crackdown. Post the top cop’s orders, all units of Delhi Police activated their sources to collect ground-level information about these operatives. “As a result, 2,431 people were arrested between June 1 and November 30 in 2,040 cases registered under the Arms Act in various police districts in the city,” Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal said. The seizures included 1,493 pistols, 195 revolvers and 14 rifles. Singhal said that the force had an “unprecedented success” in its efforts to crack the criminal syndicates trying to establish a foothold in Delhi. “Special teams were constituted by Crime Branch, Special Cell and various police stations of Delhi for collecting intelligence and conducting of raids,” he added. Gunrunners are being booked under Section 25 (8) of the amended Arms Act, in which there is a provision of a minimum sentence of 10 years that can extend up to life imprisonment, police said. A significant achievement in this crackdown has been the seizure of 3,198 live cartridges from the arrested gunrunners in addition to the weapons. Bullets, unlike guns, can’t be soured locally or manufactured. They are either smuggled from across the border or stolen from ordnance depots and gun-houses, a police officer said. During the drive, the cops kept their focus on the hubs in Madhya Pradesh and areas like Meerut and Munger from where the criminals of Delhi-NCR usually source guns. Several raids were conducted in Sendhwa, Khargone, Dhar and Burhanpur in Madhya Pradesh and police teams even camped there for weeks to generate intelligence about the gunrunners. Delhi Police said the drive was going to be intensified in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/13-weapon-traffickers-arrested-daily-since-drive-started-in-june-police/articleshow/79711144.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Woman, daughter hang themselves, teen critical||tnnLudhiana: “Harassed by their neighbour and her accomplice”, a teenager and her mother hanged themselves at their house in Haibowal on Saturday night.While the 30-year-old woman has succumbed, her 14-year-old daughter is under treatment at a hospital, where her condition is stated to be critical.After recovering a suicide note from the spot, the police have lodged an abetment to suicide case against their neighbour and her accomplice, who is a fruit vendor. The matter came to light around 9pm, when the woman’s husband returned home. “I found my wife hanging from a ceiling fan in the bedroom on the first floor. My daughter was hanging in the veranda outside the room,” he said.At the time of the incident, the woman’s mother-in-law, father-in-law and younger daughter, 5, were at the ground floor. A relative of the woman said, “A fruit vendor used to visit the house of their neighbour. About a month ago, the vendor had sent objectionable messages to the 14-year-old girl on Facebook. The family had lodged a police complaint against him, but later they struck a compromise. Thereafter, the vendor stopped visiting the house of their neighbour.” A few days ago, the vendor again started visiting their neighbour’s house. “On Wednesday, the neighbourhood woman and the vendor again sent objectionable messages to the teenager and her mother on Facebook. The family filed a fresh complaint with the police,” the relative added. But before the police could take any action, the teenager and her mother hanged themselves. The deceased’s mother-in-law said, “In the evening, my daughter-in-law came downstairs, handed over her five-year-old daughter to me and went to her room. I had no clue that they would take this step.” In-charge of Jagatpuri police post ASI Malkit Singh said, “The statement of 14-year-old girl is important to investigate the case. The accused neighbourhood woman and the fruit vendor are on the run. An FIR has been lodged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-daughter-hang-themselves-teen-critical/articleshow/79709800.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||We are warriors — farmers at Singhu border ready for long haul, vow ‘largest ever’ protest||NEW DELHI: Farmers on Sunday said they had called over 10,000 people from their villages to protest along with them at Singhu border on Monday, which would make their dharna the largest ever. The protesters said they wanted to amplify their voices as the government had been giving them the cold shoulder. Mentioning that they were geared up to go to any extent to ensure that the government gave in to their demands, Gurnam Singh, a resident of Moga, said, “We will stay here for months, if required. We are not short of anything. If the government feels we will starve and die here, it is wrong. We are warriors and will fight like the same.” Camped since the first day of protests, Gurnam has called his entire family to the border. Another protester said more than 2,000 trolleys, each carrying at least four people, would be arriving at the protest site from their villages. The protests, however, are unlikely to hit public transport in the city. Delhi Metro services would be available as usual on Monday, including sections connecting the capital to the NCR towns. The combined fleet of 6,601 DTC and Cluster Scheme buses would also be on the roads. DTC, however, has not been operating any interstate buses since the protests started, which has affected traffic movement between Delhi and its neighbouring states. Kamaljeet Gill, president of Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi, said though app-based cab drivers supported the protest, taxis would be available. Autorickshaws would also run as usual. “We fully support the protest, but cabs will be available on Monday. However, if needed in future, kaali-peeli taxis, tourist taxis, tourist buses and app-based cabs will strike work in support of the farmers,” said Sanjay Samrat, president, Delhi Taxi Tourist Transporters Association. Gaganpreet Singh, a resident of Delhi who has been serving food at Singhu border since the first call for bandh by the farmers, asked his friends to join him on Monday to add to the existing strength there. “I come from a family of farmers and will always stand for their rights. They are not fools that they have left their homes and are staying on the roads under such adverse conditions for nothing. People are trying to make the situation comfortable for them, but the government is hardly doing anything. Why has the government turned a blind eye to the protests?” asked Gaganpreet. Mannat Singh, another protester, said, “We will not only increase our numbers at the borders on Monday, but will also block every main entry to the capital. We will also try to block arterial roads within Delhi. We do not want to create any sort of inconvenience to people, but we also want to be noticed. The government has been talking a lot about the novel coronavirus, but has it noticed this large gathering here? They don’t seem bothered about the people here.” Meanwhile, a senior traffic police officer said they had planned to increase the presence of security personnel at the borders. “Apart from Singhu, Tikri and Dhansa borders will also be sealed for traffic. The Delhi-Haryana borders that will remain open include Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri, NH-8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/we-are-warriors-farmers-at-singhu-border-ready-for-long-haul-vow-largest-ever-protest/articleshow/79711143.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||65-yr-old scribe robbed at gunpoint on GT Road||tnnLudhiana: Three miscreants robbed an elderly man of his two-wheeler and Rs 1,800 at gunpoint near Eldeco Estate, GT Road, on Saturday night.Before fleeing, the accused gave Pradeep Kumar Rs 200 so that he could reach home. Kumar, 65, a resident of New Pratap Nagar who works as a scribe in a vernacular newspaper, said in his police complaint, “I had gone to a marriage bureau to find a suitable match for my son. Around 9pm, when I was on way home, three masked men intercepted my two-wheeler near Eldeco Estate. As soon as I jammed on the brakes, one of them pointed a pistol at me. They asked me to leave my two-wheeler (PB 10 HH 6736) and snatched my wallet containing Rs 2,000. When they were fleeing, I asked them how would I go home. They then gave me Rs 200 so that I could hire a conveyance.” When the trio sped away, Kumar called up the police. Salem Tabri police station ASI Jatinder Kumar said, “There are no CCTV cameras near the crime spot. We are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed on the GT Road to trace the accused.” A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/65-yr-old-scribe-robbed-at-gunpoint-on-gt-road/articleshow/79709795.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Lucknow||Submit list of cops deployed to enforce Covid protocol: Allahabad high court||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed police administration of Lucknow, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut cities to submit names of the police personnel deployed on roads to ensure all commuters wear mask. The court issued the order after the Lucknow DM in his affidavit said that two police personnel were deployed on every 2 km stretch of all roads but did not mention names of police personnel. Hearing a PIL on Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed on Saturday, “From the affidavit of compliance filed by district magistrate, Lucknow, it appears that almost 300 people were getting infected every day. Though we appreciate the sincere efforts of police administration, we find a lot more is needed to be done and it cannot be said that things are now under control. Further efforts should be made for restricting the spread of Covid-19.” “Even though the additional advocate general stated that testing was also increasing every day, we found the number of infected persons was increasing. We find tracking was not being done properly. In Lucknow, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut, the number of infected persons should be coming down and this could happen only if proper tracking takes place. Also proper policing is required to be done to see 100% mask wearing. Under such circumstances, we expect a better affidavit to be filed by Lucknow, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut police administrations, having names of deployed police personnel. Police deployment is very essential since policing alone can make people wear masks,” the court said. In addition to it, the court directed the district administrations of Lucknow, GB Nagar, Ghaziabad and Meerut to see that no food is consumed in the open in these districts. “The restaurant/eateries/street vendors may be allowed to sell their edible items only in closed packets,” the court directed. Appreciating the steps taken by the district administration of Prayagraj for checking the spread of Covid-19, the court observed, “It is something to be appreciated that in Prayagraj only because of proper policing, residents of Prayagraj wore masks and the number of persons getting infected with Covid-19 has come down remarkably.” Earlier on December 3, the court had taken a serious note of the rise in Covid-19 cases in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Kanpur Nagar and had directed their administration and police heads to file their respective affidavits mentioning the steps they were taking to restrain the hike in such cases. In pursuance of the said directive, the affidavit of compliance was filed by the Commissioner of Police, Lucknow, District Magistrate, Lucknow, Commissioner of Police, Gautam Budh Nagar and Senior Superintendent of Police, Meerut. The court also directed the state government to inform the court as to which authority should be directed to remove all the religious worshipping places which have been constructed on Nagar Nigam land or other public land. The court passed this order when the counsel for Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) failed to give inputs in this regard. Hence, while passing this directive the court observed, “So far as removal of religious worshipping places is concerned, the counsel for the Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) could give no input at all. It appears that the PDA is not interested in the removal of these encroachments.” The court directed to list this case on December 17, 2020 for next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/submit-list-of-cops-deployed-to-enforce-covid-protocol-hc/articleshow/79712173.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers, students in UK protest against Indian agri laws||London: Hundreds of Sikh farmers in the Midlands joined a car rally outside the Consulate General of India in Birmingham on Saturday, whilst dozens of students at the Oxford University also held a protest to show solidarity with protesting farmers protesting in India. The British Sikhs farmers arrived in tractors, trucks and lorries to join Punjabi families in cars and on motorbikes who descended on the Consulate waving orange, yellow and “farmers’ flags”, blasting Punjabi music, beeping and causing gridlock on the roads. They arrived in convoy from places like Derby, Coventry, Leicester, Yorkshire and Northampton, despite Birmingham and most of these places having a high number of Covid-19 cases and being in the toughest regional tier of lockdown restrictions. Around 2,000 protesters, including the elderly and children, gathered outside the Consulate setting off orange, yellow and green smoke flares and holding placards saying “We are farmers, not terrorists”, and “Farmers lives matter”. Many of the protesters criticised UK PM Boris Johnson for his comments in the UK Parliament last week when he said: “We have serious concerns about what is happening between India and Pakistan” in response to MPTanmanjeet Singh Dhesi’s request to convey the anxieties of British Sikhs about the Indian farmers. Sixty students attended the protest, organised by the Oxford India Society and Oxford South Asian Society, which took place in University Parks, Oxford, featuring performances of poetry. The Oxford India Society said in a statement: “The Oxford protest is in unequivocal solidarity with the farmers who have been protesting for the last few months in India. The farmers primary demand is the repeal of the three new farm laws. Our solidarity is all the more necessary considering the undemocratic nature in which the laws were passed in Parliament, with no complete consultation stage and a denial of a vote by division amidst chaos (only a voice vote was conducted, with the Opposition unable to record dissent). Some participants in the protest would also like to highlight this as part of a broader trend of anti-democratic acts by the Indian government.” Last week Rawalpindi-born Lord Singh of Wimbledon again raised the farmers’ protests in the House of Lords saying: “The Prime Minister’s visit to India next month has the potential for increased trade with the subcontinent. Can the minister assure the House that any plans to increase food imports from India will respect the human rights of small farmers already reeling from new laws allowing big business to dictate commodity prices?” Lord True, minister of state at the Cabinet Office, replied: “I will not go into the specifics of negotiations with India. The objective of Her Majesty’s Government is to extend free trade agreements as widely as we may, because we believe free trade is one of the greatest sources of the uplifting of poverty...ever devised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-students-in-uk-protest-against-indian-agri-laws/articleshow/79711155.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Obesity doubles in kids below 5 years’||AHMEDABAD: Obesity among children under five years of age has almost doubled between 2015-16 and 2019-20. The latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS) has found a drastic rise in obesity among children not only in Gujarat but also in 20 of the 22 states and Union territories covered by the NFHS in the country. Experts attribute it to the lack of physical activity and unhealthy food habits. The latest NFHS-5 (2019-20) reveals that obesity among children below five years was 4.6% in urban areas while the same was 3.5% in rural areas. Dr Chetan Trivedi, executive board member in Indian academy of paediatrics, said that among the children below five years the scientific reasons were mainly genetic and even maternal health. Moreover, children in the age group are more on formula feeds which make them swell. Also, the choice of diet, including more calorie-rich food, makes these children gain weight. Trivedi said: “Also parents feel that their children are not eating enough and they often end up overfeeding them. In several cases, we have seen that children who don’t gain weight in their first couple of years of birth become obese which become later difficult to control.” According to the NHFS-5, apart from Gujarat there was an increase in obesity in Maharashtra , Mizoram, Tripura, Lakshadweep, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. These places have registered a manifold increase in the percentage of obesity among children. Only Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu registered a drop in the number of overweight children under five years of age, the data showed. Not just children, the rise in obesity has even been recorded in adults especially men. In Gujarat there has been an increase of 0.2% in obese men but when it comes to Gujarati women they have grown more health conscious. As compared to the NFHS-4, there has been a reduction of 1.1% in obese women in Gujarat. Obesity in Gujarat among women was 23.7% which has reduced to 22.6% as per NFHS-IV. Doctors say that the increase in obesity among elders was only because they tend to sit too much and ignore exercise and eat junk or oily foods. A senior health official said that in rural areas even children below five years are given money and asked to eat junk food or packed foods which are not only unhygienic but are also too oily. “There are examples of children in villages eating only chips, and other packed foods.” The NFHS results of 17 states and five Union Territories have been released now as Phase-1 data. The Phase-2 results will cover other states. The present NFHS was conducted on 6.1 lakh sample households, involving household-level interviews to collect information on population, health, family planning and nutrition related indicators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/obesity-doubles-in-kids-below-5-years/articleshow/79711139.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur to get new flights to Goa, Chandigarh, Indore||Jaipur: More domestic flights will be added to the schedule of Jaipur airport while some which remained suspended due to poor load factor will be restored soon.Authorities said the load factor for domestic flights was picking up. Despite the fact that the number of Covid cases rose in November, there wasn’t much dip passenger load in Jaipur. “We had witnessed almost 8,500 passengers a day, which included inbound and outbound passengers. Things are gradually improving in the aviation sector. Some operators have decided to restore their earlier flights,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport.According to airport authorities, three new flights will be introduced on December 16. “These include Jaipur to Goa, Jaipur to Indore and Jaipur to Delhi,” said an officer of the operations wing at the airport.The Jaipur to Goa flight, which was earlier slated to kick off from December 6, will now start from December 16. “Earlier, people willing to travel to Goa from Jaipur used to go via Delhi. Now, we have direct connectivity to Goa. Also, opening of flights after wedding season will certainly bring passengers, especially couples going on honeymoon, and others willing to visit Goa during New Year’s eve,” said Sanjay Kaushik, a Jaipur-based tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-to-get-new-flights-to-goa-chandigarh-indore/articleshow/79710385.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Helpline to curb drug peddling lies defunct||LUDHIANA: Launched by the Khanna police to get information from public about drug peddlers, the helpline number is no longer in use, though the flex boards publicising the number can still be seen at many places in the district. People said about one-and-half years ago, the flex boards were put up by police at various places, including urban areas, villages and police stations, which carried a message for the people to share information about drug peddlers and the likes on the helpline number, assuring that their identity would be kept a secret. A person from Samrala, near whose shop one such board was put up on Samrala-Khanna road, requesting anonymity said that when he dialled the number recently, he either got the message that “this number is no longer in use” or “the dialled number does not exist”. Some prominent citizens of Khanna area also felt that the police should restore the helpline to check the drug menace, as it is badly affecting the society. “There is a dire need of such a helpline and the police should restart it. While the cops should keep working on their own to check the drug trade, they should also take people’s support through this helpline,” said Jagjivan Singh Khernia, a former MLA from Samrala area. Some senior officers of the Khanna police confirmed that earlier they would receive inputs on the number from people on drug-related activities in their areas. “When this service was started over one-and-half years ago, people would contact us and provide information about drug trade. I would seek daily reports about the calls received on the number. But, later I was transferred. I will get it checked at the earliest,” said Khanna SSP Gursharan Singh Grewal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/helpline-to-curb-drug-peddling-lies-defunct/articleshow/79709805.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Business unusual: Border protest a shot in arm for these shopkeepers||NEW DELHI: Sarabjit, a shopkeeper selling jackets near Singhu border, has been making a brisk business ever since the protests started. While he used to barely get 5-10 customers on a regular day, with the farmers being present there in hordes, he has now been getting 40-50 buyers daily. Like him, other shopkeepers who were earlier upset over the protests gathering pace near their workplace, are now happy as their sales have risen phenomenally over the past two weeks. Be it shoe sellers, barbers or restaurants, all of them are flooded with customers. “I have a family of six and there were days when I hardly made any sales. Once the protests started, I was upset as I felt that my sales would come down to zero. But after placing a stall near the protest site, I have made more money in the past two weeks than what I earned in an entire year,” said Sarabjit. As one heads further into the protest site, one can notice more shops remaining open despite the agitation taking place there. Samrat, a barber, has now learnt the art of tying turbans too. “Even though Sikhs don’t get a haircut, they are very particular about getting their turbans in place. Earlier, I used to get 10 clients daily, but now I get at least 50,” he said. While Samrat had kept his shop closed in the initial days, after much contemplation he later decided to open it. “A protester visited me and I told him about my apprehension of keeping the shop open. After coming to know that I needed money to sustain my family, he called a few protesters and they taught me to tie a turban. They also paid me for tying a turban properly. Ever since, my shop has never been empty. The protesters are very generous. Many of them pay me more than my usual rates. Though they are fighting a hard battle, they keep a smile on and ask everyone to have faith in God,” said the barber. A biryani shop owner next to the salon resonated the same feelings. Washing utensils and taking orders for lunch simultaneously, Zaid-ul said he had kept his shop shut for two days. When he reopened, he was amazed at the response from the farmers. “Though many langars are held daily, many protesters visit our shops so that we don’t incur losses. They ensure that we make more money than usual. I don’t think their demands are unreasonable. Sleeping on the streets on such cold nights must be quite difficult, but they seem to go on with such ease,” he added. Sanjay, who sells sweaters and jackets, said he felt as if he had won a lottery. “I have reduced the prices of all items. Despite that, I have been earning Rs 1,000 every day compared with barely Rs 100 daily earlier,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/business-unusual-border-protest-a-shot-in-arm-for-these-shopkeepers/articleshow/79711170.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Accepting Ninder farmers’ demand a challenge for Jaipur Development Authority||JAIPUR: It will be a challenge for the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) to fulfil the farmers’ demand whose lands have been acquired to develop Ninder housing project. A fresh round of dialogue between farmers and JDA started this week to resolve the deadlock. The farmers are demanding to pay Rs 1 token as lease money, which they will receive as compensation. However, it will be a challenge for JDA to accept the proposal. An official source at JDA said, “The same demand was put forward by the farmers in earlier talks. Following this, the (JDA) had decided to waive off its share of lease money, however, finance department refused to give up its share.” Official explained the amount of lease money collected is shared by the JDA and finance department. The share of JDA is 40%, while finance department collects 60% of the lease money. “As per the Rajasthan Improvement Trust (Disposal of Urban Land) Rules, the decision to waive off lease money entirely is state government’s decision. The JDA has decided not to take its share, however, the finance department earlier had asked to provide its share,” said a JDA official. At present, on residential plot up to the size of 200 square yards, the JDA levies Rs 162 per square yard and Rs 324 per square yard on commercial plots. On plot size above 200 square yards, the JDA levies Rs 216 per square yard on residential property and Rs 432 per square yard on commercial properties. In the scheme, the civic body had planned to develop 3,000 plots of different sizes on approximately 1,296 bighas. As per preliminary estimation, the JDA would fix Rs 16,000 per square metre as reserve price. However, the actual price will be fixed by the finance department. The proposal was forwarded for the same in 2017. However, it was shelved after change in regime.” Earlier, farmers of Ninder village had lain half-buried in the ground for 40 days against the acquisition of their agriculture land. They had ‘called off’ their protest after receiving written assurance from the JDA to conduct a fresh survey of the acquired land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accepting-ninder-farmers-demand-a-challenge-for-jda/articleshow/79710389.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur to Prayagraj to be first train on electrified route||JAIPUR: The long wait for traveling on electrified route will be over on Monday when Jaipur-Prayagraj train chugs off from here. Authorities of Jaipur division of North Western Railway (NWR) are working overtime to make the day a success. The train from Prayagraj will depart on Sunday. “This train will depart from Jaipur at 3.20pm as the Rewarri-Bandikui-Jaipur-Phulera-Madar route has been completed. This has also opened trains on electric traction from Delhi to Ajmer via Jaipur,” said a senior officer of Jaipur division of NWR on Saturday. Authorities said this would be followed by introduction of more trains on electric traction from Delhi to Ajmer. “We are trying to get our next train between Ajmer and Delhi via Jaipur and hopefully Aashram Express which runs up to Ahmedabad might be the next train on the Delhi-Ajmer route,” the officer added. Electric trains will not only be environment friendly, but will also minimise travel time in many trains especially those having more halts. “The trains on electric traction have better acceleration and deceleration compared to regular diesel trains. We are hopeful to cut down travel time between Jaipur and Delhi by 20 minutes at least,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-to-prayagraj-to-be-first-train-on-electrified-route/articleshow/79710386.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha, Atishi among six detained; protest at Amit Shah, LG houses denied||NEW DELHI: Six Aam Aadmi Party MLAs, including Raghav Chadha and Atishi, were detained by Delhi Police on Sunday under the Epidemic Diseases Act when they were on their way to stage parallel protests outside the residences of Union home minister Amit Shah and LG Anil Baijal against an alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore in the north corporation. The party had earlier alleged that while the north civic body was unable to pay doctors, nurses, sanitation workers and other staff citing fund crunch, it had waived off Rs 2,500 crore that was payable to it by the south corporation as rent for its office at Civic Centre. Even as mayors of BJP-run corporations continue their dharna for “pending dues”, AAP has planned counter-protests outside the residences of Shah and Baijal residences, demanding a CBI inquiry into the alleged misappropriation of funds. Chadha said that he and other AAP MLAs were illegally detained on Sunday when they wanted to protest outside Shah’s residence quoting rule 144 and pandemic Act, but at the same time, BJP mayors were allowed to protest outside CM Arvind Kejriwal’s house. While Chadha was detained as he was trying to leave his residence, as were the other AAP MLAs, Atishi was detained near the residence of Baijal. “This is perhaps one of the biggest scams that Delhi would’ve seen thus far, for the level of corruption is greater than what happened during Commonwealth Games. The BJP-led corporation’s scam runs to the tune of Rs 2,500 crore,” Atishi said. “This is public money, it is taxpayers’ money. This money could have been used to pay the salaries of sanitation workers, of nurses, of doctors — of every frontline worker who has not been paid their rightful earning,” she said. “Yesterday, we clearly informed Delhi Police that AAP MLAs will hold a dharna outside the residence of the home minister at 11 am today. But, today, many police personnel came to my house and they told me if I step out, they will take me under their custody,” Chadha said. He said Delhi police officers took him to Rajinder Nagar Police Station as soon as he stepped out of his house. “It was a completely illegal detention,” he said. Atishi claimed that when she, along with three AAP leaders of opposition of the corporations, reached the LG House, more than 400 police personnel were present there. “We told them that we are here not to protest, but to meet the LG. But the LG did not meet us. Delhi Police officers dragged us on the road and pushed us inside a bus,” she alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chadha-atishi-among-six-detained-protest-at-shah-lg-houses-denied/articleshow/79711233.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s Delhi dash triggers speculation||HYDERABAD: BJP Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday left for Delhi even as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao returned from the national capital after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and other ministers. Sanjay’s sudden trip to Delhi has led to wide speculation in political circles that he was called by the BJP central leadership after KCR met Modi. However, Bandi Sanjay told TOI that his visit had nothing to do with KCR’s trip to Delhi. “My trip was planned earlier. I am going to attend a meeting related to urban development ministry. I will return on Monday. There is nothing political about it,” he said. A word was sent to all the BJP leaders to search for all land-related issues in which the TRS leaders are involved. There is also speculation that there could be mass joining of TRS leaders into BJP after the Delhi developments. BJP sources said that the party was looking into possible alliance between TRS and AIMIM for the mayor’s post in the GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandis-delhi-dash-triggers-speculation/articleshow/79711193.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Dhindsa returns Padma Bhushan to President’s office||Chandigarh: President, Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has returned the third highest civilian award - Padma Bhushan - to the office of President Ram Nath Kovind in protest against the farm laws. “Since I did not get any response to my letter from the President, I called his office and returned the Padma Bhushan on Friday,” Dhindsa told TOI. President Kovind had presented Padma Bhushan to Dhindsa in March 2019 for his contribution in the field of public affairs. On December 4, the Rajya Sabha MP wrote a letter to the President saying that he could not keep the Padma Bhushan award when farmers were facing a “vilification campaign and hostile attitude” as they were peacefully protesting against central government farm laws. Dhindsa added that the plight of people of the state had been haunting him and whatever he achieved in his life was a blessing of the people of Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dhindsa-returns-padma-bhushan-to-presidents-office/articleshow/79711208.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Body of man who went missing 14 months ago found||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police on Sunday claimed they have cracked the murder case of a 29-year-old man, who went missing from the Amalner village in Gangapur in October 2019, following the arrest of two people who are suspected to have planned the murder. The man, who had gone missing and was suspected to have been murdered, has been identified as Ganesh Misal while the arrested accused have been identified as Sachin Pandit (25) and Ravindra alias Pappu Butte (27). Sachin was scheduled to get married on December 16. Investigation revealed that Ganesh, who was a farmer, came to know about Sachin’s affair with a married woman from the village. Inspector at Gangapur police station Machindra Survase told TOI, “After learning about the illicit relationship, Ganesh was allegedly blackmailing the woman and seeking favours from her. Sachin warned Ganesh but the latter continued blackmailing the woman.” Sachin hatched a conspiracy to kill Ganesh. On October 5, 2019, Sachin and Ravindra contacted Ganesh and asked him to accompany them on a bike. The duo allegedly strangled Ganesh and buried his body in a 3ft-deep pit that they had dug in Ravindra’s distant relative’s farm. Ganesh’s family registered a complaint on October 10 after he went missing and since then, the case remained under investigation. Gangapur police recently got a tip-off about the duo’s involvement in the murder and detained them for questioning on Saturday night. The duo confessed to their crime during interrogation. Accordingly, excavators were hired and flood lights were installed in the farm to facilitate the digging process in the presence of revenue authorities. The accused were produced before a court on Sunday, which remanded them in police custody for four days. Early on Sunday morning, police also exhumed Ganesh’s body at a farm in the village and conducted the post-mortem and carried out the forensic analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/body-of-man-who-went-missing-14-months-ago-found/articleshow/79711214.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Physical events now taking over virtual ones after fall in cases||JAIPUR: With new Covid cases declining and vaccine availability round the corner, the events industry is beginning to return to the physical world even as virtual mode has developed firmer roots in the past nine months. Apart from weddings, MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions) events have again started offline over the past one month after the government allowed gatherings of 100 people. The industry is now optimistic that things can only go up from here with some even predicting near pre-Covid levels from March onwards. Three-day India Travel Mart (ITM), a business-to-business networking platform for promoting domestic tourism, concluded on Sunday in Birla auditorium. This is perhaps the first exhibition after all the events were cancelled from March 20 following the outbreak of Covid in India. Ajay Gupta, director of ITM, said, “The government allows gathering of 100 people. We applied and got the permission to hold the travel mart within those guidelines. Every day, the event witnessed footfalls of about 50-60 people and we also had systems in place to ensure that there were not more than 100 people inside the mart at any given point of time.” Earlier this month, TiE Global organised a two-day boot camp for women entrepreneurs in the Pink City. Many of the entrepreneurs flew in from various cities in the country to participate in the camp. Mahavir Sharma, chairman, TiE Global, said, “TiE Women is a new initiative to promote entrepreneurship among women. For this debut event, we had 27 TiE chapters, including 15 from India, participated. The winners from these chapters will compete in a global pitch in Dubai in January 2021. But we wanted to handhold the runners also for which we had a boot camp in Jaipur. Following all the Covid protocols, we conducted the camp where about 15 entrepreneurs participated.” About a month back, AU Small Finance Bank also had its annual general body meeting in a leading hotel in the city where about 30-40 people participated. A source said that high-level officials and other stakeholders of the bank also joined virtually from other locations. Siddharth Chaturvedi, CEO of Event Crafter, said, “Hybrid platforms are emerging as a new medium where some people can participate physically following all the SOPs while others join in virtually from other cities or locations.” Chaturvedi said that brands have already started activation programmes in malls and the automakers are leading the trend. He said that as the new Covid cases are falling and the vaccine will be available in a month or so, the events industry will see momentum from March onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/physical-events-now-taking-over-virtual-ones-after-fall-in-cases/articleshow/79710394.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 14, 2020||Goa||Pandemic stalls major infrastructure projects in Calangute belt||CALANGUTE: A number of major projects in the Calangute-Candolim belt have been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, including the new wing of the Candolim primary health centre (PHC). The foundation stone for the new wing was laid by chief minister Pramod Sawant, health minister Viswajit Rane and ports minister Michael Lobo in February. Work on the new wing, that will be built at a cost of Rs 20 crore, is yet to commence. “All the plans are ready, but work has been delayed due to the pandemic. The entire focus in the past few months has been on fighting the virus,” Dr Roshan Nazareth, health officer at Candolim PHC said. “Now that the Covid situation is under control, work will be starting shortly. I've been told the chief minister was inquiring about when the work will begin,” Nazareth said. The chief minister, who is an ayurvedic doctor, had practised for a year at Candolim PHC around 15 years ago. When the new wing is ready, the PHC will be upgraded to a community health centre. “It will have international quality facilities,” Rane had said at the launch. It will also have emergency treatment facilities for trauma cases as a number of accidents are reported in the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt. A couple of other major projects have also been stalled. A new overhead water tank, with a unique two-tank design, which was meant to resolve the water shortage problem has not been commissioned even though it has been completed as a new water pipeline connecting it to the main pipeline at Guirim is yet to be laid. “We are having a review meeting after the zilla panchayat elections. Work should be starting soon,” Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins said. Also, work on the the sewerage network in Calangute has been completed, but is yet to be commissioned as work on two pumping stations has been delayed. The sewerage treatment plant (STP) at Baga has also been completed. The ports minister said that the state government is going to build a “reverse pipeline” to take treated water from the STP to the garbage treatment plant at Saligao for use there. “Once that is ready, the STP will be commissioned,” he said. Though work on the sewerage system had commenced in April 2013 and was to be completed within three years, it was delayed due to a number of reasons, the primary one being objections raised by people due to the digging up of roads to lay the pipelines. While the pipeline network was completed last year, work on the two pumping stations was again delayed following objections by people in the vicinity of the land where the pumping stations are to be built. They claimed the sewerage pumping stations would pollute the air in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-stalls-major-infra-projects-in-calangute-belt/articleshow/79711205.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Doctor left towel inside woman’s body during c-section: Husband||TNNLudhiana: In a case of an alleged medical negligence, a civil hospital doctor left a towel inside the body of a pregnant woman while conducting a caesarean operation. The woman’s husband has submitted a complaint with the police and the health department has called him on Monday for his version to start probe. Complainant Arvinder Singh of Jhujhar Nagar, husband of Asha Kaur, told cops that on December 7 he took his pregnant wife to the civil hospital for delivery and she underwent caesarean operation the next day.He said his wife continued to have pain in abdomen, which also started swelling, but the doctors called it a normal occurrence. He added that on December 11, after his wife was discharged, he took her to a private hospital on Brown Road where doctors said they would have to operate her again. He said during the operation, doctors found a towel inside her body. Division two SHO inspector Satpal confirmed that they have received a complaint. Police officials said the complainant has submitted a picture of towel found during the operation and action for negligence would be taken against the doctor if charges were found to be true. Civil hospital senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjeet Kaur said they need a written complaint into the matter for further action, so they have called Arvinder Singh on Monday. She said necessary action would be taken if anyone was found guilty.Health department officials said the complainant hasn’t named any doctor in his application to the police. They said the doctor who had conducted the operation would be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doctor-left-towel-inside-womans-body-during-c-section-husband/articleshow/79709812.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Dushyant’s meeting with Union minister an eyewash: Cong||Chandigarh: A day after Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala met the Union ministers over the issue of MSP, the Congress termed it “an eyewash” and a bid to save his and his party JJJP’s face. All India Congress Committee (AICC) communication head Randeep Singh Surjewala said Dushyant should not hide behind the drama of holding talks with BJP leaders and Union ministers and instead should withdraw support from the Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana and resign from the post of deputy CM. “He has all the time to strike deal with BJP leaders for electoral alliance in municipal elections to enjoy the cream of power, but has no time to talk to the agitating farmers,” he alleged. “It is distinctly fresh in the memory of the people of Haryana as to how before assembly elections, JJP and Dushyant Chautala used to be vocal about the corruption in BJP government and the problems being faced by the farmers. The the same JJP and Dushyant Chautala fielded candidates to help BJP win elections in a number of vidhan sabha constituencies,’’ said Surjewala. After resorting to digging of roads, using tear gas and water cannons to throttle farmers agitation, the BJP-JJP government in Haryana adopted shameful tactics like branding the agitation being sponsored by Khalistanis-China-Pakistan, he said. Despite all those things, JJP and Dushyant were shamefully clinging to power, the added. “Sitting in the lap of BJP after having garnered votes in the name of opposing the saffron party, JJP has betrayed the voters,” he said. Haryana Congress president Selja accused Chautala of betraying farming community. Former CLP leader Kiran Choudhry said, “This act of betrayal of farmers and foiled attempt of cover ups to save face is really inhuman on the part of both the CM and deputy CM.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dushyants-meeting-with-union-minister-an-eyewash-cong/articleshow/79711197.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur's Nahargarh park to get two tigers from Odisha||JAIPUR: In an exchange programme, the state forest department will bring two big cats (a white tiger and a Bengal tiger) from Nandankanan Zoological Park in Odisha. The initiative will start after receiving a nod from the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). In return, the state will send alligators, wolves, Chinkara and leopards. An official said, “Along with white tiger, birds will be brought in exchange programme. Work will start after the approval from CZA,” the official said. Recently, the Nahargarh Biological Park became infamous for deaths of wild cats. In August, after 15-year-old white tiger, famously known as ‘Raja’, died, the park left with no white tiger. Similarly, another white tigress Sita died last year. An official said, before bringing the big cats, the forest department will install CCTV cameras in cages for 24x7 monitoring at Jaipur’s Nahargarh Biological Park. This was recommended by experts from Punjab’s Chhatbir Zoo. The experts were called to Jaipur after the authorities were unable to understand the cause of the death of big cats at the Park. Total 10 big cats have died at the park due to leptospirosis. “Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection traced to rat and mongoose urine. The disease was reported in the Chhatbir Zoo and Jodhpur zoo in 2011. As the park is situated in the foothills, both rat and mongoose are in abundance. To fight with the menace, decision has been taken for proper monitoring,” said the official. The experts from Punjab have shared their protocol with the park authorities in dealing with the disease. They also recommended CCTV camera monitoring inside the cages to examine the health of lions, especially at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nahargarh-park-to-get-two-tigers-from-odisha/articleshow/79710392.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Covid positivity rate dip to 5.8% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Out of 29,497 samples tested for Covid in the last 24 hours, 1,290 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of every 100 samples tested, four tested positive. In December, the positivity rate has gone down significantly, almost half to November’s rate. From 10.4% positivity rate in November, it has come down to 5.8% in December. In this month so far, 3.9 lakh samples were tested out of which 23,226 persons were found infected with the virus. November had reported highest positivity rate as out of every 100 samples tested in November, more than 10 persons were found infected. In November, 6.7 lakh samples were tested, out of those 71,070 were found infected. “The daily count of infected persons has been reducing for the past fortnight. We are collecting more than 30,000 samples every day on an average. At a time when more than 30,000 samples are tested everyday and the positivity rate is going down, it is a good sign. But, people should continue following Covid guidelines to avoid risk of getting infected with the virus,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,290 tested positive in the state taking the overall fatality count to 2,542 and infection numbers to 2,91,289. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (105), Kota (99), Bhilwara (70), Udaipur (65), Nagaur (61), Ajmer (51), Dungarpur (51), Sriganganagar (41), Jalore (40), Alwar (39), Bundi (35), Rajsamand (32), Tonk (32), Pali (31), Barmer (29), Bikaner (25), Bahartpur (20), Banswara (19), Baran (18), Chittorgarh (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Hanumangarh (18), Sikar (16), Churu (15), Sirohi (13), Jhunjhunu (10), Jhalawar (8), Dausa (6), Pratapgarh (5), Jaisalmer (3) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported three deaths taking its Covid-19 fatalities to 474, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 269th, two persons died in Nagaur taking its toll to 86, Ajmer 208th, Pali 102nd, Udaipur 107nd, Sikar 90th, Rajsamand 38th, Churu 38th and Baran reported its 32nd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-positivity-rate-dip-to-5-8-in-state/articleshow/79710397.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Steady decline in Covid cases in Jodhpur||JAIPUR: Jodhpur’s Covid-19 situation has changed drastically over the past 21 days. The positivity rate in Jodhpur has been declining week by week. From November 23-29, Jodhpur had reported 3,168 Covid-19 cases, with a positivity rate of 18%. From November 30 to December 6, there were 1,939 infected persons and a positivity rate of 12.7%. From December 7-13, the positivity rate stands at 8.7% as 1,130 persons were tested positive. At the beginning of December, a team of Centre reviewed Covid-19 situation in Jodhpur and a gamut of measures and initiatives were taken. The district administration had launched an initiative to encourage people to follow Covid-19 guidelines. "We will be felicitating ‘star performers’ on Monday. The star campaign was launched with an aim to encourage and promote the implementation of Covid-19 guidelines by various establishments, big as well as small, of Jodhpur City to make a positive contribution in the management and containment of the spread of Covid-19," said Inderjeet Singh, district collector, Jodhpur. The campaign was initiated by the district administration along with Jodhpur Municipal Corporation so as to identify and award the agencies, officies, shops and restaurants and other establishments who have acted as pioneers in adoption and implementation of Covid-19 guidelines in their respective units. A committee comprising health officer of Jodhpur Municipal Corporation North and South, two volunteers from independent agencies and a representative of chief medical health officer have evaluated the establishments with reference to Covid-19 protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/steady-decline-in-covid-cases-in-jodhpur/articleshow/79710396.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||People ready to end family rule: DK Aruna||HYDERABAD: BJP vice-president DK Aruna on Sunday alleged that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who had declared a war on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is now bowing before him. She told media that KCR has not recovered from the shock given to the TRS by voters in Dubbak assembly and GHMC civic body elections. “People in Telangana are seeking a change and they are now ready to end the family rule,” she said. Expressing confidence that in the assembly elections in 2023 BJP will come to power, she said that people are vexed with the TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-ready-to-end-family-rule-aruna/articleshow/79711241.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||‘Government & private hospital doctors must follow revised protocol’||JAIPUR: The health department has clarified that private and government hospitals should follow the revised Covid management protocol and daycare treatment prepared the SMS Medical College. In an order issued by health secretary Siddhartha Mahajan, he mentioned that the core treatment committee of SMS Medical College has prepared the revised Covid management protocol aiming to bring the mortality rate further down. SMS Medical College’s core treatment committee is headed by principal and controller, SMS Medical College, Dr Sudhir Bhandari, who pointed out that the revised treatment protocol has been prepared and it is quite useful in Covid treatment. Under the revised treatment protocol, patients have been divided into four different categories including mild, moderate, severe and critical on the basis of the symptoms of patients. For each category of patients, the committee has incorporated different investigations and therapies with a mention on when and where a patient should get the treatment for depending on the condition of patients. Besides, the revised protocol states that if RT-PCR test reports shows negative result once or twice but HR-CT chest is suggestive of Covid-19 infection of moderate severity, the treatment should be started as per the Covid treatment protocol according to the clinical judgement of the treating physician. Moreover, the revised treatment protocol emphasised that the use of awake prone positioning with oxygenation should be considered in mild respiratory distress in awake non-intubated patients. Any Covid patient with respiratory embarrassment severe enough to be admitted to the hospital may be considered for rotation and early self-proning. Also, care must be taken to not disrupt the flow of oxygen during patient rotation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-private-hosp-doctors-should-follow-revised-covid-treatment-protocol-health-department/articleshow/79710398.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ajmer||Covid positivity rate dip to 5.8% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Out of 29,497 samples tested for Covid in the last 24 hours, 1,290 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of every 100 samples tested, four tested positive. In December, the positivity rate has gone down significantly, almost half to November’s rate. From 10.4% positivity rate in November, it has come down to 5.8% in December. In this month so far, 3.9 lakh samples were tested out of which 23,226 persons were found infected with the virus. November had reported highest positivity rate as out of every 100 samples tested in November, more than 10 persons were found infected. In November, 6.7 lakh samples were tested, out of those 71,070 were found infected. “The daily count of infected persons has been reducing for the past fortnight. We are collecting more than 30,000 samples every day on an average. At a time when more than 30,000 samples are tested everyday and the positivity rate is going down, it is a good sign. But, people should continue following Covid guidelines to avoid risk of getting infected with the virus,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,290 tested positive in the state taking the overall fatality count to 2,542 and infection numbers to 2,91,289. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (105), Kota (99), Bhilwara (70), Udaipur (65), Nagaur (61), Ajmer (51), Dungarpur (51), Sriganganagar (41), Jalore (40), Alwar (39), Bundi (35), Rajsamand (32), Tonk (32), Pali (31), Barmer (29), Bikaner (25), Bahartpur (20), Banswara (19), Baran (18), Chittorgarh (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Hanumangarh (18), Sikar (16), Churu (15), Sirohi (13), Jhunjhunu (10), Jhalawar (8), Dausa (6), Pratapgarh (5), Jaisalmer (3) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported three deaths taking its Covid-19 fatalities to 474, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 269th, two persons died in Nagaur taking its toll to 86, Ajmer 208th, Pali 102nd, Udaipur 107nd, Sikar 90th, Rajsamand 38th, Churu 38th and Baran reported its 32nd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-positivity-rate-dip-to-5-8-in-state/articleshow/79712794.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid positivity rate dip to 5.8% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Out of 29,497 samples tested for Covid in the last 24 hours, 1,290 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of every 100 samples tested, four tested positive. In December, the positivity rate has gone down significantly, almost half to November’s rate. From 10.4% positivity rate in November, it has come down to 5.8% in December. In this month so far, 3.9 lakh samples were tested out of which 23,226 persons were found infected with the virus. November had reported highest positivity rate as out of every 100 samples tested in November, more than 10 persons were found infected. In November, 6.7 lakh samples were tested, out of those 71,070 were found infected. “The daily count of infected persons has been reducing for the past fortnight. We are collecting more than 30,000 samples every day on an average. At a time when more than 30,000 samples are tested everyday and the positivity rate is going down, it is a good sign. But, people should continue following Covid guidelines to avoid risk of getting infected with the virus,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,290 tested positive in the state taking the overall fatality count to 2,542 and infection numbers to 2,91,289. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (105), Kota (99), Bhilwara (70), Udaipur (65), Nagaur (61), Ajmer (51), Dungarpur (51), Sriganganagar (41), Jalore (40), Alwar (39), Bundi (35), Rajsamand (32), Tonk (32), Pali (31), Barmer (29), Bikaner (25), Bahartpur (20), Banswara (19), Baran (18), Chittorgarh (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Hanumangarh (18), Sikar (16), Churu (15), Sirohi (13), Jhunjhunu (10), Jhalawar (8), Dausa (6), Pratapgarh (5), Jaisalmer (3) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported three deaths taking its Covid-19 fatalities to 474, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 269th, two persons died in Nagaur taking its toll to 86, Ajmer 208th, Pali 102nd, Udaipur 107nd, Sikar 90th, Rajsamand 38th, Churu 38th and Baran reported its 32nd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-positivity-rate-dip-to-5-8-in-state/articleshow/79712793.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Udaipur||Covid positivity rate dip to 5.8% in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Out of 29,497 samples tested for Covid in the last 24 hours, 1,290 persons were found infected with the virus. Out of every 100 samples tested, four tested positive. In December, the positivity rate has gone down significantly, almost half to November’s rate. From 10.4% positivity rate in November, it has come down to 5.8% in December. In this month so far, 3.9 lakh samples were tested out of which 23,226 persons were found infected with the virus. November had reported highest positivity rate as out of every 100 samples tested in November, more than 10 persons were found infected. In November, 6.7 lakh samples were tested, out of those 71,070 were found infected. “The daily count of infected persons has been reducing for the past fortnight. We are collecting more than 30,000 samples every day on an average. At a time when more than 30,000 samples are tested everyday and the positivity rate is going down, it is a good sign. But, people should continue following Covid guidelines to avoid risk of getting infected with the virus,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died while 1,290 tested positive in the state taking the overall fatality count to 2,542 and infection numbers to 2,91,289. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (295), Jodhpur (105), Kota (99), Bhilwara (70), Udaipur (65), Nagaur (61), Ajmer (51), Dungarpur (51), Sriganganagar (41), Jalore (40), Alwar (39), Bundi (35), Rajsamand (32), Tonk (32), Pali (31), Barmer (29), Bikaner (25), Bahartpur (20), Banswara (19), Baran (18), Chittorgarh (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Hanumangarh (18), Sikar (16), Churu (15), Sirohi (13), Jhunjhunu (10), Jhalawar (8), Dausa (6), Pratapgarh (5), Jaisalmer (3) and Karauli (2). Jaipur reported three deaths taking its Covid-19 fatalities to 474, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 269th, two persons died in Nagaur taking its toll to 86, Ajmer 208th, Pali 102nd, Udaipur 107nd, Sikar 90th, Rajsamand 38th, Churu 38th and Baran reported its 32nd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-positivity-rate-dip-to-5-8-in-state/articleshow/79712792.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||GM, NWR makes surprise visit to Central hospital to check Covid arrangements||Jaipur: Expressing satisfaction over the arrangements for Covid treatment at the central hospital situated at Ganpati Nagar Railway Colony here, North Western Railway general manager Anand Prakash urged authorities ensure proper sanitation, biomedical waste management, counselling of patients and other facilities apart from treatment. Prakash made a surprise visit of the railway hospital where he also interacted with under treatment patients in the Covid ward. “He told authorities to ensure proper sanitation, proper management of the biomedical waste and counselling of the patients,” said Lieutenant Shashi Kiran, chief public relations officer, NWR.Central Hospital was converted into 100-bed isolation hospital which also has the facility of sample collection. “So far, 436 patients have been discharged after treatment 19 and we have good recovery rate,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gm-nwr-makes-surprise-visit-to-central-hospital-to-check-covid-arrangements/articleshow/79710402.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Dense fog in Delhi reduces visibility, disrupts flights||NEW DELHI: Visibility fell to around 100 metres on Sunday morning for nearly three hours as Delhi witnessed “dense” fog in the early hours, which impacted flight operations too. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), visibility was as low as 100 metres between 7 am and 10 am at Palam, while Safdarjung had a visibility of 200 metres during this period. IMD has forecast dense fog for Monday too. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Saturday evening, IMD had issued an orange alert for “dense to very dense fog” on both Sunday and Monday. Fog is classified as “dense” when visibility drops below 200 metres and “very dense” when it is less than 50 metres. . Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi, said two spells of dense fog were witnessed on Sunday, with the first occurring around 2am, when the visibility was 150 metres. The second spell was occurred 7am onwards. “At Palam, the visibility dropped to around 100 metres and it remained like that until 10am. At Safdarjung, it was around 200 metres. We can expect similar conditions on Monday too. All conditions are ideal for another spell of dense fog,” said Srivastava, stating there was adequate moisture in the air. Delhi recorded a maximum of 20.7 degrees Celsius — three notches below normal. The minimum, meanwhile, was recorded 11.1 degrees Celsius. At Jafarpur, the maximum temperature was 17.6 degrees Celsius, while it was 18.2 degrees at Palam. Another cold day is likely on Monday, with the maximum likely to be around 21 degrees and the minimum at 9 degrees Celsius. The capital’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was in the ‘very poor’ category with a reading of 305 on CPCB’s index.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dense-fog-in-city-reduces-visibility-disrupts-flights/articleshow/79712247.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Customs seizes 111gm of gold at Jaipur airport||Jaipur: The airport intelligence unit (AIU) of customs on Sunday seized 110.87 grams of gold from a passenger who arrived from Dubai to Jaipur. The gold is valued Rs 5,62,111 in the Indian market.According to the customs officials, the behavior of the passenger appeared suspicious after he landed at the Jaipur airport. "We suspected that he was trying to conceal some details and based on the suspicion we checked one of his baggages. On examination of the baggage, the strips of the trolley were found abnormal. The baggage was re-examined in the X-ray machine and it was found that gold was concealed in the trolly strips," said a senior officer of the customs on the condition of anonymity."The passenger is a resident of Lucknow and it appears that he chose Jaipur as a transit route. The purity of the gold is also 99.50%," said an officer.The passenger is being questioned to know more details on smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/customs-seizes-111gm-of-gold-at-jaipur-airport/articleshow/79710399.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Can resolve water dispute if Andhra Pradesh, Telangana fulfil assurances: Centre||HYDERABAD: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has written a letter to Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reiterating that both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh should not go ahead with works on irrigation projects against which they had raised objection against each other. He said the union ministry can resolve the river water disputes only if the two states fulfil the assurances given in the apex council meeting including submission of detailed project reports (DPRs) of the irrigation projects to the ministry. Stating that the DPRs have not been submitted despite the chief ministers of both states agreeing to submit them, in the October 6 apex council meeting, the union minister said both states cannot go ahead with works on Pothireddypadu head regulator expansion and Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme in AP, and seven irrigation projects as part of drawal of three tmc ft water from Kaleshwaram project in Telangana. The Union minister also pointed out that it can consider referring the water allocation to the new state of Telangana either to Krishna water tribunal or to the new tribunal only when the Telangana government withdraws its case in the Supreme Court. In fact, Telangana chief minister had agreed to withdraw the case in the apex council meeting but has not been done so far, Shekhawat said. Regarding setting up of telemetry systems, it was agreed that both states would meet the costs of setting them up. Even after repeated reminders and requests from Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), both the states did not respond and have not paid their full share of expenditure due to which the installation of telemetry is not completely done. “If the states clear their pending payments. KRMB would immediately get them installed and can do the required monitoring,” the union minister said. With regard to Godavari water, in the apex council meeting, both states agreed to send requests to Central Government asking for setting up a tribunal under Section-3 of ISWRD-1956 and as agreed in the meeting, Central government will take a positive decision in this regard after receiving such request from Telangana government, Shekhawat stated in the letter. “With regards to Godavari waters, in the Apex Council meeting, both the states agreed to send requests to Central Government asking for setting up a tribunal and as agreed in the meeting, Central Government will take a positive decision in this regard after receiving such request from you,” Shekhawat stated in his letter to CM KCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-can-resolve-water-dispute-if-ap-t-fulfil-assurances/articleshow/79711263.cms||Roushan Ali
December 14, 2020||Delhi||BJP workers vandalised CM’s house, broke CCTVs: AAP||NEW DELHI: Days after deputy CM Manish Sisodia tweeted that “goons of BJP” had broken inside his residence and tried to attack his family, AAP on Sunday alleged that BJP workers had vandalised the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and broken CCTV cameras. “Vandalism outside the house of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal by BJP members. BJP leaders sitting on dharna broke CCTV cameras installed at the chief minister’s house,” AAP tweeted along with a video from its official handle on Sunday evening. In the video, some women could be seen smashing a camera placed on the wall outside the CM’s house. The mayors of the three BJP-led municipal corporations along with party councillors have been sitting on a dharna outside Kejriwal’s residence for the past seven days demanding clearance of “pending dues” from the AAP government. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “No BJP councillor on dharna indulged in any violence nor did they remove any security camera. Our workers objected to a camera being installed at the place where women councillors on dharna sleep at night. Their objection was due to privacy concerns.” A police source said, “Some new CCTV cameras were being installed on the outside wall of the CM’s residence covering the area outside Flag Staff Road. A few BJP councillors objected to it and there were some arguments. No complaint has been filed yet.” On Thursday, AAP had claimed that Sisodia’s house was “attacked by BJP goons”. The party also alleged that Delhi Police personnel remained mute spectators during the incident. Delhi BJP had refuted the claims, while Delhi Police had detained six people for jumping the barricades and entering the premises. Sisodia had tweeted CCTV footage showing a group of men marching towards his residence. Many of them managed to barge through the main door as policemen deployed outside were unable to stop them. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj had alleged that while Kejriwal was “under house arrest” for the past several days, Delhi Police personnel who were responsible for protecting Sisodia’s residence had prior information of the attack and intentionally removed the barricades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-workers-vandalised-cms-house-broke-cctvs-aap/articleshow/79711297.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kochi||FACT takes over 2 schools from Muslim education society||KOCHI: In yet another development in the ongoing stand-off between Muslim Education Society (MES) and Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd (FACT), Eloor, over the running of Udyogamandal school and Eastern UP school, the PSU took possession of the two schools on Sunday. FACT, in a press release, said the schools reportedly were in unauthorized possession of MES from April 2019 even after a court order against it and hence they took over the schools. FACT officials along with Eloor police officers and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel reached the schools on Sunday morning and sealed the gates and pasted notice asking MES to vacate the premises. FACT said the district court, on November 24, quashed a petition by MES and ordered to continue with the takeover operations. “The school was taken possession by an authorized officer by invoking the provisions in the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971,” said the statement. MES has been running the school from April 1, 2004, on a 15-year leave and licence contract. The issue began in 2019 after MES reportedly refused to relieve the management control even after its contract ended on March 31, 2019. FACT retendered the contract, however, MES did not participate in the bidding. The contract was awarded to Kasturba English Medium School, Manjummel, and the MES obtained a stay. “The court had directed FACT to retender it and asked MES to take part in the bidding, which never took placeAfter a year-long legal battle, the court finally permitted FACT to take charge of the schools. MES has also been informed the same through an email and they will have to hand over the keys before December 15,” said Lissly Varghese, AGM, estate department of FACT. Meanwhile, MES management said they have not been informed about the action. “We got the news from media. The contract is for 30 years and legally we have the right to run the schools. The case is subjudice,” said Sayyed Mohammed, chairman, MES school management committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fact-takes-over-2-schools-from-muslim-edu-society/articleshow/79709823.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Meham MLA gives Rs 2L each to kin of farmers killed during protest||Chandigarh: Meham MLA Balraj Kundu on Sunday adopted the family of a farmer from Baroda who had died on the Delhi border, during the agitation against the recent agri laws, and also gave a cheque of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of all three farmers of the state who have died during the agitation On Sunday morning, Kundu handed over the cheque to the widow of Baroda-based Ajay Kumar. Kundu adopted Ajay’s widow as his sister and announced to bear expenses incurred on studies and bringing up of her three daughters. CHeques were also given to the families of Ram Meher Singh, who was a resident of Chhan village in Hisar, and Kitab Singh, who was from Ujhana village of Jind. “Sacrifice of these farmers will not go waste and their names will go down in history,’’ said Kundu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/meham-mla-gives-rs-2l-each-to-kin-of-farmers-killed-during-protest/articleshow/79711246.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Plea against my Rajya Sabha election has no legal basis: Jaishankar to SC||NEW DELHI: Facing a challenge to his Rajya Sabha election from Gujarat last year, foreign minister S Jaishankar told the Supreme Court that the appeal failed to disclose any cogent reason and said the Election Commission was right in holding separate elections for the two RS seats falling vacant after the resignations of Amit Shah and Smriti Irani, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. “The grounds taken in the petition are imaginary and have no legal basis. Allegations ...are wrong and baseless... ...The appeal does not deserve indulgence of the SC and the appellant should not be granted any relief...,” Jaishankar said. “In the instant case, specific allegation with regard to the non-compliance of any specific provision of the Constitution or of the Representation of People Act or rule made thereunder are not made out by any of the appeals challenging the Gujarat HC which had dismissed the petitions,” he added. He relied on three SC judgments, which upheld the election of former PM Rajiv Gandhi from Amethi to Lok Sabha in 1981 and 1984 and had ruled that “in an election petition, pleadings have to be precise, specific and unambiguous and if the election petition does not disclose a cause of action, it is liable to be rejected in limine”. The defeated candidate, Congress’s Gaurav Hemantbhai Pandya, had termed Jaishankar’s election unconstitutional on the ground that the EC had held polls for the two RS seats on the same day but through separate voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/plea-against-my-rajya-sabha-election-has-no-legal-basis-jaishankar-to-sc/articleshow/79712657.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 14, 2020||Nashik||Central Railways tells 5 divisions to prepare for issuing unreserved tickets||Nashik: The Central Railway (CR) has asked all of its five divisions — Mumbai, Bhusawal, Nagpur, Pune and Solapur — to start making preparation for issuing unreserved tickets to the passengers along with safe handling and movement of passengers in line with the Covid-19 guidelines.Currently, special trains are being run and only travellers with confirmed ticket are allowed to enter the platforms and board the trains. However, the Indian Railways now plans to run additional special trains.“While the details of additional special trains, their point of origin, the distance to be covered and their time-table are yet to be decided, the railways has asked the authorities to ensure that they provide various modes of ticketing for unreserved passengers in a manner that human interference is avoided,” a senior official from Bhusawal Railway division said. The railways has various means of vending tickets like automatic ticket vending machines (ATVM), unreserved ticket system (UTS) mobile application, coin-operated ticket vending machines (CoTVM), besides the jana sadharan ticket booking sewak (JTBS) through which the unreserved ticket could be given to the travellers.As per the latest guidelines, the railway authorities have been asked to prepare the system to figure out the manner in which the above mentioned modes of vending of unreserved tickets could be used to ensure that there is no overcrowding at any given time and that people maintain safe distances when they are at the railway stations.The official pointed out thata small number of additional special trains would be run by the railways in the beginning to figure out how the ticket vending takes place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/central-railways-tells-5-divisions-to-prepare-for-issuing-unreserved-tickets/articleshow/79711294.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 14, 2020||Goa||HC slams Goa govt over ZP reservation, calls for guidelines in 3 months||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has come down heavily on the state government for its unreasonable delay in issuing the notification for reservation of seats for zilla panchayat elections. The petitioners had stated that the delay had deprived citizens the opportunity of challenging the reservations in court. The petitions were filed challenging the government notification dated February 20 this year, reserving certain constituencies for candidates from scheduled tribes/other backward/women, at the zilla panchayat elections. The polls were earlier scheduled for February 22 and now concluded on December 12. Petitioners challenged the reservations in Guirdolim, Colva, Penha de Franca and Usgao-Ganje ZP constituencies. The court observed that the records reveal “quite a disturbing trend” about the interaction between the state election commission and the state government and added that the “state government was either oblivious to or was desirous of subverting the constitutional position of the SEC by not at all cooperating with the SEC in the matter of holding of timely elections to the zilla panchayat”. “Despite repeated letters and reminders from the SEC commencing from June 11, 2019, to the state government requiring it to complete the exercise of delimitation, reservation, and rotation of reserved seats, such exercise was completed and notified only on February 20, 2020, knowing fully well that the term of the earlier members was to expire on March 24, 2020, and the SEC would require a minimum 26 days to complete the election process. The counsel for the petitioners have pointed out that the purpose for this delay was to preempt any challenges to the impugned notification dated February 20, 2020, before court,” stated the division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and M S Jawalkar. The court noted that the SEC “was virtually forced to beg to the chief secretary of Goa to at least give a line of confirmation about the receipt of his DO letters” . The high court directed the state government to expeditiously and within three months formulate guidelines for a rotation policy envisaged in Article 243 D of the Constitution and Section 7 of the act. The court also directed that these norms be published so that they are made known to the electorate after citizens filed petitions stating that the government reserved wards arbitrarily, based on its whims. “…we further direct the government to adhere to such norms or guidelines in the future, so that there is both, transparency and predictability in matters of implementation of the rotation policy,,” the high court stated. Advocate general Devidas Pangam said the exercise of delimitation and reservation of constituencies or the rotation of reserved seats will be notified at least three weeks before the issuance of notification under Rule 10(1) of the Goa Panchayat and Zilla Panchayat (Election Procedure) Rules, 1996 . However, The court directed that such notification be issued at least eight weeks before the issuance of the notification. The court was told that various states, including Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Bihar, Gujarat, Jharkhand and West Bengal, have carried out necessary amendments to their respective Panchayat Raj acts. “In all these states, the power of delimitation, the power for reservation, the power to decide rotation of seats among SC/ST women, etc, are vested in the state election commissioners….no such amendment has been carried out in the said act by the state government,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-slams-govt-over-zp-reservation-calls-for-guidelines-in-3-months/articleshow/79712245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Wish granted! This Christmas, Santa to sleigh to district with Covid-19 vaccine||Ludhiana: If all goes well, Ludhiana will get Covid-19 vaccine around Christmas. But, it will be administered to health-care and anganwadi workers first. The health department has set up a cold chain for its storage. In the first meeting of 16-member district task force of Covid-19 vaccine committee held on October 10, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma had apprised them of the possibility of vaccine arriving by December 25. Ludhiana Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Sunil Katyal, who attended the meeting, confirmed the same.The DC told The Times of India that they were hopeful of vaccines arriving by December 25.“The government of India has made a portal on which data of only health-care, anganwadi and Asha workers is being uploaded. Of the frontline workers, healthcare and anganwadi workers will get the vaccine first and employees of all the departments, including police and civil administration, among others, will be covered later,” the DC said.Officials said those who would get vaccine in the initial stages have been divided into three categories: frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 years with co-morbidities. “After healthcare, anganwadi and Asha workers, the next two categories will be registered and inoculated later on,” they added. “The vaccination timeline will depend on the number of vaccines Punjab gets and from it, Ludhiana,” said an officer who is part of the task force.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said they have compiled the data of healthcare workers and a cold chain has been set up.Another officer of the health department said they had a special vaccine carrying van that would bring those from the state health department. He added that the district immunisation officer has been made the nodal officer for the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The officials said it was expected that the common man in Ludhiana would start getting inoculated from February. Bagga had informed the DC during the October 10 meeting that the health department has registered the names of around 15,000 healthcare workers and the process of uploading the details of beneficiaries was underway. They have set up 67 cold-chain points and have adequate number of ice-lined refrigerators and deep freezers to preserve the vaccine. He had said that there would be 805 session sites, where vaccines would be administered to the beneficiaries in the district. As many as 442 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) would administer it and 43 supervisors have been deputed to monitor the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wish-granted-this-christmas-santa-to-sleigh-to-district-with-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/79709827.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||‘Love jihad’: UP woman in ‘custody’ develops pregnancy-related issues||BAREILLY: A 22-year-old woman, who was taken to a nari niketan in Moradabad a week ago even as her husband, a Muslim man, was sent to jail along with his brother after they were booked under the new anti-conversion law of Uttar Pradesh, has been in a government hospital for three days getting treated for "pregnancy-related complications, including internal bleeding and severe pain." At the time of their detention, police were either unaware or hadn't revealed that she was four months pregnant. The fact came to light on Sunday when she was taken to the hospital bleeding profusely, hours after she had been discharged. She had first been admitted on Friday. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the women’s hospital, Dr Sunita Pandey, told TOI, “The baby was safe when we conducted an ultrasound on Saturday and we discharged her on Sunday. An hour later, she complained of spotting (bleeding) and abdominal pain and was brought back to the hospital. We will be able to verify the baby’s health on Monday as ultrasound was not possible on Sunday.” The couple had been living together for five months in Moradabad following a nikah -- the woman had, according to her and her husband's family, converted to Islam willingly before that -- when a group of Bajrang Dal men accosted them on December 5 at Moradabad's marriage registration office and handed them forcibly over to the police. The man, Rashid, and his brother were booked the next day and sent to jail. The woman wasn’t allowed to leave and was escorted to the nari niketan, a shelter home for the destitute and orphaned children, where she has been since then. The girl’s mother-in-law said, “My son got married in Dehradun and came back home (to Kanth in Moradabad) with my daughter-in-law and I had accepted her. When the new law passed, someone advised me to get the marriage registered to avoid any problems. My daughter-in-law was already pregnant. We didn’t know that our small step would land us in so much trouble.” Watch UP woman in ‘custody’ for ‘Love Jihad’ develops pregnancy-related issues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/love-jihad-up-woman-in-custody-for-week-rushed-to-hospital-with-pregnancy-related-complications/articleshow/79709840.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Illegal statue installations continue in Aurangabad rural||Aurangabad: Warnings — and even action in some cases — has failed to curb the illegal installation of the statues in different parts of Aurangabad rural. With the gram panchayat elections approaching, the number of such illegal statues is only expected to increase.The latest statue was installed in Siregaon, which falls within the limits of the Sillegaon police station, on Sunday morning, making it the 74th illegal statue to come up in Aurangabad rural since January this year. Six cases have been registered since then. As per the statistics obtained from the police, more illegal statues have been reported in Vaijapur and Gangapur tehsils.To check the menace, which can trigger a law and order situation, Aurangabad rural superintendent of police Mokshada Patil recently warned of suspending the policemen, apart from naming gram sevaks and village sarpanches as accused in the FIR, if illegal statues are found installed within their jurisdictions. However, the phenomenon continues.A senior officer said: “The police stations of Vaijapur, Gangapur, Virgaon, Sillegaon and Shiur have reported the highest number of cases this year.”Senior officers said that as a mark of supremacy and dominance in a particular area, there has been a sort of a race amongst the different communities to illegally install statues at crossroads and important landmarks. Moreover, there have been multiple incidents of flags of particular colours, symbolising particular castes, being installed. In the cases that took place this year, only five offences have been registered and only three illegal statues have been removed so far.Police said the gram sevaks are duty-bound to lodge a complaint against these illegal statue installations. Police also suspect that the installation of statues could be the handiwork of politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/illegal-statue-installations-continue-in-aurangabad-rural/articleshow/79709843.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 14, 2020||Bareilly||UP man hangs self hours after consulting quack||PILIBHIT/BAREILLY: A newlywed man (name withheld to protect his identity) was found hanging from a tree near his village on Saturday evening, two days after he went missing from his house. A resident of Pilibhit’s Bilsanda area, he got married on Tuesday and had brought the bride home on Wednesday. According to police, he had discussed “vitality-related issues” with a quack a few hours before he went missing on Thursday. Soon after the body was recovered, scores of locals led by the deceased’s family members, held a protest against the alleged laxity of local police in finding the youth in time. They also alleged that the man had been “killed”. Station house officer (SHO), Birja Ram, said that police would wait for the autopsy report for the disclosure of the actual reason behind the death. Soon after the recovery of the body, police took out the mobile phone records of the man and found that he had spoken to a quack. SHO Ram then interrogated the local medical practitioner, Dr Shobhit Rathaur, who divulged that the man had consulted him about “vitality-related physical weakness” due to which he was extremely disturbed. According to the experts TOI spoke to, these kinds of patients need physiological counseling more than any kind of drugs. And their condition worsens when they approach quacks. There are 974 quacks in four districts of Bareilly division alone, according to a drive launched by the health department. Additional CMO of Bareilly Dr Ranjan Gautam told TOI, “It is difficult to develop a successful relationship within a day or two. Marriage is not only about physical relationships and one should give time to each other to develop compatibility and get comfortable. One should never take the help of quacks. Sex education is still a taboo in our society which leads to such problems.” Mohammed Rizwan, a pharmacist who runs a medical store, said, “Many youths often ask for medicines that help them to build stamina. And most of them come without any prescription. They are young and I advise them to consult an expert as such problems are psychological most of the time.” Shailesh Kumar Sharma, a consultant psychologist, told TOI, “After marriage, there is a temporary fear among boys about physical relationship. Not getting right consultation or advice can have a negative effect on their mind.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-29-hangs-himself-hours-after-consulting-quack-over-vitality-related-issues/articleshow/79709847.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 14, 2020||Goa||‘Gave NOC for road repair work in Maulinguem’||PANAJI: Responding to the Maulinguem locals boycotting polls over authorities not resolving their land rights issue for over three decades, the land owners have produced documents to show that they had granted NOC to the PWD in May, few days after the department had requested for it to carry out repairs on the road. Jayashri N Rajebhosale granted NOC stating that she had no objection for PWD to carry out repairs on the road passing through their properties and leading to Sateri temple through Harijanwada. The landowners have stated that two sisters Jayashri Rajebhosale and Priyvranda Jhadav have inherited the property Aldeai Maulinguem after the death of their father Babaji Rane and they have no problem with the villagers to issue NOC for any works. “However, some land grabbers and illegal laterite contractors have started encroaching the land and selling it to outsiders illegally,” clarified Jaydeep and Vikram, sons of Rajebhosale. “PWD had asked for NOC from us as landowners, for construction of roads in our properties in Maulinguem village and the same has been given without any compensation in public interest,” they said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gave-noc-for-road-repair-work-in-maulinguem/articleshow/79712246.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP sets sights on independent MLAs to increase party’s base||Kolhapur: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in order to increase the party base, is trying to woo the independent MLAs to join the saffron party.In the 2019 state assembly elections, 13 independent candidates had emerged victorious. Of them, nine had immediately granted their letter of support to the BJP. However, officially they are still independents and may join any party.Ichalkaranji’s Prakash Awade is one such independent MLA who had granted support to the BJP hoping that they will again return to power. He and his family have always remained with Congress for several decases with Awade also being a minister in the earlier Congress government. Later, he left Congress and contested as an independent, defeating sitting BJP MLA Suresh Halwankar. Around a week ago, a meeting was held between senior BJP leaders and Awade in Pune where senior party functionaries requested him to join the party. Following this, during a function on Saturday, Awade lauded the central government and wished the BJP to come back to power in the state.Speaking to TOI, Awade said, “The discussions are on, but I have not arrived at any conclusion. Some are saying I have been offered post of district president of the party. I have not sought any position or designation for myself. I will make an announcement if I take any decision.” According to the sources in the BJP, talks are also on with the other independent MLAs who granted their support after the assembly election results. A senior leader in the party said, “If these MLAs can help us grow our party base, they are welcome.”Another BJP leader said that the party should ensure that allowing independents in the party and offering them key posts does not cause disgruntlement among old rank of the party. “This is being witnessed in Kolhapur as after talks over Awade’s likelihood of joining the party,” he said,State BJP president Chandrakant Patil was not available for comments. The BJP with 105 MLAs had emerged the single largest party, but Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party joined hands to form government in Maharashtra. Out of the 13 independents, four had granted letter of support to the Maha Vikas Aghadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-sets-sights-on-independent-mlas-to-increase-partys-base/articleshow/79709852.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Covid-19 reaches lungs, Anil Vij shifted to PGIMS; may get plasma therapy||AMBALA/ROHTAK: Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5, has been shifted to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, from the ward of civil hospital, Ambala Cantonment, on Saturday evening, said Ambala chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh. In a statement, PGIMS said Vij had been shifted after doctors found infection in the chest. PGIMS spokesperson Dr Gajender Singh said the minister had been responding well to treatment and eating well. He said doctors operating on Vij were planning plasma therapy on him. Dr Kuldeep said, “On Saturday, a CT scan of the minister’s lungs was conducted at the civil hospital, Ambala Cantt, and its reports showed some increased problems in the lungs as compared to the past. So, taking precautionary measures, we decided to shift the minister to a higher institution. Minister Vij wanted to stay at Ambala and he was asked to get himself shifted to Medanta Hospital at Gurgaon, but he refused the same, while saying the he trusted the state-run PGIMS and wanted to be shifted there. The minister was shifted to Rohtak about 8pm on Saturday.” On November 20, Vij had got the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’, a product of Bharat Biotech, under its third phase trial under the observation of a team of Haryana state vaccine investigators from Pt Bhagat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak. Vij was scheduled to be given a second dose on December 18, but investigators did not go ahead as the minister got infected. A Covaxin co-investigator at BDSUHS, Dr Ramesh Verma, said, “If a volunteer gets infected between first and second dose, the second dose is not administered, according to protocol. This is because, due to infection, natural anti-bodies starts building fast in the body and second dose is not required. So, minister Vij would not be given a second dose.” Asked about Vij’s condition during admission at the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment, the CMO said, “Minister Vij had some cough and mild fever. A team of doctors at PGIMS is now monitoring his condition. During his eight-day admission in Ambala, he was in the initial stage of infection and his condition remained stable. Several test have been done by the vaccine team of Rohtak and the teams treating him for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-reaches-lungs-vij-shifted-to-pgims-may-get-plasma-therapy/articleshow/79711426.cms||JK Singh
December 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Glorious past, but Shiromani Akali Dal faces serious crisis of identity, popularity & credibility||JALANDHAR: Shiromani Akali Dal, the second oldest party of the country, will complete 100 years of its formation on Monday. The party, with many glorious chapters in its history, is now in crisis and the biggest indication of this crisis is its near absence from the protests led by the farmers of Punjab, who are mostly Sikh. For a political party, which was at the centre of several mass agitations in the past, being reduced to the role of a bystander in one of the biggest protests in the country has been a major setback. Akali Dal has always gained from agitations — both in achieving its objectives as well as in getting into power. However, when Sikhs and Punjab are getting national and global attention with praise flowing for Sikh ethos and people, the SAD is active only in the virtual world as far as this agitation is concerned. Even party patriarch Parkash Singh Badal’s decision to return his Padma Vibhushan, after initially defending the three contentious farm bills strongly, has failed to impress people in Punjab. Ironically, historic Akali agitations, especially Guru Ka Bagh Morcha (1922) and Jaito Morcha (1924), are being cited for motivation and emulation as the farmers’ agitation has shown remarkable courage and tenacity even as it remains peaceful. Although some of the farm unions have leftist or even ultra-left leadership, few dispute that it was the Sikh spirit which worked in breaking the heavy barricades on their way and then after reaching protests sites at Delhi border their tradition of langar for all added to the goodwill. Punjabis from across communities and sections and the farmers from across the country are complimenting this spirit — much like Akalis won praise for their courage and ethos during historic agitations. It is ironical that Shiromani Akali Dal, formed to protect Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee and Sikh gurdwaras, reached the crisis point after unprecedented incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and subsequent police firing on Sikh protesters in 2015 as its lost its core constituency. With Parkash Singh Badal at the helm as the party completed 75 years of its existence, SAD high command changed the party’s identity and focus from Panth to Punjab. However, it still remained the first political choice for the Sikhs. This choice was also a compulsion as most Sikhs did not want to vote for Congress after Operation Bluestar and November 1984 massacre. This factor of ‘only option for Sikhs’ also provided room to the SAD leaders to have their own way. Around the same time, following in the footsteps of the oldest party in the country and its bête noire Congress, Akali Dal also started falling into familial control. In place of its leaders rising from ranks, as had happened for 75 years, they started rising from families of senior party leaders. Of course, the trend was started by the Badals but several other leaders followed the course and it almost became party culture. The Badals also scripted history by getting the party into power for two consecutive terms but this second term also led to accumulation of so much negativity, that for the first time after 1966, when Punjab was reorganized, Akali Dal was relegated to third place in 2017 assembly election that too by a national party, AAP. The two mass mobilizations of Sikhs in the last five years — first in 2015 and second in 2018 — were aimed against top Akali brass. However, in the current mass mobilization, the party just has been relegated to the sidelines like every other political party. Another major manifestation of SAD’s credibility crisis emerged when the Kartarpur Corridor was opened in 2019. It was not Akali Dal or its leaders who got credit in public perception — the credit either went to Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the then Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. After it slipped from the Panthic turf in its second term, there are no palpable signs that the SAD is recovering its core constituency of the Sikhs. When Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh gave a call to Akali Dal, during the function to mark 100th anniversary of SGPC, to start journey from Punjab to Panth, it was not just an acknowledgement of the identity crisis that the party is facing but also of its loss of credibility and popularity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/glorious-past-but-party-faces-serious-crisis-of-identity-popularity-credibility/articleshow/79711422.cms||IP Singh
December 14, 2020||Kochi||From local body governance to own ventures||ALAPPUZHA: As the state is curiously awaiting the local body poll outcome, a set of people, who were at the helm of various local body administrations during the previous tenure, have either taken up new vocations or resumed their old profession. P S Jyothis, who was the president of Thanneermukkom grama panchayat during 2015-20, has said good bye to his 25-year-old political career and has resumed his old profession as a drummer. He has joined a music band run by his friends. Jyothis, who is also an advocate by profession, has resumed his practising as well. Jyothis said that he had been busy with his political life for the past 25 years. “I am really satisfied with the achievements as a politician, especially as the president of Thanneermukkom panchayat. I could implements many projects for my villagers. Now, I am taking a break from politics as new faces are there to take over. I’m glad to join my friends’ band as a drummer. Being a winner in drums in the Kerala University youth festival, I am so happy that I could resume my career in music. I have also started practising as a lawyer,” said Jyothis. Meanwhile, former Mavelikkara block panchayat president K Reghuprasad has ventured into dry fish sale by opening a shop near the block panchayat office. He is happy that the new job keeps him busy. “I come to the shop at 9am every day and am busy till 8pm. I am doing this business in partnership with five friends. One of them was my driver when I was the block panchayat president. We are getting good response for our new venture,” Reghuprasad said. For Prabha Madhu, who was the president of Kanjikuzhy block panchayat, it is the time to help her husband who is running a ration shop. Besides, she is also assisting her family members in running a textile shop. “I am not taking a complete break from my political career. I will continue my political life and ensure my service to the people. Since I have more time now, I decided to support my family members in their businesses,” Prabha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/from-local-body-governance-to-own-ventures/articleshow/79709857.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Nagpur||Leopardess that killed 3 humans captured||CHANDRAPUR: The dreaded leopardess of North Brahmapuri forest range, blamed for three human kills, was finally tranquillized and captured near Droli (Chichgaon) village after five days of hunting operation. The tranquillizing team sitting in a closed cage darted the problem leopard that came for a bait and captured it on Saturday evening. Terror of the leopardess had started with the killing of a 10-year-old boy from Vandra village on October 1. The boy was out for morning walk with others when the lurking beast pounced on him and dragged the boy into the jungle to make the kill. Later during the last first week of December, the same leopardess killed two other women in the forest around Droli (Chichgaon) village. There was intense reaction from villagers after each death and the residents of Dorli, Vandra, Avadgaon, Barad (Kinhi) villages in the area had demanded immediate capturing of the problem leopard. Following public pressure, forest department had installed cages in problem areas and issued tranquillizing orders. A team led by veterinary wildlife officer, TATR, Dr Ravikant Khobragade, was deployed in North Bramhapuri range to capture the problem animal on December 8. Sources told TOI that foresters got the location of the leopard in the fringe forest close to Dorli village on Saturday evening after it was captured in a camera trap. Accordingly, a live bait was placed in compartment no. 1012 and the darting team was put over it. The team sat in a closed cage over the bait at some distance. After five long hours of waiting in the cage, the problem leopard came for the bait at around 5.30pm and it was shot cleanly by shooter Ajay Marathe. Soon after the animal was sedated, it was captured and moved to safer location under the guidance of RFO Poonam Bramhane. Bramhane confirmed the capturing of the beast and claimed it is being moved to Gorewada rescue centre as per directives of the higher-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopardess-that-killed-3-humans-captured/articleshow/79710444.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Services of 2 pairs of trains from Bokaro restored||Bokaro: The South Eastern Railways (SER) on Sunday said it will resume the services of four more long and short-distance trains originating or passing through Bokaro from next week. The trains were stopped since the nationwide lockdown was enforced because of the Covid-19 pandemic. SER sources said operations of the Special Ranchi Rajdhani and Ranchi-LTT Express will start from Wednesday while Bokaro-Howrah Special and Bokaro-Ranchi Passenger Special will resume services from Monday. The Special Ranchi Rajdhani passes through Bokaro on Wednesdays and Saturdays and on its return journey from Delhi, it will stop at Bokaro on Mondays and Fridays. The Ranchi-LTT Express passes through Bokaro only on Wednesdays. Currently, 10 pairs of long and short-distance trains have started operating from the Bokaro railway station after the lockdown. They include Bhubaneshwar Rajdhani, Shatabdi Express, Janshatabdi Express, Purushottam Express, Neelanchal Express, Bhubaneswar-Anand Vihar Terminal, Darbhanga-Hyderabad Express and Hatia-Patna Superfast Express. The railways categorised them as special trains and restarted their services. In the pre-lockdown period, about 30 pairs of trains used to run from the Bokaro railway station. A railway official said services of more trains will be restored in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/services-of-2-pairs-of-trains-from-bokaro-restored/articleshow/79711475.cms||Divy Khare
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||4 deaths take Covid toll in state to 999||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Sunday reported four deaths linked to Covid-19, 144 new infections and 179 recoveries. While the death toll has reached 999, the cumulative caseload is 1,11,510, of which 1,571 are active and 1,08,940 have recovered. The recovery rate in the state has improved to 97.69%. The deaths are reported from Dhanbad (2) Palamu (1) and Ramgarh (1), taking the casualty rate through the pandemic in the state 0.89%. Meanwhile, 16 districts of the state reported fresh cases in single digits while Dumka, Giridih, Gumla, Jamtara, Khunti and Sahebganj reported zero cases. The two highest cases are reported from Ranchi (76) and East Singhbhum (19). While the seven-day growth rate of the virus is 0.14% against the national average of 0.26%, the doubling rate in the state stood at 511.38 days against the national figure of 263.79 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-deaths-take-covid-toll-in-state-to-999/articleshow/79711432.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Guv opens new building for tribal languages dept in RU||Ranchi: Students of Ranchi University (RU) enrolled in tribal and regional languages (TRL) department will now be able to study at a state-of-the-art building with spacious classrooms and air-conditioned auditorium. Governor Droupadi Murmu on Sunday inaugurated the new building of TRL department, built by the building construction department at a cost of Rs 3.25 crore. The building has three floors with each wing having a large hall and three medium-sized classrooms. It also has a large air-conditioned auditorium with projectors on the third floor. After inaugurating the building, Murmu said she was waiting for the construction of the building to be completed for quite some time. In her brief interaction with the students, the governor urged them to utilise the infrastructure and achieve goals that bring laurels for the state. She stressed that everything depends on hard work. The TRL department, functional in RU for 40 years, presently has 450 students. It offers five tribal languages namely Mundari, Santhali, Ho, Khadia and Kudukh and four regional languages Kurmali, Khortha, Nagpuri and Panchpargania as subjects. Earlier, the classes used to be conducted in small rooms causing inconvenience to the students. Head of the department of Kudukh Dr Hari Oroan said, “Now we can comfortably conduct the common subjects in different languages at the big halls. The auditorium can be used for demonstrations apart from holding literary conferences.” A teacher said that there is growing demand to create a separate department for each of the nine languages, adding that the new building will be handy in case a decision to this effect is taken. Meanwhile, the old building is also being renovated for the department. The government has also sanctioned posts of a professor and two associate and assistant professors for each language. However, non-teaching staff are also required in case a separate department is formed. It may be noted here that the governor also inaugurated the newly-constructed basketball court in the university campus. RU vice-chancellor Dr Ramesh Pandey, pro-VC Dr Kamini Kumar, registrar Mukund Chand Mehta and other faculty members were present at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-guv-opens-new-building-for-tribal-languages-dept-in-ru/articleshow/79710208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||With a 15-minute video, Ranchi zoo begins virtual tour||Ranchi: Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park in Ranchi on Sunday launched a virtual tour of the zoo and its animals after uncertainly over reopening the establishment for public amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Filmed by a local production team, a 15-minute video, available on the zoo’s website and other social media platforms, talks about the various animals housed at the establishment. Zoo director D Venkateshwarlu said the biological park is shut since March 18 and uncertainty prevails when it will reopen. “The virtual tour is being showcased on digital and social media platforms to enable regular visitors a glimpse besides advertising the zoo for visitors when it is allowed to open,” he said. The film introduces some of the critically endangered animal species like the Indian Gaur, alligators and black buck. It also explains the difference between a deer and an antelope. The zoo has proved to be a safe house for some of the animals rescued like the Giant Squirrels from Saranda forest and the elephant calf — Samrat — rescued from Porahat forest. The virtual tour reminds a viewer that the zoo can be their holiday destination once the situation becomes normal as it houses India’s largest fresh water fish aquarium and is also home to 59 snakes of 17 different species. Owner of the production team Khurram Shahzad said that it was a two-month long effort to shoot the animals and then compile relevant information about them. “We wanted to capture the animals and birds and portray their activities to attract viewers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/with-a-15-minute-video-ranchi-zoo-begins-virtual-tour/articleshow/79710150.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Police outreach prog in Red-hit Gumla pockets||Gumla: Gumla SP Hrudeep P Janardhanan and other top police officers have started visiting remote rebel-hit areas of the district and holding ‘jan choupals’ as part of a new public outreach programme. Janardhanan visited over half a dozen villages, including Nawadih, Sundari and Ghora, on Saturday and distributed school bags, blankets and dhoti-saris among the residents. Janardhanan said, “We also interacted with the villagers in a bid to sort out their problems. We also try to develop a bond with the local youths. If we find dropouts, then we try to counsel their parents and motivate them to pursue studies.” He further said, “We don’t talk about the Maoist issue with the villagers.” The officer-in-charge of every police station in the district has been asked to visit three to four villages every week and interact with the villagers as part of the programme. “The objective is to assess the areas and learn about the problems people face so that we can foresee any law and order problem,” he said, adding that they are also preparing volunteer teams comprising local youths. “Witchcraft is a serious issue in the rural areas. Police have established contact with educated village youths who pass on information about such matter to us,” he said. He added that district police are also trying to create awareness among the populace about ill-effects of drinking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-outreach-prog-in-red-hit-gumla-pockets/articleshow/79710134.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jhalsa disburses Rs 1.4k cr in 1 day||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (Jhalsa) has bagged a national and a world record for disbursing Rs 1,398.20 crore, the largest amount to be disbursed to beneficiaries in one day, after disposing of over 35,000 cases. The feat was achieved in a lok adalat held on November 26 to commemorate the 71st Constitution Day. The programme was organized via the virtual mode from the Nyay Sadan here. As many as 35,133 matters were decided in the lok adalat and Rs 1398.20 crore was disbursed to the beneficiaries. Compassionate appointment letters were also handed over to 497 candidates in the lok adalat, Jhalsa executive chairman Justice H C Mishra said on Sunday. While the national award has been presented by the India Book of Records, the certificate for achieving the world record has been presented by the World Records, India. Justice Mishra commended the state government, public sector units, coal companies and officials of Jhalsa for making the programme a success. The certificates were issued in the first week of December, which were received by Jhalsa on December 12, Justice Mishra said. The certificates were presented to Jhalsa patron-in-chief and the Chief Justice of Jharkhand high court, Dr Ravi Ranjan. Jhalsa secretary Muhammad Shakir said the organisation was committed to helping the litigants. Camps and meetings are organised round the calendar to ensure litigants get their legitimate dues. Jhalsa was also committed to resolving issues in the pre-litigation stage as well, Shakir added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jhalsa-disburses-rs-1-4k-cr-in-1-day/articleshow/79711399.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Don’t engage in extravagance, practise austerity this Christmas, says Church||Ranch: A fresh advisory issued by the Ranchi Archdiocese under the Roman Catholic Church, has called for a less extravagant and more spiritual celebration, urging devotees to make Christmas lighting and decorations this year more austere. “We recommend that you build a beautiful crib at home using decorative items in your possession without making more purchases this year. Limit illuminations to a Christmas star and avoid adorning houses with lights,” a directive, jointly signed by Ranci archbishop Felix Toppo and auxiliary bishop of Ranchi Theodore Mascarenhas said. “Don’t burn fire crackers. We request our youth to avoid merry making on the streets and spend the Christmas night with their family,” the advisory further read. The advisory also put the archbishop’s house at the centre of its austerity programme. “We entreat our fathers, sisters, friends and well-wishers not to bring any cakes, gifts or flowers to the archbishop house this Christmas. The money saved may be given in charity,” the advisory stressed. Advocating a more spiritual Christmas this year, the Church advisory has directed all its parishes throughout the state to organise a feast on December 27 for the poor and the needy, irrespective of caste, creed, or religion. “We appeal to all our well-wishers and religious congregations to contribute in cash or kind to specially help those parishes which cannot afford to provide this meal on their own,” the directive added. Meanwhile delivering his homily on the occasion of the 3rd Sunday of Advent at the Kuru Parish Church in Lohardaga district, Toppo said the coming of Jesus to the world signifies that the answer to all our woes lies in God. “The birth of Jesus is an occasion of spiritual and social celebration. It reminds us that God had sent his son to this earth to provide solace to the poor and suffering and deliver man from evil,” Toppo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dont-engage-in-extravagance-practise-austerity-this-christmas-says-church/articleshow/79710168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Guv inaugurates eye hosp in city||Ranchi: Governor Droupadi Murmu inaugurated the IRIS super-speciality eye hospital in Ranchi on Sunday. During the inauguration ceremony, Murmu asked the management and the doctors of the new hospital to provide treatment to the poor as well. Vitreo retina surgeon Dr Subodh Kumar Singh said, “The hospital is the first-of-its-kind ophthalmic medical centre in the state. It is equipped with state-of-the-art technology and can conduct any eye surgery at par with the big cities in the country.” The chairman of the Orchid group, which has set up the new facility, Dr S C Jain, said: “We will provide 20 free OPD consultations on a daily basis to patients from the low-income group. Also, 50% discount will be given to them for any kind of examination and surgery.” The eye hospital will cater to patients with problems of retina, glaucoma, paediatric eye problems, cornea-related problems and oculoplastic complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/guv-inaugurates-eye-hosp-in-city/articleshow/79711510.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19: 111 more test positive, death toll reaches 230 in Vadodara||VADODARA: With Vadodara city and district registering 111 fresh cases of Covid-19, the total number of coronavirus positive cases during the pandemic reached 19,463 on Sunday. The results were the outcome of 3,968 samples that were tested in 24 hours starting from Saturday evening. Of the 111 fresh cases, 40 have been reported from Vadodara rural taking the total number of cases in Vadodara rural to 5,958. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also declared one more death due to Covid-19 on Sunday after which the official death toll since the beginning of the pandemic reached 230. Currently, there are 1,340 active cases in Vadodara, of which the condition of 1,125 patients is said to be stable. While 156 patients are under oxygen, 59 others are being treated with the support of ventilator or BI-PAP machine. The total number of discharges, on the other hand, has reached 17,893 as 66 patients including two from the government hospitals, 17 from private hospitals and 47 from home isolation were discharged during the day. Another 4,461 are under home quarantine, according to the VMC’s bulletin. The fresh cases on Sunday were reported from Chhani, Subhanpura, Makarpura, Gorwa, Tarsali, VIP Road, Nizampura, Akota, Karelibaug, Siyabaug, Navayard, Gokulnagar, Kishanwadi, Vadsar and Ajwa Road areas within the VMC limits, while in Vadodara rural, the new cases were reported from Sevasi, Por, Ranoli, Karjan, Waghodiya, Dabhoi, Karodiya and Padra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/111-more-test-positive-death-toll-reaches-230/articleshow/79710029.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Thane||Thane: Two on bike die as two-wheeler & BJP legislator's vehicle collide||KALYAN: Two people on a bike died in a collision between their two-wheeler and BJP MLA Kishan Kathore's car near Titwala on Sunday evening. While the biker, Amit Singh (22), a Kalyan resident, died on the spot, pillion rider Simran Singh (18) died in hospital. Amit was only son of his parents, said sources. Kathore, elected from Murbad constituency, said in a message that he was safe, his driver sustained injuries. The car has been damaged. A case was still to be filed at the time of filing this report, said in-charge of Titwala police station, Raju Vanjari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-two-on-bike-die-as-two-wheeler-bjp-legislators-vehicle-collide/articleshow/79712661.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||BMC officials extremely selective in carrying out demolitions: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court directed a deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) to explain why no action should be taken against him "for consciously making incorrect statements in his affidavit" in a petition seeking demolition of a Worli structure. The civic body had passed a demolition order last February. But it "could not be carried out due to resistance and law and order situation," said an affidavit filed on December 2 by DMC (zone II) V M Balamwar. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and RI Chagla in its order said "it is clear beyond any doubt that the officials of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) for reasons best known to them are extremely selective about executing their own orders of demolition - in some cases the officials of MCGM are ready to demolish the structures even before service of its demolition order on the notice and in some matters, like in the present case, the demolition is not carried out even after more than 20 months from the date of the order of demolition." The HC had on November 27 called the demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow by the BMC as "malice in law" and said she was entitled to compensation. In the Worli case, the HC had, on December 3, directed the DMC to remain present before it on December 8 to explain. He appeared. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC sought time, and HC adjourned the matter for a priority hearing on December 15. A Bandra resident caught in a separate ownership dispute with a Worli resident over the plot on which the structure stands had petitioned the HC. His counsel Mohit Jadhav last week questioned the delay in demolition of the 1,000 sq ft ground-plus-one storey structure. The HC said BMC "has in the last almost two years not bothered to demolish an unauthorized structure, thus compelling a resident to file a petition seeking directions against the civic body." The HC had sought a reply on December 1 within two days from the BMC. The DMC filed a reply admitting a demolition order was passed last February and said that in August 2019, police were requisitioned. The HC said he "failed to explain" the six-month delay. On December 3, when the HC asked what the 'law and order' situation was, it was told it arose as "there was a bedridden widow along with her young daughter who were occupying the structure." But R S Law, advocate for the party claiming ownership of the structure, said it only had a "senior citizen and no law and order issue had arisen." "This is the first incorrect statement" by the DMC, the HC said. The DMC said demolition was rescheduled again last December when the roof was removed, but again it could not proceed due to a "law and order" problem. Photographs reflect a "peaceful" situation, said the bench. The demolition was rescheduled for January but not undertaken. The HC asked why a partially demolished structure was not acted on immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-officials-extremely-selective-in-carrying-out-demolitions-bombay-hc/articleshow/79712668.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM brings up farmer protest, BJP calls 2-day session a joke||MUMBAI: Slamming the opposition for saying there is an undeclared emergency in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has said the BJP has no right to point fingers at anyone after the way it has treated farmers protesting in Delhi. "They have called them terrorists, Khalistanis, Pakistanis," he said. "Rather than talking to them, they are left out in the cold. If there is an undeclared emergency in Maharashtra, then how would they describe the situation in Delhi?" Referring to the use of water cannons, he asked whether pouring water on farmers in the biting cold was a sign of harmony. He said the opposition accused his government of "non-performance" because it was so busy trying to topple his government that it did not get to know all that it had done. He said there was no feeling of discontent or dissatisfaction among the people, as proved by the recent election to the graduates and teachers constituencies. Most seats in the election were won by MVA candidates. The opposition on Sunday boycotted the chief minister's traditional tea party to protest against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over its "misgovernance" and "refusal to listen to people's issues". Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis addressed a press conference at the BJP state headquarters and criticised the government for refusing to hold a proper legislative session. "We asked for a two-week session. When political parties like the BJP and others are actively campaigning, holding party meetings, when NCP leader Sharad Pawar's birthday celebrations were held all over and the Congress has been holding party meetings, why can't the government hold a decent legislative session?" he said. He said the government, by holding such a short session, was running away from giving answers on its misgovernance. Calling the government high-handed, Fadnavis said anyone criticising it is sent to jail. "Arnab Goswami and Kangana Ranaut faced the government's wrath. Our party workers if they raise their voice against the government on social media are sent to jail," he said. The session would be only for a day and that too for about six to seven hours, said Fadnavis. "The first day there will be a condolence meet and no legislative business will be conducted. This leaves only one day, which the government will use to pass the supplementary demands. There will be no time for meaningful discussions. Farmers across the state are badly affected, first by the cyclone in Konkan, then by the floods in other parts, and now crops are infested. There was panchnama only for crop loss because of the floods. No panchnama for crop loss in Vidarbha, no action on crop loss on account of infestation," he said. The two-day winter session starts on Monday. The government will table four new bills and supplementary demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cm-brings-up-farmer-protest-bjp-calls-2-day-session-a-joke/articleshow/79712685.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Nearly 29% men, 25% women battle high blood pressure in Andhra Pradesh: Survey||VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 29% men and 25% women suffer from elevated blood pressure levels (greater than or equal to 140/90 mmHg) in Andhra Pradesh, according to the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5). As many as 22% men have high blood sugar levels compared to about 20% in women. The survey identified very high sugar levels in 11% men and 10% women. Among men, 17.6% have mildly elevated blood pressure (140-159/90-99 mmHg) and 7.1% have moderately or severely elevated blood pressure (greater than or equal to 160/100 mmHg). When it comes to women, 5.9% experience moderately or severely elevated blood pressure levels and 13.6% see blood pressure readings above 140-159/90-99 mmHg. According to medical experts, the only way to detect early-stage hypertension or pre-hypertension is to keep a tab on blood pressure readings as people with this condition often don’t show any obvious symptoms, particularly among the young. Untreated hypertension can cause damage to the heart and other vital organs. A healthy lifestyle, maintaining an ideal weight, and other changes could help delay or prevent pre-hypertension from progressing into full-blown hypertension. Similar is the case with pre-diabetes, which may also go undetected. A healthy diet, certain lifestyle changes, stress management, regular physical exercise could go a long way in helping people with this condition in delaying or preventing diabetes. Dr Ramana Rao, a general physician, said, “Even though genetic and environmental factors have a role to play, a sedentary lifestyle, obesity and unhealthy dietary habits lead to a variety of medical complications, including high blood sugar and blood pressure levels.” “Adopting a healthy and active lifestyle is crucial in keeping non-communicable diseases at bay,” Dr Rao added. The NFHS-5 fieldwork for Andhra Pradesh was conducted from July 2, 2019 to November 14, 2019. According to the survey report, information was gathered from 11,346 households in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nearly-29-men-25-women-battle-high-blood-pressure-in-state-survey/articleshow/79709975.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 14, 2020||India||PM Modi greets BJP for Bodoland poll show||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Sunday reiterated that the NDA is committed to serving the people of the northeast as he welcomed the BJP victory in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls — yet another triumph for the saffron party amidst the ongoing protests against the three farm laws. “I congratulate our ally UPPL and BJP Assam for securing a majority in the Assam BTC election, and wish them the very best in fulfilling people’s aspirations. I thank the people for placing their faith in the NDA,” the PM said. Congratulating state leaders for a comfortable majority in Assam BTC election, home minister Amit Shah said, “I thank the people of Assam for their continued faith in PM Narendra Modi’s resolve towards a developed northeast.” Senior BJP leader and information and broadcasting minister, Prakash Javadekar said BJP has recommended United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) president Pramod Boro’s name for chief executive member (CEM) of the BTC. “In the 40-seat Bodoland Territorial Council, BJP had fielded candidates for only 26 seats,” he said, adding: “BJP’s victory... is another electoral success of the party”. BJP is supporting the UPPL in the formation of the next council.The ruling Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) has won 17 seats while UPPL got 12 seats in the BTC polls. BJP won nine seats. BJP had won only one seat in the last election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-greets-bjp-for-bodoland-poll-show/articleshow/79712687.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||High obesity levels cause for concern in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: A total of 36% women and 31% men are either obese or overweight in Andhra Pradesh, according to the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5). Body Mass Index (BMI) — a measure of body fat based on height and weight — is below normal only among 14.8% women and 16.5% men. Around 49% women and 53% men have high-risk waist-to-hip ratio. The NFHS-5 has significantly expanded the scope of clinical, anthropometric and biochemical testing to include measurement of waist and hip circumferences. According to health experts, obesity significantly increases the risk of a person developing non-communicable diseases such as hypertension and diabetes. Experts opine that dietary changes, cutting down on calories, physical activity, behavioural and lifestyle changes can go a long way in dealing with obesity. The NFHS-5 sample has been designed to provide national, state, and district-level estimates of various indicators covered in the survey. However, the estimates of various indicators are available only at the state and the national level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/high-obesity-levels-cause-for-concern/articleshow/79709986.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Active Covid cases drop below 5,000 in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 506 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,75,531. The toll increased to 7,057 with five more people succumbing to the novel coronavirus disease. Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts reported one death each. As many as 613 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 4,966 active cases with 8,63,508 cumulative recoveries and 7,057 fatalities. Chittoor reported 104 new cases on Sunday, followed by Guntur (69), West Godavari (66) and Krishna (59). The remaining nine districts posted double-digit case numbers. The novel coronavirus disease epicentre East Godavari also achieved a 99 per cent recovery rate on Sunday. Kurnool, Vizianagaram and West Godavari already crossed the 99 per cent recovery rate mark. Vizianagaram has only 79 active cases – the lowest among all districts. Krishna has the highest number of active cases of 884, followed by Guntur (860). Andhra Pradesh tested 63,873 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 506 new cases. This translates to a case positivity rate of 0.8%. Of the 63,873 tests conducted, 46,190 tests were through RT-PCR and Truenat methods, while the remaining 17,683 tests were done through rapid antigen kits. The RT-PCR tests detected 321 cases and the rapid antigen kits 185 cases. The state so far conducted 1.08 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 8%. The mortality remained stable at 0.8%. The national average positivity rate stood at 6.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-cases-drop-below-5000-in-ap/articleshow/79709989.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HRF dismisses charges against its functionary||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Human Rights Forum (HRF) has alleged that the case registered against its vice-president, K Jayasree, is an attempt to silence dissenting voices. In a statement released on Sunday, APHRF claimed that the allegations levelled against Jayasree are far from the truth. The Piduguralla police have booked Jayasree on the basis of a confession statement by an accused arrested under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the sedition law. The forum claims that the confessions of the ‘so-called confession statement’ are pure fiction to implicate Jayasree in the case. APHRF further said that Jayasree has been fighting against uranium mining at Thummalapalle in Vemula mandal in Kadapa district. APHRF further stated that the forum is not an appendage of either Maoists on any other political party and said that the police have themselves called Jayasree to take classes on human rights for police personnel. The forum demanded that the police desist from the alleged attempt to frame her in a false case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hrf-dismisses-charges-against-its-functionary/articleshow/79710000.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Agra||Aligarh doctor dies after falling into pit dug by civic body||AGRA: A 45-year-old doctor, Rajeev Kumar Gupta, died on Sunday after falling into an open pit dug by the municipal corporation workers to lay underground a pipeline in Aligarh. The deceased’s wife, Rashmi Gupta, said her husband had gone out to buy milk when the tragedy happened around 6 am. He fell into a 4-ft-deep pit, she said in the FIR. The CCTV footage of the incident also shows that he slipped after losing his balance while trying to take out his bike that had got stuck on the broken road. Locals rushed him to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Police have registered an FIR under IPC against six persons, including the municipal commissioner, mayor and irrigation department officials on the basis of a complaint filed by Gupta family at Sasni Gate police station. Locals staged a protest against the civic body, accusing it of gross negligence while carrying out digging of the roads across the city and not repairing them properly, thus posing a risk to the lives of people. The deceased’s relative, Madhubala Gupta, an RSS office bearer in Aligarh, said the civic body workers filled up the open pits after the accident to save themselves. “Such incidents can happen with anyone. Police should have taken action against civic body workers,” she said. The government should provide financial help to the family, along with a job to the deceased’s kin, as the family is not economically sound, she added. City magistrate Vineet Kumar said Gupta died due to head injuries after falling into the pit. Gupta is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/doctor-falls-into-pit-dug-by-civic-body-dies-fir-against-officials/articleshow/79712693.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Model hepatitis treatment centre launched at KGH-AMC||VISAKHAPATNAM: A model hepatitis treatment centre was inaugurated by Dr K Venkatesh, state director of medical education, at the department of gastroenterology of Andhra Medical College (AMC)-King George Hospital (KGH) under the national programme for prevention and control of viral hepatitis. According to doctors, around 10–15 hepatitis patients visit the department daily. Under the national viral hepatitis control programme (NVHCP), three medical college hospitals in the state including Andhra Medical College, Guntur Medical College and SVIMS Tirupati have been identified. AMC principal Dr P V Sudhakar said, “A testing lab in the microbiology department is being used as the diagnostic centre for identifying kinds of hepatitis. The focus is mainly on hepatitis B and C.” Assistant professor at the department of microbiology, Dr Ramalakshmi, is the nodal officer for the diagnostic lab while Dr LRS Girinadh is the nodal officer for the treatment facility. The aim of NVHCP is to achieve country-wide elimination of hepatitis C by 2030, achieve significant reduction in the infected population, morbidity and mortality associated with hepatitis B and C such as cirrhosis and liver cancer and also reduce the risk, morbidity and mortality due to hepatitis A and E.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/model-hepatitis-treatment-centre-launched-at-kgh-amc/articleshow/79710017.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Operate more trains, reduce testing hardship at airport, stations, say TIFR||When BMC's first sero survey was conducted in July, it revealed that 57% of those surveyed from slums and 16% of those living in buildings were exposed to the 2019-nCoV. The corresponding numbers in the second survey in August were 45% and 18%, although they may have been less due to the decline in the antibodies tested. Researchers at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), BMC's sero survey partner, incorporated the findings of these surveys into their mathematical model to plot Covid-19 trends in Mumbai. "Based on our model, Mumbai, at present, has a high positivity rate of 80% in slums and around 50% in residential areas," said Dr Sandeep Juneja, dean of school of technology and computer science, TIFR. Here, he provides a scientific basis for further unlocking in Mumbai:Q: The authorities will decide in January on whether all passengers can travel by trains. Is it safe to completely reopen Mumbai's lifeline? A: The state administration has done a great job of gradually opening up trains in Mumbai. One hears of some overcrowding in trains, but, fortunately, this has not resulted in a major increase in the Covid-19 numbers. The high positivity in the city, combined with declining cases, hospitalisations and fatalities, suggest this process of gradual opening should continue, but with more boldness. Mumbai has substantial hospital beds, ICUs and ventilators to handle cases that may occur due to further opening. The city has suffered enormously from travel restrictions, and it's important to open up further if it can be done safely. Q: Travellers from other cities have complained about the restrictions imposed on travel to Mumbai. How long should we continue with these restrictions?A: While extensive testing of travellers into the city is important to control the disease, this needs to be balanced with the hardship it causes to travellers and to the economy. In the last two weeks, only a couple of hundred domestic travellers to Mumbai through trains and airplanes tested positive. As per our model, 8,000-10,000 people get infected in Mumbai each day around mid-December (this number is higher than the daily reported cases as only a fraction of those infected get tested). Thus, the strategy of extensive testing is not particularly effective and needs to be adjusted to cause less hardship. Similarly, careful data analysis is needed to check if less stringent measures could work for international travellers to India. Q: Should schools and colleges reopen in January?A: Our model suggests opening schools and colleges in January or later would lead to a small, but not insignificant, increase in the number of infections in the city: around 500 to 1,500 people daily for a few months before the infection stabilises. Contrast this with the peak of the infection in May, when estimated 60,000 residents were infected daily. Considering the majority of the population in high-density areas (around slums) is already infected, and the population there is typically younger than the rest of the city, the risk from opening schools in those areas is less, and they may be safer to open. Much of the other, less dense parts of the city could continue with online education for a few more months until the elderly are vaccinated. However, classes for senior students could be started and should largely be held outdoors to reduce transmission risk. Some recent research suggests children tend to transmit less than adults. This aspect has not been incorporated in our model, and may suggest that schools are safer than suggested by our model output. Q: What about the risk of a second wave from the year-end holidays?A: If the population interactions during Christmas and New Year celebrations are of the same order as for Dussehra and Diwali, then the resulting increase in infections is likely to be lower this time around. Q: When the Covid vaccines do arrive, they will have to be disbursed in a phased manner. Who should be in the priority list?A: The government's plan of first vaccinating the healthcare workers, police, transportation and other workers, those above 50 years of age and younger population with comorbidities is a sound one. My suggestion is that within this list further prioritise those above 60 years of age. They have the highest mortality and are less likely to have been infected in the past. So per vaccine, lives saved would be the highest. Our analysis suggests around 10% of Mumbai's population is above 60. If they are vaccinated with a perfect vaccine with 100% effectiveness, let's say on February 1, the city will witness 55% to 65% reduction in fatalities over the next six months compared to the no-vaccination scenario.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-operate-more-trains-reduce-testing-hardship-at-airport-stations-say-tifr/articleshow/79712699.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s third coldest December day in 11 years||MUMBAI: It was a nippy Sunday, with a slight drizzle in the morning. The Met’s Santacruz observatory recorded the third lowest maximum December temperature since 2010. It was 27.6 degrees Celsius — down from 28.8 the previous day. Before Sunday, the lowest maximum temperature in December since 2010 was recorded on December 6, 2017 at 23.3 degrees Celsius. In 2010, the lowest maximum temperature in December was 26.5 degrees Celsius. Colaba recorded a temperature of 27.4 degree Celsius, was also 5 degrees below normal.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Minimum temperatures remained high as Santacruz recorded 23.8 degrees Celsius, and it was 23.5 in Colaba. The AQI on Sunday was lowest for the week at 108, said SAFAR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-third-coldest-december-day-in-11-years/articleshow/79712695.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal fasts today in support of farmers||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said he would hold a daylong fast on Monday in support of the protesting farmers and urged AAP volunteers, supporters and the general public to do the same. Monday will see farmer leaders holding a fast, sharing the same stage at Singhu Border, to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. “The farmers have appealed to the people to fast for a day in their support. I will also fast tomorrow in the support of our farmers. I want to appeal to the supporters and volunteers of AAP to do the same,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing. “I know thousands and lakhs of people who are with the farmers... they cannot reach the borders because of their day-to-day schedule, but are supporting the farmers. I want to appeal to all those people to fast for a day,” he added. “For the last few days, a few central government ministers and BJP functionaries are calling the farmers anti-nationals, they are terming this a movement of anti-nationals. The thousands of ex-servicemen and ex-armymen, who fought for the country by risking their lives, are sitting with the farmers on the borders. Thousands of armymen are praying for the farmers from their homes. I want to ask BJP, are they anti-nationals?” he said. “Many national and international players who have brought laurels for the nation are sitting on the borders in support of the farmers. Are they anti-nationals? I personally know a few singers and Bollywood celebrities, who come from farmers’ families and are supporting the farmers, are they anti-nationals? Many doctors who are supporting the farmers, are they anti-nationals?” he said. “I want to appeal to the Centre to put an end to their ego. The governments are formed by the public, the public is not formed by the governments. The three farm laws should be immediately repealed and the farmers should be given guaranteed MSPs, and a new Bill should be passed on it. All the demands of the farmers should be accepted without any condition as soon as possible,” he added. Kejriwal said that during the days of Anna Hazare’s movement at Ramlila Maidan, those involved in the movement were called anti-nationals. “The attempts made by Congress to malign our movement in those days... the same kind of attempts are made by BJP against farmers' movements today. They should not dare to call farmers anti-nationals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-fast-for-a-day-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/79712697.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Nadda in home isolation after testing positive for Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda said on Sunday that he has tested positive for the coronavirus and that he has been in home isolation as per health guidelines. “After experiencing initial symptoms of corona, I got tests done and have been tested positive. My health is fine and I have been following all the guidelines for home isolation on the advice of doctors,” Nadda said through a tweet. “I request everyone who has come in contact with me in the last few days to please isolate yourself and get yourself checked,” Nadda said. कोरोना के शुरूआती लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने टेस्ट करवाया और रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है। मेरी तबीयत ठीक है, डॉक्टर्स की सलाह प… https://t.co/GGbJ7gfKyr— Jagat Prakash Nadda (@JPNadda) 1607861271000Senior BJP leaders wished Nadda a fast recovery. The BJP chief had returned from West Bengal, where he was on a two-day visit during which his cavalcade was attacked allegedly by TMC supporters. Senior BJP leader Kailash Vijayvargiya was injured in the attack. Nadda was in West Bengal as part of his 100-day tour across the country, which he had started recently from Dehradun.\||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nadda-in-home-isolation-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79712703.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Delhi||AAP MLAs, councillors to hold hunger strike||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party Delhi convenor Gopal Rai said that AAP functionaries and volunteers would hold a daylong hunger strike on Monday in support of the farmers protesting the Centre’s new farm laws. From 10am on Monday, AAP functionaries, including MLAs, councillors and volunteers, would hold a hunger strike till 5pm at the party headquarters in the capital, supporting the call given by the agitating farmers. “For the past 18 days, the farmers of our country are protesting against three laws passed by the BJP-governed Centre. Official data shows that around 11farmers have lost their lives during the protest. But, the central government is still deliberately standing with their own ego,” Rai said at a presser on Sunday. In order to intensify their protest, the state labour minister said, the farmers have announced a daylong hunger strike on Monday and AAP would stand beside them. “Party volunteers will continue their work at the Singhu and Tikri borders, where they have been working as sevadars to the farmers. AAP appeals to the Prime Minister that he holds direct talks with the farmers regarding their demands,” he said, adding that if the new laws were so good for the farmers, then why would BJP be unable to explain the same to them. “BJP functionaries are talking to different farmer groups and trying to break their unity, but they will never succeed,” the Babarpur MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mlas-councillors-to-hold-hunger-strike/articleshow/79712708.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 66,000 kids under 10 years got infected, 85 succumbed in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Eighty-five children under the age of 10 have succumbed to Coronavirus out of nearly 66,000 infected in the state since the pandemic arrived in March. The data from an age-wise analysis of 47,825 deaths in Maharashtra has reassured that the chances of a healthy child dying from the infection are negligible, though babies with congenital problems could be at a slightly higher risk. Studies world over have already shown that children as well as teenagers are less likely to develop symptoms and even less likely to need critical care. Of the 85 deaths among children, eight were infants and the remaining 77 were between the ages of 1-10 years. Maharashtra has reported 48,209 Covid-19 deaths till Sunday. In Mumbai, 17 children below the age of 10 have died out of nearly 5,000 infected. In the 10-19 age group, the city has seen 31 deaths out of 10,825 infected. Doctors say it is not known how many have died of complications caused purely by Covid, but mortalities have mostly been in children with congenital issues, including heart diseases, neurological problems, or chronic ailments such as tuberculosis. "We have seen only one infant death and a handful of fatalities in older children. The infant who died had a congenital malformation and was a patient of neurosurgery," said Dr Mukesh Agarwal, head of paediatrics in KEM Hospital. According to him, in several cases, the Covid diagnosis was incidental and the babies had not come with typical symptoms. Dr Agarwal said even with a high viral load, children don't tend to develop serious Covid. Around 11% of the 18.80 lakh Covid cases in the state have been in children under 10. "Most are usually asymptomatic. And even those who have symptoms respond well and early to treatment," said Dr Shakuntala Prabhu of Wadia Hospital that has treated over 200 children. While some studies abroad have found neonates didn't do as well as older children, the experience here was different. Dr Ruchi Nanavati, KEM's head of neonatology, said they treated around 25 cases with mild Covid and all the babies had recovered. In all city hospitals, even positive mothers could breastfeed their babies wearing masks and following other hygiene protocols. So what has protected the children? Dr Bela Verma, professor in paediatrics at JJ Hospital, said the ACE-2 receptors in the lungs and airways are not fully developed in children. "That could be one of the reasons why they didn't get the serious pulmonary infection that solidifies the lungs," she said. The virus latches on to the ACE-2 receptor once it enters the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-66000-kids-under-10-years-got-infected-85-succumbed-in-maharashtra/articleshow/79712710.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 14, 2020||Vadodara||Can’t call it a second wave, claims VMC||Vadodara: The city and district seems to have braved another Covid-19 scare for now. The data of admissions in hospitals clearly indicates that the hospitalisation rate is going down significantly. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and district administration had started gearing up for a possible spike after Diwali festivities when the number of cases started shooting up. While it was believed that the spike may not be a wave but a temporary rise due to overcrowding for festival and frequency at markets, the number of beds in the city was increased. According to VMC officials, the overall trend continues to be that of a decline for now. They added that the temporary rise cannot be called a ‘second wave’ when one compares data with other places affected by the second wave of Covid-19. In the last days of November, the occupancy of Covid-19 beds had reached nearly 50 per cent in the city. Not taking any chances, the number of beds was increased from around 5,300 to around 6,350 within a short span. The highest hospitalization in the city and district was seen on November 29 when 2,218 patients were in hospitals. Officials point out that the number includes persons from both Vadodara city and district and even outside it form neighbouring district and states bordering Gujarat. “We have to ensure that we have sufficient capacity for even patients from outside,” said the official. Much to the relief of the administration, the total bed occupancy had gone down by nearly 25 per cent and is expected to show a declining trend. This trend is being witnessed across all categories of beds including ICU beds, beds with oxygen support and those for mild symptomatic patients. Sources said that a major reason for the trend were restrictions like night curfew and strict action on Covid-19 guidelines like social distancing and wearing a mask.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cant-call-it-a-second-wave-claims-vmc/articleshow/79710023.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Like raising a child: How to create happy homes for pets||BENGALURU: This year, many Bengalureans have brought home, or considered getting, a pet as they look for emotional support, a way to formalise their love for animals, or a distraction that can shake up the hours of WFH tedium. Experts say to develop a fun and nurturing relationship, training and conditioning are important — more for the pet parents than the animal. They suggest that much like raising a child, caring for a pet is a full-time commitment that requires research, emotional and financial planning, monitoring, cultivation of healthy habits, and plenty of hugs. “When someone seeks my expertise, I counsel them first and ascertain what they need to learn before their dog can be trained,” says canine and equine trainer Subhadra Cherukuri. “Dogs are not difficult. Eighty per cent of the training is directed towards pet parents. Many pamper their dog instead of giving it time and space, and this leads to behavioural issues.” Subhadra is the co-founder of Wag-ville, which provides pet services and animal-assisted therapy. Her love for animals began in childhood, thanks to her parents — her mother was a wildlife conservationist and father rode horses. Subhadra worked as a management consultant for 15 years before switching careers. Subhadra believes there is no ideal age for a dog to be trained. “Training and conditioning start from the day you bring it home. If possible, training should begin even before that. Often, people, especially first-time pet parents, realise this only after their dog has developed characteristics that are not desirable,” she says. It’s important to keep dogs active. “Set a routine. Take them to open green spaces and let them sniff around, which is good for their mental engagement,” Subhadra says. One should not take pet responsibility lightly. “Don’t get a dog on an impulse. Many people got excited about the idea during the lockdown without considering things like who will look after it once offices reopen. Getting a pet involves expense and effort,” she says. Beagles are popular in Bengaluru because of their cuteness factor, but they are no pushovers. “They can be quite stubborn. They need a lot of leadership from the carer. I like training Indies as they are intelligent,” says Subhadra. Shruthi Nithin, the founder of ‘For Love Of All Pets’ (FLOAP), a rare startup in the pet-care space, says there is a huge information gap and many animal lovers struggle to get the right advice, help and services. She experienced it firsthand when she tried to adopt a dog five years ago. “There was little information on agencies and the process. Later, I came across a dog breeder selling a puppy on an online marketplace. He took me to a doctor, who assured me that the puppy was healthy. Eventually, it emerged that the dog had multiple health issues, mostly because of wrong breeding methods,” says Shruthi. “I later found that many breeders employ unethical practices. At every level, things are treated as a business.” Lack of knowledge and transparency in the fragmented segment prompted her to start work on a platform where people could get expert assistance and quality products and services. FLOAP was launched in 2018. Apart from growing interest in acquiring a pet, FLOAP has been receiving several enquiries on behaviourists and boarding facilities lately. Services for customised home-cooked meals for dogs are also in demand. “Many people adopted pets when we were all home. As we’re getting back to normal life, boarding requirements have gone up,” she says. Shruthi is glad there is greater acceptance of pets in society, with more parks and apartment complexes providing dedicated areas. “Challenges come up when people don’t clean up after their dogs or expect everyone to be okay around pets,” she says. “It’s important to train dogs, not just for the benefit of their carers but also for dogs’ well-being. Dogs need to feel comfortable around others. Every breed is different. Their behaviour depends on how we treat them. It’s like this: if you don’t raise your child well, you may find them off track in some areas.” Shruthi and veteran pet expert Preeti Narayanan suggest that before picking a dog, one should make a mental checklist: which canine will be comfortable in my home environment, who will look after it when I’m away, will I’ve time for its medical follow-ups and special requirements? “Having a pet is a very emotional thing. Caring for a dog is like caring for a child who never grows up. You have to devote time and effort. So, consult experts before getting a furry friend,” says Preeti. She’s been working in the space for almost 20 years. “Actually, I’ve been working with dogs since I was a teenager. I had a golden retriever and an Irish setter then,” she says. Preeti opened one of the earliest boarding centres in the city and later ventured into dog breeding. “Finally, I decided to get into the medical aspect of pet care. When you have so many dogs — I have nine — you see a lot of illness. I met Dr Pavan and Dr Ramesh of Cessna Lifeline Veterinary Hospital and trained as a veterinary nurse. Now, I am active in canine physiotherapy and nutrition, and work as a consultant trainer with a pet services firm,” she says. Preeti adds dogs need physical and mental exercise. “People tend to forget the mental aspect. Walks alone are not enough. These are intelligent animals, so you need to engage them in various activities. What happens is people bring breeds of working dogs home and make them sit quietly.” Divya Goenka, the founder of The Pink Moon clothing brand and a pet parent for 20 years, says her family’s life revolves around their fourth dog. “That’s the kind of joy he brings us,” she says. “People should do their homework before getting an animal. I know people who bought dogs for their kids. After some time, they gave the dogs away as they could not manage things.” She adds that the city lacks adequate burial sites for pets: “Available facilities are expensive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/like-raising-a-child-how-to-create-happy-homes-for-pets/articleshow/79712383.cms||Harsh Vora
December 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Covid toll 10,000, half of these in last 83 days||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 toll in the capital crossed the 10,000-mark on Sunday even though the 33 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours were the lowest in a single day in the last one-and-a-half months. From around 9,066 on November 29, the total toll reached 10,014 in 14 days — which is the fourth shortest period for the addition of 1,000 fatalities. In November, Delhi recorded 2,663 deaths with an average of 88.7 a day, which is the highest for a month till date. November also saw the toll first breach the 7,000-mark, then the 8,000-mark within 10 days and, then, the 9,000-mark in the next 10 days. The shortest period for the addition of 1,000 deaths was in June. While it took 89 days from the first Covid-19 death recorded in Delhi on March 13 to breach the 1,000-mark on June 11, it took just eight days for the figure to reach 2,035 on June 19. The third wave of Covid-19 cases in Delhi is now ebbing with the positivity rate below 3%, but it has been the deadliest wave the capital has seen. While it took exactly nine months for the toll to breach the 10,000-mark, it took about six-and-a-half months (193 days) for it to cross 5,000 on September 21. But the next 5,000 fatalities were recorded in less than three months (83 days). On Sunday, Delhi recorded 1,984 fresh novel coronavirus cases from 72,335 tests carried out in the last 24 hours, including 35,611 RT-PCR tests and the positivity rate was 2.7%. The positivity rate has been below 5% since December 2 and, on Saturday, it was 2.6%. The total number of Covid-19 positive cases reached 6,07,454 on Sunday and, with 2,539 patients recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the total number of those who have recovered stands at 5,80,655 — a recovery rate of 95.5%. “Delhi has the least Covid-19 case fatality ratio at 1.6. Comparatively, Ahmedabad is at 4.0, Mumbai 3.8, Kolkata and Chennai at 2 and 1.8, respectively. Because of improved health infrastructure and continued monitoring of home isolation, Delhi has been able to achieve 96% recovery rate (sic),” health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted on Sunday. This month, the capital has recorded 840 deaths with an average of 64.6 a day. The number of deaths has been declining gradually from an all-time high of 131 on November 18. In October, Delhi had recorded 37 deaths on average every day, compared with 30.6 in September and 14.7 in August. It, however, was an average of 36.2 per day in July and as high as 75 a day in June. The number of active Covid-19 cases as on Sunday was 16,785, of which 9,964 are recuperating in home isolation and 4,446 are in hospitals, apart from 302 in Covid care centres and 89 in Covid health centres. As many as 14,361 Covid beds are vacant in hospitals, 7,426 in Covid care centres and 473 in Covid-19 health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-covid-toll-10000-half-of-these-in-last-83-days/articleshow/79712691.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||In pandemic year, NREGS trends show new normal||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic has thrown the established trends of MGNREGA into disarray — work generated in November has dipped from October instead of rising as in earlier years. But it still stands 5.2 crore persondays (mandays) higher than what was logged in November last year. Persondays generated in November this year (22.2 crore) are unexpectedly higher than the 16.9 crore in November last year. It is viewed as proof that MGNREGA continues to sustain rural employment and demand remains much higher than in past years — despite return of workers to cities. Experts view it as the persisting impact of loss of jobs owing to the pandemic. The trend till now has been that work demand and persondays generated increased in April-May and then softened in June with a sharp decline in July-October before picking up again in November. In 2019-20, persondays generated stood at 36.9 crore in May, followed by 32.1 crore in June, 19.4 crore in July, 15.3 crore in August, 14.7 crore in September and 13.8 crore in October before rising to 16.9 crore in November. However, 2020-21 has not followed the trend witnessed over a decade. Persondays rose to a record peak of 64 crore in June and slipped to 26 crore in August. But the August-October period was a stable phase with virtually no slackening of demand like in past years. Persondays increased from August to September by a negligible 34 lakh and decreased by 13 lakh in October. The annual post-June dip is because of the agriculture season that provides alternative employment for rural people. But the fact that work maintained a stable graph from August-October suggests that MGNREGA continued to witness demand since farms could not accommodate the high numbers seeking work in the countryside. However, the surprise of the package is November when persondays generated stood at 22.2 crore against 26.2 crore in October — it is contrary to the past trend when November witnesses a revival in work done after dip till October. The fall from October to November, instead of rising like in the past, is viewed by the rural development ministry as reflective that migrant workers, whose return to villages pushed up demand at the height of the pandemic, have gone back to cities. However, NGOs working on MGNREGA say 85-90% of the Union budget has been spent in the first seven months and there is reluctance on the part of authorities to approve work, which has depressed persondays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-pandemic-year-nregs-trends-show-new-normal/articleshow/79712735.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Stagger partying for New Year, says BBMP||BENGALURU: Endless revelry, parties that go on into the wee hours and glitzy concerts and events are likely to be missing in Bengaluru this New Year’s Eve, if BBMP has its way. SOPs finalised by BBMP and submitted to the government for approval include staggered timings, restricted entry and advance bookings at hospitality venues beside a complete ban on special gatherings and concerts including ticketed events and partying in makeshift venues. This comes in the wake of the government, last week, announcing a ban on all New Year Eve celebrations in public and ordering the hospitality sector to stick to only 50% of their established capacity. Following the announcement, revenue minister R Ashoka had met with home minister Basavaraj Bommani, top city cops, civic body and disaster management officials to thrash out containment strategies in view of a feared second Covid-19 wave. Senior bureaucrats privy to deliberations told TOI: “There will not be any gathering in places like Church Street, MG Road, Brigade Road or parallel roads, Kormanagala or Indiranagar among other common party hubs in the city.” People found violating these measures will be penalized under provisions of Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC, the official said. Still cluelessHowever, Bengaluru’s famed hospitality sector is still clueless on what to expect since there has been no final word on the issue. Chetan Hedge, owner of pub 1522, said initially the government had said night curfew will be in place, but later quashed it. “We normally have events and parties during Christmas. DJ’s need to be booked but due to Covid-19 and lack of clarity, we have not planned anything,” Hedge said. An owner of a chain of restaurants said he has already incurred huge losses due to the pandemic. “We pub owners and restaurateurs look at New Year as a way of catching up with lost business and achieving profits, but lack of clarity is affecting us,” he said. “Normally, events are planned by the first week of December.” However, several clubs support the government’s intended measures. “We understand the seriousness of the pandemic and would not want to put our people at risk,” said HS Srikanth, secretary, Bowring Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/stagger-partying-for-new-year-says-bbmp/articleshow/79712757.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers block Jaipur-Delhi highway in Alwar||JAIPUR: The Delhi-Jaipur national highway (NH-8) was sealed at Shahajahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border around 1.45pm on Sunday as thousands of farmers blocked the highway when they were not allowed to march towards Delhi in protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. The Alwar administration and police diverted the vehicles travelling to Delhi through the Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal route. There was a huge jam on the highway stretching up to 10km. However, in the evening, the border was opened up for vehicles coming from Delhi, which remained sealed for 3.5 hours, according to officials. But, the vehicles coming Jaipur were still diverted through Behror. The farmers were led by Akhil Bharatiya Kisaan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). Activists like Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar, leaders of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) Hannan Mollah and Amra Ram were present at the border among others. They sat on a dharna at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border when Haryana police stopped them by placing barricades on the highway. “Delhi can’t hear the voices of farmers clearly. We have given our arguments and memorandum to the government against the farm laws. Now, we will speak on the road and the government will be able to hear us properly. We do not want to cause problems for the public. But, now this is the only way left to make our voices heard,” said Swaraj India’s Yadav. “The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) says the farm bills are in the farmers’ interest. But when they have a dialogue, they talk of finding a middle path. Then they say it’s a gift for the farmers, which has to be accepted and also pay the price for the same,” he added. “This bill has been brought to benefit industrialists Adani and Ambani. The agitation of the farmers will end if a law that guarantees minimum support price (MSP) for farmers’ produce is brought by the government.” Apart from Rajasthan, the farmers from Haryana and Punjab also joined the protest on Sunday. Meanwhile, there was a huge deployment of paramilitary and police forces by Haryana government on the border. The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-block-jaipur-delhi-highway-in-alwar/articleshow/79712765.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Cong, BJP spar over MLAs occupying govt quarters ‘illegally’||Ranchi: Congress, a part of the ruling alliance in the state, on Sunday criticised two BJP MLAs —Naveen Jaiswal (Hatia) and Randhir Kumar Singh (Sarath) for “illegally” occupying government bungalows despite eviction orders from the Ranchi district administration. The party also said that their act is unbecoming of a public representative. Singh, who was a minister in the previous government headed by Raghubar Das, continues to occupy the palatial F-type bungalow in Doranda despite the state government allotting it to Stephen Marandi, a JMM MLA from Pakur, after the change of guard in Jharkhand in December last year. Marandi is yet to get its possession and is currently staying at a quarter at the Russian hostel. On Saturday, a team from the Ranchi district administration served a 48-hour ultimatum to Singh, after which, he would have to face an eviction. A notice was served to Jaiswal in the past, after which he had filed an application in the high court challenging the eviction. A hearing in this case is expected to be taken up on Monday. State Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The official quarters are allotted as per seniority and rank. Both these MLAs were turncoats, who after winning from different parties in 2014, defected to BJP. The saffron party government then gave them palatial bungalows to keep them in good humour. After re-allotment in 2019, these quarters are supposed to be occupied by ministers of the current regime and the two are living illegally for the last one year.” Dubey demanded that BJP takes action against their MLAs for forcefully occupying government bungalow. Another Congressman, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo accused BJP of hypocrisy. Recalling how the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre resorted to harassing Congress leaders amid the Covid-19 pandemic early this year, he said, “By that same yardstick of re-allotment of quarters, the Narendra Modi government had forced Congress’s AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi to shift to a new place in Delhi amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown early this year. Our leader instantly did so. Not only this, the Centre also withdrew the SPG security from the Gandhi family, two of whose members and former Prime Ministers were killed by terrorists.” BJP, on the other hand, accused the Hemant Soren government of setting a bad precedence in the state by resorting to “vindictive” politics. Denouncing the eviction threats to their MLAs, state BJP president Deepak Prakash said, “Regimes will keep changing, but the incumbent government shouldn’t forget democratic protocols. Randhir Singh is an elected public representative and has the constitutional right for a decent accommodation. The government must refrain from misusing administrative officials to harass public representatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-bjp-spar-over-mlas-occupying-govt-quarters-illegally/articleshow/79710287.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||E S’bhum steps up measures after spike in cases in 72hrs||Jamshedpur: After a period of less positive cases, when East Singhbhum district recorded 80 new cases of Covid-19 in 72 hours, the administration stepped up its surveillance and containment measures aimed at arresting the spread of the disease. Deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar asked the incident commanders (ICs) to conduct extensive drives for an hour every day in areas under their jurisdictions to enforce the safety guidelines. Notably, of the 80 new cases, 77 are from urban areas. The administration is of the view that marriage related gatherings at malls, hotels, banquet halls and colonies could be the source of the increase in the figure in the town area. Kumar asked the ICs to keep an eye on the marriage functions and take action accordingly against violators. Fresh orders have also been issued to ensure loudspeakers are not played after 10pm and even during the allotted period it has to be played within the permissible decibel limit, failing which, FIRs will be lodged on violators. Police have also been asked to make videos of the people’s movement at public places to identify erring people. “The video footage will be proof of violation to avert possibility of argument by violators after being caught. People wear masks only after spotting police in public places,” said additional chief medical officer Sahir Pal. With majority of the infected persons living in home isolation, the DC asked the ICs to increase vigilance to ensure infected persons do not venture out before the mandatory 10-day isolation period. Currently, there are 153 active cases in the district and over 100 have preferred home isolation. The surveillance team has been instructed to step up vigilance on visitors entering the district from outstation towns so that none escapes the mandatory Covid testing at the static centres. Notably, on Saturday, 42 Covid cases were reported while on Friday and Thursday 16 and 22 cases were recorded, respectively. “The district is still in the middle of the fight against the virus and thus compliance of protocols is a must for every one of us,” said diabetologist Dr Vinod Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-sbhum-steps-up-measures-after-spike-in-cases-in-72hrs/articleshow/79710419.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||GJM factions slam BJP for ‘failing Hills’||Siliguri: Rival factions of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha launched an attack on the BJP-led Centre at separate meetings on Sunday. While Binay Tamag said his party would wait till the state elections before taking a stand, Bimal Gurung said BJP had failed the people in the Hills. Gurung, addressing a public meeting at Birpara in Alipurduar district, urged people not to vote for BJP, saying the party would receive no backing from GJM. In the 2016 assembly polls, Manoj Tigga of BJP had won the Madarihat-Birpara seat with GJM’s support. This would not happen in 2021, Gurung said. Around the same time, Tamang, at a rally at Sukna near Siliguri, said his outfit would give the Centre six months to grant constitutional justice to the Hills. Constitutional justice, in this case, implies a separate state of Gorkhaland. “The Darjeeling Hills, including Kalimpong, Siliguri, Dooars and the Terai are treaty-obligated areas. These areas were under excluded areas till 1935. Later, till 1947, they were partially excluded areas. Of the 36 partially excluded areas, 35 got constitutional justice after Independence. However, the Hills and Terai regions were not granted constitutional rights. We want the central government to give constitutional justice and scrap the Indo-Bhutan and Indo-Nepal treaties. Kalimpong and the Dooars are leased lands owing to the Indo-Bhutan treaty and the lease was extended in 2007. We are facing constitutional injustice and demand bipartite and tripartite talks for the issues to be resolved,” Tamang said in his address. Indicating that BJP may face trouble in the Hills in the upcoming elections, he said: “We have six months till the assembly polls and if the issue is not addressed till then, we shall take a stand. Since 2017, we are in alliance with Trinamool Congress and chief minister Mamata Banerjee has told us thrice that Gorkhas will get justice and she will work for their identity.” He promised to write to PM Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and CM Banerjee on the subject When asked about Gurung’s statements, Tamang said the leader was “out of the syllabus”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gjm-factions-slam-bjp-for-failing-hills/articleshow/79711764.cms||Roshan Gupta
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Covid safe homes in Kolkata being wound up over demand drop||KOLKATA: All Covid-19 safe homes in Kolkata — including three prominent ones at Anandapur, Geetanjali Stadium Kasba and near the Science City, with a combined capacity of over 1,000 beds — are being wound up because of lack of demand. The facilities had been set up in June-July, when cases were spiralling and a panic had set in over lack of hospital beds. A 600-bed facility at Anandapur, the largest isolation centre in the state, has already been wound up. Work is under way to dismantle a 400-bed hangar at Geetanjali Stadium, Kasba. Another 200-bed facility opposite Science City has also been shut down. The three facilities were among several being operated by the KMC. “In June, July and August, the demand was more than capacity,” said a KMC health department official. “Till September, the occupancy rate was 70%. Thereafter, the demand began to slide. By the first week of November, the demand reduced so drastically that we decided to close the facilities, as maintaining them were unviable.” The trend is in keeping with the decline in cases across the state. Last week, TOI had reported that the Bengal government was de-requisitioning beds reserved for Covid patients at private hospitals, because of a declining demand. Though the reduction in Covid cases in Kolkata is less than that of the districts, changes in hospitalization and isolation norms have reduced the stress on these facilities. With over 80% patients preferring home isolation, demand for hospital beds have also declined. Last Thursday, the government listed 13 private hospitals — among them KPC Medical College Hospital, Charnock Hospital, Narayana Hospital Old Building, and ILS Hospital Howrah — to start releasing Covid beds in a phased manner. Most private hospitals had earlier whittled down the satellite centres following inadequate demand. Many are contemplating a reduction in the number of non-critical Covid beds, which have seen a drop in demand since mid-November. The decision to do away with the safe homes has also been influenced by the sharp decline in cases reported from slums, where isolation is difficult. Across the state, bed occupancy levels in safe homes has dropped to just 4%. Beds in Kolkata safe houses comprise over 70% of the total 11,507 beds in such facilities across Bengal. On Friday, the number of patients in safe homes dropped below 500 for the first time since June 12, when the state decided to set up these facilities for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients, who were unable to self-quarantine at home or seek medical supervision. T K Mukherjee, the adviser to KMC’s health department, said the civic body was closing the safe homes for the time being. “There are hardly any takers for safe homes now. We had to decide in favour of a temporary closure of these homes. We will remain vigilant and may need to re-open the homes if the situation demands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-safe-homes-in-city-being-wound-up-over-demand-drop/articleshow/79712251.cms||Saikat Ray
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool expels Suvendu loyalist Kanishka Panda for anti-party activities||Trinamool on Sunday expelled its East Midnapore secretary and Suvendu Adhikari loyalist Kanishka Panda for anti-party activities. The party’s national secretary, Subrata Bakshi, expelled him. TMC’s district president is Suvendu’s father Sisir Adhikari. Panda said, “I feel relaxed. It is time for Trinamool Congress to go.” Panda has been speaking up for Suvendu, and at times even against the party. On Saturday, he even criticised the chief minister. Sources said he has converted a TMC office into an assistance booth for Adhikari. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-expels-suvendu-loyalist-kanishka-panda-for-anti-party-activities/articleshow/79711789.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Thieves decamp with jewellery adorning temple deity in Chatra||CHATRA: Priests of the ancient Maa Dakshineshwari Bhagwati Devi Chamunda temple in Chatra’s Pathalgada block on Sunday found a silver crown and other gold ornaments adorning the idol missing. The incident angered the locals, who blamed the police of no action despite repeated thefts at the temple. Temple committee members Basudev Tiwary, Dhanushdhari Ram Dangi and Bakeshwar Dangi said the main gate of the temple was found locked. “Thieves entered through a ventilator and escaped through the same route. A silver crown and ornaments worth lakhs of rupees, including a gold maang tikka, a gold netra (eye) among others have been stolen. We demand an immediate arrest of the thieves,” said a priest. Officer-in-charge of Pathalgadda police station Avinash Kumar, who reached the temple soon after getting the information, assured the committee members and the locals of speedy action. He said, “We have lodged an FIR and investigation is on.” The centuries-old temple is situated on the Lemboia hill and so it is also called the Lemboia temple. At present, a grand temple is under construction and the thieves took the ventilator route to get into the sanctum sanctorum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/thieves-decamp-with-jewellery-adorning-temple-deity-in-chatra/articleshow/79710426.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Vijayvargiya bats for central forces, Mukul seeks Art 356||KOLKATA: After BJP president J P Nadda spoke against President’s rule in West Bengal and emphasised following “democratic processes”, senior party leader Mukul Roy on Sunday argued that Article 356 needed to be imposed in the state “immediately” to restore democracy, and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya said the party would appeal to Election Commission for deployment of Central forces “now”. “I know my party president or other party seniors may not agree to this, but I feel Article 356 needs to be imposed immediately if we have to restore democracy in the state. However, this is my opinion and not the party’s,” Roy said at a press conference in Kolkata on Sunday. Earlier this week, Vijayvargiya had spoken in favour of imposing President’s rule in the state. On Sunday, he told reporters in Bolpur: “We will urge the EC to allow people to cast their votes without fear. To stop this terror and violence, we will seek immediate deployment of central forces.” Roy said: “A total of 136 party workers have died so far. Had Nadda-ji’s car not been a bulletproof one, he could have been heavily injured. There is no rule of law in the state.” Nadda’s convoy was attacked and several cars were damaged on Friday when he was going to attend a programme in South 24 Parganas. Commenting on the spat between the Centre and the state over transfer of IPS officers, Roy said: “The officials who toe the line of the government here get privileges. A 2005 DoPT order says that if there is a difference of opinion between the Center and the state, the central order will prevail.” The BJP also announced a statewide campaign against unemployment. “Unemployment is around 18% in West Bengal. There were irregularities in TET, primary teacher appointment. People in Singur do not have the means for livelihood. We will reach 75 lakh unemployed youth with the employment guarantee card,” said Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president Saumitra Khan. “It is their right to get jobs and means of livelihood. If voted to power, we will provide them with jobs,” Khan added. Roy, who was part of the Singur movement that resulted in the ouster of Tata Motors from Bengal, said: “Tata Motors’ experience here has set a bad precedent for industrialists and they are jittery now. It was the biggest mistake to drive Tata Motors away from the state. I had pointed that out repeatedly,” he said. Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit Midnapore on December 19, BJP sources said. The next day, Shah is likely to participate in a padayatra and address a meeting of party workers in Bolpur. BJP’s Kailash Vijayvargiya visited Bolpur on Sunday and met Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty. Party leader Anupam Hazra indicated that Shah might visit Santiniketan as a “Tagore admirer” and informally interact with teachers and officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vijayvargiya-bats-for-central-forces-mukul-seeks-art-356/articleshow/79711895.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Rajib talks to Partha & Kishor, says more meetings are likely||KOLKATA: State forest minister Rajib Banerjee, refusing to be equated with Suvendu Adhikari, emerged out of an hour-and-a-half-long meeting with Trinamool Congress secretary general Partha Chatterjee and poll strategist Prashant Kishor indicating that “more meetings are likely”. The meeting at Chatterjee’s Naktala residence was aimed at addressing Banerjee’s discordant statements that he was “unable to work”, but a rapprochement formula didn’t emerge on Sunday. On his part, Banerjee said he came to the meeting as a party worker on Chatterjee’s invite, adding that some political issues were discussed and more such meetings were likely. “We discussed strategies, but I cannot share it with the media,” he said. Banerjee was quick to dissociate himself from Adhikari when asked about his former cabinet colleague, saying: “Don’t equate me with someone else.” He said Adhikari’s decision was his “personal choice”. Indicating that he was ready to work for a solution, Banerjee said, “If there is any discontent in the party, it can be sorted out through dialogue.” According to sources, Chatterjee has assured to look into his grievances. The state forest minister apprised Chatterjee and Kishor of the problems he was facing due to “flattery and corruption”, the sources added. Banerjee has long been saying in party circles that he was “unable to work” and the party’s district leadership was “constricting” him. In a bid to placate Banerjee, TMC had put Laxmi Ratan Shukla at the district leadership helm in a clear message to Arup Ray, its other heavyweight leader in Howrah and also a cabinet minister. Banerjee was also upset that even after playing a crucial role in winning the Kaliagunj (North Dinajpur) and Karimpur (Nadia) assembly seats in the 2019 assembly bypolls, he was ignored both in the party and state cabinet. He also said that those involved in flattery were bagging key posts. Chatterjee and Kishor clearly told Banerjee that the party had “larger plans” for him in the 2021 assembly battle. Unlike the Adhikari outreach that failed, TMC sources said they were happy with Banerjee’s response. Party MP Saugata Roy had tried to reach out to Adhikari. Coinciding with this issue, Banerjee’s posters appeared in different parts of the city and the suburbs describing him as a “symbol of honesty”. But Howrah continues to be a spot of bother for TMC, with its Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya speaking out after not being invited for a party meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rajib-talks-to-partha-kishor-says-more-meetings-are-likely/articleshow/79711743.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vadodara||Tribal farmers to dye dreams blue||Vadodara: Indigo — from exploitation to revolution — has coloured the pages of Indian history down the ages, especially during the British India rule. The plant’s been tillers’ boon and bane, and yet its deep blue shade has never faded from generations’ imagination. While then its forceful plantation led Mahatma to launch his first satyagraha in Bihar, the same plant is now helping tribal peasants in Chhota Udepur colour their affluent dreams. The Adivasi Academy in Chhota Udepur will launch a project of training the locals in indigo cultivation and extracting blue dye after its two-year-long experiment of cultivation and extraction turned successful. Indigo grows wildly in the forest areas in the district, but the locals have never tapped its use beyond traditional medicinal purposes. “Traditionally Chhota Udepur has been a supplier of natural dyes to weavers, but not of blue dye. Since we have been able to grow indigo and extract the blue dye, we will train the locals for the same and also dye the yarn for their clothes,” said Dr Madan Meena, director of the academy. The dyeing art will be in sync with the weaving project that the academy had launched last year. Weavers were trained in the traditional weaving of the tribal ‘langot’ on the handloom.  “People here can weave their own clothes and also dye them with the colour which they have extracted,” Meena added. Efforts will also be made to form groups of farmers who will grow indigo and supply the blue dye on a commercial scale. The academy is also planning to go a step further to make the tribal completely self-dependent. The academy plans to grow cotton so that handspun yarn can be used for weaving the cloth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/tribal-farmers-to-dye-dreams-blue/articleshow/79710009.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 14, 2020||Kolkata||Didi wishes BJP chief a speedy recovery||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wished a speedy recovery to BJP president J P Nadda after he posted on Twitter that he had tested Covid-positive. Banerjee wrote: “Heard about BJP national president Shri JP Nadda testing positive for Covid-19. Wishing him a speedy recovery and good health. My prayers are with him and his family during this time.” The BJP leader had been to Bengal on December 10-11, and was scheduled to travel to Mumbai later. The attack on Nadda’s convoy in Diamond Harbour on Friday has spiralled into a Centre-state stand-off over security and law-and-order issues. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-wishes-bjp-chief-a-speedy-recovery/articleshow/79711813.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||After gruesome incidents, Gujarat gets fire safety policy||GANDHINAGAR: After a string of gruesome fire tragedies and the Gujarat high court pulling up the state government and its agencies over fire safety preparedness, the Gujarat government on Sunday announced that it has finalised and prepared a new fire safety policy. The policy will come into force from January 26, 2021. The highlight of the new policy will be that private entities and engineers will be allowed to inspect and certify buildings for their fire safety preparedness. The state government also announced setting up of four new posts of ‘Director of Fire’ for four zones in the state. These officials will oversee the certification of buildings for fire safety in their respective zones. An online portal is presently under development, which will be used for both empanelling fire safety officers who can certify buildings as well as making available all checklists required for fire safety clearances for different types of buildings. The new policy is likely to propose penal action against agencies and individuals who certify buildings for fire safety, along with owners and office bearers of the building management in cases where lapses are found. “The new system for fire safety, which is being set up will be the first in the country in terms of transparency and efficiency. Private engineers will now be able to inspect and certify buildings for their preparedness against incidences of fires,” CM Vijay Rupani said in Gandhinagar on Sunday. He added that the government will also set up four posts of “Director of Fire” to oversee various aspects of fire safety four different zones. The CM said that Gujarat being a leading state in urbanization, there are bound to be hundreds of highrise buildings, malls, commercial complexes, hospitals and other structures that will come up rapidly. “Until now, local bodies were handling inspection of buildings for fire safety, but private players also can now certify buildings for fire preparedness,” he said. Under the new policy, the primary task of fire safety agencies of local authorities will be to control outbreak of fires while installation, periodic checking and certifying buildings for fire safety will be mainly done by private agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-gruesome-incidents-gujarat-gets-fire-safety-policy/articleshow/79712772.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat businessmen turn to farsan to beat slowdown||AHMEDABAD: Punit Tulsiyan, director of a textile business, recently launched a gruh udyog-cum-gourmet store, offering pickles, sweets and savouries from across the country. Tulsiyan is a fourth-generation entrepreneur in a 60-yearold textile business. “Packaged food is a business which is picking up in a big way after the lockdown. We have partnered with another brand which has a product line of 110 items as royalty partner, along with retailing pickles and savouries from across India,” said Punit. Post Covid-19 when major businesses are facing slowdown, the great Gujarati snack stores are proliferating by the dozens to satiate the demand for some spice and crunch in lives closeted in homes. In fact, many Gujarati entrepreneurs have diversified their businesses into the food sector. Estimates by Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (GCCI) food committee suggest that at least 60 such businesses have come up across Ahmedabad in the past five months. Tour and travel operators have taken a lead. After Ajay Modi converted his sprawling office in Vastrapur to a gruh udyog venture, another travel bizman Mahesh Dudakiya has turned distributor for food products and spices. “Our entire family is into travel and tourism business which is hit the hardest due to Covid-19. We realized the need for setting up new sources of revenue and distributorship in June. Response is good and it has aided out travel business too,” said Dudakiya. Many ventured into the restaurant sector to generate additional revenue streams but are facing an uphill struggle. Alpesh Patel, proprietor of a 25-year-old tourism business here, said, “We took over a pizzeria in August and the business picked up really well in August and till Diwali we were making a lot of profit. Night curfew has impacted business."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-businessmen-turn-to-farsan-to-beat-slowdown/articleshow/79712797.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur to get new flights to Goa and Chandigarh||JAIPUR: More domestic flights will be added to the schedule of Jaipur airport while some which remained suspended due to poor load factor will be restored soon. Authorities said the load factor for domestic flights was picking up. Despite the fact that the number of Covid cases rose in November, there wasn’t much dip passenger load in Jaipur. “We had witnessed almost 8,500 passengers a day, which included inbound and outbound passengers. Things are gradually improving in the aviation sector. Some operators have decided to restore their earlier flights,” said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport. According to airport authorities, three new flights will be introduced on December 16. “These include Jaipur to Goa, Jaipur to Indore and Jaipur to Delhi,” said an officer of the operations wing at the airport. The Jaipur to Goa flight, which was earlier slated to kick off from December 6, will now start from December 16. “Earlier, people willing to travel to Goa from Jaipur used to go via Delhi. Now, we have direct connectivity to Goa. Also, opening of flights after wedding season will certainly bring passengers, especially couples going on honeymoon, and others willing to visit Goa during New Year’s eve,” said Sanjay Kaushik, a Jaipur-based tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-to-get-new-flights-to-goa-and-chandigarh/articleshow/79712804.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Jaipur||Gold worth Rs 5.6 lakh seized at Jaipur airport||JAIPUR: The airport intelligence unit (AIU) of customs on Sunday seized 110.87 grams of gold from a passenger who arrived from Dubai to Jaipur. The gold is valued Rs 5,62,111 in the Indian market. According to the customs officials, the behaviour of the passenger appeared suspicious after he landed at the Jaipur airport. "We suspected that he was trying to conceal some details and based on the suspicion we checked one of his baggages. On examination of the baggage, the strips of the trolley were found abnormal. The baggage was re-examined in the X-ray machine and it was found that gold was concealed in the trolly strips," said a senior officer of the customs on the condition of anonymity. "The passenger is a resident of Lucknow and it appears that he chose Jaipur as a transit route. The purity of the gold is also 99.50%," said an officer. The passenger is being questioned to know more details on smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gold-worth-rs-5-6-lakh-seized-at-jaipur-airport/articleshow/79712813.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Vipul Chaudhary had role in Rs 14.8 crore scam, says CID||AHMEDABAD: Former home minister and ex-chairman of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) Vipul Chaudhary was arrested by CID (crime) sleuths late on Saturday evening from his home in Sector-7 in Gandhinagar for his alleged role in a Rs 14.80 crore embezzlement case involving bonus of employees of Doodhsagar Dairy Cooperative in Mehsana. An official statement of CID states that when Chaudhary was chairman of Doodhsagar Dairy, a complaint of embezzlement was filed against him with B Division police of Mehsana city in 2014. According to the complaint, he had allegedly embezzled Rs 22.50 cr in sending fodder to drought hit Maharashtra. A tribunal court had on July 29, 2019 directed Chaudhary to pay 40% of the amount which was fixed at Rs 9.08 crore before October 19, 2019. It is alleged that to pay the amount, Chaudhary along with other accused, including present chairman of Doodhsagar Dairy Asha Thakor, vice-chairman Moghji Patel and managing director N J Bakshi — and 30 other employers hatched a conspiracy and decided to pay bonus of more than one salary. They paid the bonus of Rs 14.80 crore to 1,932 staffers but later lured the staffers to invest back in the firm. When the staffers invested the bonus, Chaudhary and others allegedly misused it, said an officer of CID (crime). They were booked by CID (crime) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Prevention of Corruption Act for breach of trust and criminal conspiracy among other offences, said an officer. Sources in cooperative sector said that Chaudhary’s arrest took place ahead of elections in Doodhsagar Dairy in January. He also sent around 350 persons to Singhu borders where farmers from Punjab have been protesting against three bills of agriculture sector by the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-vipul-chaudhary-had-role-in-rs-14-8-crore-scam-says-cid/articleshow/79712818.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Vaccines: Oxford, India numbers dip, but both still lead||BENGALURU: Global orders for vaccines shrunk 19.2 million doses to touch 7.1 billion as on Friday (December 11), compared to 7.12 billion as on November 30, data from Duke University’s Launch & Scale Speedometer, which tracks global vaccine deals daily, shows. India, which had deals for 1.6 billion doses by the end of last month, has slashed contracts to 1.5 billion doses. Analysis of contracts countries are signing with vaccine makers shows deals are still fluid, with some companies gaining and some losing orders, given most vaccine candidates are still being trialled. Among vaccine makers, orders with Oxford-Astrazeneca shrunk more than 30 million doses to touch 2.47 billion, compared to 2.5 billion as of November 30, while Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the only one to be administered to people so far, saw additional orders for 73.2 million to touch 719 million as of December 11. Moderna saw fresh deals for 29 million doses. However, both Oxford and India are on top of the sellers’ and buyers’ table respectively. While Oxford still has orders for the most number of doses, India, as an individual country, has contracts for the most with only the EU region, with 85 million more doses, ahead. Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, the maker of Sputnik-V, lost orders for 153 million doses — including 100 million doses from India. In India, Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s lab is conducting local trials of Sputnik-V. Deals oscillatingLaunch & Scale Speedometer has, so far, the most comprehensive data on global deals with regular updates. Data shows that compared to November 30, the overall vaccines doses for which contracts existed jumped by 171 million as of December 4, before dipping to current levels. On December 4, Oxford-Astrazeneca still had contracts for their 2.5 billion doses, while India was to still secure 1.6 billion. Pfizer had seen a slight jump from 646 million on November 30 to 656 million doses before crossing the 700 million mark as per the December 11 analysis. And Gamaleya’s order had actually increased slightly from the 300 million it had by the end of last month. Not to affect IndiaWhile no immediate reasons for the Sputnik-V deal going off the table were available, experts said that the dip in numbers won’t affect India’s vaccination plans. “At this moment, plans indicate that we would need about 600 million doses for the first few phases (two doses each) and there are more vaccine candidates entering trials,” one expert advising the government said. India’s health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had indicated last week that the country plans to inoculate about 30 crore people in the first three rounds — 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers and 27 crore people with comorbidities aged above 50 years. On December 1, Dr Reddy’s lab had said that it had got clearance for phase 2/3 clinical trials, and experts indicated that procurement of this candidate may happen in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/oxford-india-numbers-dip-but-both-still-lead-vaccines/articleshow/79712822.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Business||Times Auto Show enthrals car lovers in city||Kolkata: The global automobile industry has been hammered hard by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, in the last few months, since the beginning of the unlock phases, the auto sector has been witnessing a gradual recovery in terms of consumer footfalls to showrooms and sales volume. Growing preference towards personal mobility in order to maintain the Covid-19 protocol during transportation, the industry is experiencing a surge in demand in India. To give this positive sentiment a much-needed boost, Times Auto Show Kolkata 2020, in association with Ei Samay and Audi Kolkata, BMW OSL Prestige, Mercedes-Benz Landmark Cars, Topsel Toyota and Pinnacle Honda, was held from December 12 to December 13, 2020, at South City Mall between 12pm and 8pm. The two-day event brought the renowned car brands under one roof to give the potential car buyers a chance to talk to the company’s executives directly. Showcasing the most popular brands in the four-wheeler segments, the auto fair offered the warmth of personal mobility in the cosy Kolkata winter, keeping the safety, security and corona-driven focus in hygiene. Brands like Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Toyota and Honda were present at the event and displayed their cars for consumer interests. Different types of automobile marvels like luxury cars, compact SUVs, mid-size sedans drew attention of the visitors during this Christmas and New Year season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/times-auto-show-enthrals-car-lovers-in-city/articleshow/79710935.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Indore||Lone woman judge in Indore HC dies of Covid||INDORE: A 59-year-old judge of Madhya Pradesh high court, who was infected with Coronavirus, died on Sunday at a private hospital in Indore. She had tested negative around December 4, but was detected with Covid-19 again just five days later. “Justice Vandana Kasrekar died of Covid-19 infection in the morning,” Dr Amit Malakar, district Covid-19 nodal officer, said. She was the only woman judge in Indore bench of MP high court. Just eight days ago, Gujarat high court judge, Justice G R Udhwani, 59, had died of Covid-19. Justice Kasrekar first tested positive on November 21 and was admitted to Kailash Hospital. Her Covid report came negative around December 4, but she again developed symptoms of Coronavirus infection, which got worse. Judge was suffering from kidney diseaseShe was admitted to Medanta Hospital on December 9. “Under the pandemic protocol, Justice Kasrekar was re-tested at the time of admission and was detected positive,” said Dr Sanjeev Srivastava, MD of Medanta. The judge was admitted with illnesses like chronic kidney disease stage-five and pneumonia, said Dr Sanjay Geed, superintendent of Medanta Hospital. She was on dialysis and breathed her last around 11am, Geed said. Justice Kasrekar practiced civil and constitutional matters at the Indore bench. She was appointed a judge of the high court on October 25, 2014, and became permanent judge on February 27, 2016. CM Chouhan tweeted his condolences and said he was pained by the news of Justice Kasrekar’s death. “May god give strength to his family to bear the shock,” he said. SC advocate and Congress Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha expressed his condolences. “Forty-two years back, we lost Justice RK Tankha on Dec 13. A wonderful human being. Today, MP high court lost another wonderful human being, Justice Vandana Kasrekar. We have lost a gem. ,” he tweeted. Additional advocate general Pushyamitra Bhargava said, “Today, we have lost a golden brick from the wall of justice. Justice Kasrekar was a very wonderful, humble human being. When we began our practice as youngsters, she guided many of us in case proceedings. Her humility can be gauged from the fact that she would give chocolates to lawyers after a good argument,” said the AAG. Vice-president of Indore bench of MP high court, advocate Amar Singh Rathore, said, “Justice Vand||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/judge-of-indore-hc-bench-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/79712896.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Ghaziabad||Farmers plan protest outside Ghaziabad DM office||GHAZIABAD: The farmers camping at UP Gate have decided to demonstrate outside the district collectorate on Monday morning and start a token hunger strike there. But before that, a group of farmers will submit to the district magistrate a memorandum urging the Prime Minister to withdraw the three agriculture laws. On Sunday morning, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait met representatives of different farmer outfits in Delhi’s Burari to chalk out the strategy for Monday’s protests. “The protests for December 14 had been planned earlier. On Monday, BKU members from the district would be leading a march to the district collectorate, where they will submit a memorandum. The farmers will also sit on a token hunger strike there,” said Rajvir Singh, a BKU leader from Ghaziabad. At the protest site in UP Gate, farmers from adjoining districts arrived in the morning to participate in Monday’s demonstrations. “Our new war cry is ‘Ghera Dalo, Dera Dalo’. We will intensify our agitation from Monday. We will not concede any ground, no matter how much the government tries. In the end, they will have to bow down to our demands,” said Rajender Singh, a farmer from Uttarakhand. Several farmer leaders took turns to speak from a makeshift stage set up along the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. In a small felicitation function, Tikait was offered a turban for spearheading the UP Gate protests for the past fortnight. Addressing the gathering, Tikait urged farmers to stay united in their opposition to the three laws. “Either the government withdraws the farm laws or keeps bullets ready for us,” Tikait told them. The farmers said the number of protesters would swell significantly on Monday morning. “A number of farmers have already left for UP Gate. They will either reach by Sunday night or Monday morning,” said a BKU member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/farmers-to-protest-outside-dm-office-today/articleshow/79712238.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh cops seize more paddy coming from UP||BHOPAL: For the second time in five days, Madhya Pradesh police have seized two trolleys of paddy being brought from Uttar Pradesh to be allegedly sold in MP procurement centres. MP police are taking action after CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s announcement on December 3 that anyone trying to sell agricultural produce from other states in MP procurement centres will be jailed. On Saturday, police seized two pickups laden with paddy in Satna’s Dharkundi area, barely 3km from the UP border and 520km from Bhopal. Seized vehicles carried paddy worth Rs 2.5 lakhThe two vehicles were owned by UP residents and were transporting paddy worth Rs 2.5 lakh, said police. The earlier seizure of UP paddy, worth Rs 2.8 lakh, had taken place in Maihar in the same district on December 8. Satna SP Dharmveer Singh said, “Action is being taken and vehicles transporting paddy from Uttar Pradesh are being seized. Paddy is not a restricted commodity but selling it fraudulently at procurement centres in the name of local farmers is illegal. So far, none has been seized while being sold.” Most of the vehicles carrying paddy from UP and passing through Satna show their destination as Gondia in Maharashtra, the SP said, adding: “We are verifying if they are actually headed there.” The authorities in MP suspect some of these vehicles may be offloading paddy midway, in connivance with a section of fraudulent local traders. On Dec 3, in a statement that was viewed by many as contrary to PM Modi’s ‘one nation one market’ dream, Chouhan had said that his govt will buy entire produce of MP’s farmers, but if anyone from other states tries to sell their crops here, then they will be sent to jail. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cops-seize-more-paddy-coming-from-up/articleshow/79712908.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||As vaccine hopes rise, some doctors & nurses wary of jab||MUMBAI: With Covid-19 vaccines expected to arrive within weeks to a month, many healthcare workers have grown wary of being the first ones to take the shot. Many doctors and nurses TOI spoke to said they would prefer to wait a few months until more data on safety and efficacy was in the public domain. Infectious disease consultant Dr Om Srivastava, also a member of the state Covid taskforce, said he plans to wait till May. “Some vaccine technologies are brand new such as the messenger RNA technology (used in Moderna and Pfizer vaccines). I am certain vaccines will work, but I will decide only after looking at more results,” he said, adding he would rely on masking and physical distancing that have helped so far. Physician Dr Gautam Bhansali, too, said he would wait a few months before deciding when to get vaccinated and on the type of vaccine. Head of one of BMC’s jumbo facilities said, “If given a choice, I would wait it out.” A list of 1.2lakh healthcare workers from Mumbai has been drawn up for the first phase of vaccination, which is going to be voluntary, civic officials said. For KEM Hospital dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh, minimal knowledge of Covid pathogenesis is more of a concer n. “I am in no hurry to take the vaccine. We know so little about the virus and its trajectory in the coming months. We don’t know how many strains are there, or how far vaccines can protect,” he said. A 72-year-old senior general surgeon said, “The pace at which vaccine-makers have sought emergency use authorisations without putting adequate safety data in public domain has created doubts,” he said. Vaccinemakers Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Pfizer have applied for emergency approvals. However, Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force, said much of the fear is because of the unavailability of complete data on safety and efficacy. “The hesitancy will go once doctors see authentic data from Indian trials in credible journals,” he said, adding Oxford AstraZeneca, Bharat Biotech and Zydus vaccines are the likely ones to arrive first. Pulmonologist Dr Jalil Parkar said vaccines go through several stages of rigorous study and doctors must consider taking it. A senior doctor said the incident of a ‘Covishield’ trial participant sending legal notice to SII over adverse effects has certainly triggered uncertainty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-vaccine-hopes-rise-some-doctors-nurses-wary-of-jab/articleshow/79712900.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Again, more recoveries than new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh; cure rate 92.7%||BHOPAL: With 1,181 new cases, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally rose to 2,23,578 on Sunday. Thirteen deaths were also reported in the health bulletin. With these casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh has reached 3,404. The state’s Covid death rate is hovering at 1.52%, still higher than the national average of 1.45%. The districts in which these deaths were reported includes Indore (four) and Gwalior (two). One death each was reported from Bhopal, Jabalpur, Ujjain, Vidisha, Chhindwara, Khandwa, and Burhanpur districts. New positive cases were reported all the 52 districts in the state on Sunday. The districts where maximum cases were reported on Sunday include, Indore with 427 new cases, followed by Bhopal (219), Jabalpur (47 ) and Gwalior (46). On the brighter side, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 on Sunday outnumbered the number of people testing positive. Overall 1,278 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from the hospital. Recoveries outnumbered new cases. The state’s cure count has reached 2,06,059. The recovery rate of Covid-19 in state as on December 13, was 92.73%. On Sunday, 27,331 samples were tested and the positivityrate was 4.3%. The cumulative positivity rate in the state was 5.4% as on December 13. Anything beyond 5 is considerred high. There are now 12,837 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/again-more-recoveries-than-new-covid-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-cure-rate-92-7/articleshow/79712918.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Not just Covid, mask shields you from seasonal ailments too: Doctors||BHOPAL: Wearing a face mask not only slows the spread of Covid-19 but may also provide protection against seasonal allergies, experts say. “Avoid known triggers to prevent seasonal allergies. Those with pre-existing conditions and allergic should stay indoors. If anyone thinks they might have signs or symptoms of Covid-19, getting early test is critical,” said Dr Rajiv Singh. Masks do prevent Covid-19 and other infections. However, smaller pollen particles are or can be pass through a mask which in turn become a trigger. “Hygiene is still the key. It is the base to keep away from getting most infections. Flu or the common cold are normal in winters. Taking preventive measures ensures protection,” he added. “If one does not have a fever and your eyes aren’t itchy, it’s probably the common cold, not Covid-19,” he added. Cold, flu, seasonal allergies and coronavirus are often confused together. Fever, chills, body aches and cough — all the symptoms seem to be the same for a cold, the flu, seasonal allergies, and coronavirus, also known as Covid-19. Some strains, like Covid-19, can cause severe illness in certain groups of people. For example, older people and people of all ages with severe underlying health conditions — like heart disease, lung disease, and diabetes, for example — seem to be at higher risk of developing serious Covid-19 illness. There’s currently no cure or vaccine yet for Covid-19, according to experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/not-just-covid-mask-shields-you-from-seasonal-ailments-too-doctors/articleshow/79712921.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 14, 2020||Business||New Year may give travel industry a long-awaited boost||NEW DELHI: There’s a bright spark in the winter chill for the travel and tourism industry. After months of negative and stagnant growth in tourism figures, travel aggregator Goibibo’s latest survey shows things are beginning to looking up in December with 35% respondents to its recent survey saying they are headed for a vacation to usher in the New Year. About 60% of the respondents who said they will travel during the winter holidays also said they will spend the year end vacationing in the hills or by the beach, while over 70% picked family, spouse or their partner to holiday with. The upward trend in leisure travel has also been reflected in the assessment done by RateGain, a travel and hospitality software company for the travel industry. The company’s deep dive into room bookings between Weeks 50 and 52 of the current year show that while booking were at a negative 22% in Week 50, and fell further to a (-)55% in Week 51, booking have finally inched into the green, with bookings in the last week of the year at a 3% growth. Here, while Alleppey registered a 67% increase in room nights being booked over the last week, Bharatpur in Rajasthan saw a whopping 160% jump in booking over the last week. Co-Founder and Group CEO, MakeMyTrip Limited, which includes MMT, goibibo and redBus, Rajesh Magow, said, “Pent-up wanderlust is real and these survey findings reflect that Indians are finding new ways to fulfill their travel aspirations and are confidently stepping forward when assured of safe travel choices...Bookings for the winter festive holiday season on goibibo indicate an increase in travel to domestic leisure destinations including Goa, Lonavala, Mahabaleshwar, Pondicherry, Coorg, Shimla, Manali and Darjeeling.” Magow added that the upward trend is expected to continue as the mass vaccination drive against coronavirus picks up pace. With the IATA Travel Pass on the anvil next month and international travel also likely to open up gradually, the travel industry also anticipates that more people will be keen to mingle work and pleasure, especially when it comes to travel. Country Manager, India, Sri Lanka and Maldives at Booking.com, Ritu Mehrotra said, “Remote working is becoming a long term reality as health and safety is a top priority in the current environment. To break the monotony of working from home, travellers want to escape to a destination where they can easily blend leisure with business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-year-may-give-travel-industry-a-long-awaited-boost/articleshow/79712933.cms||Swati Mathur
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Schools, colleges defer protest by 48 hours, seek nod for reopening||BHOPAL: Offering a two-day respite for the state government, private schools and college associations have decided to postpone their December 14 protests. The associations will now stage the protest on December 16. Online teaching will be closed on December 15 as per their schedule. Sources within the associations said that the protest has been deferred by two days as chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is expected to discuss their demands on December 14. Officials of Association of Technical Professional Institutes Madhya Pradesh (ATPI) and Association of Private Universities and Schools have announced that if the government does not issue orders as per their demands by December 14, then online classes will not be conducted in colleges and private universities across the state on December 15. For the first time, private schools and colleges across the state have come on the same platform and formed a joint forum to raise their demands. Association of private schools comprising CBSE, ICSE, MP Board and private colleges have formed a joint forum. Talking to the media, vicepresident of association of un-aided private schools, Vinny Raj Modi said, “There has been a talk of opening schools from class 9 to class 12 soon, but it was not decided when. The question arises that everything else has been opened, then why only schools have been still denied permission to open.” About the measures to be applied for the safety of students in schools, Modi said, “Most students will be taught in the open. Only half the strength of the children will be seated in the room. Schools can run in two shifts. Open rooms will be there. There will be a break for 15 minutes after every two classes.” Modi claimed that the ongoing partial classes have not served any purpose to the students. “The government has allowed students of class 9 to 12 from September 21for doubt clearance, but the attendance is negligible. It is clear that until regular teaching starts in schools, children will not come to school,” said Modi. He claimed that around 50% parents have not even paid the tuition fee. “Tell me how to run the set-up with no fee from parents. Despite several reminders’ parents have never turned-up. The schools are left with no options but to close down the campus forever,” said Modi. Chairman, Madhya Pradesh Association of Technical and Professional Institutes (ATPI), KC Jain said that students are sitting home after taking admission. “State government should start opening college campuses. What will happen to the engineering students if campuses remain closed for a few more months? How will students appear in practical and laboratory exams? State government needs to think about it,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-schools-colleges-defer-protest-by-48-hours-seek-nod-for-reopening/articleshow/79712936.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Discom trying to reduce redress time to 35 minute||BHOPAL: If things go well, power supply complaints in city will be addressed far quicker in the coming days. The average complaint redressal time in the city for the month of November was 38 minutes and annual average so far is 42 minutes. The discom officials are aiming to bring it down to 35 minutes in this month. Conditions will further improve as the distribution network is being spread further in the city and four new distribution offices will be opened. Bifurcation of the city’s TT Nagar, Karond, Shyamla Hills and Industrial Gate distribution centres is proposed. “A proposal has been sent in this regard and if approved, it will be implemented,” general manager, city circle, Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited, AP Singh, told TOI. He added, “These are places where there are larger areas to cover and efficiency matters. Once done, it will help us improve our efficiceny further, like in every distribution centre there is one team to address the complaints, now there will be more teams here. Revenue will also increase and losses will also be curtailed.” Discom officials say that the things have improved in the recent past as the average time taken in redressal of a complaint was more than 50 minutes, three-four months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-discom-trying-to-reduce-redress-time-to-35-minute/articleshow/79712941.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Power cuts come as shock in times of WFH, e-school; complaints up by 20% in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Increased indoor stay due to work-from-home and study-from-home has led to an increase in the number of power cut complaints in the city. Electricity supply-related complaints had also increased by 20% in the past two days as the drizzles started though technically, there seems to an improvement in the supply related issues, said an official on condition of anonymity. “Electricity is supplied through 90 feeders in the city and tripping in these feeders is monitored. In the month of November, there was only one out of these 90 feeders where more than five tripping instances were reported in the entire month, i.e., in more than 99% of the city areas, power cuts were not due to interruption in supplies. However, there are several local reasons too, like when there are rains, insulators burst, there could be some issue in local supply lines etc,” the official said. Apart from it, as more and more people are staying at home, especially teenagers, there are more complaints, otherwise the number of complaints could have gone down further. “Suppose there is a complaint from a locality in Hoshangabad road, our men reach there, identify the fault and then take shutdown in supply line to rectify it. This shutdown is only for a minute to improve the supplies, but within minutes, several complaints are made and these complaints also add to the data, despite the fact that supply was stopped for addressing a complaint and it was only for a minute,” the official said. On an average, around 800-900 complaints were received every day in the city. In the past two days, it has increased by nearly 20% as there were rains, but overall, there has been a reduction in number of complaints compared to previous year and it would have gone down further if there were no work from home, the official said. In another scenario, like if a person is working from home and using a Wi-fi connection and even if there is tripping of 10-15 seconds, the Wi-fi router gets switched off and it has to be restarted. This tripping, which otherwise would not have been felt, is now observable, he added. In case of online studies, too, online tests are also going on nowadays, if a kid is giving test on the computer and there is a sudden power cut, which only lasts a minute, the entire thing has to be restarted. Thus, these things are making power cuts more apparent, despite the fact that in reality, it has gone down, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/power-cuts-come-as-shock-in-times-of-wfh-e-school-complaints-up-by-20-in-bhopal/articleshow/79712957.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 14, 2020||Chennai||Villagers near Chennai find gold during temple renovation||CHENNAI: A treasure of gold weighing 500 grams, which appears to be antique, was discovered during renovation at the 300-year-old Kulambeswarar temple in Uthiramerur in Kancheepuram district, about 90km south of Chennai, on Saturday. The gold, including girdles, large coins and small thin plates, which looked like the ornaments used on idols, was discovered inside a copper box covered in a sack beneath the steps of the sanctum sanctorum. It was found when the steps were removed for the purpose. It was weighed by the temple staff and locals. Following a tip-off, revenue officials rushed to the spot to take over the treasure property on Saturday night. However, high drama prevailed in the area as locals agitated against the district administration seizing the valuables. Villagers gathered in large numbers after the news about the treasure spread. Police said they picked up an argument with police posted for security claiming that the temple was in their village and the treasure was a gift from the god. Some of them argued with the cops that they had no right to claim ownership until a few officials came in to explain the norms that it has to be handed over to the village temple. They began to block the road and the vehicle in which the Revenue officials came in. Police said that the villagers said that they would disperse only if the officials agreed to renovate the temple. However, the Kancheepuram revenue department seized the valuables and deposited them in the treasury on Sunday. Revenue Divisional Officer Vidhya, who oversaw attachment of the treasure to the government's sub-treasury office at Uthiramerur on Sunday, told TOI that Kulambeswarar temple was about 500 to 700 years old. "We are yet to verify the antiquity of the gold ornaments. The archaeology department will ascertain its age," she said. Every piece of the ornament that was part of the treasure was light in weight, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-500g-gold-cache-discovered-at-300-year-old-temple/articleshow/79712965.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Six-feet distancing may not work in closed spaces: Study||MUMBAI: While the country is unlocking, a study from South Korea underlines that indoor transmission of the novel coronavirus, especially through air, is still a threat. “Good ventilation is a must to ensure coronavirus doesn’t spread within restricted spaces such as temples, schools, restaurants and markets,” a Covid-19 task force member said. As not all temples in the city are well-ventilated, the government opted to allow limited darshan to ensure crowding does not take place. The South Korean study, published in the Journal of Korean Medical Science, found the novel coronavirus was transmitted from an asymptomatic carrier to a healthy individual in five minutes of exposure. While the World Health Organisation has said set six feet is the acceptable social distance, the Korean transmission occurred despite a distance of 20 feet between the two. In October, the American Centers for Diseases Control and Prevention published that, under certain conditions, people farther than six feet apart could become infected by exposure to tiny droplets and particles exhaled by an infected person. Local experts said Covid-appropriate behaviour was important if a second wave or surge had to be prevented in Mumbai. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said that unless people adopted Covidappropriate behaviour like wearing masks and frequent handwashing, the drop in temperatures and increasing pollution levels could lead to another surge. The BMC has kept up with fining citizens not wearing masks.Masks help reduce the volume of virus released when a person coughs or sneezes. The Washington Post recently used an infrared camera to detect exhaled breath as a proxy to show potential transmission risk in various settings. “Those particles may spread farther or linger longer than the visible exhalation plume, which dissipates quickly to a level of concentration the camera can no longer detect,” said the Post. The risk of exposure increases when people are not wearing masks and are close together in an enclosed space or in an area with poor ventilation, said the newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/six-feet-distancing-may-not-work-in-closed-spaces-study/articleshow/79712954.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Traffic violations turn more brazen in ‘unlock’; stricter enforcement needed||BHOPAL: The traffic situation seems to have returned to its ‘normal’ in Bhopal. A large section of motorists is back to violating traffic rules with a casualness that’s chilling. In fact, the situation seems to have worsened post Covid-19 as cops seem reluctant to impose fines the violators. People can be seen riding twowheelers without helmets, driving four-wheelers without seatbelts, and jumping signals brazenly. Traffic jams are frequent on major roads and squares and to add to the chaos, measures to check over-speeding are almost absent, commuters say. The fact that year-by-year Bhopal traffic police have become more tolerant towards traffic violators can be judged from the fact that fine collected from traffic violators have decreased at a considerable rate over the last four years. In 2017, traffic police collected Rs 4.37 crore as fine from traffic violators which decreased to Rs 3.79 crore in 2018. In the year 2019, traffic police imposed a fine of Rs 3.60 crore from violators while this year, the figure stands at mere Rs 2.24 crores till October 31. Cops claimed that the decline in fine imposed on violators this year was due to the 71-day complete lockdown. Senior cops maintained that police were focused on counselling and spreading awareness among people rather than imposing fines on them. A senior traffic cop wishing anonymity said that every third person stopped at police checkpoints threaten the cops these days. He said that an incident which took place at Police Control Room trisection check point on Thursday night in which a businessman threatened the cops to teach them a lesson. “Such incidents are an eye opener for our seniors and political leaders about what police deployed in the field face each day. A case has been registered against the accused businessman,” he added. As soon as cops beome strict with traffic violators, they are told to “ease” the drive, citing “public anger”. He said that recently when the cops stopped manual checking due to rising Covid-19 cases, traffic violators were fined by the ITMS and surveillance cameras. Affluent people started gathering at the offices of senior police officials and pressurised them to cancel the e-Challans issued to their people, police said. Despite having photo evidence, cops had to struggle to make them understand that the echallans issued by ITMS cannot be cancelled, they added. ASP Traffic Sandeep Dixit said that they have been conducting checking at 23 checkpoints during the daytime and at eight checkpoints at night. Traffic violators are fined regularly, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-traffic-violations-turn-more-brazen-in-unlock-stricter-enforcement-needed/articleshow/79712961.cms||Sudeept Mishra
December 14, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras turns into 'Covid-19 cluster', 71 test positive; departments, labs, library shut||CHENNAI: IIT-Madras has temporarily shut down its academic zone, including departments, labs and library, and quarantined hostelites and staff after nearly 71 people, including 66 students, tested positive for Covid-19 infection since December 1. This is the first big cluster seen by the city after campuses reopened their gates to final year students. While two people tested positive for the viral infection on December 1, 14 more cases emerged by December 10. Since Friday, the campus, which has been declared a hotspot, has added 55 more cases to its Covid-19 tally. IIT-M officials said there are 774 students on campus. A majority of those infected were residents of two hostels - Krishna and Jamuna. On Saturday, the management told hostelites not to step out of their rooms. One faculty residing at a guest house and four mess workers have also tested positive. While the health department and the IIT-M management were yet to identify the cause, students say overcrowding at the only operational mess led to the spread of the infection. Overcrowding at mess led to spike in Covid cases, say IIT-M studentsWhile both the health department and the IIT-M management were yet to identify the cause of infection, students say overcrowding at the only operational mess led to the spread of the infection. “Earlier, we could do with just one mess as there were fewer students on campus. But after students returned, the mess was crowded,” a research scholar said. “Mess is not a place where we wear our masks. So all of us were vulnerable. Four workers in the mess have tested positive,” she said On December 9, the management called for a fresh bunch of cooks and staff for the mess, after ensuring all of them tested negative. The following day, the dining hall was closed and food was sent to students’ rooms. Academic zones, including all departments and labs, have been closed and disinfected. Public health department noticed the cluster when 10 students were admitted to the Institute of Ageing at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy with severe to moderate symptoms of Covid-19. The government hospital registers showed 25 admissions from IIT-M campus since December 1. “We saw sporadic admissions, but when a group of people were admitted on Saturday, we alerted officials. Most patients are recovering well,” said a senior doctor. Meanwhile, a circular from the IIT-M registrar directed faculty members, staff, project staff and research scholars to work from home. Students, staff and scholars staying on campus were advised to quarantine. Those with flu-like symptoms were asked to go to the campus hospital. IIT director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said after a spurt in symptomatic cases being reported by some students residing in the hostels, IIT-M consulted civic authorities and arranged for all students residing in hostels to be tested. “To be cautious, all students have been asked to remain in their rooms and packed food is being supplied to the students in the hostels,” he said. In a statement to the media, Ramamurthi said the institute has been functioning on limited capacity with 10% students in the hostels. Research scholars, who need to do experimental work, are on campus and project staff, who are working on research projects, visit labs for their work. Students who returned to hostels were quarantined for two weeks, he said. “Our capacity to quarantine (with room service) is limited, and this limits the rate at which we can bring back scholars to the hostels,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-madras-turns-into-covid-19-cluster-71-test-positive-departments-labs-library-shut/articleshow/79717346.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Weekly Covid toll falls 21% to lowest in 5.5 months||NEW DELHI: India recorded the lowest weekly death toll from Covid-19 in five-and-a-half months (24 weeks) as 2,789 fatalities were reported in the last seven days, a steep drop of 21% from the previous week. Fresh Covid cases too declined by 16% week-on-week. The case count, at 2,07,317, was the lowest weekly tally reported in the country in five months. The last time India recorded a lower weekly count of cases was in July 5-12. Four weeks have now passed since the festival of Diwali without any signs of the much-feared second wave of the pandemic hitting the country. Since the week of Diwali, weekly cases have fallen by nearly 30% and deaths by close to 20%. Since the peak of the pandemic in September, weekly cases in the country have reduced by more than two-thirds (68%). At its peak, India had recorded more than 6,45,000 fresh cases in the September 6-13 week. Likewise, the weekly toll has come down by 66% from a peak of 8,175 deaths (September 13-20). Meanwhile, the country registered 27,376 new cases on Sunday. This was the lowest single-day count since July 9. India has so far recorded 98,84,699 Covid cases while the total toll from the pandemic stood at 1,43,347. Yet again, Kerala recorded the highest number of new cases on Sunday, with 4,698 fresh infections.Maharashtra logged 3,717 cases, followed by Bengal (2,580) and Delhi (1,984).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/weekly-covid-toll-falls-21-to-lowest-in-5-5-months/articleshow/79712977.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh farmers gear up for Kisan andolan, 2,000 already in Delhi||BHOPAL: Farmers in Madhya Pradesh are gearing up for the December 14 protest in support of the 'kisan andolan' in Delhi. Activists of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) were busy mobilizing the farmers for Monday’s showdown. “We will hold chakka jams and submit memoranda,” the kisan unions said on Sunday. Meanwhile, Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka ji, one of the farmers' leaders negotiating with the Centre, criticized chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for “lying'' that farmers of MP were happy with the new farm laws. To a question on why the farmers were not visible on the streets across Madhya Pradesh to protest on the issue, Kakka ji said, "the protest was planned for Delhi". He said that across the state, farmers’ unions protested many times in the last 15 days and have submitted memorandum. There are over 2,000 farmers from Madhya Pradesh holding fort on the Delhi-Agra road. “There are over 540 tractor trollies which were used to reach the place in the last week of November. They have created a jam since November 28," he said. In the districts of Badwani and Burhanpur, thousands of farmers have been holding protests under the banner of Jagrut Adivasi Mazdoor Sangathan. They are demanding minimum support price (MSP) as per the Swaminathan Commission formula. A former leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS), an RSS affiliate who had locked Bhopal with a massive kisan andolan against the Shivraj government leading to Kakka ji’s ouster from the BKS, said that the MP government lies when it says the farmers are happy . “We only exhorted the farmers living in the districts of Gwalior-Chambal region to reach for the chakka jam on Delhi-Agra road,” he said, adding, "now there are no trains or buses available for travelling. Even motorbikes are also being checked to eliminate the chance of some farmer reaching Delhi." Ahead of Monday's protests, Triveni Dutt Tripathi, state president of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, said that the farmers were ready for the protest. “We will take out peaceful rallies against the agriculture laws.” Anil Yadav of BKU said, "Our indefinite agitation is continuing and we will hold rallies on Monday.“||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-farmers-gear-up-for-kisan-andolan-2000-already-in-delhi/articleshow/79712972.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Noida||Key underpass to ease Noida-Ghaziabad commute will miss 2020 deadline||NOIDA: The much-awaited underpass at Sector 51-52 and 71-72 intersection, which was planned to ease traffic from Wave City Centre metro station towards Noida Extension, will miss its December 2020 deadline. With over 80% of the work completed, it is now expected to be ready by January-end or early February next year. Covid lockdown and the recent National Green Tribunal (NGT) regulations on construction activities, including slow digging to avoid dust pollution, have been cited as reasons behind the slow pace of work. Mukesh Vaish, senior manager of Noida Authority, said that no work was carried out during the lockdown. “Later, NGT regulated the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) and put further restrictions on construction activity to prevent dust and air pollution. Even now, we are working at a slow pace to prevent dust pollution. We also take breaks to regularly water the area as per the guidelines,” he said. The 780-metre-long six lane underpass, which is being built by the Noida Authority at Rs 52.58 crore through its contractor M/s ITD Cementation India Ltd, was commissioned on June 14 last year . “We have used push box technique to build this underpass. The intersection will benefit the commuters immensely once it’s ready and opened for public,” said Rajeev Tyagi, the general manager of Noida Authority. The sector 51-52 and 71-72 intersection was a major traffic congestion point as it witnessed heavy traffic flow from Sector 62 and beyond on one side leading all the way up to the entry point of Ghaziabad, and from Wave city centre metro station to Greater Noida west on the other side. Once ready, the underpass will also benefit the new of Sectors from 74 to 79. It comprises mostly of apartment complexes and group housing societies. While the under-construction underpass is being built on the Master Plan-III road, Noida Authority has opened the stretch from Sectors 72-79 to Sectors 61-63 above the underpass to facilitate commuters. While the authority had picked up pending projects post unlock, including the 5.96-km-long six lane Chilla elevated road from Sector 14A to Mahamaya flyover and the 4.50-km-long six lane Aghapur elevated road near Bhangel by deploying additional labour, the recent NGT restrictions have slowed the pace of most of the projects and it might affect deadlines, sources in the authority said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/key-underpass-to-ease-noida-gzb-commute-will-miss-2020-deadline/articleshow/79711665.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab DIG, facing graft charges, quits to ‘stand with farmers’||CHANDIGARH: Punjab DIG (prisons) Capt Lakhminder Singh Jakhar submitted his resignation on Saturday, saying he was doing so because he wanted to stand with the farmers protesting against the three contentious Central farm laws. He said his resignation should be treated as premature retirement. Capt Jakhar, who had served in the Army, had joined as a 1994-batch Punjab Police Service officer and was to superannuate in August 2022. The DIG had been suspended in May after a preliminary inquiry into charges of graft for allegedly demanding monthly payments from jails officials. However, he had denied all allegations against him at the time. “He was reinstated over a month ago. But the regular departmental inquiry is still pending against him,” IGP (prisons) Roop Kumar Arora said. Capt Jakhar had hit the headlines in March 2012 when as Patiala jail superintendent he had refused to execute the death warrant of former Punjab CM Beant Singh’s assassin, Balwant Singh Rajoana. He faced contempt of court charges for his refusal but these charges were finally dropped by the Punjab and Haryana high court. In his letter to the principal secretary of the home department, Capt Jakhar wrote, “I, Capt Lakhminder Singh Jakhar, DIG, prisons, would like to inform you of my considered and introspective decision to stand with my farmer brothers who are peacefully protesting against the farm ordinances, 2020 (sic) which are detrimental to the interest of farmers and their future generations.” Jakhar’s resignation is yet to be accepted by the Punjab government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-dig-facing-graft-charges-quits-to-stand-with-farmers/articleshow/79713010.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh waters emerge favourites for national championships||BHOPAL: State waters are all ready to witness a splash, as several national and other selection events are scheduled in Madhya Pradesh over coming two months. The Indian Kayaking and Canoeing Association (IKCA) has asked the Madhya Pradesh Kayaking and Canoeing Association to start preparations in this regard. Secretary general, IKCA, Prashant Kushwaha said that MPCA has proved that water sports events could be organised by following the Covid rules. “MPCA had recently organised marathon events successfully at Lower Lake. with all the precaution.” As per the schedule of the IKCA, selection trials of canoe sprint Asian Championships and Olympic qualifying for men and women seniors will be organised December between 28 to 30 at city’s Lower Lake. “This will be an important selection trial as the players from across the country will participate in the event. With the support of MPCA we will organise a successful trial,” said Kushwaha. The other big water sports event to be organised in the state will be Canoe Slalom National Championships for juniors, seniors in both the categories — men and women. Tokyo Olympic Games 2021Qualifying selection trials are to be held from between 3 to 6 at Maheshwar. Prashant claimed that Maheshwar has turned into an important slalom water sports centre in the country. “It is a natural white water flowing body which is excellent for slalom. It has become an important slalom centre in the country,” said Kushwaha. Another important event to be organised in Bhopal will be canoe marathon 21km and 15 Km for seniors and Juniors men and women which is scheduled to be organised from January 16 to 18. “As Bhopal had recently conducted the marathon event for the same categories, we have picked the state capital for the national championship event as well,” said Kushwaha. Bhopal had organised a state level canoe marathon at Lower Lake last month. Notably, with focus on the 2028 Olympics, MPKCA has been grooming its players at Lower Lake. Former national coach Mayank Thakur, who has been training the players at Lower Lake, said, “We are eyeing 2028 Olympics; and our players will make the country proud at the international meets in the next couple of years. ” Kayak and canoe players practice at Lower Lake on Sunday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-waters-emerge-favourites-for-national-championships/articleshow/79713003.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 14, 2020||Noida||Writings on wall to laser show: At this park, a trip back to Vedic period||Noida: The Noida Authority will develop a 12-acre park in Sector 78 that will have the four Vedas as its theme. Officials said the park, being billed as the first such in the country, will have 50,000 types of plants and shrubs that find mention in the holy scriptures. These apart, the park will also have 1,250 trees such as banyan, kalpavriskh, neem, coconut etc. It will also have a wall with highlights from the four Vedas — Rigveda, Yajurveda, Samaveda and Atharvaveda — and include sculptures of ancient Indian sages. The entire area would be divided into seven zones, each bearing the name of a saint — Kashyap, Bhardwaj, Gautam, Atri, Vashisht, Vishwamitra and Agastya. The Authority will also make arrangements for laser shows, apart from an open gym, restaurants and an amphitheatre. The project, tenders for which have already been floated, is estimated to cost Rs 30 crore and work is expected to begin in January next year. Officials said the park was likely to be called Veda Van. There are also plans to light up the park with solar energy. “This will be the country’s first park based on the theme of Vedas. Apart from information on the holy scriptures, it will also contain details about ancient Indian sages. Entry to the park will be free,” said Indu Prakash, officer on special duty at the Noida Authority. Prakash said that of the Rs 30 crore set aside for the project, Rs 6.5 crore would be spent by the horticulture department for planting saplings while the remaining amount would be used on civil and electrical work. “The park will depict information on the four Vedas on its walls, while the plants, shrubs and other green elements will be those that have found mention in the scriptures. These include about 50,000 varieties of plants and shrubs and about 1,250 organic trees,” said Prakash. The official said the park would mostly cater to group housing societies in the neighbouring sectors 74-79. “There are plans for laser shows, open gym, restaurants, amphitheatre, etc. The park will have seven parts named after our sages – Kashyap, Bhardwaj, Gautam, Atri, Vashisht, Vishwamitra and Agastya,” said Prakash. Work on the project is expected to begin sometime in January next year. Tenders have already been floated for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/writings-on-wall-to-laser-show-at-this-park-a-trip-back-to-vedic-period/articleshow/79711695.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 14, 2020||Chennai||Four weeks after Diwali, Covid test positivity rate drops to 3% in Chennai||CHENNAI: It has been four weeks since Diwali, but the Covid-19 numbers in Chennai have not witnessed any spike, as was being feared by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and public health officials. In fact, the test positivity rate (TPR), which is a measure of the spread of the infection, has only dropped from Diwali. GCC officials were worried that crowding during Diwali would lead to an increased spread of the infection in the city and said they would be closely watching for four weeks, which is the incubation period for the virus. For instance, Chennai’s TPR on November 14 was 5.4; on December 12, it was 3%. Active cases have also consistently dropped and is now at 3226, compared to 5292 on November 14. GCC has also consistently maintained testing at around 10,000 people every day. GCC commissioner G Prakash said that the city would have done 25 lakh tests by now. The civic body is now preparing for vaccinating the frontline workers and mini clinics would be inaugurated on Monday by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. However, GCC officials say they will continue to maintain precautions and carry out intense drives to ensure people maintain physical distancing and herd masking. Infection diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan said that the city may not witness a significant second wave, like what was seen in Kerala. “As we have opened up the economy more in the last few months, the transmission would have increased and we have to be close to 60% sero prevalence,” he said. Though it couldn’t be said for sure, the doctor said it was unlikely that the numbers would go up again. He also said that Chennai may have ridden a major part of the wave, but precautions still need to be maintained given that the city and Tamil Nadu has a significant percentge of elderly population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-weeks-after-diwali-covid-test-positivity-rate-drops-to-3-in-chennai/articleshow/79713018.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Noida||From tomorrow, you can’t park on the road in Sector 18 market||NOIDA: Come December 15, you will not be able to park your car on the road and go shopping in Sector 18 as it becomes a vehicle-free market from that day. Surface parking will be allowed in a limited manner and that too at Rs 50 per hour, officials said. “We will be doing it in phases and we have identified some spots for parking but till this year-end only,” a senior Noida Authority official said. The Authority’s previous moves to remove vehicles from the Sector 18 streets met with protests by shopkeepers. “We had tried to dissuade the Authority from imposing strict restrictions, they had given some grace period. Now that the restrictions are being imposed, we will see how it impacts the shops eventually,” Sushil Kumar Jain, president of the Sector 18 shop owners’ association, said. The main reason behind making the market vehicle-free is to encourage people to park their vehicles in the multi-level parking lot in the sector. The multi-level parking lot of Sector 18, which has a capacity to host 2,800 cars, has barely been able to fill up even 50% of its slots over Jthe past several months, even after re-opening, post-Unlock. The parking facilities in Sector 18 resumed on October 2. “For anyone who wants to book a monthly slot at the multi-level car parking, we are offering it at Rs 1,500 and for the business owners and shopkeepers of Sector 18, the charge is only Rs 1,000,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/from-tomorrow-you-cant-park-on-the-road-in-sector-18-market/articleshow/79711718.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Modi: We will never forget cowardly Parliament attack||NEW DELHI: Paying tributes to martyrs of the 2001 Parliament terror attack, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the nation would not forget the security personnel who laid down their lives fending off the “cowardly attack”. “We will never forget the cowardly attack on our Parliament on this day in 2001. We recall the valour and sacrifice of those who lost their lives protecting our Parliament. India will always be thankful to them,” the PM tweeted before taking part in the ceremony. Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh and leaders from opposition parties including Congress’s Ghulam Nabi Azad paid floral tributes to the jawans in a brief function in the Parliament premises. Ten people, including five Delhi Police personnel, a woman CRPF trooper and two Parliament Watch and Ward staff, died in the attack by terrorists belonging to Pakistan-based outfits. A gardener and a photojournalist also died. All five terrorists were killed by security forces. The incident led to heightened tension between India and Pakistan and a massive upgrade in Parliament security. Shah said, “The nation will always be indebted to the jawans for their sacrifice.” Rajnath Singh said he saluted the jawans who “attained martyrdom after fighting bravely with the attackers”. Birla released English and Hindi versions of a book titled ‘The Shaurya Unbound-Tales of Valour of the Central Reserve Police Force’. Those who dies included Nanak Chand and Rampal (ASIs, Delhi Police), Om Prakash, Bijender Singh and Ghanshyam (head constables, Delhi Police), Kamlesh Kumari (constable, CRPF), Jagdish Prasad Yadav and Matbar Singh Negi (security assistants of Rajya Sabha secretariat), Deshraj (gardener, CPWD) and photojournalist Vikram Bisht.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-we-will-never-forget-cowardly-parliament-attack/articleshow/79713024.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh minister orders audit of all hospital equipment||BHOPAL: State medical education minister Vishwas Sarang on Sunday ordered an audit of all medical and other equipments in Hamidia hospital. Sarang visited the hospital a day after it got a clean chit for major power failure in COVID-19 centre of the largest tertiary care hospital. Sunday’s TOI report ‘Blackout in Hamidia Covid ward: Why was generator low on diesel?’ was also discussed in the meeting, said sources. Installation of CCTV surveillance and regular monitoring of backup generators has also been ordered. Sources said that administration is also probing the allegedly missing ICU power backup which was donated by a pharma company. Sarang visited Hamidia hospital and held a review meeting with doctors and other officials. Hamidia hospital superintendent Dr ID Chaurasia, Gandhi Medical College dean Dr Aruna Kumar and others were present in the meeting. The audit report will feature date of manufacturing of the machines and last servicing details. Similarly, department HoDs will be entrusted to monitor the work of maintenance agencies. Moreover, MSW workers will be deployed to report and record feedback from patients. This system will be introduced from Monday. Any complaint would be conveyed to the respective dean and department HoD. On the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, three corona patients, including ex-corporator, died. The deaths took place after the power failure. Deputy commissioner of revenue Usha Parmar investigated the generator set failure and Gandhi Medical College dean Aruna Kumar probed the patients’ deaths. The hospital’s DG sets are the responsibility of PWD’s electricity wing, which has outsourced the job to an agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-minister-orders-audit-of-all-hospital-equipment/articleshow/79713015.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Noida||This Greater Noida village is taking to organic farming, one plot at a time||GREATER NOIDA: Around 15-20 km from Noida lies Bhanauta, a village with 20 acres of arable land, which is slowly taking up organic farming. Almost half of the plantation area now has natural manure and pesticides. With time, more villagers, or ‘progressive farmers’, are taking up organic farming. And some of the farms are even open to city residents who want to grow their own vegetables. The experiment started in Bhanauta — a 30-minute drive from Noida — a few years ago with Greater Noida-based green activist Vikrant Tongad converting his own piece of land into an organic farm. “I had started it as an experiment to see how natural manure, based on cow dung and pesticides made of herbs and neem, work. Slowly, people started taking interest and I started getting residents to come to the farm. It has now become a community farming hub. At least nine families source vegetables from this one farm and the family members also come and work on the farm themselves,” Tongad said. “There is a nominal fee that they pay for renting the farm and hiring gardeners to do the heavy-lifting. Now, after the success of my farm, many others have started converting their plots into organic ones. We hope that the entire village will take up this model of growing healthy food,” he adds. On the farm spread over four acres, tomatoes, cauliflower, radish, potatoes and spinach are grown. At an adjacent plot, a “food forest” has been created with a mix fruits, flowers and vegetables. Most of Bhanauta has a lot of construction now with only serpentine lanes left between houses to navigate one’s way. “Most of the houses are expanding because families are growing. There are around 100 families in Bhanauta now. The total land in the village was around 100 acres, but it has shrunk over the years. The total arable land available in the villages is about 20 acres. So, as part of a conservation initiative and to develop community farming, we are propagating this idea,” Tongad said. He added that traditional farmers take time to get convinced about the newer ways of doing things. “But we, the new generation of farmers, have taken this up as a method of progressive farming and many are now taking to the new ideas,” Tongad said. Another farmer in Bhanauta, Sukhbir Tongad, has converted half-an-acre of his plot into an organic farm. “I started with a small slice of my agricultural land. Slowly and surely, more people are taking up organic farming in Bhanauta and we plan to convert the entire village land into an organic farmland. People from the younger generation are open to new experiments and it is working well,” Sukhbir said. Vikrant Tongad said people come to Bhanauta from as far as Vasant Kunj in Delhi to see the farms and work in them. “Many also take part in sowing seeds, weeding and pruning process. They pick up whatever vegetables they need for the week from the farm before leaving. Fresh and healthy vegetables without pesticides is the reward for all the effort that they put in. It is a good way to get close to nature. Growing your own food is now a movement and we, as a village, are setting an example of that as environmentally conscious farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/this-gr-noida-village-is-taking-to-organic-farming-one-plot-at-a-time/articleshow/79711784.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Livid over son’s love, man sets 7 bikes on fire||CHENNAI: It's natural for parents to be displeased when their children don't listen to them. But this father took things too far. Upset that his son, Arun, had ignored his order to break-up with his live-in partner, autorickshaw driver Karnan 52, set fire to that the bike he had gifted him. Karnan's temper was ignited when he spotted Arun and his partner riding on the bike. So he set fire to it on October 14. Worse, he set fire to seven other bikes of their neighbours in New Washermanpet to make it look like an accident. But this brought the cops to the scene. As there were no CCTVs in the Amminiamman Nagar area, police were unable to solve the case initially. Then they received a complaint from Arun's live-in partner that Karnan was threatening her with dire consequences if she didn't break-up with his son. Police started searching for Karnan who had gone missing after the bike burning incident. After nearly two months, police nabbed Karnan from Cuddalore. Police said that when interrogated Karnan told them that he was upset with his son's relationship and wanted to teach him a leason. Quoting the accused, police said Karnan was so angry when he saw his son and the woman on the bike he had bought Arun that he decided to destroy it. So on October 14, Karnan bought liquor from a nearby Tasmac store and some petrol in a bottle. He poured the liquor down his throat and the petrol on the bike. He set fire to the bikes parked alongside his son's bike, to make it appear like an accident. The residents, however, suspected foul play after they found an empty bottle lying nearby. There was no chance of any electric short circuit possible at the scene of crime either. Police registered a case and a local court remanded Karnan in judicial custody on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-livid-over-sons-love-man-sets-7-bikes-on-fire/articleshow/79713039.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Bid to provoke tillers to create anarchy: Yogi||MEERUT: Forces which thrived by exploiting the farmers for decades are now trying to provoke them to create anarchy in the country, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said here on Sunday, reports Piyush Rai. “The unity and integrity of India is being challenged by these forces, which are using farmers as a means to achieve their target. It is not acceptable,” he said. He also recalled former PM Rajiv Gandhi’s alleged remark made in 1985 to buttress his claim. “Rajiv Gandhi had said only 15 paise of every rupee sent by the Centre reaches farmers,” Yogi said at a rally, while asserting that some people still want that era to persist. He inaugurated the newlyconstructed state-of-the-art central library at Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Agriculture and Technical University in the city. Yogi also laid the foundation for 88 developmental projects worth over Rs 350 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bid-to-provoke-tillers-to-create-anarchy-yogi/articleshow/79713033.cms||Piyush Rai
December 14, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC cuts toll of ‘poor’ Tamil Nadu road by 50%, but users pay full 100%||CHENNAI: Four days after the Madras high court ordered the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to collect only half the user fee at the two toll plazas between Maduravoyal and Walajapet because of the poor condition of this stretch of the Chennai-Bengaluru highway, commuters are still forced to pay the full fee. A senior NHAI official from the Chennai Regional Office said they had not received a copy of the Madras HC’s order yet. On Wednesday, the court had said “NHAI should hang their heads in shame for laying such roads” and directed it to collect only half the fee for two weeks till December 21. On Sunday, TOI independently verified that the full one-way fee of ₹50 and ₹45 for cars were still being collected at the toll plazas at Sriperumbudur and Chennasamudram near Walajapet respectively (both in cash mode and Fastag mode). “It is disappointing to see a central government agency like the NHAI not taking the high court’s direction seriously,” said S Yuvaraj from Tamil Nadu Truckers’ Association, who had filed a police complaint against these tolls last year. According to official data, more than ₹133 crore is collected as toll at these two plazas every year. ‘There are half-a-dozen potholes on this stretch’Around 1.5 lakh vehicles daily use this stretch of the toll road, which also sees 460 accidents every year. Nazrathpet junction, the second-most dangerous road stretch in the country with 95 deaths in three years, is on this stretch. But, it remains a four-lane road with hardly any signboards warning of accident-prone spots or ongoing road repairs.D Siddharth from Poonamalle, who frequently visits his native village in Vellore, said, “Name a 200-metre stretch between Maduravoyal and Walajapet, and I can show you at least half-adozen potholes”. Hardly any action has been taken against traffic offences such as driving on the wrong side or jumping red signals, he said. Yuvaraj cites official documents to point out that NHAI should have expanded this 96-km stretch into a six-lane road way back in 2013. An NHAI official said, “Six-laning, which was commenced in 2013, should have been completed by November 2015 but agreement with concessionaire was terminated in 2016 following a dispute. Temporary rectification works are almost nearing completion at accident blackspots”. Responding to public criticism, agitations and litigations, Tamil Nadu Highway Department had to step in and sanction Rs.60 crore for taking up improvement works in this stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-cuts-toll-of-poor-tamil-nadu-road-by-50-but-users-pay-full-100/articleshow/79713065.cms||---
December 14, 2020||World||Gunman shot by police at NYC cathedral Christmas concert||NEW YORK: A man was fatally shot in the head by police on the steps of a landmark New York City cathedral Sunday afternoon after he began firing two semiautomatic handguns at the end of a Christmas choral concert, police said. A detective, a sergeant and an officer fired 15 rounds after the man started shooting just before 4 pm at the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine, mother church of the Episcopal Diocese of New York, New York Police Commissioner Dermot Shea said. ``It is by the grace of God today,'' Shea said, that no one besides the gunman was struck. Witnesses told police the man was yelling ``kill me`` as he fired, Shea said. The man's name was withheld pending positive identification. The man had a lengthy criminal history and was carrying a backpack containing a can of gasoline, rope, wire, tape, knives and a well-worn Bible, Shea said. The police commissioner called the actions of the officers ``heroic.'' The 45-minute concert had just concluded and people were starting to walk away when a series of shots was heard, sending people running down Amsterdam Avenue screaming and diving to the sidewalk. The gunman was dressed in black with his face obscured by a white baseball cap and a face mask. He held a silver pistol in one hand and a black one in the other as he stepped from behind a stone column at the top of the staircase. Before the gunfire began, the concert featured members of the cathedral choir standing far apart on the stone steps wearing masks because of the coronavirus pandemic. ``It was just beautiful, and then at the end this person started shooting. Everybody is in shock,'' a cathedral spokeswoman, Lisa Schubert, told The New York Times. ``The shooter could have killed a lot of people. There were hundreds of people here and he shot at least 20 times.'' It wasn't clear if the gunman was aiming at people or firing in the air. ``It is horrible that our choir's gift to New York City, a much-needed afternoon of song and unity, was cut short by this shocking act of violence,`` cathedral spokeswoman Iva Benson said by email. The cathedral is one of the world's largest. Construction began in 1892 and is still incomplete. The church has been connected to many New York luminaries and notable events over its long history. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt was a trustee. It hosted the memorial services for puppeteer Jim Henson and choreographer Alvin Ailey, and speakers over the years including South Africa's Nelson Mandela and Archbishop Desmond Tutu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/gunman-shot-by-police-at-nyc-cathedral-christmas-concert/articleshow/79713081.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM, Jyotiraditya Scindia to hold farmers’ meets, seek support for new laws||BHOPAL: In a bid to check the spread of farmers' protest and to counter Congress and its allies, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has decided to hold `Kisan Sammelan' across Madhya Pradesh, beginning from Bhopal and Ujjain. He will convince farmers that the bills would help in deregulating agricultural markets and helping them earn more. "Farmers can sell their produce where ever they get a good price. Markets will remain open and there will be other options too. The farmer will get the right price for his hardearned produce due to competition. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is God's blessing to India. All three agricultural laws are in the interest of the farmers. The opposition parties are misleading farmers for vested interests," Chouhan urged farmers, in a press statement on Sunday. Slamming Congress, the CM said, "Congress had in its poll manifesto promised that it will bring legislation for reforms in the agricultural sector, but due to the immaturity of Rahul, it has taken a U-turn. Kejriwal's party also took a Uturn. All these parties are misguiding the farmers." Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Union minister of state (MoS) for tourism Prahlad Patel, BJP state chief VD Sharma, national general secretary Kailash Vijayavargiya and ministers Narottam Mishra and Gopal Bharava will also address similar farmer gatherings on December 15 and 16. BJP leaders led by state agriculture minister Kamal Patel also visited the venue of the meeting at BHEL Dussehra Maidan on Sunday. "The BJP is organising a `Kisan Sammelan' in Bhopal on December 15 for the farmers of Bhopal and Narmadapuram divisions. Farmers from all polling booths will participate. The three farm reform bills introduced by PM Modi will bring a revolutionary change in the life of farmers. Farmers will get MRP instead of MSP. We will make farmers aware of the benefits of the bills," said Kamal Patel. BJP said that after Bhopal and Ujjain, Kisan Sammelan will be held in Gwalior, Rewa, Jabalpur, Indore and Sagar on December 15 and 16, where BJP leaders and ministers will address farmers to garner their support on the farm bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-cm-jyotiraditya-scindia-to-hold-farmers-meets-seek-support-for-new-laws/articleshow/79713038.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Nellore: 2 killed, girl washed away as 2 bikes collide on causeway||VIJAYAWADA: Two persons died and a nine-year-old girl was washed away in Swarnamukhi river after two bikes collided on a causeway near Naidupet in Nellore district on Saturday night. The accident occurred as three drunk youths lost control of their vehicle and hit another two-wheeler ahead of them on the causeway. While two of them died on the spot, the force of the impact threw the family of 3 into the river. Munganuri Murali (30) along with his wife Sujatha (27) and daughter Pravallika (9) were heading back to their village Thummuru from Thimmaji Kandrika after visiting Vinayaka temple. When they reached the causeway, their bike was hit by another bike. Katuru Naguru 23, Trinath (21) and Sai (22) were triple riding when the mishap occurred. Naidupet circle inspector Venugopal Reddy said that the three friends are from Visakhapatnam and working in a private company at Naidupet. They consumed liquor at Menakuru village and left for Naidupet. While Naguru was driving the bike, Trinatha and Sai were pillion riders. Though Murali and Sujatha managed to come out of the water, they could not find their daughter Pravallika. On the other hand, Trinath and Sai died on the spot with severe head injuries. Cops rushed to the spot and shifted the injured to hospital. They have launched a search operation to trace the missing girl. Fire and police personnel continued the search till midnight. The search operation resumed on Sunday morning but they could not trace the girl yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nellore-2-killed-girl-washed-away-as-2-bikes-collide-on-causeway/articleshow/79713099.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||UP cops cut off food supplies for protesters||PILIBHIT: Calling it an “unlawful activity”, police and local administration in UP’s Pilibhit stopped two tractor-trolleys full of food supplies and other relief materials from leaving for the Delhi-UP border on Saturday night. The food materials and blankets were for the protesting farmers, reports Keshav Agarwal. The farmers were violating the restriction imposed in the area against the gathering of five or more persons under section 144 of CrPC, SP Jai Prakash Yadav said. Countering the claims, farmers asked, “How can sending food supplies be unlawful?” President of UP-Uttarakhand Sikh Organisation, Jasveer Singh Virk, said, “The act of stopping relief materials for farmers in the cold winter is highly condemnable.” He added that he will talk to top officials in the UP government for uninterrupted food supplies for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-cops-cut-off-food-supplies-for-protesters/articleshow/79713111.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||Sustained crossborder terror by a neighbour a perennial problem: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: Without naming Pakistan, foreign minister S Jaishankar on Sunday said a long-standing political rivalry was today expressed as “sustained cross-border terrorism by a neighbour”. He was talking about what he identified as some of the more “perennial problems” associated with India’s national consolidation and development. While delivering the second Manohar Parrikar memorial lecture, Jaishankar said the world was a competitive place and India’s rise will evoke its own reactions and responses. There will be attempts to dilute our influence and limit our interests, he said. “Some of this contestation can be directly in the security domain; others could be reflected in economics, connectivity and even in societal contacts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sustained-crossborder-terror-by-a-neighbour-a-perennial-problem-jaishankar/articleshow/79713135.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Upkeep poor, why should we shell out extra, ask Aster Court residents||GURUGRAM: Opposing the hike in Common Area Maintenance (CAM) charges, the residents of Aster Court in Sector 85 staged a symbolic protest on Sunday calling the decision unjustified and arbitrary in nature. They complained that the builder has increased the maintenance charges from Rs 2.50 per sqft to Rs 2.80 per sqft, without having any consultation and approval from the residents. Residents pointed out that the builder had earlier increased the amount to Rs 3.25/sqft from October 1, but after protests reduced it to Rs. 2.80 per sqft. Paramvir Bhardwaj, a resident, said, “In September, the maintenance agency M/s Saffron Infradevelopers Pvt. Ltd informed us about the hike in CAM charges from Rs 2.50 per sqft to Rs 3.25 per sqft w.e.f October 1. There was no consultation prior with us and the decision of the hike is not justified at all as the quality of services which are being offered to us has not been improved in the slightest.” After several meetings and complaints, the residents were asked to take over the management of the society if they did not accept the hike. However, the maintenance agency is reluctant to give any written assurance and deadlines for handover to them, they alleged. The developer refuted the claim by the residents and said that it has reduced the CAM rates to Rs 2.80 per sqft from November 27 and is ready to hand over the management to the elected residents’ body.  “For the past four years, we have not increased the CAM charges. We have already shared the expenditure with them and are ready for any audit,” Sanjay Garg, senior manager, Saffron Infradevelopers Pvt. Ltd. Residents alleged that when they refused to accept the hike and agreed to pay the CAM at an earlier rate, the maintenance agency curtailed the services, including housekeeping, security, gardening, lifts etc. “Garbage was not being cleared for days causing serious health and hygiene issues in the society. Though there are several Covid-19 cases in the society, no sanitisation is being carried out,” said Savyasanchi Tripathi, another resident. The residents also pointed out that they have written a letter to the department of town and country planning, but no action has been taken so far. “We have initiated the process of forming the residents welfare association (RWA) but they are completely insincere and not willing to give any written assurance to us. The society has several discrepancies, including basement leakage, defunct STP, club not operational among others which are not being addressed by the developer despite several complaints,” said Amit Kumar, another resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/upkeep-poor-why-should-we-shell-out-extra-ask-aster-court-residents/articleshow/79711994.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Even in ’60s, Punjab had its heart to the Left||JALANDHAR: Though fingers are being pointed at the presence of ultra-left activists and those linked to Naxalite elements at the farmers’ protest venues, this is nothing new for Punjab. The state has had its tryst with Naxalite activism as early as 1967. What’s more, the left movement in Punjab is close to a century old with mainstream left parties enjoying considerable space in electoral politics at one point, only to see a fast erosion of their base. The Naxalite movement was crushed in Punjab with the elimination of 85 ultraleft activists, including a freedom fighter turned Naxalite, Baba Bujha Singh. Some of those youths who survived when Punjab government crushed the movement later rose to prominence in activism, journalism, and literary fields. For instance, late Harbhajan Singh Halwarvi, who remained editor of a prominent Punjabi daily for several years, was saved by Simranjit Singh Mann — then a fresh IPS officer — after the latter found that Harbhajan was put in a police lock-up by a particular police officer known for eliminating Naxalites. “Naxalite movement reached Punjab in 1967 as soon as it started. However, it remained mainly among students and intellectuals, and no mass leader joined it. Some CPI and CPM cadres did join in,” Ajmer Singh, who joined the movement as a student in 1967 and then went underground in February 1970, when he was a third year student of electrical engineering at Guru Nanak Engineering College, said. “Soon after the initial phase of violence by Naxalites, the state followed the policy of eliminating them when Parkash Singh Badal was the chief minister,” Ajmer said. “For close to a decade their overground organisations grew while core group remained underground. However, in early 1980s with rise of Bhindranwale, the decline started and Operation Blue Star became a turning point. A vertical split took place with one group joining the Sikh side and the other turning against the Sikh militants,” said noted Sikh author Gurbachan Singh. “The ultra-Left groups later worked extensively among farmers and formed their unions. In this task, former employees also joined and their organisational skills and passion worked. They worked on issues like debt trap, farmers suicides, and compensation. Most of their support base remains among Sikh farmers who have not much to do with their ideology,” said Ajmer, adding, “while these groups remain committed to communist ideology, using revolutionary tactics is a thing of the past.” “It has been widely known that over a dozen farmers unions are led by leftist or ultra-left groups but they have confined themselves to farmers issues only,” Major Singh says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/even-in-60s-punjab-had-its-heart-to-the-left/articleshow/79713142.cms||IP Singh
December 14, 2020||India||BJP’s Mukul Roy renews demand for President rule in Bengal||KOLKATA: Senior BJP member Mukul Roy on Sunday argued for the immediate imposition of Article 356 in the state to “restore democracy”, while BJP’s Bengal minder, Kailash Vijayvargiya, said the party would appeal to the Election Commission for deployment of central forces here. This comes after BJP president JP Nadda spoke against president’s rule in West Bengal and underscored “democratic processes”. “I know my party president or other party seniors may not agree to this, but I feel Article 356 must be imposed immediately if we have to restore democracy in the state. However, this is my opinion and not the party’s,” Roy said on Sunday. Vijayvargiya said “We will urge the EC to allow people to cast their votes without fear... we will seek immediate deployment of central forces.” Roy said, “A total of 136 party workers have died so far. Had Nadda-ji’s car not been a bulletproof one, he could have been seriously injured. There is no rule of law in the state,”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjps-mukul-roy-renews-demand-for-president-rule-in-bengal/articleshow/79713153.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Active caseload increases to 74,104 in Maharashtra, 13,112 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Active cases in the state and city continued to rise for the fourth day in a row on Sunday despite a drop in daily detections. The state's active caseload reached 74,104 on Sunday after it had dropped to 71,910 four days ago. In the city, the active case burden was 13,112, a jump from 11,886 on Thursday. Officials said that a lag in recording discharges could be pushing up the number of active cases. On Sunday, the state recorded 3,717 positive cases, a drop after two consecutive days of reporting 4,000-plus cases. The state's case tally since the srrival of the pandemic here stood at 18,80,416. The number of deaths recorded saw a dip with 70 fatalities, compared to 80-plus deaths every day for the previous two days. The state's death toll reached 48,209. The case fatality rate saw a marginal slide to touch 2.56%. Of the 70 deaths reported, 48 occurred in 48 hours, 18 were from last week, and four of the fatalities were from previous weeks. State officials admitted that along with a drop in cases the weekend dip in testing remained persistent. On Sunday, 64,121 tests were carried out. Daily tests had touched around 68,000 on Thursday and Friday. For the third day in a row, the city saw fewer than 700 cases. On Sunday, the city reported 606 positive cases, taking the tally to 2,90,636. The city's doubling rate is now 318 days. After seeing 10 deaths on Saturday, a dozen deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the city death toll to 10,977. While the weekly death rate dipped below 2%, the cumulative death rate continues to be around 3.7%, one of the highest in the country. Of the 12 deaths, nine patients had co-morbidities and an equal number were above the age of 60. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that the discussion on starting the railways was still ongoing, and a decision would be announced once finalised. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar concurred that while many sectors had been unlocked, they were not seeing much of a crowd. "Sectors like theatres, restaurants are not seeing much of a crowd. In fact, we were expecting that people would travel in crowds when we started buses, but it has not happened. The revenue in the state is still to pick up and the gap is yet to be bridged," he said. While the Mumbai circle reported the highest cases at 1,161, the highest deaths on Sunday were reported from Pune region at 25 deaths. The Mumbai circle had 15 deaths, of which two from Thane city and one from Navi Mumbai. As many as 122 new positive cases were detected in Thane city, which took the tally to 53,425, while the death toll reached 1,210. The recovery rate was at 95.98% with 51,276 people recovered. The number of people under the treatment protocol in Thane dropped under 1,000 after several months as just 939 were being treated till Sunday. State officials said 5.13 lakh people were in home quarantine and 4,403 in institutional. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-active-caseload-increases-to-74104-in-maharashtra-13112-in-mumbai/articleshow/79713155.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 14, 2020||Bhopal||Woman’s purse snatched by biker in Bhopal's Koh-e-Fiza||BHOPAL: An unidentified bike-borne accused snatched the purse of a 35-year-old woman while she was on her way on a two-wheeler along with her sister and sister-inlaw to Kamla Park from Airport Road on Saturday night. The purse containing cash of Rs 16,500 cash, a smart phone, ATM cards, valuables and documents, was snatched from her near NRI colony area that fall under the jurisdiction of Koh-e-fiza police station. It was the second such incident in Koh-e-Fiza area within 10 days. On December 2 night, a scooter-borne woman’s purse carrying valuables worth around Rs 5,000 was snatched by an unidentified bike-borne accused near Koh-e-Fiza hospital when she was going to her relative’s home along with her husband. She was riding pillion and the accused had used the same modus operandi. Police said in the fresh incident the complainant Nusrat Farooqi, a resident of Kamla Park area in Talaiya, is a teacher. She stated in her complaint that on Saturday night she had gone to take clothes from a boutique in Indra Vihar Colony along with her sister and sister-in-law on a scooter. When she was returning home around 11.15 pm, an unidentified speeding bike-borne accused approached from behind and suddenly snatched her purse. Before she could understand anything, the accused managed to flee. “She was not able to not note down the registration number of the accused’s vehicle,” police said. Police said later the woman approached Koh-e-Fiza police station and lodged a complaint. A case of loot has been registered against unidentified bike-borne accused and further investigations are underway to nab him. CCTVs installed near the crime spot will be scanned to identify the looter, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/womans-purse-snatched-by-biker-in-bhopals-koh-e-fiza/articleshow/79713121.cms||---
December 14, 2020||India||HC stays arrest of Gujarat youths protesting over Prophet toons||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court expressed concern about people’s right to protest and stayed till January 21 the arrest of Muslim youths booked for inciting religious enmity between two communities. The youths had been protesting against France and its president, Emmanuel Macron, for refusing to condemn caricatures of Prophet Muhammed. Justice Paresh Upadhyay issued notice to the state government and also stayed the police investigation till the next hearing — January 21. The six youths, including a minor, booked by the police in Sojitra town, Anand district, had approached the court seeking quashing of charges against them for pasting posters of the French president and drawing the French flag on public roads towards the end of October. The police had invoked IPC Section 153A against the youths at a later stage. The advocate for the petitioners, Vishal Anandjiwala, contended before the court that pasting posters critical of a distant country like France would certainly not invite any offence under IPC Sec 153A. The police had also invoked various sections of the Disaster Management Act against the accused for protesting amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The police later requested a local court to remove Section 54 of the DM Act, but retained IPC Sections 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection) and 270 (malignantly spreading infection).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-arrest-of-gujarat-youths-protesting-over-prophet-toons/articleshow/79713163.cms||Saeed Khan
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai daily positivity rate comes down to 4%, growth rate of Covid cases 0.2% in Dec 6-12 period||MUMBAI: The city's daily positivity rate has dropped to 4% for two days. While the positivity rate for the RT-PCR test, considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing, is 6%, the positivity for rapid antigen tests is steady at 2%. The city completed carrying out two million Covid-19 tests last week. At its peak in May, the daily positivity rate in the city had touched 35%-40%. It started to see a decline in September. Towards the end of October, the daily positivity rate had dropped to 10%, which experts say can be considered a sign of slowing of the spread of the disease within the community. A municipal official said the positivity rate had been under 5% despite around 16,000 tests daily. On Sunday, 7,772 RT-PCR and 6,115 antigen tests were carried out. A declining positivity rate is also reflected in the growth rate of cases, which was 0.2% between December 6 and December 12. The cumulative positivity rate, which refers to overall positive cases detected out of tests carried out since March, remains around 14% in the city. The cumulative positivity rate for the state too has come down to 16%, while its daily positivity is hovering between 7%-8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-daily-positivity-rate-comes-down-to-4-growth-rate-of-covid-cases-0-2-in-dec-6-12-period/articleshow/79713170.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Daily cases declining for 2 weeks, Gurugram may reduce no. of Covid beds||GURUGRAM: In a move that could provide a breather to hospitals struggling to make space for non-Covid patients, the health department plans to reduce hospital beds reserved for Covid patients from 50% to 35%. This follows the downward trend in the daily addition of Covid-19 cases in the city. Subsequently, hospitalisation has decreased by 56% in the past 13 days. Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) Virender Yadav said, “As we are getting less than 300 cases daily, we have sent a proposal to the district administration to reduce the existing 50% reserved Covid beds in 42 hospitals across the city to 35%. We have taken this decision as the hospitalisation of Covid patients have come down by 52% this month. If this trend continues, then the beds can be further reduced depending on the caseload.” The daily cases have also come down as the city is adding less than 300 cases every day and as a result the positivity rate has come down to 5%. While there were 509 Covid patients in hospitals till December 1, the number fell to 222 by December 13. The number of ICU patients has come down by 17% — from 135 on December 1 to 111 on December 13. Similarly, the number of patients requiring ventilators was 82 on December 1, which now stands at 45, a drop of 45%. In the 42 hospitals in the district, there are a total 4,958 beds of which 2,350 are reserved for Covid patients. Earlier, 1,810 beds were reserved for Covid patients. More beds were reserved in the city owing to the third surge that started from Oct 21 to November 30. The private hospitals have been demanding to reduce the reserved Covid beds in Gurgaon as they have pointed out that the reserved beds are lying vacant with less number of Covid hospitalisation. “We have received suggestions from private hospitals regarding reduction of reserved Covid beds in the city to 25%. We have asked the health department to submit a proposal on how much we can reduce in the reserve Covid bed category,” said a senior officer from the district administration. Anshuman Sharma, a resident of Sector 30, welcomed the move and said that hospitals should have more beds for non-Covid patients. “There are lots of people who are not visiting hospitals fearing lack of care. Now, that cases are declining, beds reserved for Covid patients should also be decreased. So that more people can visit hospital for their pending treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, for the third consecutive day, the city is getting less than 300 cases. A total of 275 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the city’s caseload to 54,605.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/daily-cases-declining-for-2-weeks-city-may-reduce-no-of-covid-beds/articleshow/79712093.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 14, 2020||India||HC relief for 3 students booked in Pocso case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court granted pre-arrest bail to a 19-year-old engineering student accused of aggravated penetrative sexual assault on two minors and bail to three co-accused, including two collegians aged 20 and 19. The accused and the complainant, the girls’ mother, live in the same building. The accused claimed that the mother had belatedly filed a false FIR under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act in October for allegations dating to March for a “grudge” she held against them over being told to follow Covid-19 safety rules framed for tenants. “Today, there are equal possibilities that the offence may or may not be true. This can only be established during the trial. However, if at this stage, relief is not granted to the applicants, they will suffer irreparable loss, affecting their future and career, which cannot be compensated by any means,” said Justice Sarang Kotwal, considering the delay and “background” in which the FIR was filed and the ages and student-status of the accused. The delay in lodging the FIR assumed importance because of a previous enmity between an accused and the woman, said the judge in a common order after hearing advocate Sana Raees Khan in the pre-arrest bail plea, and advocates Ashwini Sawant for the trio seeking bail after arrest in separate petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-relief-for-3-students-booked-in-pocso-case/articleshow/79713180.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 14, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Samman Nidhi’ is biggest joke: Navjot Singh Sidhu||CHANDIGARH: Former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday lashed out at the Centre, saying it was making a mockery of farmers by giving them just Rs 6,000 a year under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi in the name of doubling farmers’ income. Tweeting a two-minute video, he said, “Farmers were neither seeking a loan waiver nor subsidy. They are fighting for rightful income and fair prices. Instead of fully implementing Swaminathan’s C2 formula, the government is taking away assured income. They promised to double farmers’ income, but gave a Rs 6,000 (Rs 500 per month) lollipop.” The cricketer-turned-politician said minimum support price (MSP) of wheat was Rs 73 per quintal in 1970 and a professor used to get a Rs 90 salary per month. Professor’s salary has now increased 300 times (450 times including TA and DA) and those of senior employees in the corporate sector by1,000 times, said Sidhu, adding that farmers MSP increased just 19 times during this period. You are making a mockery of farmers by giving them Rs 6,000 (per year). Will you give Rs 450 per month to a farmer?” he said. Sidhu emphasised on paying Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per day to each farmer as per input cost calculation, including diesel. There cannot be a bigger joke than this with the farmers, said the former local bodies minister. “A farmer needs Rs 15,000 to Rs 18,000 per month,” said Sidhu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/samman-nidhi-is-biggest-joke-navjot-singh-sidhu/articleshow/79713192.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 4 held in raid on clinic doing tests for sex determination||GURUGRAM: Officials of the health department on Sunday conducted a raid at a private clinic in Sector 22 and arrested two doctors and two of their accomplices on the charges of illegal sex determination of the foetus. During the raid at Mantra Care and Diagnostic centre, the team recovered Rs 50,000. Two doctors — Pinky and Hariram — took Rs 50,000 from the decoy pregnant woman for the sex determination of the foetus. A case has been registered against the doctor couple and two other persons under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994 and Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 at the Palam Vihar police station. Acting on a tip-off, a team from the health department led by Anil Gupta, PNDT nodal officer-cum-medical officer, and two other medical officers conducted the raid. Chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, had received the information about a nexus of people conducting illegal sex determination of foetus. The team sent a decoy pregnant woman to the hospital where she met Pinky and Hariram who took Rs 50,000 from her and gave phone number of Dr Sumit Singal. The decoy informed the team that she has been asked to visit the diagnostic center in Sector 22 on Sunday. She followed the instruction and her ultrasound was carried out by Dr Aparna Singal at the centre. The decoy patient was informed about the sex of the foetus. She accordingly informed the health department and thereafter, the team got hold of the group and recovered the money. This is the seventh raid in a span of five months conducted by the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/4-held-in-raid-on-clinic-doing-tests-for-sex-determination/articleshow/79712111.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||BMC readies campaign to tackle anti-vaxxers in Mumbai||MUMBAI: As blueprints are being drawn up for logistics and storage of the awaited Covid-19 vaccine in the city, BMC officials admit they have another important task to attend to: Reduce vaccine hesitancy among Mumbaikars. "We plan to carry out a massive IEC (information, education and communication) activity on the need to take the Covid-19 vaccine," said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani on Saturday. Vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers in the first round will help, he said. "Our healthcare workers will be our vaccine brand ambassadors," he said. The anti-vaccine voice is rising, mainly through social media. Some groups say they believe the novel coronavirus-19 is a laboratory-generated entity created by pharmaceutical companies for profits. The London-based Centre for Countering Digital Hate has said social media accounts held by so-called anti-vaxxers have seen their following increase by seven to eight million since 2019. Closer home, a panel discussion on why a vaccine is not required for Covid-19 was held at the Marathi Patrakar Sangh this past week. A 68-nation survey conducted in July and August by MIT and Johns Hopkins University found 32% of those surveyed were not sure if they should get vaccinated. In India, 25% of the respondents were skeptical (10% said they would not get vaccinated; 15% were not sure). In the US, where the FDA on Saturday gave permission for emergency use of the Pfizer vaccine, hesitancy has reduced in the past two months. Surveys by Pew Research Center found 60% of Americans said they would definitely or probably get a Covid-19 vaccine, up from 51% who said this in September. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid, said the vaccine should be viewed as a responsibility. "We are a part of a community. We want the right to travel on trains, so we have to be responsible enough to wear a face mask on trains. The same logic applies here." Pune-based public health specialist Dr Anant Phadke said the main issue with the vaccine is lack of transparency. "There seems to be a rush to get approvals and start the vaccination process. We need empirical evidence that the vaccine works for Indians. Without prejudging the vaccine, we should wait for the results and analyse them," he said. While trials done so far say the vaccine offers protection, there is still a question mark over its ability to stop transmission. "Only one of trials is looking at the transmission aspect. Others are not even tracking it."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-readies-campaign-to-tackle-anti-vaxxers-in-mumbai/articleshow/79713202.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 14, 2020||Gurgaon||In a first, government hospital to get TB centre tomorrow||GURUGRAM: The city is all set to get a dedicated tuberculosis (TB) centre at Civil hospital in Sector 10, the first such government facility in Gurgaon. The centre, expected to be ready by Tuesday, will have a TB out-patient department, testing unit, lab and a medicine hub. Earlier, this centre was proposed in Sector 48, but it was later decided to create a centre in Civil hospital which will benefit patients as they can get other facilities under one roof. “It is usually advisable to conduct diabetes, HIV and other tests for TB patients. As this facility is being developed inside the premises of Civil hospital, people will be able to avail other medical services as well,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurgaon. This is important at present as TB patients have low immunity and are vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. “TB patients are more prone to respiratory diseases and thus they are likely to get infected by Covid-19 easily. They have low immunity and if they get infected, the virus can be fatal for them,” Yadav added. At present, Gurgaon has CBNAAT machines at three government hospitals for the diagnosis of TB — Civil hospital, SGT Medical College in Budhera, and Sohna Civil hospital.Under the Haryana government’s ‘Nikshay Poshan Yojna’, TB patients are given Rs 500 every month till they complete treatment. Haryana aims to eliminate TB by 2025. Till October this year, 4,701 people were diagnosed with TB in Gurgaon. Meanwhile, the health department is also conducting house-to-house surveys to identify presumptive TB cases. Around six lakh people will be screened by 260 teams for symptoms of TB, which include cough for more than two weeks, haemoptysis, fever in the evening, weight loss and loss of appetite. Officials said the screening is being carried out to ensure that TB patients staying at home in fear of getting infected by Covid get timely treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-a-first-govt-hosp-to-get-tb-centre-tomorrow/articleshow/79712125.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sixth victim of cylinder blast dies of burns||MUMBAI: The fire following a gas leak and subsequent cylinder blast at the four-storey Sarabhai building in Lalbaug claimed its sixth victim on Sunday. Vinayak Shinde (57) was admitted to KEM Hospital along with 12 others with severe burn injuries on December 6. He passed away on Sunday. Of the 12 admitted to KEM, six have died and three are critical. Hospital dean Hemant Deshmukh said three patients have been discharged. Four patients admitted to Masina Hospital, Byculla, continue to be critical, said BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sixth-victim-of-cylinder-blast-dies-of-burns/articleshow/79713204.cms||---
December 14, 2020||Business||‘Exports shift helped tackle Covid curbs’||As India comes out of the lockdown phase and strives for renewed economic growth, Jindal Steel & Power (JSPL) chairman Naveen Jindal warns of unforeseen challenges, like the current pandemic, in the future. We should be ready to learn, unlearn and re-learn, he says...How far has your business achieved normalcy, and what challenges do you still face?The first quarter of this fiscal coincided with the lockdown in India. But JSPL increased its production by 8% and sales by 12% quarter-on-quarter in this very challenging period. We were able to overcome this challenge by thinking differently and focusing on exports. Now that India is being unlocked, our focus is back on the domestic market, in addition to exports. How much cost increases are your grappling with?The pandemic created an unprecedented situation for everyone. We faced the challenge and came out with a strategy for safe working conditions. There have been cost increases but they justify the steps taken for safety. Has Covid hit remuneration, resulted in downsizing?JSPL is an employee-first organisation. We stood by our employees and said ‘no’ to downsizing. The management and the senior leadership team are important, but the turnaround was achieved by a dedicated, committed and hardworking workforce. What additional steps are required from the government to help your business?The production-linked incentive scheme for speciality steel and the overall fiscal stimulus are welcome. It has responded well to the economic challenges with its Atmanirbhar Bharat vision. Infrastructure and infraspending remain a priority. The government should ensure the industry gets ample raw material at competitive rates. It should also provide quality power to businesses, industries, and MSMEs at reasonable rates. I have written to the power minister on how it can be done. What are you doing to ensure work-life balance?I have always believed that one must choose a vocation that is a passion. I am a polo player, and our team, Jindal Panthers, is active in the polo circuit. Any learnings from the pandemic?There may be many other unforeseen challenges, like this pandemic, in future, too. One should be ready to learn, unlearn, and re-learn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/exports-shift-helped-tackle-covid-curbs/articleshow/79713205.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 14, 2020||Gurgaon||DTCP sets itself 30-day target for 100 plaints||GURUGRAM: Around 100 major complaints related to illegal colonies and unauthorised construction in licensed colonies will be resolved within a month. In a move to address the grievances of residents quickly, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has prepared a list of around 100 serious complaints, filed with the chief minister’s window, and will prepare an action plan in 10 days. Of these complaints, around 50% is related to illegal colonies while the remaining 50% is associated with licensed colonies. The move comes after DTCP saw a spike in the number of complaints being filed at the CM window against encroachment, illegal colonies, unauthorised constructions and other related issues. District town planner (enforcement) RS Batth said that these complaints came through the CM window and the department is now preparing an action plan to resolve them at the earliest. “An area-wise schedule will be prepared and shared with the deputy commissioner for seeking his approval and police support in carrying out action,” he said. The complaints from licensed colonies, including DLF Phase 1, 2, 3 and 4, Sushant Lok 1 and 2, Suncity, South City and others are mostly related to unauthorised construction after procuring occupation certificate, commercial activities in residential areas, pending infrastructure work and encroachment within licensed colonies. The complaints related to illegal colonies are mainly from Sohna, Pataudi, Farrukhnagar and adjoining areas where builders have developed illegal colonies without mandatory permissions from the department, said an official. Another official added that despite demolition drives against illegal colonies, the builders have redeveloped the colonies in complete violation of the guidelines. TOI had reported in October this year that DTCP is flooded with complaints related to occupation certificates, 24-metre roads, external development charges, maintenance-related issues and others from homebuyers and residents of licensed colonies and housing projects mainly on Golf Course Road (Extension), Sohna road and Dwarka Expressway. The department has received over 4,000 complaints through CM window portal since its inception in 2014. The DTCP, under the new mechanism, will segregate the complaints based on its nature. Earlier, DTCP director KM Pandurang had said there were many problems in licensed colonies of Gurgaon, which should be worked out then and there only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dtcp-sets-itself-30-day-target-for-100-plaints/articleshow/79712151.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
