December 15, 2020||Goa||The passion for the game lies not only with the club but within each player: Bruno Coutinho||Football is in the heart of every Goan, but since the pandemic, things have changed. The stadiums are now empty and I have noticed that the enthusiasm that the players used to have when the stadiums were full is less as compared to what it is now. Players like to hear the audience cheering for them. With unlock – everything in Goa has been opening up – restaurants, nightlife – why not open stadiums, but of course maintaining distance and following all the protocols. A limited crowd in the stadium will change the pulse of the game. As generations have passed by, I have noticed that football is now a more commercial sport and there is less passion. Players will want to be in the sport only if they get paid well. When I started out, I had to stay in the hostel with other boys and eat hostel food which was mainly daal, rasam, rice and two pieces of chicken. It was only after I got selected for the Indian team, that I’ve stayed in a five star property – but we had the passion to play football. Now, the ISL teams stay in five star hotels, they earn well, their nutrition is looked after, but they are not up to the mark. I’ve seen some players get an open field to score and they don’t hit the goal. The passion for the game doesn’t lie only with the club, but stems from within each player. He must have the self-confidence and faith that he is giving his best for his team. The team might not win all the time, but the output is important. The fire that people used to have before for football isslowly diminishing. Many Goans have applied or settled in Cayman Islands or Portugal or made their Portuguese passports. Some players play for two-three seasons and quit. This way teams will have to find other players. The only way football can gain its lost glory is if other teams from Goa join the ISL. There will be a healthy competition among each other. The youth have to come forward and play the game, only then will football get back its beauty. The government is helping out players to shine, in our time we had to struggle a lot to reach where we are currently. Bruno Coutinho, Arjuna Awardee in 2001, is the joint director of coaching at Sports Authority of Goa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/the-passion-for-the-game-lies-not-only-with-the-club-but-within-each-player-bruno-coutinho/articleshow/79727478.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Realty sector may gain from Bengaluru city limits expansion||BENGALURU: The provision for expansion of city limits by 1km in the BBMP restructuring bill 2020, passed in the recent winter session of the state legislature, is a big positive for the real estate sector. “Property prices will appreciate primarily due to improvement in buyer sentiment. As infrastructure improves, capital value of real estate will strengthen. Availability of land at cheaper rates (compared to that within existing city limits) could facilitate creation of affordable housing in these new towns,” say urban experts. Some also believe that the expansion of municipal limits was essentially dictated by a few MLAs, who have interest in the real estate business. Earlier last week, many were surprised at the state government’s last-minute decision to expand the city limits. Both S Raghu, chairman of the joint select committee in the legislative assembly, and law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy agreed that the merger of villages with Bengaluru city was not on the agenda, but was purportedly inserted hours before introducing the bill under pressure from some MLAs. “Some MLAs backed by the real estate lobby seem to have put pressure on the government. They want to see property prices go up in their constituencies, which are now partially rural,” said MB Adinarayana, social activist and member of a civil society group. It is said that BJP legislators from the six outlying constituencies of Bengaluru have been airing concerns over their segments being a mix of urban and rural pockets, thereby having skewed development. As per initial estimate, about 65 villages from across six assembly constituencies are expected to be part of BBMP. However, the concern is that the cash-strapped civic body won’t be able to develop infrastructure in the new areas and they may suffer like the 110 villages, which were included in 2007. “The change in BBMP’s geographical limits should be based on a systematic review every 10 years, with assistance from an expert committee that has well-defined terms of reference. The bill should have carried such a provision. Urbanisation of Bengaluru will, unfortunately, not abide by the criteria hard-coded in the bill,” said Srikanth Viswanathan, CEO, Janaagraha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/realty-sector-may-gain-from-bluru-city-limits-expansion/articleshow/79727579.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Kids learn the ropes at Parsi community’s e-event||BENGALURU: Michele Daroowala, 16, took her first steps as an entrepreneur recently. From hosting a workshop on artificial intelligence to teaching quilling, the student of Delhi Public School Bangalore East created an impact among her virtual audience. Michele was one of the youngsters from the Parsi community who learnt entrepreneurial and management skills during ‘The Marketplace: A Virtual Symposia for Charity’ organised by the World Zarathushti Chamber of Commerce till Sunday. “We were part of the event planning, attended meetings and expressed our opinions without hesitation. The best thing was that we were not treated as just kids, but equal members throughout the event,” said Michele. The teenager saw this as an excellent opportunity for youngsters to learn. “For instance, we learnt coordination. As a host, I learnt how to manage an event and ask people to wrap up their task without sounding curt. A month-long preparation helped.” Fostering and highlighting talents of budding entrepreneurs was one of the goals of the event organised by the close-knit Parsi community in the city. The other aim was charity. The event saw over 600 participants from across the globe. It started with a curtain-raiser featuring choreographer Shiamak Davar and actor Boman Irani and had over 30 events in the last week. Dilshad Jalnawalla, a committee member of the WZCC Bengaluru chapter and joint principle coordinator for The Marketplace told TOI that children from the community were guided by adults on how to organise the event and execute it. For instance, there was a drone workshop conducted by a 12 year old, while a seven year old participated in a cookery event and a six year old spoke about Parsi community traditions. “We had 31 members in the organising committee, of which 13 were children. As a chapter, our vision is to foster and showcase the strengths and talents of our members and the youth of our community. We also believe that creating a successive line of leadership will ensure that our chapter is never short of good, sound leaders, who have learnt the ropes,” said Dilshad. She added that a ‘teenpreneurs’ group was formed, with people aged between seven and 70 years learning, unlearning, mentoring and experiencing a live case study, The Marketplace. Proceeds from the event will go to Kinder Trust, which works to enable the physically and mentally challenged to lead a confident and fulfilling life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kids-learn-the-ropes-at-parsi-communitys-e-event/articleshow/79727584.cms||Farheen Hussain
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Violence against women up, child mortality down in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Prevalence of obesity among both men and women, declining incidence of newborns being breastfed within one hour of birth and increase in C-section deliveries are some of the alarming trends in Karnataka, according to the National Family Health Survey 2019-20 released on Saturday. While 56.3% of newborns were fed within one hour of birth during 2014-15, the figure dropped to 49.1% five years later, says the report, which provides Karnataka’s population and household profile across 131 parameters. However, the state has shown improvement on several fronts. While the infant mortality rate fell from 26.9 deaths per 1000 live births in 2014-15 to 25.4 in 2019-20, the neonatal mortality rate dipped from 18.5 to 15.8. The mortality rate among children below the age of 5, also has seen a decline from 31.5 per 1000 births to 29.5. Field work for the survey was conducted in Karnataka from July 10, 2019 to December 11, 2019. Data was gathered from 26,574 households: 30,455 women and 4,516 men were interviewed. The report reveals a rise in violence against women. The percentage of married women in the 18-49 age group who experienced spousal violence increased over 100% — from 20.6 in 2014-15 to 44.4 in 2019-20. However, that of women in the same age group who were subjected to physical violence during pregnancy fell from 6.5% to 5.8%. In 2014-15, 10.3% of Karnataka’s young women (18-29 years) had experienced sexual violence at the age of 18. This has gone up to 11%, according to the survey. The prevalence of sexual violence is more in rural areas (11.2%) of the state than urban (10.9%). Notwithstanding the violence and abuse they face, women are marching ahead. While 45.5% of women had 10 or more years of schooling in 2014-15, the figure has increased to 50.2% in the latest survey (62.3% in urban areas and 42% in rural). The report also points to the increase in C-section deliveries (both in government and private hospitals) in the past five years — from 23.6% to 31.5%. The practice is more prevalent in urban areas (35.2%) compared to rural (29.4%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/violence-against-women-up-child-mortality-down-in-state/articleshow/79727587.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||IIM-Bangalore students get 529 offers from 130 companies||BENGALURU: In a first, summer placements of Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIMB) were completed virtually with over 130 companies making 529 offers for its 525 students. “The entire process was conducted online. All 525 students, including those of PGP and PGP-business analytics, were placed in less than a week of starting the process,” said Prof U Dinesh Kumar, chairperson of Career Development Services, in a press note. The roles offered included private equity/venture capital, business analytics, consulting, finance, general management, IT/product management, operations, sales and marketing. There were 144 offers in consulting with Accenture Strategy (24), Bain and Company (18) and Boston Consulting Group (17) accounting for the highest numbers. Students also received a large number of offers for sales and marketing (95), general management (81) and finance (71). Private equity firms, which were part of the placements, included CDC Group, Gaja Capital and Multiples. Finance firms were Goldman Sachs (11), Avendus Capital, Citibank and FinIQ (5). As many as 81 leadership track or general management track offers were made by business conglomerates like Tata Consultancy Services (10), Vedanta (7), Tata Administrative Services (6), Business Forum (6), Adani and Unacademy (5). In addition, there were 93 offers in the broad domain of information technology and product management and e-commerce from companies like Amazon (31), Microsoft (7), Stepcare (7). The first batch of PGP-BA programme students received offers from 25 firms in the fields of consulting, data analytics, product management, business strategy; operations across sectors like management consulting, e-commerce, edtech and transportation. Tapas Ranjan Pati, manager - career development services - MBA in business analytics, said: “Many marquee recruiters offered exclusively crafted roles in business analytics. The IIMB PGP placement committee conducted this virtual placement process seamlessly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iimb-students-get-529-offers-from-130-cos/articleshow/79727600.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Money-laundering case: Bail denied to Bineesh Kodiyeri||BENGALURU: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was on Monday denied bail in the money-laundering case booked against him by the Enforcement Directorate, Bengaluru. He will stay in jail till his remand period ends on December 23. On Monday, the 37-year-old was produced before a special ED court through video conference. Following arguments from lawyers of both parties, the court refused bail to Bineesh with ED citing the possibility of him influencing witnesses. Bineesh’s legal team is expected to approach the high court for bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/money-laundering-case-bail-denied-to-bineesh-kodiyeri/articleshow/79727612.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Seat scam accused held for cheating another aspirant||BENGALURU: Investigations into the medical college admission racket, in which money was collected by an education consultancy firm from unsuspecting parents seeking seats for their wards, revealed that the main accused had evaded arrest earlier by getting anticipatory bail. The accused, 29-year-old Shahe Abrahar of Overseas Education Research Foundation on Rest House Road in central business district, had come under police radar in February 2019 when he was accused of cheating a medical seat aspirant of Rs 1.7 lakh. He is currently in police custody for duping a 62-year-old man of Rs 10 lakh. In the 2019 case registered by Cubbon Park police, the FIR identified the suspects as Vijay Sampagilam, Abrahar and the latter’s father Mohammed Ibrahim. While Vijay and Ibrahim were nabbed, Abrahar had managed to get anticipatory bail. However, police are yet to submit a chargesheet in the case. Though chargesheet has to be filed within 90 days of registering the case, Cubbon Park police had sought more time from the court. Now with Abrahar in custody, police said they will file chargesheets in both the cases. Cops arrested Abrahar after 62-year-old Vinak HS, a resident of HSR Layout, filed a cheating complaint on October 10. The complainant alleged that Abrahar had contacted him over phone, saying he could get a medical seat for his daughter in a private college in Shivamogga. “Saying he will get a government seat which would cost Rs 2 lakh per year, Abrahar took Rs 10 lakh from me. But my daughter was allotted a seat that cost Rs 10 lakh fee per year,” Vinay stated in his complainant. ‘Fraudster network’“Each year, over half a dozen cases of cheating related to seats in medical and engineering colleges are reported in the city. There is an established network of such miscreants. First, they download names and other details of candidates seeking seats at colleges located in and around Bengaluru. Then, they start calling the candidates, offering a seat for payment. During the conversation, these fraudsters claim they have solid contacts in college managements and can easily get the seats, provided candidates shell out money,” a senior police officer explained. In September 2019, Central Crime Branch sleuths arrested 11 people on charges of cheating medical and engineering seat aspirants of money. Probe had revealed some of the accused were from the city, while a majority of them were from Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. Two of the prime accused were running a job consultancy in Jayanagar, which they had opened a few months ago. “The consultancy office was set up just to collect money from the victims. The accused never did job-related work there,” an investigator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/seat-scam-accused-held-for-cheating-another-aspirant/articleshow/79727627.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Mangaluru||DC pegs flood loss in Udupi at Rs 323 crore||UDUPI: An inter-ministerial central team (IMCT) visited the district on Monday to inspect the damage to standing crops and properties caused by flooding and heavy rain this monsoon. The team visited Shivalli, Baje vented dam and Manai near Bommarabettu and listened to the woes of people affected by the deluge. Three houses were totally damaged due to floods at Manai. The team ascertained the relief measures extended to them. At Baje, the team took stock of disruption to water supply that flooding of the pumping station there caused. They sought inputs on the height of the dam and inflow recorded on the day flooding was reported. The team later visited Kukkaje village in Karkala taluk and saw the damage caused to the vented dam there. At Brahmawar, the team inspected the bridges and roads. In Kundapur, the team checked the cyclone shelter. Prior to that, the team interacted with the district administration at the deputy commissioner’s office and took stock of the relief measures initiated to meet the situation. Appreciative of the steps taken by the administration in extending relief to the people, the team also lauded the resolve shown by locals in dealing with the situation even during midnight and coming to the rescue of their stranded neighbours as flood waters rose in the region. The deluge damaged 2,694 houses and the losses on account of heavy rain and flood have been estimated at Rs 323 crore, the DC said. MLAs K Raghupathy Bhat, Lalaji Mendon urged the team to ensure speedy release of central funds to the district as per norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dc-pegs-flood-loss-in-udupi-at-323cr/articleshow/79727629.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Chairman of council rejects BJP move to oust him||BENGALURU: In a setback for the ruling BJP, the one-day session of the legislative council is likely to be a short one as chairman Pratap Chandra Shetty has rejected the notice of no-confidence motion. Citing the chairman’s explanation as “unsatisfactory”, BJP has sent a letter to his office. “The chairman needs to explain his reasons for rejecting the no-confidence motion on the floor of the house,” said BJP MLC Mahantesh Kavatgimath. The government has decided to table the anti-cow slaughter bill. The JD(S), which is backing the BJP’s efforts to topple Shetty, is said to be keen in referring the controversial legislation to a joint select committee. “Our intent is simple. In states like Uttar Pradesh, the government there has 1,500 cattle sheds, apart from hundreds of private ones. In Karnataka, there has been no practical explanation given to introduce the law. We are determined to refer the bill to a select committee as it needs to be examined,” said JD(S) senior MLC Basavaraj Horrati. All three political parties have issued whips to their legislators to be present in the house on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chairman-of-council-rejects-bjp-move-to-oust-him/articleshow/79727633.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Court seeks affidavits on illegal religious structures||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday directed the BBMP commissioner to submit a detailed affidavit on how the Supreme Court’s 2009 directive to remove illegal religious structures occupying public places in Bengaluru has been implemented. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said BBMP wants the court to believe that only 106 such structures have been constructed in the city either before and after the cutoff date of September 29, 2009. Observing that the Palike has failed to make a serious effort to identify, remove and relocate such structures in terms of the SC order, the bench pointed out that only due to indulgence is it granting time to the BBMP chief against whom a contempt notice was issued early this year. The court asked both BBMP and BDA to convene a meeting of senior officials to sort out the dispute over demolition of illegal structures. The government was directed to submit a fresh statement regarding compliance of the SC directions in September 2009. The bench said additional chief secretary Rajaneesh Goel’s affidavit only gave excuses of pandemic restrictions and lockdown and didn’t indicate the steps taken till March 2020 to implement the SC’s orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/court-seeks-affidavits-on-illegal-religious-structures/articleshow/79727655.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Election to Chikkajala gram panchayat stayed||BENGALURU: Following largescale discrepancies in the voters’ list, the State Election Commission on Monday stayed polls to all four constituencies of Chikkajala village panchayat which come under Yelahanka taluk of Bengaluru Urban district. Several villagers had submitted a complaint alleging manipulation of the list. The special tahsildar and other officials found that of 4,597 voters, two booths had 1,433 and 1,574 voters — in excess of the 1,000 ceiling fixed by the poll authorities. Officials felt it was impossible to set right the anomalies at the last minute, and even if the exercise was undertaken, it would result in rejection of many of the 30 nomination papers as a majority of proposers would get shifted to the neighbouring constituency. Ensure paper withdrawal is not under pressure: SECWith incidents of auctioning of gram panchayat seats on the rise, SEC on Monday asked all deputy commissioners to ensure candidates withdrawing their nomination papers are not doing so under pressure. In a circular, the commission asked DCs to direct all returning officers to accept notices of withdrawals only after they are satisfied there is no coercion involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/election-to-chikkajala-gp-stayed/articleshow/79727656.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: PIL challenges setting up of Veerashaiva Lingayat board||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday ordered notice to the government in response to a PIL challenging the establishment of Karnataka Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Board, directing it to file objections by January 4. The next hearing is scheduled for January 8. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said all steps pursuant to the November 23, 2020 notification relating to constitution of the board will be subject to orders to be passed in the PIL. In his petition, S Basavaraj, a member of Karnataka State Bar Council, claimed the preamble of the government order says Veerashaiva Lingayats are in a majority in Karnataka and though it is mentioned that they are financially, educationally and socially backward, the real intent is to woo 17 per cent of voters. He said setting apart Rs 500 crore for the board would violate his fundamental right as a taxpayer under Article 27 of the Constitution, which says no person is compelled to pay tax, the proceeds of which are appropriated for payment of expenses for promotion or maintenance of any particular religion or religious denomination. “The government, apart from isolating Veerashaiva Lingayats from the mainstream, destroying the secular fabric of the religion, has delegated essential welfare measures, which are the responsibilities of the state, to a board. This is delegation of essential state function to a corporate body, headed by a person loyal to ruling party,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pil-challenges-setting-up-of-veerashaiva-lingayat-board/articleshow/79727658.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Laying channels across Pallikaranai marshland: Meet inconclusive||CHENNAI: A meeting to discuss laying of channels across Pallikaranai marshland was held on Monday. Attended by senior officials from forest department, Greater Chennai Corporation, PWD and state highways, the meeting was inconclusive. A senior official from the forest department said they did not want the corporation to lay channels on the marshland as it would affect the hydrology and ecology . A former PWD official said Pallikaranai marshland can hold up to 270mcft of water during rain. When this quantity rises, the water will have to naturally overflow and get drained into the sea through Oggiyam Maduvu. “During rain and high tide, water from the marshland flows in the reverse direction. This inundates residential areas in and around the marshland,” he said. Sources said forest department officials refused to accept a proposal by the corporation to lay channels to carry rainwater from residential areas to the marshland. Officials are expected to visit the marshland on Tuesday as the civic body wanted forest department officials to suggest alternative routes to lay the channels. A senior PWD official said there were encroachments around the marshland. “One big encroachment is at the Kallukkuttai area. Here the residents have built structures on the marshland and are tapping power illegally from the power lines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/laying-channels-across-marshland-meet-inconclusive/articleshow/79727720.cms||P Oppili
December 15, 2020||Goa||This is my first holiday post lockdown: Dhvani Bhanushali||My mind space completely changes every time I come to Goa,” says Dhvani Bhanushali, of Vaaste and Baby Girl fame, who was in Goa over the weekend to chill with her friends. This is the first time after the lockdown has been lifted that she took a holiday. What did she do during the lockdown? “I was indoors, connecting with my family, spending time bettering my craft. I also wrote a few songs and when the lockdown was lifted, we shot Baby Girl in Goa. Then I started rehearsing for Nayan (which was released yesterday) and after it was shot I decided to come to Goa for a friend’s wedding. This is the first ever holiday I have been on. I have been working throughout the pandemic,” says Dhvani. She also has plans to travel to Maldives soon. Dhvani heads to Goa at least once a year, she says, “I really love the people here; they are so calm and relaxed and the moment I reach here I just feel the vibe. Goa is very green and the place where I’ve put up, I can see the clear waters, it’s just beautiful. Mumbai is fast and it has its own charm but Goa is a nice space. I can watch the sunset when I’m in Goa.” Taking about food, she says, “Being a vegetarian, I have a limited choice to choose from in the Goan cuisine. I recently tried the Goan buns with potato bhaji (sukhi bhaji) and it was heavenly and I just loved it. Goa has a lot to offer for a variety of people and this is the charm of being in Goa.” She has released her new single Nayan, where she tells us that the song is special for her, as she connects with her Gujarati roots. When asked if she would ever collaborate with Goan artistes she was quick to respond positively. “I love Goan music and I will explore music in the future. India is a diverse country and I want to explore music from every state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-is-my-first-holiday-post-lockdown-dhvani-bhanushali/articleshow/79727728.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Save Mollem finds echo in Christmas cribs in Goa||Goa has been racked by protests in recent months over the large-scale destruction of trees planned in Mollem Wildlife Sanctuary. Activists, students and concerned citizens have joined hands to raise their voices against the infrastructure projects in the green zone. And now, with Christmas round the corner, the church seems to have lent its support to the eco-crusaders. A number of churches in Goa will highlight the need to save the greenery in their Christmas cribs, sending a strong message to the local community. “Our theme will show the baby Jesus in a tree that’s crying for life. We are going to pose questions about double tracking and coal transportation through this. We will show some of the ill effects of these projects in Goa,” says Fr Ramiro Luis, of St Anthony’s Church in Vagator. He adds, “I believe that the liturgy cannot be dissociated from what is going on around us. Today trees, animals and birds are hurt, and in this hurt, I see God being hurt.” “We will go beyond a traditional crib this year and our theme is ‘Let Jesus be born in Mollem Wildlife Sanctuary’. We are still in the planning stage,” says Fr Bolmax Pereira, of St Francis Xavier’s Church, Chicalim. Fr Roman Rodrigues of St Rita de Cascia Church in Camurlim, Bardez, also has similar ideas, as he plans to introduce the Pope’s Third Encyclical titled ‘Fratelli Tutti’ in the crib. “There are two parts in the crib this year – the encyclical mentions the dark cloud, and I will be using it to depict the Mollem issue, and the other part will show how migrants, needy families and neighbourhoods can be helped.” Other churches, while not focusing on Mollem in particular, will depict the need to protect our greenery in their cribs. Fr Micheal Fernandes, of St Thomas Church, Aldona, says, “We are focusing on saving nature – our Christmas trees are going to be made out of waste bottles. We will be depicting mountains, fields, waterfalls, trees. The process is still on and we are considering putting a map of Mollem in the crib too. The kids in the church will be making posters on saving trees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/save-mollem-finds-echo-in-christmas-cribs-in-goa/articleshow/79727833.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||‘Architecture can be made sustainable, but there’s need for a long-term vision’: Dean D’Cruz||In recent times, there has been a shift away from wanting to spend money on maintaining old homes based on the age-old architecture of Goa. We are witnessing people looking for modern houses which are simple and functional, with sleek designs boasting huge glass windows, and though they look smart, they are inappropriate for Goa’s climate. Architecture can be made sustainable but most people are myopic about it; it needs a long-term vision. They think that putting anything sustainable will cost more money (such as solar panels), but it doesn’t have to be. Sustainability is not about technology alone, but also incorporating craftpersons and preserving local traditions. Sustainability is about continuing from the past into the future and without major changes that are destructive. There is a lack of awareness among people about sustainability.  The smart city project will improve the quality of our cities, but I think they got it wrong, in terms of what their approach for smart city is. There should be a focus to solve the basic problems, it is not all about high-end technology, but about preserving open spaces, looking at ecological concerns of the cities, improving the quality of life in houses. When you look at Panaji – there are nine- 10 floors and they are clustered together, which have poor ventilation. There is no quality of life at all. I think we need to define open spaces for citizens, schools, hospitals, market places within walking distance. This will cut down the traffic issues as fewer vehicles will be plying. In Europe, everything is at walking distance, which means you have a healthier population, reduced need of cars and all the ills that come along with it.In Panaji, one of the biggest issues is parking, and this needs to be sorted. Blocking roads will not help. Various cities are now reducing the width of roads and eliminating cars from the city. We should have more pedestrian zones.  We need to respect the locals, and have a participative planning process so they have a say in what the future will hold for them. Institutes like Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development are working towards understanding village needs in terms of development such as community hall, recreational areas, instead of just building broad roads with fancy streetlights. Dean D’Cruz is an architect from Porvorim who has worked on many sustainable projects||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/architecture-can-be-made-sustainable-but-theres-need-for-a-long-term-vision-dean-dcruz/articleshow/79727935.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||6th C stone inscription refers to Madurai as ‘Sri Seethurai’||TRICHY: Archaeologist have found another name of Madurai, with which the ancient city was known, by deciphering Tamil letters from a stone inscription dated back to 5th-6th century CE near Kudumiyanmalai in Pudukottai district. The four-letter word in a Tamil inscription was recently found on a rocky slope in Kudumiyanmalai by Trichy-based archaeo symbolist T L Subash Chandira Bose. As there are over 120 inscriptions found in Kudumiyanmalai, this new inscription ‘Sri Seethurai’ refers to ‘Sri Madurai’ or ‘Thiru Mathurai’, according to Bose. He said that the ancient Tamil inscriptions refer Mathurai (Madurai) as ‘Mathirai’, which was the capital of Pandya dynasty. Tamil sangam literatures describe this ancient city as ‘Tamil Sangam valarththa Madurai’ – the city that developed Tamil language by forming guild of scholars and poets in the language. “The four-letter word in the inscription can be read as Sri Seethurai (Sri + See+ thu + rai). According Thamizh dictionary, Sri means Thirumagal (Lakshmi) and in Thamizh language the word Thiru is used as honorific. In fact, many names of ancient cities and temples are affixed with Sri or Thiru. The Sri, Shri and Shree are all one and the same and it is a combined form of Thamizh Grandham letter ‘Shi’ and Thamizh life and body letter ‘Ree’,” he said. He said Thamizh dictionary refers ‘Seethu’ as ‘Mathu’. Substantiating his claims, he said an ancient inscription found at Alundur in Pudukottai district refers Mathurai Meenaakshi as Mathupathi. “With these literal and archaeological evidences, the 6-7th century inscription Sri Seethurai refers to Sri Madurai or Thiru Mathurai,” Bose says. Archaeologist C Santhalingam from Pandia Nadu Centre for Historical Research from Madurai termed it an interesting new discovery which adds one more name to Madurai city, adding that Sri Mathurai is the first such reference to Madurai. “There can be more literary evidence and there is need for more research in this area to find similar evidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/6th-c-stone-inscription-refers-to-madurai-as-sri-seethurai/articleshow/79732365.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 15, 2020||Trichy||6th C stone inscription refers to Madurai as ‘Sri Seethurai’||TRICHY: Archaeologist have found another name of Madurai, with which the ancient city was known, by deciphering Tamil letters from a stone inscription dated back to 5th-6th century CE near Kudumiyanmalai in Pudukottai district. The four-letter word in a Tamil inscription was recently found on a rocky slope in Kudumiyanmalai by Trichy-based archaeo symbolist T L Subash Chandira Bose. As there are over 120 inscriptions found in Kudumiyanmalai, this new inscription ‘Sri Seethurai’ refers to ‘Sri Madurai’ or ‘Thiru Mathurai’, according to Bose. He said that the ancient Tamil inscriptions refer Mathurai (Madurai) as ‘Mathirai’, which was the capital of Pandya dynasty. Tamil sangam literatures describe this ancient city as ‘Tamil Sangam valarththa Madurai’ – the city that developed Tamil language by forming guild of scholars and poets in the language. “The four-letter word in the inscription can be read as Sri Seethurai (Sri + See+ thu + rai). According Thamizh dictionary, Sri means Thirumagal (Lakshmi) and in Thamizh language the word Thiru is used as honorific. In fact, many names of ancient cities and temples are affixed with Sri or Thiru. The Sri, Shri and Shree are all one and the same and it is a combined form of Thamizh Grandham letter ‘Shi’ and Thamizh life and body letter ‘Ree’,” he said. He said Thamizh dictionary refers ‘Seethu’ as ‘Mathu’. Substantiating his claims, he said an ancient inscription found at Alundur in Pudukottai district refers Mathurai Meenaakshi as Mathupathi. “With these literal and archaeological evidences, the 6-7th century inscription Sri Seethurai refers to Sri Madurai or Thiru Mathurai,” Bose says. Archaeologist C Santhalingam from Pandia Nadu Centre for Historical Research from Madurai termed it an interesting new discovery which adds one more name to Madurai city, adding that Sri Mathurai is the first such reference to Madurai. “There can be more literary evidence and there is need for more research in this area to find similar evidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6th-c-stone-inscription-refers-to-madurai-as-sri-seethurai/articleshow/79727961.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: No mention of Rajinikanth at marathon AIADMK meeting||CHENNAI: Against the backdrop of actor Rajinikanth’s political entry, the AIADMK leadership on Monday told partymen that they would take care of formation of alliance and they need not worry about anything. The leadership exhorted the cadres to stay united, strive hard to fetch a third consecutive win in the 2021 assembly poll, and hinted at holding its much-anticipated general council and executive committee meeting soon.  Even as chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam announced in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah that the alliance with the BJP will continue, neither the minister nor the party has acknowledged it yet. Uneasiness has swept over the ruling camp ever since Rajinikanth’s announcement that he has decided to take the political plunge. In a meeting of district secretaries, ministers and zonal in charge at the party headquarters on Monday, the AIADMK leadership remained mum on the developments. Both EPS and OPS did not utter a word about the actor nor his political debut.  “Both EPS and OPS told partymen not to worry about the alliance and that they would take care of it. They hinted at continuing in the existing alliance without making any remark on the arrival of actor Rajinikanth,” said a senior leader. Instead, the leaders told the functionaries to focus on staying united and work hard given that their goal was to achieve a majority of the seats (to form the government on their own).  Palaniswami is said to have detailed the achievements of the government and the widespread appreciation from the public for the welfare measures rolled out recently. “The chief minister said there is no anti-incumbency at all in the state. Both leaders said the partymen have more experience in electoral politics and we could succeed this time,” said another leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-mention-of-rajini-at-marathon-aiadmk-meeting/articleshow/79727969.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Workers call off four-day strike, full bus services from today||BENGALURU: Around 15,000 buses of four state transport corporations, off the roads for the past four days because of employees on strike, will resume full-fledged operations on Tuesday morning with the state government and workers ending the stalemate. Transport minister Laxman Savadi announced the strike withdrawal on Monday evening after he gave an undertaking that the government would meet nine of the 10 demands of employees of BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC. “We’re giving three months’ time for the government to keep its word and withdrawing the strike. Bus services will resume as employees will report to work,” said Kodihalli Chandrashekar, the farmers’ leader at the forefront of the employees’ stir. The withdrawal was preceded by high drama on Monday with the issue turning out to be a battle of wits between the Yediyurappa government and Kodihalli Chandrashekar even as commuters scrambled to make alternative travel arrangements. Though Savadi conveyed to protesting employees in the morning that most demands would be met, they insisted that the minister come to Freedom Park where employees were staging a dharna and give an undertaking to that effect in public if the strike had to be withdrawn. Revenue minister R Ashoka called Chandrashekar a “villain” and an outsider misleading transport staff. With employees refusing to announce strike withdrawal, Savadi sent BMTC chief NS Nandiesha Reddy along with a letter agreeing to meet the demands to Chandrashekar. The minister called up Chandrashekar and requested him to withdraw the strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/workers-call-off-4-day-strike-full-bus-services-from-today/articleshow/79727996.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Indian fishermen fleeing Oman intended to surrender: Activist||KANYAKUMARI: Five Indian fishermen who fled from Oman to India and were arrested, did not intend to reach home in hiding but wanted to surrender before the Indian Navy or the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) after entering Indian waters, said general secretary of the South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) Churchil, who is fighting for their cause. The men were lodged in the Nagercoil sub-jail in Kanyakumari district on Monday evening. “They went fishing on December 1 but their boat suffered a technical snag. They asked their employer for help but he did not send them. After remaining stranded in the sea for two days they got help from another fishing boat,” Churchil said. According to him, one of the fishermen S Sahaya Thadeus has experience in repairing boats. Once he fixed the engine on December 4 they decided to flee to India to escape harassment by their employer. Directionless, they headed northward and realised they were near Pakistan when they noticed a few Pakistan fishing vessels. “They sailed south and reached the Lakshadweep, from where they headed to Cochin, Vizhinjam and Muttom. They did not come across the navy or ICG,” he added. The fishermen Stephen, Thadeus, G Joseph Edwin, M Pranjees and S Aldo and were booked under Section 3 (iii) of The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920. Kin of the fishermen and SAFF have appealed to the government to quash the FIR against the fishermen and free them as they only tried to save themselves from their employer. Meanwhile, the marine police said that Bangladeshi national Md Razib Uddin, 29, had no clue he was leaving Oman and that his fellow fishermen were taking him with them to India. He was booked under Section 14(a) (remains in any area in India for a period exceeding the period for which the visa was issued to him) of The Foreigners Act, 1946. Uddin was sent to Chennai to be lodged at the Puzhal Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fishermen-fleeing-oman-intended-to-surrender-activist/articleshow/79727998.cms||M K Ananth
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Distancing norms go for toss as air traffic soars||CHENNAI: As the number of passengers has increased, social distancing measures have gone for a toss inside the terminals at Chennai airport. There seems to be a mismatch between precautions followed inflight and norms adheared to during boarding and disembarking, especially when shuttle buses are used. Often, precautions are taken seriously inflight but not inside the terminals where passengers appear more relaxed and careless during morning peak hours. Sources said that passengers tend to follow the norms at all stages of the departure process. "They try to crowd around ticket counters outside the terminals, at the baggage drop area and also during the boarding process. There are spots marked on the floor to ensure that people stand on them but none follows this. No one listens too," said an airport official. While there is some semblance of order and discipline in the departure terminal, it's chaotic at the arrival terminals. Passengers crowd around the baggage conveyor. In most of the instances, airlines allot more than one flight to a baggage conveyor making more than 200 passengers to crowd around waiting to pick up the bags. As the number of arriving passengers are more than departure, the crowding is more in the arrival terminal. Jacob R, a passenger who arrived from Kochi on Sunday, said, "The safety protocol inflight was excellent. There were announcements and people behaved well. But everything went for a toss when people disembarked. The shuttle bus was packed with passengers. This defeats the whole purpose of following health safety rules inside the aircraft.” He also said, "There was very little scope for maintaining social distance inside the bus as people were standing rubbing shoulders to each others." Rules say that there should be only 15 to 20 passengers in one shuttle bus. This is followed often for departures but not always for arrivals. "People are lowering their guard as lockdown restrictions have been relaxed and life is coming back to normal. That is being reflected at the airport too. Procedures have been tweaked to ensure minimum passenger-staff contact inside the terminals and inflight. The departure process is digital. The airline staff and the security staff follow the rules," said an airline official. The airport now handles more than 20,000 passengers and more than 200flights per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/distancing-norms-go-for-toss-as-air-traffic-soars/articleshow/79728004.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Erode||With 1,141 new Covid cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 8 lakh mark||Chennai: With 1,141 fresh cases on Monday, Tamil Nadu crossed eight lakh Covid positive cases pushing its tally to 8,00,029, even as it continues to be the fourth most affected state after Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Fourteen deaths were recorded on Monday which took cumulative death toll to 11,909. There are 10,039 people still undergoing treatment. Perumbalur reported zero new cases and 29 districts reported zero deaths. While there may be a drop in new cases, Tamil Nadu still has the highest case fatality rate at 1.49% after Maharashtra (2.58%). Karnataka has 1.33% and Andhra Pradesh 0.8%. “The war is not over yet. People should continue to wear masks and maintain social distance. If they have symptoms, they can go to a laboratory in any government hospital to get a free covid test done,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar during an event on Monday. As of Monday morning, Maharashtra reported 18.8 lakh cases, Karnataka 9 lakh and Andhra Pradesh 8.75 lakh. By Monday evening, Chennai topped with 343 new cases followed by Coimbatore (124). Cases were at 61 and below in all other districts. Ten districts, including Thirupathur, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar, reported cases in single digits. With 567 cases, the 11 northern districts reported nearly 50% of the fresh cases in the state. Nine deaths were recorded. The Chennai region, which includes the city and its neighbourhood Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur, reported 484 cases. The 11 districts together continue to report 50% of active cases with 5,090 people still under treatment on Monday. The eight districts in the west reported 348 cases and three deaths. The eight central districts reported 95 cases and zero deaths while the 10 southern districts reported 130 new cases and two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/with-1141-new-covid-cases-tn-crosses-8-lakh-mark/articleshow/79733130.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Salem||With 1,141 new Covid cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 8 lakh mark||Chennai: With 1,141 fresh cases on Monday, Tamil Nadu crossed eight lakh Covid positive cases pushing its tally to 8,00,029, even as it continues to be the fourth most affected state after Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Fourteen deaths were recorded on Monday which took cumulative death toll to 11,909. There are 10,039 people still undergoing treatment. Perumbalur reported zero new cases and 29 districts reported zero deaths. While there may be a drop in new cases, Tamil Nadu still has the highest case fatality rate at 1.49% after Maharashtra (2.58%). Karnataka has 1.33% and Andhra Pradesh 0.8%. “The war is not over yet. People should continue to wear masks and maintain social distance. If they have symptoms, they can go to a laboratory in any government hospital to get a free covid test done,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar during an event on Monday. As of Monday morning, Maharashtra reported 18.8 lakh cases, Karnataka 9 lakh and Andhra Pradesh 8.75 lakh. By Monday evening, Chennai topped with 343 new cases followed by Coimbatore (124). Cases were at 61 and below in all other districts. Ten districts, including Thirupathur, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar, reported cases in single digits. With 567 cases, the 11 northern districts reported nearly 50% of the fresh cases in the state. Nine deaths were recorded. The Chennai region, which includes the city and its neighbourhood Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur, reported 484 cases. The 11 districts together continue to report 50% of active cases with 5,090 people still under treatment on Monday. The eight districts in the west reported 348 cases and three deaths. The eight central districts reported 95 cases and zero deaths while the 10 southern districts reported 130 new cases and two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/with-1141-new-covid-cases-tn-crosses-8-lakh-mark/articleshow/79733132.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||With 1,141 new Covid cases, Tamil Nadu crosses 8 lakh mark||Chennai: With 1,141 fresh cases on Monday, Tamil Nadu crossed eight lakh Covid positive cases pushing its tally to 8,00,029, even as it continues to be the fourth most affected state after Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Fourteen deaths were recorded on Monday which took cumulative death toll to 11,909. There are 10,039 people still undergoing treatment. Perumbalur reported zero new cases and 29 districts reported zero deaths. While there may be a drop in new cases, Tamil Nadu still has the highest case fatality rate at 1.49% after Maharashtra (2.58%). Karnataka has 1.33% and Andhra Pradesh 0.8%. “The war is not over yet. People should continue to wear masks and maintain social distance. If they have symptoms, they can go to a laboratory in any government hospital to get a free covid test done,” said health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar during an event on Monday. As of Monday morning, Maharashtra reported 18.8 lakh cases, Karnataka 9 lakh and Andhra Pradesh 8.75 lakh. By Monday evening, Chennai topped with 343 new cases followed by Coimbatore (124). Cases were at 61 and below in all other districts. Ten districts, including Thirupathur, Kallakurichi, Villupuram, Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar, reported cases in single digits. With 567 cases, the 11 northern districts reported nearly 50% of the fresh cases in the state. Nine deaths were recorded. The Chennai region, which includes the city and its neighbourhood Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur, reported 484 cases. The 11 districts together continue to report 50% of active cases with 5,090 people still under treatment on Monday. The eight districts in the west reported 348 cases and three deaths. The eight central districts reported 95 cases and zero deaths while the 10 southern districts reported 130 new cases and two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-1141-new-covid-cases-tn-crosses-8-lakh-mark/articleshow/79728026.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||DVAC raid discovers Rs 1 crore cash, 1kg gold at official’s Saligramam residence||CHENNAI: Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) officials on Monday raided the office and residence of an office superintendent in the state department of environment and discovered more than 1 crore in cash and 1 kg of gold. The counting of cash at the official’s Saligramam residence was still on at the time of going to press, officials said. Earlier in the day, the agency found 88,500 in unaccounted money from the office superintendent’s office at Saidapet’s Panagal Maligai where all senior environment department officials sit. A DVAC official said the superintendent is only a member of the clerical staff, but influential. “Top Indian Forest Service (IFS) officials were also wary of him. He would threaten to transfer other officials if they did not listen to him,” he said. The superintendent dealt with files pertaining to environmental clearances given to builders and industries. “This makes him a very important person as any proposal or clearance could be rejected if he was not taken care of,” the official said. From the cash seized at his office and residence, DVAC officials are clear that most of the transactions were done through cash. “We are also probing if he is a conduit for other officials,” said another official. Based on the documents and other evidence seized at his residence, DVAC will register a disproportionate assets case against him, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dvac-raid-discovers-1crore-cash-1kg-gold-at-officials-residence/articleshow/79728028.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro marks 34 lakh square feet space for developing parking lots, property||CHENNAI: When the 118.9km metro rail phase-2 network begins operation in the next five years, commuters could easily park their vehicles at stations and use the metro service as Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has identified nearly 34 lakh sq ft of space along the route for parking and property development. While officials believe this will encourage more people to use the transit system when they are up and running, such dedicated spaces for parking and other rental purposes could also generate additional revenue. Construction for the three-corridor phase may begin before mid-2021 and is expected to be ready by 2026. In the detailed project report, CMRL said it has identified tentative sites for parking and property development along the corridors of phase-2. Locations include Madhavaram depot, where 29.4 hectares (32lakh sqft) land has been identified and at least 50% of it is likely to be used for vehicle parking purposes. Other locations include Natesan Park, Alwarthirunagar, Poonamallee bypass, Thirumangalam, Grain Market, St Thomas Mount and Perumbakkam where anywhere between 11,000sqft to 43,000sqft have been identified. “Parking provisions along pedestrian facilities like footpath and feeder systems would encourage more commuters to use the transit system. They could safely park vehicles at the nearest station, walk to the station or rely on feeder connectivity,” the report said. “Dedicated parking provision and property development for the metro are key factors in determining success of a metro system,” it added. However, experts said providing a large parking may only serve a few metrorail commuters and may not encourage others to use the metro train service as it may not be economical or easy to seamlessly shift between private vehicle and public transport on a daily basis. Shreya Gadepalli, south Asia director, Institute for Transportation and Development Policy said operating feeder buses that give metrorail commuters an end-to-end integrated service will attract more passengers to use metro trains, as the ‘park and ride’ concept has proven expensive and ineffective in the past. It was observed that the parking provided by Delhi metro rail is mostly used by outsiders, while local train passengers in Mumbai largely use the public buses to and from the stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-marks-34l-sqft-space-for-developing-parking-lots-property/articleshow/79728032.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Puducherry||Active Covid cases in Puducherry drop to 307||PUDUCHERRY: The number of active Covid-19 cases has dropped to 307 after 50 patients recovered and discharged even as 21 fresh cases were reported in the last 24 hours as of 10am on Monday in the Union territory. Of the 307 patients, 106 are under home isolation and treatment. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum number of active cases with 137 followed by Mahe (110), Karaikal (51) and Yanam (9). The positivity rate of samples (1,981) tested on Monday stood at 1.1%. A 57-year-old man from Oulgaret died of the infection taking the death toll to 620.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/active-cases-in-pondy-drop-to-307/articleshow/79728038.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Veteran art-costume director P Krishnamoorthy dies at 77||CHENNAI: Veteran art-costume director P Krishnamoorthy, who could not find a decent place to display the awards he had won in his lifetime, passed away on Sunday night due to age-related illness. He was 77. A man who loved only art, Krishnamoorthy was least bothered by money. Even though he worked in more than 50 films in many south Indian languages as art director and production-costume designer, he always chose a simple attire: a kurta, pyjama and a cloth bag. But life was harsh. Five years ago, he had to sell the gold medal that he received with the state government’s prestigious Kalaimamani award for meeting the expenses incurred from a heart surgery. Born in Poompuhar in 1943, Krishnamoorthy studied arts at the Government college of Fine Arts, Chennai. It was during this time, he got involved with many writers, theatre artists and film personalities. “Those days, artists always stood alone. But Krishnamoorthy was different. He interacted with writers like Ashokamitran and Jayakanthan, and others in the field of theatre and film. He was the first artist who created such a vibrant collaboration in the city,” said sculptor Chandrasekhar (Chandru as he is known as), former principal of the Government college of Fine Arts and a friend of Krishnamoorthy. Even though Krishnamoorthy interacted with writers and theatre artists, his priority was cinema. Meeting veteran Kannada filmmaker G V Iyer in the late 1960s was a turning point in his life. The result was three remarkable movies: Adi Shankaracharya (1983), Madhavacharya (1986) and Ramanujacharya (1989). “The initial association with Iyer gave him a sturdy base in the field. He never had to look back. And this eventually led him to Malayalam film industry where he made significant contributions,” said Amshan Kumar, a friend and national award-winning filmmaker. Krishnamoorthy’s association with many Malayalam filmmakers produced great movies in the late 1980s, starting from Lenin Rajendran’s “Swathi Thirunal (1987). The result was powerful movies like like “Vaisali” (1988), Oru Vakakkan Veeragatha (1989) and Perumthachan (1991). Krishnamoorthy had a great sense of colour and history, according to noted Malayalam filmmaker Jayaraj, who worked as associated director in “Vaisali” directed by Bharathan. “As an art director, he would always say, ‘don’t worry, I will do it.’ But he did it. I remember Krishnamoorthy finishing a cave painting in the set of ‘Vaisali’ in just ten minutes. It looked exactly like the cave arts of Ajanta. He had a great sense of colour and history,” said Jayaraj. Jayaraj said he would never forget the simplicity, a hall mark of Krishnamoorty’s character. “He never wasted money for sets. He productively used the existing materials on the premises, and that’s was sheer brilliance,” he added. After the success in Malayalam, he worked with Tamil directors like Balu Mahedra (Vanna Vanna Pookkal) and Bharathiraja (Nadodi Thendral) and Gnana Rajasekaran (Bharati). Jayaraj said he knew why Krishnamoorthy went into solitude in the end of his life. “I don’t know why he had a sad end. Whatever be the issue, one thing is sure: no one can replace him,” he said. The last rites were performed in the city on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/veteran-art-costume-director-krishnamoorthy-dies-at-77/articleshow/79728059.cms||M T Saju
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Police quiz father-daughter duo in NEET cheating case||CHENNAI: The Periamet police who sent summons to an MBBS aspirant and her father who tried to secure a medical seat by submitting fake NEET scorecard questioned the due on Monday. Police will soon bring the father-daughter duo to Chennai for questioning. On November 30, Deeksha who had scored only 27 marks in NEET UG 2020 reached the counselling centre in Chennai with her father Balachandran, a desntist. At the centre, she allegedly claimed to be another candidate who had scored 610 and told the authorities that she had not received her call for counselling. She also submitted a rank list with the photo and roll number of herself against 610 marks. After the authorities found her wrongdoing a further probe revealed that the aspirant had forged her scorecard. “They were asked to appear for a probe. Only a detailed inquiry will reveal how she managed to forge or is there a larger network involved," said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-quiz-father-daughter-duo-in-neet-cheating-case/articleshow/79728064.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Kavalan app helps police nab burglar||CHENNAI: A woman hit the SOS button in the Kavalan mobile application and helped police nab a burglar at Nanganallur. Anandhi, 56, an employee of a private firm, found the lock at the main door of her house tampered with when she returned home. Police said as she heard suspicious sounds inside she walked cautiously and found a burglar searching for the valuables. Anandhi who had installed the Kavalan app swiftly acted and she pressed the SOS button in it. Soon a police patrol team responded to the call. The team led by a sub-inspector of police went to Anandhi’s house and nabbed the burglar identified as Nagaraj, 34, a resident of VCO Nagar in Alandur. Based on Anandhi’s complaint, the Adambakkam police registered a case and arrested Nagaraj who was later remanded in prison. Police have collected fingerprints of Nagaraj and sent them to the state crime record bureau (SCRB) for analysis to know if he had been involved in earlier crime incidents. Further investigations are on. Police appreciated Anandhi for her alertness in using the mobile application and helping them nab the burglar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kavalan-app-helps-police-nab-burglar/articleshow/79728078.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Beach cart allotment must be transparent: Madras high court||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has asked the Greater Chennai Corporation to ensure transparency in allotment of 900 smart carts to identified vendors starting from January 2021. The court also warned that it would be constrained to interfere in the matter if transparency is not maintained. A division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice M S Ramesh also made it clear on Monday that unauthorised vendors must be removed from the beach and provided with alternative site. The issue pertains to a PIL moved by Fishermen Car, a fishermen rights organisation, seeking to implement the Murari committee recommendations of high sea fishing. The scope of the PIL was subsequently enlarged to include beautification and proper maintenance of Marina beach and Loop Road. "The corporation has to adopt a transparent method that is reasonable for the vendors by accommodating them in alternative locations in a cooperative manner within three months by causing no hindrance," the bench said. The bench also directed the corporation to file a report as to whether the corporation has completed a survey of all the vendors and provided them with identity cards. Noting that the court would monitor the entire process, the bench said that it would interfere and pass orders if grievances are brought by vendors. Additional advocate-general S R Rajagopal assured the court that the corporation would submit a detailed report on the entire allotment process and the process would be completed by January 6, 2021. He further informed the court that the existing vendors have already expressed interest in and cooperation for the scheme. This apart, the corporation also submitted that the Air Systems, one among the two firms that were allotted the tender to manufacture the smart carts, has opted out. Recording the same, the court approved the corporation’s original order allotting the tender for procurement of 900 carts to A Quad Enterprises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/beach-cart-allotment-must-be-transparent/articleshow/79728080.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Was divide & rule tactic used to break employees’ unity?||BENGALURU: A desperate government used every trick to end the transport corporation workers’ strike. A team led by revenue minister R Ashoka reportedly tried to break the protesters’ unity on Sunday by playing the caste card. “Had the farmer’s demands been accepted, they would have showered the chief minister with flowers. But some people in the government used the divide & rule policy to break our unity on caste lines,’’ alleged a union leader, who led the protest along with Kodihalli Chandrashekar. According to sources, some ministers led by Ashoka tried to woo a section of KSRTC employees union office bearers, especially Vokkaligas, to withdraw the strike. Ashoka met a group of KSRTC employees for almost three hours late Sunday night. “A sizeable number of Vokkaliga leaders and members were part of the strike over the past three days,” said an official. The divide & rule strategy was used after employees refused to withdraw the strike even after the government agreed to meet all demands except for giving them status of government employees. The ministers were furious at the U-turn by employees. According to sources, the policy worked to the extent that the majority of KSRTC employees were back at work in districts, if not Bengaluru. Sensing the government’s ploy, farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar softened his stand by Monday morning, claiming the strike couldn’t continue forever as people were inconvenienced. He demanded the government give all assurances in writing. The other strategy was to accuse Chandrashekar of hijacking the strike for personal interest. While ministers dubbed him a ‘Congress stooge’, some called him a “dubious farmers leader’’. “The workers are stuck in the hands of a man who has no understanding of their issues. Normally, a strike is withdrawn when 50% of demands are met. We agreed to nine out of 10 demands! Nobody with humanity would do this, but Chandrashekar. So, God bless him,” Ashoka said. Health minister K Sudhakar, in a tweet, questioned Chandrashekhar’s credentials and asked if he was aware of the sector and its workers’ problems. BJP national general secretary CT Ravi hinted that Chandrashekar was a political decoy. “The dream of some leaders who are using Kodi ‘huli’ (sour in Kannada) to return to power will remain just a dream,” he said. “Chandrashekar is a man with a double-tongue. He divided workers’ union. Everyone should be careful. He’s getting outside support to do this,’’ said cooperation minister ST Somashekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/was-divide-rule-tactic-used-to-break-employees-unity/articleshow/79728112.cms||Anil Gejji
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Assurances likely to drain Karnataka exchequer||BENGALURU: While the striking state transport corporation employees relented after written assurances from deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi, the burden will now fall on the state exchequer. From paying for cashless health insurance, extended only to government employees, to providing an “equivalent” of the Sixth Pay Commission, the state government will have to shell out crores of rupees for 1.3 lakh employees of the four transport corporations. CMO sources and government officials said that besides the larger issue of considering transport staffers as government employees, one sticking point was regarding a Kannada word indicating the health insurance scheme. “The striking employees first wanted the insertion of the word ‘Arogya Bhagya’ and later demanded it be ‘Arogya Sanjeevini’. We were baffled as to why this change was sought,” said a CMO official. However, it later came to light that they wanted to ensure the government added them under the Arogya Sanjeevini scheme, which is primarily a cashless insurance scheme that is given to only government employees. Arogya Bhagya, on the other hand, is an insurance scheme with a cap on the coverage for APL and BPL families. In fact, according to government sources, the finance department had earlier rejected the demand that the entire workforce (from the four transport corporations) be moved under the Arogya Sanjeevini scheme. “We were told that the cost of adding them to the government health scheme was too high and would hurt the government in times of a pandemic,” said a senior transport department official. Meanwhile, in reducing the probationary period of every new driver or conductor hired by the corporations, the government will be increasing the long-term wages of every new recruit. “The wages and pay scale will see a substantial hike with every probationer being made permanent after a year. He or she will literally earn double the probationary period salary and have a better pay pack by the time of retirement,” said the official. But the biggest challenge facing the government is fulfilling the demand to bring transport staffers under the Sixth Pay Commission. According to government officials, the four transport corporations are considered state transport undertakings as per the central act of 1950 and all wages have to be disbursed under the Industrial Disputes Act, with revisions once in four years. “This year too, the revision was scheduled to happen from January 1, but due to Covid-19, the process wasn’t completed. What we have assured the workers is that we will consider the Sixth Pay Commission as the premise and provide an equivalent salary component, if possible,” said the government official. “There is no immediate estimation of the financial burden on the state government. Sixth Pay Commission details will have to be studied before we can arrive at a conclusion on how much will be the financial burden,” said deputy CM and transport minister Laxman Savadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/assurances-likely-to-drain-state-exchequer/articleshow/79728118.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Farmer leader who steered agitation||BENGALURU: Employees of state transport corporations have found an unlikely hero in a farmer leader, who successfully led their protest to jolt the public transport administration and the government into action. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) president Kodihalli Chandrashekar, who had not seen much success in the recent agitation against farm bills, triggered a panic wave when he was asked to lead the transport employees’ strike to draw attention of the authorities to their long-standing concerns. The effect of his call for defiance was so instantaneous that more than 30,000 employees left their work and resorted to a strike. Finally, the government on Monday agreed to nine of the 10 demands, which Chandrashekar even forced the former to give in writing. Sources say transport employees were facing a leadership crisis and wanted a prominent face to take up their cause, and now they have found a new leader who they can rely on. When some of their union leaders sought Chandrashekar’s help, he readily agreed.  “Chandrashekar will continue to lead our future agitations. We never expected the government to pay heed to our demands. We also had not anticipated our workers would back us the way they did. It is all because of this one man,” said a transport corporation workers’ union leader. Chandrashekar, 50, hails from Arsikere in Hassan district and is an ardent supporter of late scholar-activist MD Nanjundaswamy, who was among the founders of KRRS, which opposed the corporatisation of agriculture and the entry of multinational corporations into India in the 80s and 90s. When Nanjundaswamy floated Hasiru Sene (Green Brigade), a young Chandrashekar was asked to spearhead it. Since then, there has been no looking back for him. When the influence of KRRS began to wane, Chandrashekar took the political plunge. He unsuccessfully contested two elections — the Hassan Lok Sabha seat in 2009 and Hassan assembly constituency in 2013. In 2013, Chandrashekar headed the Praja Pragathi Ranga (PPR), an umbrella outfit of 16 progressive organisations, and the party contested over 100 assembly constituencies, but without success. Chandrashekar, a close relative of Narayana Gowda, president of Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, was at one time accused of getting close to Vokkaliga leaders, who were in power and acting as their pawn. In the transport strike too, he is said to have had the backing of KPCC president DK Shivakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/farmer-leader-who-steered-agitation/articleshow/79728121.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP to set up separate entity for waste management||BENGALURU: With the garbage burden increasing, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will submit a proposal to the government to form a separate board/entity for solid waste management in the city. The entity, an arm of the Palike, will prevent co-ordination problems the civic body faces with respect to other agencies involved in governance like BWSSB and Bescom. Sources in BBMP said it is spending a lot — Rs 1,000 crore — on waste management, which is only hindering its ability to build infrastructure across the city. The agency is getting only Rs 50 crore annually in form of tax for handling waste every year. N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, said the new body will be formed to look into waste segregation alone. “Waste is a huge thing and it’s becoming very challenging for the Palike to monitor it. We would like to have a separate body for the purpose,” he said. The BBMP’s solid waste management cell collects waste from 29 lakh households with the help of 4,646 auto-tippers and 593 compactors. It has 27 mechanical sweepers and 587 mustering locations. “With increasing population, the waste burden is also rising. BBMP is spending a lot of time and money on handling it, while other projects are taking a back seat,” admitted a senior official. ‘A welcome move’Sandhya, a member of solid waste management round table (SWMRT), said creating a special purpose vehicle for SWM is a welcome move as it will facilitate creating a better administrative structure for responsive decision-making, speedy implementation of SWM infrastructure projects and better financial management. “It will have its own experts to manage waste plants more efficiently,” Prasad said. He added CM BS Yediyurappa had suggested better management of waste. “Details of the entity will be revealed in a month,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-to-set-up-separate-entity-for-waste-mgmt/articleshow/79728122.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Bus strike causes loss of Rs 45 crore||BENGALURU: The four-day bus employees’ strike, which ended on Monday evening, not only put commuters to hardship but also caused losses to the tune of Rs 45 crore to the state exchequer. A report to this effect was reportedly submitted by transport minister Laxman Savadi to chief minister BS Yediyurappa. Though Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated a few schedules under police protection for the past two days, sources in these corporations maintain the strike has badly hit the cash-strapped corporations. BMTC officials said they suffered a loss of around Rs 9 crore due to cancellation of services since Friday. “The average daily passenger revenue is Rs 2.6 crore. In addition to the three-day passenger revenue, around 20 buses were damaged due to stone pelting by protesters” said a BMTC official. KSRTC suffered revenue loss of around Rs 21 crore due to cancellation of services and 44 of its buses were damaged due to stone pelting. “All bus corporations are facing severe financial crunch due to Covid. For the first time, the state government has given Rs 1,782 crore from April to November 2020 to all four corporations to pay salaries. In 2016, salaries of employees were increased by 12.5% and the next revision is due in January 2021. They should have waited till then to protest. But they staged a flash strike without prior notice. They are not even a recognised union but managed to halt operations with the help of outsiders,” said a senior KSRTC official. The strike has taken a heavy toll on ordinary commuters, who had to pay hefty amounts to taxis and autorickshaws. By 8pm Monday, 1,649 KSRTC buses, 1,675 BMTC buses, 1,226 NEKRTC buses and 1,263 NWKRTC buses had resumed operations. “BMTC is the city’s lifeline but this strike was unexpected. The government should ensure that employees don’t disrupt public transport services without notice,” said K Uma, a passenger at Majestic bus stand. Sources say it’s a wake-up call for state transport undertakings as they can no longer take employees for granted. Employees are unhappy with the KSRTC Staff and Workers’ Federation affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), which is not in favour of making transport staff government employees. Only a few employees turned up for duty on Monday morning even after AITUC urged its members to resume work. “AITUC is in deep slumber. They failed to take up our demands or stage protests for us when salaries were delayed or we faced harassment at depots. So we approached farmer leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar who helped us to conduct a rally and stage a hunger strike. He filled the gap of a leader even though he is not from the transport sector,” said another employee. Vinay Sreenivasa, Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike (BBPV), a passenger forum, said: “While this issue of payment of salaries and benefits to transport employees may seem like an outcome of the current economic crisis, it’s not the case. In the past too, many times, corporations have delayed salary payments, delayed paying workers’ insurance premiums and PF due to lack of funds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bus-strike-causes-loss-of-45cr/articleshow/79728124.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 15, 2020||India||Raise farmers issue with Modi: 8-year-old British Indian girl writes to Johnson||LONDON: Eight-year-old Ashleen Kaur Gill has sent a handwritten letter to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying that Indian farmers are killing themselves. She urged him to stand up for them like Canadian PM Justin Trudeau has done and take up their cause with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Ashleen, who lives in Windsor and whose family comes from Chuhar Chak in Moga, Punjab, went on Sunday to 10 Downing Street to deliver her letter, but was not allowed past the security gates. She then posted it from a post box. She wrote: "Do you know this is important to millions around the world? I don’t think you do, because you think it is an issue between India and Pakistan. “This is the biggest human rights protest and yet you stay silent. Canadian PM Trudeau has shown support, so why can’t you? I have researched what a prime minister is and a prime minister is a leader responsible for policy and decisions. So, why are you not leading? My ancestors were all farmers and without them, I would not have the life I have today. Another child in India will have to worry about eating or whether they can go to school,” her letter said. “This is bigger than you and me. It is not about money or looking good in front of people. We need you, as British citizens, to help support the farmers,” it added. “Their hard work in harvesting and farming is now in the hands of the Indian government which will decide how much crops sell for and how farmers’ fees will be capped. Farmers’ hard work is what feeds us and now they won't be able to feed themselves. People are killing themselves. They are protesting peacefully and the police and army are attacking them in India. Why?” Her father Jagdeep Singh, 38, who works in the construction sector, told TOI: “We have farming in our DNA like most of the people who support the kisans. We know of so many people in Punjab who have committed suicide because so much pressure is put on them. We all have family in Punjab. So, Boris has a duty to speak on our behalf to Narendra Modi. We are standing up for Sikhs, Hindus, Muslims, Christians - all the farmers across India that are impacted by this." His mother’s siblings, who are from Jaladiwal in Ludhiana, have been on the kisan protest in Delhi since November 27. British primary schools have also taken up the farmers’ cause. The principal of Khalsa Primary School in Slough, Raminder Singh Vig, has sent a letter to parents saying the school is speaking to children about the protests, creating posters and a social media campaign. “International attention and awareness will apply pressure on the Indian government. If there are no farmers, there is no food. This is a human rights issue,” the letter stated. Samraaj Singh Dulai, a pupil at Park Hall Junior Academy, a school for seven to 11 year-olds in Walsall, has published an article in the school’s newsletter saying: “I am the grandson of a farmer. In Delhi, the world’s largest protest in history is happening, yet it isn’t even being covered by the media. The new laws mean farmers will not have any rights over their own land, they will be restricted who they can sell too and there won’t be a minimum price they will get.” Harleen Kaur, a class 6 pupil at Grove Vale Primary School in Birmingham, has written a letter to parents asking them to dress children in yellow or green on December 15 to represent farmers in India. The letter said: “Farmers will have no choice but to engage with large companies and governments such as the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) and sign agreements before the crops are fully grown or ready to be harvested. This means they will no longer be able to sell to smaller companies and will be left with hardly any income.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/raise-farmers-issue-with-modi-8-year-old-british-indian-girl-writes-to-johnson/articleshow/79728677.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 15, 2020||India||Hurriyat elects ailing Geelani's press aide as his acting deputy||SRINAGAR: The separatist All Parties Hurriyat Conference, led by the ailing Syed Ali Shah Geelani, has elected his chief spokesperson Ghulam Ahmad Gulzar as acting vice-chairman of the organisation's Kashmir chapter and reposed faith in Pakistan-based Abdullah Geelani as the Hurriyat chairman in PoK. Gulzar, a native of Kreeri Pattan in Baramulla district, was with Abdul Gani Lone’s J&K People's Conference till he fell out with his sons Sajad and Bilal after their father's assassination by terrorists in 2002. He joined Syed Geelani's Hurriyat soon after. In a statement after being elected acting vice-chairman of the outfit, Srinagar-based Gulzar said the Hurriyat conglomerate would "continue the ongoing just struggle to secure their right to self-determination" and reiterated the resolve of Kashmiris to do whatever it takes to achieve that goal. Gulzar praised Pakistan for "efforts on the political and diplomatic fronts" to arrive at "a just resolution of the Kashmir dispute". Sources said Ali Shah Geelani pushing for Gulzar as acting vice-chairman over his confidant Ashraf Sehrai wasn't quite expected. In the internal election on December 5, Gulzar got seven votes while the other two contenders — Bilal Siddiqi and Aga Syed Hassan — received three votes each. While Abdullah Geelani's nomination as the senior Geelani's successor last year hadn't gone down well with the patriarch, the Hurriyat think tank's choice had Pakistan's endorsement. Ali Shah Geelani had then criticised the appointment. Early this year, he issued a clarification that Abdullah Geelani only represented the Pakistan chapter of Hurriyat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hurriyat-elects-ailing-geelanis-press-aide-as-his-acting-deputy/articleshow/79728733.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 15, 2020||India||PDP neta’s PSO shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar||SRINAGAR: The personal security officer (PSO) of PDP functionary Haji Parvaiz Ahmad was shot dead by terrorists outside the neta’s residence at Natipora, Srinagar, early Monday. Parvaiz said this was the second attack on him since 2009, blaming the police for not providing adequate security cover — an allegation J&K DGP Dilbag Singh denied, stating that Parvaiz regularly violated security advisories. PSO Manzoor Ahmed, a selection-grade constable, was returning from a grocery shop after buying milk when terrorists opened fire at him, leaving him critically wounded. He was rushed to Bone and Joint hospital with stomach injuries where he succumbed during treatment, police said. Security forces subsequently launched a massive search in the area to trace the perpetrators. Parvaiz said, “My security cover was trimmed to a large extent though I constantly face threats. I’ve been repeatedly demanding protection and they are cutting it down instead. I don’t know why they (BJP) are so afraid of PDP.” PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti alleged the J&K administration has left the opposition leaders in a lurch by downgrading their security. Refuting the same, DGP Singh said, “Police asked Parvaiz to shift from Natipora, a congested locality prone to terror attacks, to an area with better security but he never paid heed to our suggestions. We reviewed his security and found a need for one PSO, but two were provided.” Speaking at the wreath-laying ceremony of the slain PSO at District Police Lines, Srinagar, DGP Singh said Monday’s attack was an attempt to disrupt the ongoing DDC polls which have been going on peacefully, adding that police have clues about the attackers and they will soon be brought to book. He cited Sunday’s encounter in Poonch — in which two Lashkar ultras from Pakistan were killed — as proof of Pakistan’s motive to stir unrest in J&K and affect the election. J&K Police on Monday shared a video of the operation on its Twitter page, stating: “Look at the difficult site where police led by district SSP, Army unit climbed and operated yesterday and neutralised two Pakistani terrorists of Lashker-i-Toiba. (sic)” “Elaborate security arrangements are in place but we can’t put the movement of people to a complete halt while ensuring a grassroots-level exercise. In between, there is a discreet movement of some anti-national elements as well,” the DGP said, adding that attacks on politicians are possible despite adequate security cover. “BJP slain youth leader Waseem Bari had 10 PSOs but still got killed,” he added. (with inputs from Sanjay Khajuria)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pdp-netas-pso-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-srinagar/articleshow/79728824.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 15, 2020||India||Vaccination: Order for 351mn more syringes soon||BENGALURU: As part of its vaccine roll out plan, the Centre has initiated the process to procure an additional 351 million pieces of syringes from more than one firm, tender documents reviewed by TOI shows. As reported earlier the government has already placed orders for 230 million pieces and orders for another 100 million pieces are in the final stages of being placed. The tender issued by the central medical services society (CMSS), under the ministry of health and family welfare (MoH&FW) is for “0.5ml auto disable syringe for fixed dose immunization with fixed needle,” and the estimated cost of the bid is Rs 65.7 crore. The additional 351 million pieces will take the total number of syringes being procured for Covid vaccination to more than 600 million pieces, in line with the demand to vaccinate 300 million people — two doses each — in the first few phases of vaccination. As per the tender called on December 11, the government has set short delivery targets for the procurement, which will happen in four batches of 87.8 million pieces each. The first batch is expected to be delivered 60 days after the order has been placed and the last batch within 150 days. According to more than one industry representative, this is the first fresh tender being issued for syringes for Covid. “The earlier orders were placed as an extension of existing contracts between firms and the ministry, and the devices were being supplied at old rates,” one of them said. Sandeep Bhandari, vice-president, Iscon Surgicals, which has already shipped out 20 million syringes out of the 52.2 million pieces it has orders for, said: “Order for another 100 million that we’ll soon be getting is also part of the old contract we have. We will be bidding for the new tender issued by the government as there is enough capacity to fulfil existing orders.” Bhandari and other industry players had last week pointed out that raw material cost has shot up by around 40% in the past few months and had urged the government to clear invoices early, besides issuing timely dispatch instructions. Now, as per the new tender, companies are expected to be paid within 90 days of the procurement. “With the pre-bid meetings scheduled in the next couple of days and bids expected to be opened by month-end, orders are likely to be placed by early January, which means these syringes will start landing at government depots by the end of February,” one person in the know said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-order-for-351mn-more-syringes-soon/articleshow/79728930.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 15, 2020||World||US Electoral College votes, taking Biden closer to White House||LANSING: US President-elect Joe Biden took another step closer to the White House as key states in the Electoral College system formally confirmed his November 3 election victory on Monday, effectively ending President Donald Trump's long-shot attempt to overturn the results. The state-by-state Electoral College votes, traditionally an afterthought, have taken on outsized significance because of Trump's unsubstantiated claims of widespread fraud. Election results from November show Biden, the Democratic former vice president, won 306 Electoral College votes - exceeding the 270 needed to win - after four tumultuous years under the Republican Trump. Biden and running mate Kamala Harris are due to take office on Jan. 20. There is next to no chance that Monday's voting will negate Biden's victory and, with Trump's legal campaign to reverse the results floundering, the president's hopes of clinging to power will rest with a special meeting of the US Congress on January 6 where the odds against him are as good as insurmountable. At 78 the oldest person to become US president, Biden was due to make a speech at 8 p.m. ET on Monday (0100 GMT Tuesday) about the Electoral College "and the strength and resilience of our democracy," his transition team said in a statement. Electoral College members in Georgia, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin voted for Biden on Monday, confirming his victory in the battleground states that Trump had unsuccessfully tried to challenge in court. Electors in Arizona, which Trump lost this year after winning there in 2016, cast the state's 11 votes for Biden. "While there will be those who are upset their candidate didn't win, it is patently un-American and unacceptable that today's event should be anything less than an honored tradition held with pride and in celebration," Arizona Secretary of State Katie Hobbs said at the vote. Hobbs, a Democrat, said Trump's claims of voter fraud had "led to threats of violence against me, my office, and those in this room today," echoing similar reports of threats and intimidation in other states. Under a complicated system dating back to the 1780s, a candidate becomes US president not by winning a majority of the popular vote but through the Electoral College system, which allots electoral votes to the 50 states and the District of Columbia largely based on the size of their population. Electors are typically party loyalists who represent the winning candidate in their state, with the exception of Maine and Nebraska, which give some of their Electoral College votes to the presidential candidate who won in the state's congressional districts. While there are sometimes a handful of "rogue" electors who vote for someone other than the winner of their state's popular vote, the vast majority rubber-stamp the results, and officials did not expect anything different on Monday. Trump said late last month he would leave the White House if the Electoral College voted for Biden, but has since pressed on with his unprecedented campaign to overturn his defeat, filing without success numerous lawsuits challenging state vote counts. On Monday, he repeated a series of unsupported claims of electoral fraud. "Swing States that have found massive VOTER FRAUD, which is all of them, CANNOT LEGALLY CERTIFY these votes as complete & correct without committing a severely punishable crime," he wrote on Twitter. MICHIGAN MUTEDA group of Trump supporters called on Facebook for protests all day on Monday outside the state Capitol in Lansing, Michigan, one of the hardest-fought states where Trump lost. But by early afternoon only a handful had gathered, including Bob Ray, 66, a retired construction worker. He held a sign that read: “order a forensic audit,” “save America” and “stop communism.” Trump has called on Republican state legislators to appoint their own electors, essentially ignoring the will of the voters. State lawmakers have largely dismissed the idea. "I fought hard for President Trump. Nobody wanted him to win more than me," Lee Chatfield, Republican speaker of the Michigan House of Representatives, said in a statement. "But I love our republic, too. I can't fathom risking our norms, traditions and institutions to pass a resolution retroactively changing the electors for Trump." Once the Electoral College vote is complete, Trump's sole remaining gambit would be to persuade Congress not to certify the count on January 6. Any attempt to block a state’s results, and thus change the overall US tally, must pass in both chambers of Congress that day. Republicans would very likely fail to stop Biden taking office as planned on Jan. 20 because Democrats control the House of Representatives and several Republican senators have acknowledged Biden's victory. In 2016, Trump won the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote to Democrat Hillary Clinton by nearly 3 million votes. The formal vote earned extra attention when some Democratic activists called for electors to "go rogue" against Trump. In the end, seven electors broke ranks, an unusually high number but still far too few to sway the outcome. Once in the Oval Office, Biden faces the challenging task of fighting the coronavirus pandemic, reviving the US economy and rebuilding relations frayed with US allies abroad by Trump's "America First" policies. Even if Monday's vote runs smoothly, Trump's efforts - such as encouraging state legislatures to appoint their own sets of "dueling" electors - have exposed the potential flaws in the system, said Robert Alexander, a professor at Ohio Northern University who has written a book about the Electoral College. "There are a lot of land mines in the Electoral College, and this election really revealed a lot of them," he said. While the electoral votes normally involve some pomp and circumstance, most events this year were significantly scaled back due to the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-electoral-college-votes-taking-biden-closer-to-white-house/articleshow/79729338.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||Farmers protests intensify across several states||NEW DELHI: Farm unions intensified their ongoing agitation in several parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on Monday by sitting on fast and organising demonstrations, triggering traffic snarls that lasted for several hours in some places, particularly paralysing transport on NH-8, the main link between Rajasthan and Delhi. In Punjab and Haryana, farmers held demonstrations and gherao at the offices of deputy commissioner in district headquarters with a large number of protesters turning up in tractor trolleys. In Rajasthan, most of the state roadways buses as well as trucks bound for Delhi, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and J&K and even some parts of Uttar Pradesh remained stranded for the second consecutive day as the Jaipur-Delhi NH-8 remained sealed near Shah Jahanpur in Haryana due to the protest. Cabs and private bus operators also did not operate their vehicles to Delhi. At least 20 RSRTC buses to Delhi alone were cancelled as were many more buses to Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Jammu. In Haryana’s Jind, women and members of khaps and social organisations turned up for a rally of around 1,000 vehicles that was taken out to lay siege to the DC’s office. In Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa, a large number of farmers, including women, sat on hunger strike outside the DC offices. In Karnal, farmers, along with members of the opposition Congress and INLD took out a protest march. Dharnas were also held outside the district headquarters in Karnal, Panipat, Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar. At all places, farmers gave memorandum addressed to the PM, demanding the repeal of the three central laws. Activists and farmers’ supporters in Punjab braved the cold weather to gather in large numbers outside the DC offices and at several spots of ongoing protests, including railway parks, Reliance group shopping malls and petrol stations and near the houses of BJP leaders. In Madhya Pradesh, protests were held at several places amid rain and fog, expressing solidarity with the farmers at the Delhi borders. Among those who participated in the protests were activists of Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, headed by Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka ji, one of the farmers’ representatives holding negotiations with the Centre in Delhi. In Uttar Pradesh, farmers’ organisations took out protest marches in several districts across the state. While several farmer leaders, including BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, sat on a day-long hunger strike from 8am to 5pm, the protesters at UP Gate in Ghaziabad have decided to block the whole of Delhi-Meerut Expressway and NH-9 if their counterparts from neighbouring districts are stopped anywhere from moving towards the Ghazipur border. “Police are harassing the farmers. Their tractors and trolleys are being seized,” said Tikait. Watch Farmers’ stir: Protests intensify across several states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protests-intensify-across-several-states/articleshow/79729897.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||Republic’s TRPs high from 1st month, used to get revenue: Cops||MUMBAI: A forensic audit into ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd’s accounts showed TRPs (TV rating points) and viewership of its Hindi channel, Republic Bharat, were high from the very first month of its launch in 2016, police probing the TRP manipulation scam said. Increased TRP resulted in giving ARG Outlier Media (the company which owns Republic TV and Republic Bharat) the leverage to bargain for higher revenue. It also “valued its share at a high premium by projecting high revenues for future years,” the report said. The CCPS (compulsory convertible preference shares) of face value of Rs 10 each were valued at a premium of Rs 12,990 in 2016 before launch of the channel, Rs 32,813 in November 2018 and Rs 36,560 in December 2019, officials quoting the report said. CCPS are allotted to investors and converted into ordinary shares after a predetermined date based on company’s performance. ARG indulged in artificially increasing its share value and collecting investments and routing some of these funds to purchase its own shares through its parent company at 300% higher value. Police said they will add this forensic auditing report while filing the supplementary chargesheet soon. The crime branch is probing the role of Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow channel for inflating viewership figures, which media-buying houses consider before placing advertisements. The channels are accused of paying money to households to keep their shows on. Police on Monday recorded statements of four cable operators from Sangli, Nashik and Kolhapur. In the 1,400-page chargesheet filed last month, police had said the channel’s distribution head, Ghanshyam Singh, in connivance with cable operators and multi-system operators, managed to run Republic TV on dual frequencies in violation of Television Regulatory Authority of India norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republics-trps-high-from-1st-month-used-to-get-revenue-cops/articleshow/79730429.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 15, 2020||India||Nadda convoy attack: West Bengal chief secretary, DGP ignore MHA summons||KOLKATA: West Bengal’s defiance of central directives continued on Monday as both chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and DGP Virendra didn’t turn up for a meeting on law and order in the state with Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla in Delhi. Senior officials said the state was still to get a response from the Centre to its two letters — one on the summons to the chief secretary and DGP and the other on central deputation for three Bengal cadre IPS officers, reports Debasish Konar. The Union home ministry had last week directed the chief secretary and the state police chief to meet Bhalla in his office on Monday. The Union home ministry had last week directed the chief secretary and the state police chief to meet home secretary Ajay Bhalla in his office on Monday to discuss law and order against the backdrop of three attacks on BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy. A day later, the Centre directed that three IPS officers posted in the state — South Bengal IGP Rajeev Mishra, Presidency range DIG Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Diamond Harbour SP Bholanath Pandey — be sent to Delhi on central deputation. Responding to the summons to him and DGP Virendra for the meeting in Delhi, chief secretary Bandyopadhyay had requested that their “attendance” be “dispensed with” as the state government was “already” addressing the situation in the wake of the attacks on Nadda’s convoy and that several people had been arrested. The Bengal government then, in another letter, intimated the Centre of its inability to release the three police officers for central deputation, citing the still continuing fight against the pandemic as a reason. As the state government claimed to await responses from the Centre, Bandyopadhyay and Virendra stayed put in Bengal and went about their “routine work”, officials said. The state government is exploring legal avenues on the communication regarding the three IPS officers, the officials added, implying there was no possibility of their release on Tuesday (as requisitioned by the Centre).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nadda-convoy-attack-west-bengal-chief-secretary-dgp-ignore-mha-summons/articleshow/79730494.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ministerial berth unlikely for Nand Kishore Yadav & Prem Kumar||PATNA: Five former BJP ministers, including two senior-most MLAs, are virtually out of race for ministerial berths in Nitish cabinet as they have been made chairpersons of various House committees of the state assembly. The two senior-most BJP MLAs who have little chances of getting the ministerial berth are Nand Kishore Yadav (seven-time MLA from Patna Saheb) and Prem Kumar (eight-time MLA from Gaya town). The three other ministerial aspirants who may not figure in the party’s ministerial list are Ram Narayan Mandal, Vinod Narayan Jha and Krishna Kumar Rishi. Similarly, the JD(U) has also put its ministerial aspirants Hari Narayan Singh, Narendra Narayan Yadav and Damodar Raut out of reckoning for now, as they have also been made chairpersons of other House committees concerned of the assembly. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi from the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) will head the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe welfare committee. The BJP had earlier given ministerial berth to six new faces, including two deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi. Health minister Mangal Pandey was the only old hat. State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Monday announced the names of MLAs from across political parties selected to head 22 House panels. Surendra Yadav from the RJD will head the crucial Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and former minister Tej Pratap Yadav (Lalu Prasad's elder son) has been made head of the non-government resolutions committee. Nand Kishore has been made chairperson of the estimate committee and Prem Kumar will head the petition committee. Hari Narayan Singh from the JD(U) has been made the chairman of the public enterprises committee. As per the Speaker’s note, the tenure of the PAC, estimate committee and public enterprises committee will be till March 31, 2022, while that of the 19 other committees till March 31 next year. Among the notable others, former minister Ram Narayan Mandal will head the committee for ethics, Narendra Narayan Yadav for zila parishad and panchayati raj, Raut the assurance committee and Bhai Birendra from the RJD will head the heritage development committee. Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma has been made chairman of the committee for the transferred bills, Vinod Narayan Jha (petitions committee), Rishi (committee for agriculture and industry) and Sudama Prasad from the CPI(ML) will head the library committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ministerial-berth-unlikely-for-nand-kishore-prem/articleshow/79726701.cms||Abhay Singh
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Swasthya Sathi’s low onco-op rates may lead to refusals: Private hospitals||KOLKATA: Cancer treatment and surgeries could turn out to be a stumbling block for patients under the new Swasthya Sathi scheme being rolled out unless the existing rates are revised to make them feasible, said private hospitals and doctors. Admission and procedures could be delayed or refused at most facilities rendering the scheme futile and quality of treatment could suffer if hospitals were forced to accept patients at ‘unrealistically low rates’, doctors feared. Under the existing Swasthya Sathi scheme, rates for the most common cancer surgeries are about seven-eight times lower than what an average private hospital charges. This often led to refusals, which could now rise manifold since the new scheme has been extended to all Bengal residents. “The charges for some procedures are absurdly low, which don’t allow hospitals to pay the surgeon and the anaesthetist a decent fee. That apart, there are operation theatre expenses, consumables and other essentials, like oxygen, that can’t be provided at these prices. So, hospitals will continue to stonewall these patients unless the rates are revised,” said Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research professor Diptendra Sarkar. The difference in rates is wide. While a bone tumour excision and reconstruction surgery, for instance, has a ceiling of Rs 62,000 under the package, it costs Rs 2,50,000 at most private hospitals. A hemipelvectomy — which is a 10-hour onco-procedure to remove portions of the pelvic girdle — costs Rs 3,30,000 at an average private hospital while Swasthya Sathi allows just Rs 55,000. An onco-surgeon with a government hospital said that he refuses Swasthya Sathi procedures at a private facility with which he has been associated for two decades. “The rates don’t cover even 15% of the cost of the surgery. If I agree to procedures under the scheme, my earnings will dip drastically along with many of my colleagues,” the surgeon said. Veteran oncologist Subir Ganguly feared refusals could now rise, which will be disastrous for cancer patients, many of whom have deferred treatment in the post-Covid period. “Even chemotherapy and radiotherapy rates are low under Swasthya Sathi and these patients will now be pushed back. We need to have a more realistic rate,” said Ganguly. He, however, added that rates for some surgeries, like for gastro-intestinal cancer, were reasonable. “The existing rates don’t cover our cost. If necessary, the government should chip in with subsidy,” said Medica Superspecialty Hospital chairperson Alok Roy. “If the rates don’t change, we will approach the government seeking a revision,” said another private hospital chief. Some hospitals pointed out that a ‘special rate’ has been allowed to a city cancer hospital under the West Bengal Health Service scheme. “It is great to see that specialized therapies, like oncology, are receiving special rates under WBHS. However, we would welcome any move which would include all tertiary care cancer centres under this scheme,” said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) zonal director R Venkatesh. A committee of stakeholders should be formed to draw up a realistic rate, felt Sarkar. “Instead of just the government fixing the package rates, we must have representatives of private hospitals, insurance companies, doctors and the government to arrive at a more acceptable rate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-sathis-low-onco-op-rates-may-lead-to-refusals-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/79727315.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 15, 2020||Goa||Vote for devpt, will go ahead with Mollem projects: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Having passed his first big test with flying colours, chief minister Pramod Sawant is riding high on confidence. In an exclusive interview with TOI, he explained why BJP can count on his leadership for the 2022 state assembly elections as well. Given the big success for BJP, what is the message that voters have sent out?People voted for the first time under my leadership at the zilla panchayat elections. In North, we expected 19 out of 25 seats and 14 out of 17 in South. If you take the results into consideration, people from rural Goa have faith in me. It shows that people have voted in favour of development. What were the major factors that helped BJP sweep the polls?People know that the chief minister is working in the interest of the state and its people. People have accepted the concept of Aatmanirbhar Bharat and Swayampoorna Goa. People have not fallen prey to false propaganda of the opposition. They have realised that opposition to everything is merely for the sake of politics. Despite a strong presence, BJP lost in some constituencies...We lost with narrow margin. We may have made a mistake in selecting candidates. We will introspectwhy we lost in some constituencies and try to secure them in the future. Did the import of Congress and MGP MLAs go in favour of BJP?When these MLAs joined BJP, we were mocked at, saying people will show them their place. Now it is being said that they joining BJP went in our favour. It is important that people have trust and faith in the leadership. People have trusted my leadership.My team of ministers did a lot of work and the same was taken to the grassroots by the party. This has benefitted us to a very large extent. You went to several constituencies and held meetings. What turned the tide in favour of BJP?I met a few party workers and instilled confidence in them. When we sent our officials (Swayampurna Mitra) to rural areas for taking up developmental works, people trusted me. In the last 60 years of Goa’s history, someone has spoken to them about human development and people have accepted it and voted in favour of BJP. What about the three linear projects including double tracking of railway line, Tamnar power transmission line and widening of national highway? Now that BJP won big, will the government be prompted to go ahead?People have voted for development and Goa’s development is my dream. We are going ahead with the development. Goa needs Tamnar project. We have to understand what Goa needs right now and for the future. BJP won constituencies that were at the heart of the agitations against developmental projects...This clearly shows that people are not against development. People who are opposing are a specific group of people who will always oppose everything. In the past, except 2017, BJP had an alliance with MGP. With this ZP election results, do you think BJP will now go it alone, like the 2017 elections?Considering the ZP results, I can say that people have voted in favour of BJP for stability. We can single-handedly go ahead, under my leadership. The state and central leadership will take a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vote-for-devpt-will-go-ahead-with-mollem-projects-cm/articleshow/79729683.cms||Murari Shetye
December 15, 2020||Business||US-based PE Oaktree top DHFL bidder with Rs 37,000 crore||MUMBAI: US-based private equity fund manager Oaktree Capital Management has emerged the highest bidder for Dewan Housing Finance (DHFL) in the latest round of the race to acquire the troubled company. However, Piramal Group has offered the highest amount upfront. Adani Group, which triggered the fourth round of bidding with an out-of-turn offer for the whole company, has taken a step back by quoting the lowest of the three. A senior banker told TOI that a decision would be taken based on the net present value of the bids and the guarantees in respect of future payments. A large chunk of the upfront cash being offered by the bidders is the free cash lying with DHFL. Oaktree is understood to have bid over Rs 36,600 crore, with upfront cash of Rs 11,500 crore. This would include DHFL’s free cash, interest earnings and proceeds of the sale of its life insurance business. Piramal Group has bid around Rs 35,500 crore, with an upfront cash payment of Rs 13,000 crore. Adani is understood to have bid less than Rs 30,000 crore, with Rs 11,000 crore of cash payment. The insolvency court has admitted claims worth Rs 87,048 crore from financial creditors. The reason why they are receiving only a fraction of their money is that a large chunk of the lender’s wholesale loans is missing (see graphic). Banks have declared the account a fraudulent one based on a forensic audit. Despite getting only around a third of their dues, the proceeds will improve the bottom line of banks as they have already written off most of their loans to DHFL. On Sunday, DHFL’s company secretary wrote to the stock exchanges, stating that there are certain transactions that are undervalued, fraudulent and preferential, resulting in an additional fraud of Rs 1,058 crore. The court-appointed administrator said that he had filed an application in respect of loan dues worth Rs 648 crore against property made out to El Dorado Biotech, Fortune Broking Intermediary, Fortune Gilts and Black Rock Financial Services. These loans were used to prematurely redeem bonds held by other entities. The administrator also made an application in respect of an excess amount of Rs 330 crore paid to purchase its property in Kalina, Mumbai, by transferring funds to entities linked to promoters. The third application is in respect of Rs 80 crore due on an account of inter-corporate deposits (ICDs) advanced to Shrem Group of companies where non-convertible debentures issued by DHFL were pledged to secure repayment of the ICDs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-based-pe-oaktree-top-dhfl-bidder-with-rs-37k-cr/articleshow/79728490.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Business||Callify.ai raises Rs 4.2 cr in seed round||Chennai: Voice-based candidate screening and engagement platform for talent acquisition, Callify.ai has raised about Rs 4.16 crore ($560K) seed round. Angel investment firm Malpani Ventures (India) led the round, besides participation from start-up incubator and accelerator Venture Catalysts, the UAE-based Calega Ventures, The Chennai Angel Network and Marvari Angel Network among others. Its CEO Chetan Indap, who claimed to have been oversubscribed in the seed round, said, “We raised additional Rs 16 lakh from the initial target of Rs 4 crore. This clearly shows the growing interest among investors towards speech technology as the future at the B2B level too.” The startup enables voice-powered technology for working professionals enables them to automate their daily outbound phone interactions through technology such as speech artificial intelligence(AI) and virtual assistant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/callify-ai-raises-rs-4-2-cr-in-seed-round/articleshow/79727834.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 15, 2020||Surat||All 20 Covid hospitals equipped with fire safety facilities: SMC||Surat: A team appointed by the state government inspected the fire safety in all the 20 Covid-19 designated hospitals in Surat city and found that all were equipped with adequate fire safety facilities said officials of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday.Sources said that the Gujarat government had formed a committee including professor and head of BJ Medical College, Ahmedabad, Dr Chetna Desai; Electric head, Faiderali Khoja; Additional Fire chief, Rajesh Bhatt; Special Fire officer Aniruddh Gadhvi; Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) assistant director Ashutosh Parmar to inspect the Covid-19 designated hospitals in Surat. The team members had visited Surat last week to inspect the Covid-19 designated hospitals for fire safety. Chief fire officer (CFO) of SMC, Bansat Pareek said, “All types of fire safety facilities are available at Covid-19 hospitals to prevent any accident like fire. The team appointed by the government by the order of the Supreme Court will submit a report to the Supreme Court on December 20.” In addition, Pareek said, “In coordination with all the hospital administrators and doctors of Surat, the Surat Fire Department and the civic body will also be aware and will provide all kinds of safety. As Covid hospitals in Surat are equipped with fire facilities, disasters can be averted in case of an accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/all-20-covid-hospitals-equipped-with-fire-safety-facilities-smc/articleshow/79726758.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways cancels 4 more pairs of special trains||PATNA: The railways has cancelled four more pairs of special passenger trains either originating from or passing through the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) in Bihar from December 16 to February 2, 2021 because of poor visibility on the tracks due to dense fog prevailing mostly in the Allahabad division of the North Central Railway (NCR). According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways has cancelled the Danapur-Anand Vihar (03257/03258), Sitamarhi-Anand Vihar (04005/04006), Kamakhya-Anand Vihar (02549/02550) and Alipurduar-Delhi (05483/05484) special trains. “The Sealdah-Ajmer (02987/02988) and New Delhi-Malda Town (03413/03414, 03483/03484) specials have already been cancelled till January 31, 2021,” the CPRO said. Besides, the railways has reduced the frequency of the Gaya-New Delhi special (02397/02398) due to foggy weather in the NCR region. “The train will not run on Mondays, Fridays and Sundays from Gaya-end and on Tuesdays, Saturdays and Mondays from New Delhi-end till December 29,” Kumar said, adding that the railways has, so far, reduced the frequencies of nine pairs of special trains. Meanwhile, sources said the New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Rajdhani Express (02310), New Delhi-Rajendra Nagar Terminal Sampoorna Kranti Express (02394) and New Delhi-Rajgir Shramjeevi Express (02392) reached the Patna Junction on time on Monday with slight improvement in the overall weather condition in the NCR region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-cancels-4-more-pairs-of-special-trains/articleshow/79726600.cms||Kumod Verma
December 15, 2020||Patna||Gambling addict from Bhagalpur loses wife in game to friends||BHAGALPUR: A gambling and alcohol addicted 36-year-old man (name withheld) has been arrested for torturing and repeatedly betting his wife after running out of money while gambling. The man, a resident of Hassanganj locality under Mojahidpur PS in Bhagalpur district, forced her to go with his friends after betting her and losing during a gambling bout on Saturday. He even tried to throw acid at her when she resisted going with his friends. However, this is not the first time that the man allegedly betted his wife. On October 28, she was raped by her husband’s friends after he lost her in a gambling bet. According to the police, the survivor managed to escape after the latest incident and reached her parents’ house in another village the next day where the incident came to light when she approached a social activist. The social activist, Deepak Singh, took her to the police station and informed the woman’s ordeal to Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti on Sunday. After an FIR was registered at Mojahidpur police station on the direction of the SSP, the husband was arrested late on Sunday evening. “The victim and her tormentor husband have no children and are married for over 10 years,” police said. The victim, while narrating her ordeal to the police officials, alleged that her husband used to physically torture her as she could not become a mother due to her husband’s alcoholism. The survivor told the police that her husband staked her in a game, and after losing, locked her in a room with his gambler friends where she was raped by them on October 28. Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti said the matter is under investigation and the husband has been arrested. SHO of Mahila Police Station has been made the investigating officer (IO) of the case and Mojahidpur SHO has been asked to assist in the investigation, added the SSP. The matter was brought before the police on Sunday, added the SSP saying a medical examination of the victim is being done. “We will submit the charge sheet soon against the accused after completing the investigation,” the SSP said, adding, we will ensure speedy trial of the case to punish the main accused and others involved in the heinous crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gambling-addict-loses-wife-in-game-to-friends/articleshow/79726727.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 15, 2020||Varanasi||Double crop MSP to double income of farmers: Akhilesh||Varanasi: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav fired a salvo at the government on farmers’ protests and demanded that it should double the minimum support price of crops to double farmers’ income as promised. Speaking to the media after attending a wedding at the residence of former minister Durga Prasad Yadav in his parliamentary constituency Azamgarh on Monday, Akhilesh also alleged step-motherly treatment with his constituency. “We support farmers’ agitation. Our leaders are being put under house arrest to stop Kisan Yatra. I congratulate the farmers of Punjab for opening front against farm laws which have been brought for the benefit of few at the cost of farmers. We demand doubling of minimum support price of cops to double the income of farmers as promised by BJP.” SP protests extending support to the farmers agitating against farm laws were peaceful in Azamgarh. The farmers are staging protests in the cold, but the government is doing lip service by holding talks instead of fulfilling their demands, he said. “We ensured the starting of a cooperative sugar mill in Sathiaon, Azamgarh in our regime. But, dues of sugarcane farmers here are in crores despite tall claims of the chief minister,” he added. All basic work of Manduri airstrip in Azamgarh was completed in our regime and BJP government could not even ensure laying of 4 km airstrip in past four years. The condition of roads in Azamgarh has worsened, said Yadav, alleging development work is being deliberately neglected because Azamgarh is his parliamentary constituency. Purvanchal Expressway’s foundation had already been laid but this government got foundation laying done again by the Prime Minister. The contractor was also changed, but the government could not ensure completion of the project, said Akhilesh, adding the mandis proposed along the expressway at Azamgarh, Ghazipur and Sultanpur could also not be established. He also questioned preparations for Covid-19 vaccination in the state. After reaching Azamgarh on Sunday, the SP chief visited the home of former minister Wasim Ahmed, who died in Lucknow on Saturday. He met the family members and condoled the demise of the three-time MLA. In view of Akhilesh’s presence and his likely participation in Kisan Yatra, heavy police force was deployed around the circuit house. Party workers gathered outside in huge numbers and damaged the gate. In view of the chaotic scene, Akhilesh left for the residence of party leader Israr in Rani ki Sarai area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/double-crop-msp-to-double-income-of-farmers-akhilesh/articleshow/79727072.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Business||Kals Group offer for Thiru Arooran Sugars rejected||Chennai: The Committee of Creditors of Thiru Arooran Sugars, one of the oldest sugar mills — set up in 1954 in the state — last week rejected the resolution package submitted by Kals Group lobbing the ball back to National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Set up in the rice bowl of Tamil Nadu at Vadapathimangalam, the mill has a capacity to crush more than 5,000 tonnes of sugarcane a day, across two locations. It was one of the earliest in setting up a cogeneration plant. Successive monsoon failures, unremunerative cane prices and crashing sugar prices has sent the industry into a tailspin, dragging along several mills including Thiru Arooran Sugars. More than 13 of the 25 sugar mills in the state are non-performing assets on the books of the banks. From being the fourth largest sugar producer in 2012, Tamil Nadu has been pushed to the eighth position.“The Committee of Creditors (CoC) rejected the offer from Kals last week. The deadline to find a resolution plan ended on December 9. All these have been communicated to NCLT and we are awaiting further orders,” said R Raghavendran, resolution professional, appointed by NCLT to restructure and revive TA Sugars. Kals group’s chairman S Vasudevan could not be reached for a comment. The petition for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code was filed by SBI claiming dues of Rs 149.4 crore. An SBI led consortium of lenders which includes PNB, IDBI Bank, UCO Bank, Union Bank of India and Standard Chartered Bank lent Rs 159.9 crore to the company in 2016. The account was declared a bad loan or non-performing asset (NPA) in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kals-group-offer-for-thiru-arooran-sugars-rejected/articleshow/79727841.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 15, 2020||Patna||Wait for Bihar DGP continues||PATNA: Even though crime graph is soaring in the state, the government has not sent a fresh panel of DG-rank IPS officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to facilitate the appointment of a full-fledged director general of police (DGP). The post fell vacant after Gupteshwar Pandey, who was holding the post of the state DGP, opted for VRS in September in a bid to contest the state assembly polls. Pandey, a native of Buxar district, was scheduled to retire from service in February 2021. Though Pandey joined JD(U), he couldn't contest the election. Pandey’s exit about five months before his retirement left the state government with no other option but to give additional charge of the DGP to S K Singhal, who was holding the post of DG-cum-commandant general of home guards and fire services. Singhal, a native of Punjab, is still officiating as the state police chief. Sources in the police headquarters said a panel of six IPS officers in the DG rank was submitted to the UPSC for its approval soon after Pandey’s VRS was accepted. The UPSC, however, returned the list with instructions to send a fresh one having names of all IPS officers in the DG rank with places of their current posting. “The fresh panel has not been sent to the UPSC till date. Initially, it was delayed due to the elections in the state,” a highly placed source in the home department said. Four of the nine DG-rank serving officers – A S Rajan (1987 batch), Sheel Vardhan Singh (1986 batch), Man Mohan Singh (1988 batch) and Kumar Rajesh Chandra (1985 batch) – are currently on central deputation. Kumar Rajesh Chandra will retire from service on December 31 next year. Rajan and Sheel Vardhan will retire from service on February 28, 2023 and August 31, 2023, respectively. Man Mohan will superannuate on July 31, 2023. Sources said they all have refused to return to the state to render their services. Others in the race for the post of the DGP are S K Singhal, his batchmate Arvind Pandey, Dinesh Singh Bist (1987-batch), Alok Raj (1989 batch) and R S Bhatti (1990 batch). The state government recently initiated punitive action against Arvind Pandey in an old case. Singhal will retire from service on August 31, 2021. Alok Raj is at present posted as DG (training), but holding additional charge of DG-cum-chairman Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation (BPBCC) and Bihar Police Academy at Rajgir. He will retire from service on December 31, 2025. Bist is posted with the state sports authority while Bhatti is DG of Bihar Military Police. While Bist will superannuate on November 30, 2021, Bhatti will serve till September 30, 2025. “Except Bist and Singhal, all the officers in the race for the DGP’s post have long stints,” a senior IPS officer said. Sources said Sobha Ohatker and Neeraj Sinha (both of 1990 batch) are likely to be promoted to DG rank soon. Two DG rank officers — Rajesh Ranjan (1984 batch) and Ashok Kumar Verma (1986 batch) — retired from service on November 30 and June 30, respectively. Meanwhile, the RJD took a dig at the state government over the vacancies. “While the chief secretary is serving on extension, the DGP is holding additional charge,” RJD state president Jagadanand Singh said. “What can you expect from the officers who are working on adhoc?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wait-for-full-fledged-dgp-continues/articleshow/79726491.cms||Ramashankar
December 15, 2020||Patna||50% jump in women owning bank accounts in Bihar: Fifth NFHS data||PATNA: The state’s literacy rate among the girl child has risen to 61.1%, including 74.2% in urban and 58.7% in rural population, from 56.9% in 2015-16, according to the 5th National Family Health Survey (NFHS) 2019-20. The average literacy rate of females above the age of 6 years who ever attended school, has also shown an overall increase of 4.2% in Bihar in the past five years. However, the best outcome in terms of women’s empowerment in the state has been the whopping rise of 50% in the proportion of women having their own bank or savings account in the last five years. It has increased from 26.4% in 2015-16 to 76.7% in 2019-20. As per the report, the participation of married women in household decision making has also improved significantly from 75.2% to 86.5% in the state in the last five years. The participation of women in decision- making is higher in rural areas with 87% when compared to urban parts of Bihar, which registered 84%. However, the data shared as part of women’s empowerment (15 to 49 years) shows that women who worked in the last 12 months and were paid in cash has seen a negligible rise of 0.1% while women owning a house or land (alone or jointly with others) has declined by 3.5% when compared to NFHS-4. Women in the age group of 15-24 years who use hygienic methods of protection during their menstrual period have also witnessed a rise of 278%, from 31 in 2015-16 to 58.8% in 2019-20. In terms of literacy, around 57.8% of women in Bihar are literate, who can read and write. The overall literacy among women declined as only 54.5% are literate in rural Bihar when compared to 74.9 in urban areas. Besides, there is a marginal rise in women with 10 or more years of schooling from 22.8% in 2015-16 to 28.8% in 2019-20. State education minister Ashok Choudhary told this newspaper that the department has been working to increase the gross enrolment ratio and providing schemes to increase the female literacy rate in Bihar. “CM Nitish Kumar has announced that Rs 25,000 will be given to girls for passing intermediate exams and Rs 50,000 to those graduating, which was earlier Rs 10,000 and Rs 25,000 respectively,” Choudhary said. “Besides, higher secondary schools have been opened in all panchayats, so that girls can receive education up to Class XII in their village. We are further going to improve the infrastructure of higher education by strengthening the degree colleges. The state government is taking all measures to give a push to women's education,” Choudhary added. Educationists and experts said lack of education prevents women’s participation in the workforce, decision making and empowerment thus hindering the overall development of the state. Pramila Manoharan, education specialist, UNICEF Bihar, said sure, there has been a little improvement in female literacy, however, we are still far behind from other states. “Bihar is predominantly a rural state and the huge gap between rural and urban literacy shows the grim picture. Inter-state migration at large scale is also the reason behind the low literacy,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/50-jump-in-women-owning-bank-accounts-in-bihar-fifth-nfhs/articleshow/79726480.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: HAM-S meet deferred as Jitan Ram Manjhi tests positive for Covid||PATNA: The Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) has postponed its national executive meeting scheduled for December 18 after its president Jitan Ram Manjhi tested positive for Covid-19. With this, the election of the party’s national president has also been postponed for an indefinite period. “The HAM(S) office located on Strand Road in Patna has been closed for seven days and the party workers have been advised not to visit Manjhi’s residence till the former chief minister recovers from the illness,” HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan told TOI on Monday. After feeling weakness, 76-year old Manjhi gave his sample for rapid antigen detection test on Sunday morning. “Although his report was negative, Manjhi decided to go for an RT-PCR test for his satisfaction. The second report in which he tested positive for coronavirus came around 10.30pm on Sunday,” Rizwan said. Manjhi took to Twitter on Sunday midnight and declared that he had tested positive for Covid-19. He also urged all the people, who had come into his contact during the last seven days, to get themselves tested as well. Hours before giving his sample for the RT-PCR test, Manjhi had attended his party’s national council meet at his residential office on Sunday. Around 150 members of the party’s national council, including its lone minister Santosh Kumar Suman and other legislators, were present in the meeting. “All people, who attended the HAM(S) national council meet on Sunday, have been advised to get themselves tested for Covid-19,” Rizwan said, adding that samples of 37 such people were collected on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-meet-deferred-as-manjhi-tests-ve-for-covid/articleshow/79726587.cms||Madan Kumar
December 15, 2020||Patna||Farmers stage protest at all district HQs in Bihar||PATNA: The fortnight-long statewide campaign of the farmers, their supporting organisations and political parties under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) began in the state on Monday with demonstrations at all 38 district headquarters. The farmers are protesting the three farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. Over the next fortnight, members of the AIKSCC and its associated organisations would hold Kisan Chaupals and meetings in the villages and towns, where resolutions in support of the six-point charter of demands of the farmers would be adopted. The protests will culminate with a march to the Raj Bhavan on December 29 when a memorandum would be submitted to governor Phagu Chauhan. The representatives of the supporting political parties will also participate in the march to the Raj Bhavan. The agitating farmers maintained that the paddy produced by the state’s farmers was not being purchased by the Primary Agriculture Credit Societies (PACS), as a result of which they were selling it in the open market at rates in the range of Rs 900-Rs 1,100 per quintal, when the MSP rate for the general/ordinary paddy is Rs 1,868 per quintal and for the A-grade paddy Rs 1,888 per quintal. The Monday’s one-day demonstration held under the banner of the AIKSCC also had the supporting presence of the leaders, MLAs and workers from the Congress, CPI(ML), CPI, CPI-M, Forward Bloc and Socialist Unity Centre of India. The RJD did not participate in it, even as it has lent its support to the demands of the farmers. In Patna, Congress president Madan Mohan Jha and the party’s legislature party leader in state assembly Ajit Sharma also participated in the demonstration. Earlier, members of the organisations and supporting parties congregated near Buddha Smriti Park and formed a rally that was addressed by the leaders of various organisations and parties concerned. The speakers said farmers in the state had also joined the demonstration and the Centre should accept their demands. Later, the protesters marched to the Hindi Bhavan shouting slogans and submitted a memorandum to the magistrate from the office of the Patna DM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-stage-protest-at-all-district-hqs-in-bihar/articleshow/79726715.cms||Abhay Singh
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal lifts partial ban on direct flights from Delhi||KOLKATA: The four-day-a-week ban on direct flights from Delhi was lifted on Monday after five months with the state allowing the Delhi-Kolkata sector flights with immediate effect. The decision was greeted with enthusiasm by frequent flyers and the travel trade industry, with the latter requesting the state to reconsider the curbs on flights from five other cities as well. Bengal had banned flights from six cities — Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur — from July 6 to shield the state from Covid infection. The ban was partially withdrawn from September 1 when flights from these cities were allowed three days a week. Though Covid cases in these cities declined, the government did not respond to the pleas by the industry to restore the flights till Monday. Now, the restored flight operations will ease the pressure on travel between the two cities and also possibly rationalize fares on the sector. While the fare on direct flights from Delhi to Kolkata is Rs 8,000-Rs 10,000 at present, the travel trade industry expects it to reduce to Rs 5,000-6,000 as passenger load gets distributed throughout the week. Carriers have 19 flights scheduled between Delhi and Kolkata that currently operate only on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. “The moment we were informed about the ban being lifted, we opened bookings for Tuesday, as well as the other days of the week,” said an official of a private airline that will operate six direct flights between Kolkata and Delhi on Tuesday. For passengers, the resumption of daily flights will also mean greater flexibility in travel plans. Also, the move will immensely benefit those who have to travel abroad as most passengers from Kolkata who travel internationally fly via Delhi. Industry sources said pressure on the government for easing the curbs has been building since there is huge demand for travel in December. “After nearly a year, the tourist traffic is reviving. We welcome the government move to lift the curbs on flights from Delhi and hope the ban on five remaining cities will also be reconsidered,” said Travel Agents Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Flyers who frequently travel to one of the other five cities are still distraught. “Every time I travel home, I need to check to see which days direct flights are allowed to land in Kolkata,” said Subhajit Das, a Behala resident who runs a business in Mumbai. “The lifting of the flight ban from Delhi is an encouraging first step,” said Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Manav Soni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-lifts-partial-ban-on-direct-flights-from-delhi/articleshow/79727301.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 15, 2020||Patna||Two kidnapped minors rescued by Nalanda cops, six arrested||BIHARSHARIF: The Nalanda police rescued two minors within 24 hours after receiving complaint about their kidnapping. The two minors – a 14-year-old girl and a 13-year-old boy – were allegedly kidnapped from separate places for ransom. Biharsharif sadar SDPO Shibli Nomani said the police rescued a 14-year-old girl from Sugia village under the Sheikhopursarai police station area in Sheikhpura district on Monday. The girl was was kidnapped from a locality under Biharsharif Sadar police station area on Sunday. He said one Manish Kumar of Warisaliganj in Nawada district, who had allegedly kidnapped the girl and demanded a ransom of Rs 5 lakh for her safe release, was also arrested. The police officer said the cellphone used by Manish to seek ransom was also seize. In another case, police recovered a 13-year-old boy from the house of one Sant Kumar in Kaushik Nagar locality under the Hilsa police station area in Nalanda district on Sunday. Nalanda SP (incharge) Ajay Kumar said the minor boy was kidnapped on December 11 from Ugawan village under the Asthawan police station area in Nalanda district. He said the boy’s mother had lodged police complaint on December 13 after the kidnappers demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh for his safe release. He said different police teams raided various places across the district and rescued the minor boy. Three criminals – Shambhu Kumar, Samir Raj and Abhishek Kumar – were arrested in connection with the incident. He said on the basis of information provided by the arrested criminals, police later arrested Aryan Kumar and Gopi Kumar of the victim’s village. The two had kidnapped the minor boy and handed him over to their accomplices. He said the motorcycle used in kidnapping and the cellphone used to demand ransom were also seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-kidnapped-minors-rescued-six-arrested/articleshow/79726744.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Domestic help couple steal Rs 20 lakh cash, valuables from bungalow||RAJKOT: A couple which was employed in a bungalow as domestic help and cook decamped with cash and valuables worth Rs 19.83 lakh after rendering the security guard unconscious in Shri Colony near Parna Kutir Society on Kalavad Road in Rajkot. Though the incident occurred on December 10, the complaint in this connection was lodged on Sunday night upon the return of the bungalow owner, Parshottam Kamani. Police said the accused, Niraman Bahadurshahi and his wife Savita Bahadurshahi, had allegedly committed the theft from the cupboard of the bungalow. “The accused made the security gurad Paresh Vaghela eat sweets (laddus) laced with intoxicants and rendered him unconscious before stealing the valuable and cash,” said K N Bhukan, inspector with Malaviyanagar police station. The stolen booty included gold and silver jewellery, expensive wrist watches, a two-wheeler and a cellphone belonging to Vaghela. The couple executed their plan when Kamani along with his family had gone to Kumbhargadh in Rajasthan to attend the marriage of his nephew. “When Kamani and his family members returned, they found Vaghela lying unconscious. When Vaghela regained consciousness, Kamani realized that his bungalow had been burgled,” added Bhukan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/domestic-help-couple-steal-rs-20l-cash-valuables-from-bungalow/articleshow/79726970.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||PM Narendra Modi in Gujarat today, to meet Kutch’s Punjabi farmers||RAJKOT: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit Kutch and lay foundation stone of several development projects on Tuesday. His visit to Kutch will be third in his home state – Gujarat - in the last three months during the Covid-19 induced pandemic. Significantly, at a time when farmers protest against centre’s new farm laws will enter day 20 at Delhi’s Singhu border, the PM will meet a group of progressive farmers of Kutch including some native of Punjab who are engaged in agriculture activities at Kutch border. Modi will lay foundation stone of a desalination plant, a hybrid renewable energy plant and fully automated milk processing and packaging plant of Sarhad Dairy. The PM is scheduled to reach Bhuj airport at around 12.35 pm and Dhordo helipad at around 1.15 pm. He will lay the foundation stones of the projects through a function organised at tent city in presence of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani. At around 2 pm, he will also address a gathering while a visit to the White Rann is also on the schedule. The PM is also likely to review work of memorial park that is being constructed in memory of 2001 earthquake victims and Kutchi people’s response to this natural disaster. He is also scheduled to meet Kutch’s handicraft workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pms-in-gujarat-today-to-meet-kutchs-punjabi-farmers/articleshow/79726888.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Business||RBI allows Kotak to lead bank for three more years||MUMBAI: Kotak Mahindra Bank’s promoter and CEO Uday Kotak has been cleared for reappointment by the RBI along with his deputy MD and chairman for three years. The second-most valuable private bank informed the stock exchanges that the regulator had on Monday approved the re-appointment of Kotak as MD & CEO, Prakash Apte as part-time chairman, and Dipak Gupta as joint MD for three years effective January 1, 2021. The bank’s board had approved the reappointment on May 13 and the decision was ratified by shareholders in the bank’s annual general meeting on August 18. The RBI nod is significant given that the central bank had earlier this year proposed capping a bank’s CEO tenure at 10 years for promoters and 15 years for non-promoters. Kotak Mahindra Bank was granted its licence in 2003 and Kotak has been the CEO of the lender ever since. The RBI’s clearance for a three-year term would mean that he would lead the bank into its 20th year. Kotak (61) is already the second-longest serving CEO of a commercial bank after Aditya Puri, who led HDFC Bank for over 25 years. Kotak is also the president of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and, in 2018, the government had amended a law to enable him to chair a government-appointed board for overseeing the resolution of the failed infrastructure and finance giant IL&FS Group. He also won a reprieve from the RBI this year from being forced to sell a part of his stake in the bank after agreeing to cap promoter’s voting rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-allows-kotak-to-lead-bank-for-three-more-years/articleshow/79728518.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Raise farmers’ issue with Narendra Modi: 8-year-old British Indian girl writes to UK PM Boris Johnson||LONDON: Eight-year old Ashleen Kaur Gill has sent a handwritten letter to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson saying that Indian farmers are killing themselves. She urged him to stand up for them like Canadian PM Justin Trudeau has done and take up their cause with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Ashleen, who lives in Windsor and whose family comes from Chuhar Chak in Moga, Punjab, went on Sunday to 10 Downing Street to deliver her letter, but was not allowed past the security gates. She then posted it from a post box. She wrote: "Do you know this is important to millions around the world? I don’t think you do, because you think it is an issue between India and Pakistan. “This is the biggest human rights protest and yet you stay silent. Canadian PM Trudeau has shown support, so why can’t you? I have researched what a prime minister is and a prime minister is a leader responsible for policy and decisions. So, why are you not leading? My ancestors were all farmers and without them I would not have the life I have today. Another child in India will have to worry about eating or whether they can go to school,” her letter said. “This is bigger than you and me. It is not about money or looking good in front of people. We need you, as British citizens, to help support the farmers,” it added. “Their hard work in harvesting and farming is now in the hands of the Indian government which will decide how much crops sell for and how farmers’ fees will be capped. Farmers’ hard work is what feeds us and now they won't be able to feed themselves. People are killing themselves. They are protesting peacefully and the police and army are attacking them in India. Why?” Her father Jagdeep Singh, 38, who works in the construction sector, told TOI:“We have farming in our DNA like most of the people who support the kisans. We know of so many people in Punjab who have committed suicide because so much pressure is put on them. We all have family in Punjab. So, Boris has a duty to speak on our behalf to Narendra Modi. We are standing up for Sikhs, Hindus, Muslims, Christians - all the farmers across India that are impacted by this." His mother’s siblings, who are from Jaladiwal in Ludhiana, have been on the kisan protest in Delhi since November 27. British primary schools have also taken up the farmers’ cause. The principal of Khalsa Primary School in Slough, Raminder Singh Vig, has sent a letter to parents saying the school is speaking to children about the protests, creating posters and a social media campaign. “International attention and awareness will apply pressure on the Indian government. If there are no farmers, there is no food. This is a human rights issue,” the letter stated. Samraaj Singh Dulai, a pupil at Park Hall Junior Academy, a school for seven to 11 year-olds in Walsall, has published an article in the school’s newsletter saying: “I am the grandson of a farmer. In Delhi, the world’s largest protest in history is happening, yet it isn’t even being covered by the media. The new laws mean farmers will not have any rights over their own land, they will be restricted who they can sell too and there won’t be a minimum price they will get.” Harleen Kaur, a class 6 pupil at Grove Vale Primary School in Birmingham, has written a letter to parents asking them to dress children in yellow or green on December 15 to represent farmers in India. The letter said: “Farmers will have no choice but to engage with large companies and governments such as the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) and sign agreements before the crops are fully grown or ready to be harvested. This means they will no longer be able to sell to smaller companies and will be left with hardly any income.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/raise-farmers-issue-with-modi-8-yr-old-british-indian-girl-writes-to-johnson/articleshow/79728476.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||Man forges documents to usurp doctor’s land||Rajkot: A man was booked on Sunday night for allegedly forging documents and altering revenue records to usurp land belonging to a doctor in Rajkot.Police said the accused, Ramsinh Chavda, allegedly made the entry of a plot of land near Nana Mava Gam on Kalavad Road, which belonged to Dr Atul Rathod, into the revenue record in his own name. The concerned plot is 675 square metre which has a value of Rs four to five crores.“In 2008, Chavda along with Suryadevsinh Parmar had fabricated documents of Dr Rathod’s land. When Dr Rathod learnt about it, he lodged a police complaint. After this, Chavda and Parmar approached Dr Rathod for a compromise. Chavda and Parmar revoked the bogus documents through a court order,” said A B Jadeja, sub-inspector with University police station.“However, Chavda had kept a photo copy of the bogus documents on the basis of which he allegedly made the entry of the plot in his name at mamlatdar office on September 28. When Dr Rathod came to know about it, he lodged the complaint against Chavda,” added Jadeja. Chavda has been booked under sections 406, 467 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code. The police have launched a manhunt for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-forges-documents-to-usurp-doctors-land/articleshow/79726945.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||Over 12K bottles of IMFL worth Rs 46L seized; three held||Rajkot: A total of 12,860 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 46.20 lakh were seized and three persons arrested in three different raids conducted in Thangadh and Limbdi of Surendranagar district, and in Kutiyana taluka of Porbandar district on Sunday night. On Tarnetar Road in Thangadh, the share of IMFL bottles was being divided in a farm when the cops raided the spot. They seized 6,624 IMFL bottles worth Rs 27.79 lakh, three SUVs and one truck. The cops arrested the farm owner, Dilip Kathi, and his staffer Jema Khamani. “During interrogation, Kathi said that the liquor consignment had come from Rajasthan. There were six bootleggers who fled from the spot before the raid,” said V R Jadeja, sub-inspector with Thangadh police station. In Limbdi, a total of 1,196 IMFL bottles and 2,396 beer cans, total worth Rs 5,88 lakh were seized and a bootlegger arrested. The police said that the liquor supply was being ferried in a truck about which they had received a tip-off. “The IMFL bottles were hidden beneath the piles of bricks. The driver, Parth Goswami, said that the liquor supply was loaded by Sunil Mishra in Alirajpur district of Madhya Pradesh and that the supply was supposed to be delivered to Nandubha Parmar in Navaniya village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar district,” said D M Dhol, inspector with Surendranagar local crime branch. In Kutiyana, a total of 5,040 IMFL bottles worth Rs 12.53 lakh were seized from an abandoned truck. “We received a tip-off that the bootleggers had fled after abandoning their truck on Rajkot-Porbandar Highway near Kutiyana, following which we raided the spot and effected the seizure,” said an official from Kutiyana police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-12k-bottles-of-imfl-worth-rs-46l-seized-three-held/articleshow/79726913.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||Four including woman booked for blackmailing Rajkot traders||Rajkot: Four persons including a woman were booked on Sunday night and two of them arrested for allegedly blackmailing two traders for Rs one lakh in Rajkot. Police said the accused, Vijay Garchar (30), Gunvant Makwana (32), his wife Divya Makwana (28) and Ashok Koli (25), had allegedly trapped Deep Gajipara (27) and Shailesh Patel (28). According to the details of the case, a friend of Gajipara had given him the number of Divya, saying that she could arrange for a woman to have physical relations. Gajipara, who lives in Morbi, called up Divya who identified herself as Kajal and said that she could arrange for a woman for Rs 10,000 for a night. “Both Gajipara and Patel drove from Morbi and arrived in Rajkot in their car. At Morbi Road toll booth, Divya came to meet them. After collecting Rs 10,000, Divya got in their car and asked Gajipara to drive through a road into a village. The other accused were following the car of the victims on their two-wheelers,” said M C Vala, inspector with Kuvadava Road police station. The accused waylaid the car of the victims by overtaking it. When the victims got down, Garchar allegedly put a knife on Gajipara’s neck. The accused threatened to frame the victims in a police case and demanded Rs two lakh from them, the amount of which they reduced to Rs one lakh after haggling. After taking Rs 6,500 cash and and a cellphone worth Rs 10,000 from Gajipara, the accused asked Patel to go and collect the cash. “Once Patel was released from the clutches of the accused, he drove to the highway and called up the cops. However, before we reached the crime spot, Divya and Koli had left the spot. We managed to arrest Garchar and Makwana and free Gajipara,” added Vala. The police have booked the accused under sections 365, 386, 342, 506 (2) and 114 of the Indian Penal Code and launched a manhunt for Diya and Koli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-including-woman-booked-for-blackmailing-rajkot-traders/articleshow/79726956.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Patna||425 new cases take Covid tally over 2.43 lakh in Bihar||PATNA: On Monday, Bihar reported 425 new cases of Covid-19 and four more virus deaths, taking the number of total confirmed cases to 2,43,673 and the number of fatalities so far to 1,325. Officially, two deaths from Patna were reported on Sunday, taking the district death toll to 344. One death each was registered in Bhagalpur and Madhubani taking their respective death tolls to 75, and 30. HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is among those who tested positive for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. As per the daily bulletin released by the state health department, 635 patients have been discharged from hospitals and isolation centres in the past 24 hours, which took the total number of recoveries in the state to 2,37,372. Bihar’s recovery rate now stands at 97.41% on Monday, which is slightly better than the previous day’s 97.3%. The number of active cases in the state has also come down to 4,976. As many as 1,09,259 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories taking the number of total samples tested so far to 1,63,83,880 in the state since March. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered two deaths, including a 73- year- old man from RPS Mor in Patna. The other victim was a 55-year-old man from Jaymangal in Sheikhpura district. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 18 patients were admitted to the hospital from localities such as Gardanibagh, Shastri Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, Kankarbagh, Boring Canal road and also from other districts- Jamui, Begusarai, Nalanda and Samastipur while 10 people discharged on Sunday. The number of patients under treatment at AIIMS-P now stood at 173. No new Covid casualty was reported on Monday at NMCH- Patna, however, six Covid positive patients were admitted and two discharged from the hospital. The number of patients admitted to Covid ICU stood at 16. Altogether 195 new Covid cases were from Patna, taking the tally to 45,210. With 42,792 recoveries, there are 2,074 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 26 cases on Monday, Saran (22), Gaya (21), Nalanda (17) and Purnia (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/425-new-cases-take-covid-tally-over-2-43-lakh-in-bihar/articleshow/79726568.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 15, 2020||Patna||Stubble burning adds to air pollution woes in Bihar||PATNA: Deterioration in air quality in several parts of the state has become a common phenomenon during the winters. Several factors, including stubble burning, are responsible for rise in pollutants in the air. The burning of crop residue, which is common in states like Punjab and Haryana, has also started picking up in Bihar with the advent in mechanised harvesting of crops. Around 900 farmers in Bihar have been penalised for stubble burning since September, including 462 in Rohtas, 133 in Kaimur, 100 in Nalanda, 93 in Buxar, 40 in Gaya, 33 in Patna, 21 in Bhojpur and seven in Jamui. These farmers have been excluded from government’s incentives and schemes for the next three years. Environmentalists have expressed concern over burning of crop residue and opined that the mechanised farming appears to be the key reason behind the problem. Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board, said stubble burning in the state has been reported from several districts and it would increase in the near future. “To stop this practice, real-time monitoring and stern action are needed. By the time the state government reacted, the residues of crops were already burned,” he said. Ghosh said plans are afoot to use remote-sensing technology to curb stubble burning in the state. “This technology should be used to collect data so that immediate action could be taken against errant farmers by the local authorities. We are in talks with the officials of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to prepare a proposal for the same,” Ghosh added. He added, “Farmers in Bihar have switched from manual harvesting of crops to machineries being imported from Punjab and Haryana. In mechanised harvesting, the machine leaves taller residue of crops. In manual harvesting, residue of crops remains close to the ground. In a bid to cut costs, farmers burn the residues for next harvesting,” he said. A farmer from Bhojpur said he hired machines to cut crops in order to save money as manual work costs more. “It not only saves money, but also time. As far as crop residues are concerned, I have no other option but to burn them,” he said. “It costs just one rupee to get a match box. However, hiring workers to clear crop residues would cost at least Rs 10,000,” a Vaishali farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stubble-burning-adds-to-air-pollution-woes-in-bihar/articleshow/79726664.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Stray dog attacked near BITS campus||Hyderabad: Animal activists have been seething over the shocking incident of alleged cruelty to stray dogs inside the Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS) Pilani, Hyderabad campus. Sources from the campus and animal activists shared some pictures of one rescued dog with TOI on Monday, which showed a deep cut around the neck region, indicating assault using a metal wire. Professor Niranjan Swain, dean (administration), BITS Pilani - Hyderabad said, “Like many other dogs, people have seen this dog coming inside the campus and going out several times. It was found with a metal wire tied around its neck outside the campus. We do not know if its neck was tied with the wire inside the campus or outside.” A Sundeep, an animal activist, said, “We have received information about five puppies being poisoned and killed before this mother dog was brutally assaulted using a metal wire. We want the police to catch the real culprits.” The dog, which was found in an unconscious state with the metal wire, was rushed to the nearest veterinary hospital. Activist say the injured dog is still undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stray-dog-attacked-near-bits-campus/articleshow/79728480.cms||Moulika.KV
December 15, 2020||Business||Burger King soars 131% in debut trade||Mumbai: Burger King India, the domestic arm of the global fast food chain operator, listed on the bourses at Rs 115 — a 92% premium to its IPO price of Rs 60. As demand for the stock soared after its listing, it closed the first day of trading at Rs 138, up 131% from the offer price. The grey market premium on Burger King shares had shot up to Rs 60, indicating a doubling of stock price on listing. The book-building process for the quick-service restaurant chain’s IPO had closed on December 4 with a 157 times subscription. The institutional part of the offer was subscribed a little over 86 times, while the high net worth investors’ part was subscribed over 357 times and the retail part nearly 69 times. The total number of applications put in the offer was 24.2 lakh. Strong buying in ICICI Bank, L&T and Kotak Mahindra Bank helped the sensex hit another all-time high at 46,373 points on Monday, before closing at 46,253 points, up 154 points. The day’s gains came on the back of a Rs 2,264-crore foreign fund buying even as domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 1,721 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/burger-king-soars-131-in-debut-trade/articleshow/79728552.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Patna||82 get Covaxin shots in third phase at AIIMS-Patna||PATNA: All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has received good response from potential volunteers for the Phase-III clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine – Covaxin – which is jointly developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Delhi. The Phase-III human clinical trial of indigenously anti-coronavirus vaccine had started at the AIIMS-P on December 7 and so far 82 participants have got their first shot of 0.5 ml intramuscular injection. The volunteers, who were kept under observation for half-an-hour after being administered the vaccine, are monitored by the officials of the institute. Dr C M Singh, superintendent of AIIMS-P, who is also the principal investigator of the trial, said altogether 31 people received the first dose on Monday alone. “So far, 300 volunteers have registered themselves for the human clinical trial of the vaccine. We have planned to enrol 1,000 healthy people as part of the third and final phase of the trial. Participants are randomly assigned to receive vaccine or placebo,” he said. “The volunteers, who receive the first dose, are being monitored twice a day by the research officer over the phone. Besides, we have also provided the contact number of the participants in case they need any help. However, no such complaint has been received so far. The vaccine is safe and we have seen its efficacy in first and second phases of the clinical trial,” Dr Singh said. Volunteers who wish to participate in the trial should be over 18 years of age and without any medical history or health ailment. Two doses of the vaccine would be administered to each volunteer after their selection through a screening process and medical examination. The first dose will be given on zero day and the second on day 28. The trial protocol requires follow-ups on days 28, 42, 104 and 194, which means over six months. The institute had successfully conducted the two phases of Covaxin clinical trials on 44 and 46 volunteers, respectively. The vaccine is derived from a strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by ICMR-Delhi and National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. AIIMS-P is one of the 21 medical institutes selected by the ICMR-Delhi across the country where the third phase of trial is being conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/82-get-covaxin-shots-in-3rd-phase-at-aiims-patna/articleshow/79726639.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Brothers taste success with strawberries in semi-arid Gondal||RAJKOT: Strawberry, the fruit generally grown in a cold climate, has been successfully cultivated by farmer brothers in semi-arid region of Gondal taluka in Rajkot district. Girish Dhuliya, a chemical engineer and his graduate brother Raju Dhuliya got interested in strawberry farming during lockdown. “We saw a bulk of strawberries grown in the gardens of Mahabaleshwar in Maharashtra. It caught our fancy. We knew that strawberries could not be grown in arid climate like ours. Hence, we sought the help of a consultancy firm in Pune which gave us the idea of growing strawberries through plant tissue culture,” says Raju Dhuliya, brother of Girish. “We were able to grow strawberries with the help of plant tissue culture. Now we are able to produce 20 kg to 25 kg strawberries daily, the production will increase as the winter sets in,” says Girish Dhuliya. The brothers had brought one lakh strawberry plants from Pune. Under the plant tissue culture method, the brothers laid plastic sheets with holes on the farm and sowed the plants into the holes. The plastic sheets prevented moisture in the sand from evaporating, thus helping in the growth of the plants. “We had started the plantation of strawberries from October 15 with one lakh plants. We nurtured them with fertilizer, water and pesticides. After two months, the plants have started bearing strawberries. We had planted four types of strawberries that are — winter start, winter down, sweet sensation and Eliot,” says Girish. “Two types of strawberries — sweet sensation and winter down — have started bearing fruits. We expect strawberries to continue to bear fruits till March 15,” says Raju. Girish is a chemical engineer, while Raju has completed graduation. Girish used to work with Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IPCL) in Vadodara. He had also worked in United Arab Emirates as a chemical engineer for five years. In order to protect the production of strawberries from thieves and animals, the Dhuliya brothers have erected electric fencing around their farm and also installed CCTV cameras. “Our target is to achieve 25 tonne of strawberry after which we will be supplying it in Rajkot and other cities of Gujarat” says Girish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/brothers-taste-success-with-strawberries-in-semi-arid-gondal/articleshow/79726932.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Business||Ola plans world’s largest scooter factory in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Ola Electric on Monday said it will make two million electric scooters at a greenfield facility in Hosur, Tamil Nadu. This would displace Honda’s Vithalpur facility in Gujarat, which makes 1.2 million units of petrol-powered scooters a year. Ola has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the state government for the factory, which will entail an investment of Rs 2,354 crore. The Ola investment will create nearly 2,200 jobs, the state government said. Ola’s pact was part of 18 MoUs signed by the TN government, worth a cumulative investment of Rs 19,995 crore with the potential to create more than 26,500 jobs. Ola chairman and group CEO Bhavish Aggarwal said, ‘‘We are excited to announce our plans to set up the world’s largest scooter factory. This will be one of the most advanced manufacturing facilities in the world. This factory will showcase India’s skill and talent to produce world-class products that will cater to global markets.” The factory will produce Ola’s upcoming range of two-wheeler products, starting with its electric scooter. “Ola plans to bring many such design and software innovations to its entire product line of two-wheelers,” the company said. The Ola factory will help “galvanise India’s electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem and establish India as a key player in the EV manufacturing space”, Ola added. “Ola’s factory will cater to customers not only in India but in markets around the world, including Europe, Asia, Latin America and more, and the company is gearing up to launch the first of its range of electric scooters in the coming months,” the statement added. Earlier this year, Ola announced plans to hire more than 2,000 people for its electric business. Recently, the company roped in General Motor veteran Jose Pinheiro to head its global manufacturing and operations. Among the other companies that have promised investments in Tamil Nadu are Torrent Gas (to invest Rs 5,000 crore), US-based First Solar (Rs 4,185 crore), Society for Smart Electric Mobility (Rs 2,500 crore) and Voltas (Rs 1,001 crore). These are in different sectors, from electric vehicles to solar & wind power, auto components, pharmaceuticals, city gas supply, e-education to textiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ola-plans-worlds-largest-scooter-factory-in-tn/articleshow/79727798.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 15, 2020||Business||Moped sales pick up speed on rural demand||CHENNAI: For the first time in the moped segment, sales turned positive in July-September after falling for four quarters. Additionally, sales in October and November indicate that rural consumption is picking up, pushing moped sales. And the segment is a single-product, single-company market — commanded by TVS Motor. Sales crashed from July-September 2019 up until April-June 2020, before the prop-up came in the second quarter of this fiscal. TVS has done well with the moped, selling over 4 lakh units of the XL100 in the April-November period so far, despite a washout first quarter. And yet, when contacted, none its competitors said there were any plans of cracking this segment. “Traditionally, mopeds have their own market in the southern part of the country, supported significantly by the fact that states like Andhra Pradesh and Telangana give subsidy to small farmers and fishermen to buy a moped,” said rating agency Icra VP Shamsher Dewan. The reason why there has not been that much interest so far in mopeds is because the value of the market is not very big and mopeds have, for the longest time, languished at the bottom of the sales chart. A TVS Motor spokesman did not want to comment on the moped sales. Demand for mopeds comes from villages and small towns, where it doubles up as a rural activity vehicle priced under Rs 45,000. The reason why mopeds are suddenly back in business, said Crisil Research director Hetal Gandhi, “is because after BS6 (emission norms), the price of mopeds have increased by around 10% — lower than the average hike in other two-wheeler segments”. What has also helped the spurt is the reverse migration due to the pandemic. “Workers who have moved back to their hometowns owing to Covid-19 have been using their remittance incomes to purchase vehicles like mopeds for transportation and business sustenance needs,” said Gandhi. “Plus, a bumper rabi output at the start of the fiscal, normal monsoons and high kharif sowing has improved farm sentiments, thereby driving demand for mopeds from rural areas,” she added. Demand growth of mopeds in fiscal 2021 has also been over a low base “as mopeds’ sales had fallen more sharply at around 28% vs 17% fall in scooters and motorcycles,” she said. The share of mopeds sales in total two-wheelers had been on a decline since the past two decades — from around 10% in FY2000 to about 4% in FY2020. “The increasing adoption of the scooter in the semi-urban and rural markets had led to the moped losing steam over the years,” said Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/moped-sales-pick-up-speed-on-rural-demand/articleshow/79727821.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot to regain its roaring glory||RAJKOT: In all likelihood, Rajkot could join the list of Gujarat districts which Asiatic lions have made their permanent abode. In the last one year, four different prides have ventured into the district, mostly from adjoining Amreli; the latest one of a lioness and two sub-adults that are sauntering on the city’s outskirts. The phenomenon of back and forth movement, experts say, clearly shows the strong possibility of lions establishing their permanent settlement somewhere in Rajkot. Bhavnagar is the biggest example of such a phenomenon. A decade ago, small prides of lions that ventured out of Gir were intermittently spotted in the district. However, nearly 76 lions have made a permanent home in various parts of Bhavnagar, including its coastal areas. Priyvrat Gadhvi, a wildlife expert, said the felines are regaining their lost territory. “In the past, the lions were seen in Rajkot and this dispersal is an encouraging sign.” Books detailing the history of Rajkot and Saurashtra mention that a huge population of lions thrived in the district nearly a century ago. The lioness and two sub-adults seen near Aji dam ventured here from Dhari in Amreli district and have been camping in the villages adjoining Rajkot city for nearly a month now. According to forest officials, there are three routes that lions are using to reach Rajkot. One is from Girnar to Gondal, another from Bagasara to Gondal villages and third from Babra to Jasdan and Vinchhiya. Since November 2019, three other prides have been recorded in the district and their killings along with pug marks were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-to-regain-its-roaring-glory/articleshow/79726737.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 15, 2020||Goa||‘BJP in every nook and corner of Goa’||Panaji: BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade said on Monday the people of the state have reposed faith in the party. He said despite agitations, BJP won the zilla panchayat elections, and will win the next (assembly) election with an absolute majority. “This is a historic result for BJP, no other party has won the (ZP) election with such numbers,” he said. “People of the state have shown the opposition their place.” Tanavade addressed reporters along with CM ramod Sawant, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar and health minister Vishwajit Rane. Tanavade said BJP won seats in all talukas, and with huge margins. “Looking at the results, BJP has reached every nook and corner of the state,” he said, adding that the results were a result of BJP MLAs and ministers continuously being in touch with people. Tanavade added that the party is grateful to the people of Goa to come out and vote even in Covid times.“We will fulfil all assurances given to the people in the days to come,” he said. This is a historic result for BJP, no other party has won the (ZP) election with such numbers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-in-every-nook-and-corner-of-goa/articleshow/79729684.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Of 49 seats fought, 11 members re-elected||Panaji: Eleven zilla panchayat members have been re-elected. For most of the remaining seats, almost all parties ensured that they fielded new faces and for some seats this was inevitable as they were reserved. Among the 11 are 10 of BJP’s candidates, including Dhaku Madkaikar, who has been elected from the St Lawrence seat in a tough contest. Independent candidate Antonio Vas from Cortalim was re-elected and attributed his success to the work done over the past two decades. Another independent candidate who regained hold over the seat is Domnic Gaonkar from Raia, who has been elected ZP member for the third term. However, during the last term, his wife was elected on that seat as it was reserved for woman. Two candidates who have been re-elected on the BJP ticket were elected as independent during their previous stint. In 2015, Khushali Velip from Barcaim and Shambu Velip from Cola were elected from reserved seats as independent candidates. Others who have been re-elected are Sanisha Toraskar (Siolim), Diksha Kandolkar (Sirsaim), Shankar Chodankar (Mayem), Deepak Borkar (Borim), Ulhas Tuenkar (Davorlim) and Suvarna Tendulkar (Sanvorem).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/of-49-seats-fought-11-members-re-elected/articleshow/79729685.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 80% of kids under five are anaemic||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat is the worst performing state in the country when it comes to anaemia in children under five years old. Some 79.7% of children in the 5-59 months age group who are anaemic, according the the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-V). Only Ladakh, a Union Territory, has a higher rate of anaemia in children.  The percentage of anaemic children in Gujarat is higher in rural areas. NFHS data reveals that the percentage of anaemic children increased to 79.7% from 62.6% recorded in NFHS IV. The data also revealed that the anaemia among women in the 15-49 age group was nearly as high at 65% and was also the highest, 60%, in the 15-19 years age group. Not just women, 26.6% of men are also anaemic in the state. This number was 21.6% according to NFHS-IV. Malnutrition in the state has also rose marginally. The number of stunted and underweight children increased by 0.5 of a percentage point while that of severely wasted children increased 1.1 percentage points. Only 5.2% of children in the age group of 6-23 months received a proper diet. Officials said the increase in children with malnutrition indicates a miserable failing. The officials said the claims of the health department of providing nourishing food to mother and children do not reflect in NFHS-V. The fact that 62.6% of pregnant women are also anaemic shows that the state’s interventions are not adequate. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/80-of-kids-under-five-are-anaemic/articleshow/79728483.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Students, colleges raise concerns on SOP||DEHRADUN: The private college associations of Uttarakhand have raised objections against some of the mandatory points of the recently-issued Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of higher educational institutions in the state. The colleges have raised concerns over the clause in the SOP that allows only the students pursuing practical courses to be called for classes in the first phase. The college associations said that it won’t be feasible to reopen the colleges if the turnout remains low.  Many colleges have also claimed that the students, at present, will prefer online classes and are likely to give a miss to offline classes. Further, the student unions have demanded that the state government should bear the cost of Covid-19 test for students. Notably, the SOP states that students coming from other states will have to undergo Covid-19 tests before joining the college. The students claim that the coronavirus-induced lockdown has made it difficult for them to pay the college fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/students-demand-free-covid-19-test-by-anab/articleshow/79726577.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||After decline, rise in Covid deaths||Ludhiana: Even as the number of new novel coronavirus cases has dropped after increasing last month, the casualties being reported every week are a cause of worry for the health department. The past seven days witnessed 20 deaths in the district due to Covid-19.The data of deaths in seven days in recent months shows that after October 18, when 20 fatalities were reported in Ludhiana, the number had dropped to 10 between October 26 and November 1 and from November 2 to 8. However, the figure increased to 25 between November 23 and 29 and fell to 11 between November 30 and December 6 before increasing to the present value.According to the latest state media bulletin released on Sunday evening, with 20 deaths in the past seven days, Ludhiana shared second position with SAS Nagar in the number of casualties reported in the period in the state. Jalandhar was at number one spot with 25 deaths. While Amritsar was third with 16 deaths, SBS Nagar and Ferozepur didn’t record any fatality in the period.The data since July 6 shows that the number of deaths in Ludhiana in seven days at the time was six and it increased to 16 in the week from July 13 to 19.Ludhiana witnessed 48 deaths between July 27 and August 2 and the number increased to 82 between August 24 and August 30. The figure between August 31 and September 6 was the highest at 104. It fell to 10 between October 19 and October 25. The number has been fluctuating since then.While civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga was not available for comments, a health department officer said, “We are trying to bring the number of fatalities down. We request people to report to hospitals early if they have Covid-19 symptoms. The deaths and cases can be contained only if residents follow the pandemic rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-decline-rise-in-covid-deaths/articleshow/79726571.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cars on fire: Cooking gas in LPG vehicles to blame?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Sub-quality LPG kits used in cars have led to a series of accidents in which vehicles have caught fire in Visakhapatnam and other areas in Andhra Pradesh over the last one year. Police and automobile experts in the state believe that two probable causes for cars catching fire are the use of substandard LPG kits and the use of cooking gas instead of automobile LPG to save on money. “There have been at least four cases reported in Visakhapatnam in the last one year and several others in the entire state where moving vehicles caught fire,” a Visakhapatnam-based senior police official told TOI. The senior cop further added, “Our investigations revealed that these cars were supposed to run on auto LPG but the owner had either fitted substandard LPG kits or was using cooking gas to save money.” A police official, investigating a similar case in which a vehicle caught fire on National Highway (NH)-16, said that after the fire officials doused the flames it was found that the car was run on cooking gas. What surprised the police was that there were two more LPG cylinders in the car boot. According to BSK Rao, an authorised LPG conversion kit dealer, an approved LPG conversion kit costs at least Rs 25,000–30,000. But unauthorised kits with LPG cylinders can be fitted for as low as Rs 7,000. “Secondly, owners who fit unapproved kits tend to refill with cooking gas instead of green auto LPG,” the dealer added. Automobile experts say that the trend is extremely harmful as sub-quality conversion kits are unsafe and prone to leakages. Moreover, cooking gas is more combustive than auto LPG, experts point out. “In cooking gas, there is 60% butane and 40% propane. The case is just the reverse in auto LPGs. Since the standard of propane-based gas is high, it is always safer to run vehicles on auto LPG and very dangerous to run vehicles on cooking gas,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, an automobile engineer and green technologist. Probable causes for cars catching fire are the use of substandard LPG kits or cooking gas instead of automobile LPG, believe police and automobile experts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cars-on-fire-cooking-gas-in-lpg-vehicles-to-blame/articleshow/79726574.cms||Arpit Basu
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Colleges stare at vacancies a day before final admission deadline||KOLKATA: A day before the final leg of admissions to undergraduate courses in Bengal are closed on Tuesday, vacancies persisted across colleges in the city despite the “exclusive round” that the government was forced to introduce this year to fill seats. Bethune College, one of the premier institutes with 550 seats, still has over 100 empty seats, while 250 out of 2,000 seats at Vivekananda College are still not taken. The situation is similar in most institutes. Admission heads and principals pointed out the last-moment rush to apply for converting reserved seats into general ones had not yielded results. “We were under tremendous time constraints. Despite seeking conversion on December 10, no approval has arrived, forcing us to leave a large number of seats empty,” he said. Also, given the pandemic, many students have opted for colleges near their home towns, refusing to travel to Kolkata. “Another reason seems candidates are reluctant to take up courses other than those that offer placement opportunities or at least, a shot at finding a teaching job,” said a principal. “They now prefer professional courses if they can’t find seats in a subject and institute of their choice. After the earlier deadline of October 30, most students have taken admissions. Now, they are refusing to change, even if there is an option of better subjects or college.” Most Calcutta University colleges have closed admission. They had mostly invited students from the existing merit list who did not find a seat in an institute or stream of their choice. Colleges have also sent a reminder to candidates, who have taken admissions but not followed up with confirmation, that if they do not respond within the next 24 hours, their seats will be deemed vacant. An exception to the “vacancy” trend is Lady Brabourne. “On asking waiting-list students to give us their wish list, many wanted to take up subjects, like physics, history and geography. After reducing the number of seats this year in some less popular subjects, we have a few vacancies in Persian and philosophy. Otherwise, we received a good response as most of the 150 seats that were vacant till October are now taken,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. At City College (North), an admissions official said even economics had few takers. “It is because it is difficult to score high in the subject,” said the teacher, adding scope of jobs even through School Service Commission for economics students was shrinking. The college has 500 vacancies out of 1,510 seats. UG first-semester classes are to begin on December 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-stare-at-vacancies-a-day-before-final-admission-deadline/articleshow/79727477.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Theft in mini supermarket||VADODARA: Burglars targeted a mini super market in Manjalpur sometime and stole cash, silver coins and other valuables total worth nearly Rs four lakh. The burglary is suspected to have happened sometime between Saturday evening and Monday morning Police said the thieves broke open the shutters of Manjalpur Super Store near Lalbuag railway crossing after it closed on Saturday. Before breaking the shutters, they also changed the direction of the CCTV cameras installed outside. On entering the store, directions of CCTV cameras installed inside were also changed. Using a gas cutter, they opened a safe and took away Rs 3.5 lakh cash and 100 silver coins kept inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/theft-in-mini-supermarket/articleshow/79726582.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Terai farmers tear memorandum of demands after DM refuses to receive it, handover pieces to ADM||Rudrapur: The Terai farmers protesting against the three farm laws on Monday tore their memorandum of demands into pieces in anger after Ranjan Rajguru, the district magistrate (DM) of Udham Singh Nagar, refused to receive it. Later, the farmers handed over the pieces of the memorandum, addressed to the Prime Minister, to Jagdish Kandpal, additional district magistrate, who came to meet them. The entire episode lasted for five hours, following which, the agitating farmers retreated from the collectorate raising anti-government and anti-administration slogans. Meanwhile, the police kept strict vigil to avoid any untoward incident. Before marching towards the DM office, the farmers, under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), also staged a two-hour-long sit-in protest at Gandhi Park. “The government wants to suppress the farmers’ movement. The Centre, on the behest of a few corporate houses, is adopting different tactics to snatch farmers of their land and harvest,” said Karam Singh Padda, BKU Uttarakhand president. Former Congress minister Tilak Raj Behar also reached Gandhi Park on Monday to extend support to the farmers’ protest. “The BJP-led central government wants to frame agitators in legal cases, send them to jail, or just beat them for no reason to suppress this movement. But we will not back off. The Congress party stands firm with the farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-tear-memorandum-of-demands-after-dm-refuses-to-receive-it-handover-pieces-to-adm/articleshow/79726584.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cops solve mystery of factory worker’s murder||AHMEDABAD: Odahv police on Monday arrested four persons, Nandram Gadri 32, Mittu Kir, 25, (both from Bhilwara in Rajasthan) Gopal Tiwari, 51, of Odhav and Babu Prajapati, 23, of Chittorgarh in Rajasthan for the destruction of evidence and murder of one Asharam Balai alias Sitaram, 21, of Bhilwara, Rajasthan. Gadri has been held for murder of Balai while the other three, were involved in getting rid of the body. Police inspector R G Jadeja of Odhav police station said that Gadri, Kir and the deceased worked together in a metal polishing factory named Radhe Buffing, located at Ambica Estate in Odhav. One of the accused, Tiwari, owned the operation for the last two and a half years and Prajapti worked as Tiwari’s driver. Jadeja added that main accused Gadri, and the deceased Balai, both desired the same woman working in their factory. “Gadri did not like Balai talking to the woman and had warned him several times to stay away from her, but Balai ignored him,” he said. According police sources, Gadri confessed that on the night of December 2, at about 11am, he went to Balai’s room in the factory premises and killed him by strangling him with a rope. “To hide the murder, Gadri hung Balai’s dead body from the ceiling fan to make it look like a suicide. Gadri then called up Kir, lived in the same premises in another room on the ground floor and first asked about Balai’s whereabouts and then in the second call told Kir that Balai has committed suicide in his room. Kir then called up factory owner Tiwari who rushed to the factory with his driver Prajapati and saw the dead body of Balai hanging from the ceiling fan,” said a police source. Police said Tiwari got afraid and thinking that his factory would get a bad name, he asked Gadri, Mittu and Kir to dispose of the dead body of Balai. “Mittu and Babu then brought down the body and put the body of Balai between them on a bike and dumped the body at an isolated ground near Central Workshop located opposite RT School and came back to the factory,” Jadeja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-solve-mystery-of-factory-workers-murder/articleshow/79728493.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Victory beats go missing as police enforce pandemic norms||Panaji: Regardless of the limited role of zilla panchayats in the state, normally, on the day of election results, the fervour among winning candidates and their supporters is no less than that seen for the assembly polls. This time around though, on Monday, as votes were being counted, the beating of drums, the splash of coloured powder, the hugging and the ritual tossing of the winning candidates in the air were mostly missing. It was mainly polling agents seen scattered outside counting centres, unusually quiet with the pandemic seemingly subduing their reactions to the results. It was only in the late evening — by which time it had sufficiently sunk in that BJP had swept the polls — that the party’s victory rallies and bursting of some firecrackers were witnessed in different parts of the state. Even the mildest of celebrations were moved to the winning candidates’ constituency areas, where the victorious teams felt more comfortable away from the watchful eyes of policemen who were ensuring that pandemic norms were adhered to. “In Sattari, though BJP swept the polls, till late evening there was no celebration visible. Since the counting centre was just opposite the office of the sitting MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane, the winning candidates just walked over and met him,,” a Valpoi resident said. “My aim will be to give jobs to youths. If the government cannot give jobs to youth then what is the use of government’s existence,” said Rane. Losing candidates appeared to have plenty to blame, mainly the time lapse between the original ZP election schedule and the new dates. “People didn’t know about elections and the government took advantage of that,” said AAP candidate from Cortalim Probes Vaz, who finished third at the polls. (With inputs from Afaq Khan and Ruvina Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/victory-beats-go-missing-as-police-enforce-pandemic-norms/articleshow/79729692.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 15, 2020||Goa||In Benaulim, AAP’s greenhorn candidate pips Cong’s Royla||Margao: AAP scored an upset victory in Benaulim constituency with its 26-year old candidate Hanzel Fernandes emerging victorious in a three-cornered fight. Fernandes defeated Congress candidate, former sarpanch Royla Fernandes, and NCP’s Menino Fernandes, a renowned tiatrist. Poll watchers are of the view that the victory for AAP in Benaulim is significant on many counts. One, the victory has served in opening its account in Goa for the Arvind Kejrival-led party, especially considering its ignominious defeat in the 2017 assembly polls. Secondly, the win is likely to pump some adrenaline into the party’s cadre, coming as it does at a time when AAP is facing an intra-party existential crisis. Elvis Gomes, a former bureaucrat who led the AAP’s Goa unit as the state convener for nearly four years, resigned from the party days ahead of the ZP polls. Thirdly, political observers feel the defeat of Congress candidate Fernandes, who had come within striking distance of victory as an AAP candidate in 2017 assembly polls in Benaulim, and who was the face of the anti-coal protests in Salcete, signifies the “political insignificance” of the agitation. AAP had contested the ZP polls in 20 constituencies for both zilla panchayat bodies. Buoyed by its success in Benaulim, the party plans to focus on constituencies where it gained vote share. “We got a good response in Saligao, Aldona and Calangute. We have a very short time and will try to keep up the momentum,” said party convener for Goa, Rahul Mhambre. “We will put up more efforts in Salcete.” With AAP piping Congress to the second position in many constituencies, party office-bearers feel AAP offers a credible alternative to Congress. A greenhorn in grassroots politics, Hanzel Fernandes hails from a family rooted in social activism. “My intention was to enter the system and do something for society,” the 26-year old mechanical engineer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-benaulim-aaps-greenhorn-candidate-pips-congs-royla/articleshow/79729694.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Independents outshine Hand, scalp seven seats to its four||Panaji: Seven independent candidates emerged victorious in the zilla panchayat elections (ZP), outshining Congress, which could barely win four seats despite its organisational network and greater outreach. The number of elected independent candidates is less than in 2015 when 25 had won. But at the time, Congress, NCP, AAP and the lesser known party, Rastriya Samaj Paksh, were not in the fray. Most of the successful independent candidates had the “blessing” of some senior politician, a poll watcher said Domnic Gaonkar, who has been re-elected for the third time from Raia, said that though he was offered tickets by all parties, he decided to fight on his own. “My supporters told me not to contest on any party ticket,”Gaonkar said. Antonio Vas, an independent, managed to get reelected from Cortalim despite a four-cornered fight. He could win with an impressive lead because of the work he has done for the past two decades. A surprise win was that of Kavita Kandolkar from Colvale. The wife of former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar, defeated BJP’s Govind Kubal.  Arambol and Morjim where independents succeeded is perceived as a setback to BJP MLA Dayanand Sopte. Both beat five candidates. “Both received the tacit support of a senior BJP leader, who likes to keep a low profile since his defeat in the assembly polls last,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/independents-outshine-hand-scalp-seven-seats-to-its-four/articleshow/79729687.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||With 33 new positive cases, IIT-Madras Covid tally 104 since December 1||CHENNAI: At least 33 people tested positive for Covid-19 at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras on Monday, taking the case tally on the campus to 104, including 87 students. Test results of nearly 400 more people are being awaited. The institute had reopened for final year students on December 1. Besides students, 16 mess workers and one staff member residing in the guest house have tested positive. More than 90 people who tested positive were admitted to an isolation ward at the King Institute of Preventive Medicine in Guindy. “At least 23% of those tested so far were positive. But doctors told us that tests including X-ray and CT scans show mild infection. All patients are stable and are being closely monitored,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan, who visited the hospital. He later visited the campus and held discussions with IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthi. “All residents on the campus have been tested. We are also asking those who visited the campus in the last 15 days to get themselves tested,” he said. Chennai Corporation regional deputy commissioner (south) Alby John said the campus has been fumigated and all residents have been tested. "We have asked people to wear masks and maintain social distance at all times," he said. While classes are being held online, the academic zone, including departments, labs and libraries, is shut. Students have been asked to quarantine themselves in hostels. A spokesperson said most cases were reported from two hostels, apart from a few cases from seven other hostels. On Monday, several students said the management was not isolating those with symptoms of the infection until tests results arrived. “A student with fever, cough and cold is drinking water from the same tap we use and is using the same toilet. We are afraid that other students may get infected," said a student of a masters degree programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-33-new-ve-cases-iit-m-covid-tally-104-since-dec-1/articleshow/79727503.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Kandi Road will not be affected due to Pakhro tiger safari project, says forest minister||Dehradun: Uttarakhand forest minister and Kotdwar MLA Harak Singh Rawat on Monday clarified that the construction of Kandi Road, a stretch cutting through the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to reduce the distance between Garhwal and Kumaon regions by around 70 kilometres, will not be impacted by the Pakhro Tiger Safari project. Last week, Rawat laid the foundation of the Pakhro Tiger Reserve, which will be operated in the Pakhro zone of the CTR in Lansdowne area of Pauri. The clarification by the minister comes after Lansdowne MLA Dilip Singh Rawat stated that the Pakhro Tiger Reserve will be a 'major hurdle' in the construction of Kandi Road. “Any kind of wildlife-related project in and around the reserve will increase problems. The forest department should have thought this through in advance. This project will hit the construction of Kandi Road,” he said. Reacting to the statement, Harak Singh Rawat told TOI, “The Pakhro safari is proposed in the buffer zone and it will span from Kotdwar to Pakhro gate, covering an area of around 106 hectares and a distance of around 20 kilometres. We already have a proper road there and it is transferred to the PWD department. Therefore, it will not hinder Kandi Road construction in any which way. The MLA is just spreading false rumours.” It is worth mentioning that the Kandi Road project had run into legal trouble after activists objected to the proposal of construction of a road cutting the CTR. Meanwhile, the Pakhro Tiger Safari project is the pet project of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had spoken about the development of the safari while shooting for a TV programme in CTR in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kandi-road-will-not-be-affected-due-to-pakhro-tiger-safari-project-says-forest-minister/articleshow/79726588.cms||Shivani Azad
December 15, 2020||Amritsar||Marginal farmer caught in land dispute consumes poison in Mansa||BATHINDA: Amid farmers’ protests against agricultural laws, a marginal farmer of Alampur Bodla village in Mansa consumed a poisonous substance. The farmer, Bogha Singh, was engaged in a land dispute with one Darshan Singh. His family members accused Darshan Singh and Budhlada police of harassing them for possession of 2 acres of land. The dispute is being contested in court. Bogha Singh was to solemnise the marriage of his daughter on December 29. According to his family members, Darshan Singh, with the support of the police, wanted to take possession of the land. On Sunday, they said Darshan Singh came with the police to take possession of the land. At this, Bogha Singh consumed a poisonous substance and was rushed to hospital. The family accused Budhlada Sadar police station SHO Jaspal Singh of favouring Darshan Singh. Jaspal Singh has denied the allegation. Sources said Darshan Singh claimed to have purchased the land. Denying the charges, SHO Jaspal Singh said he had gone to look into the matter and that the police would act as per court orders. When contacted, Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba said, “Police is looking into the matter and will act as per merit and the court orders, if any. I have asked the DSP to look into the allegations of the SHO taking money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/marginal-farmer-caught-in-land-dispute-consumes-poison/articleshow/79728487.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Congress: Voters didn’t trust our candidates||Panaji: Stung by the zilla panchayat results, Congress admitted it had failed to convince voters but vowed to “rise up again” ahead of the state assembly elections in 2022. “We never leave our fighting spirit. Congress has seen similar setbacks before and emerged victorious several times. We have a lot to learn from the results,” said state party president Girish Chodankar. Chodankar attributed the party’s loss to the perception that Congress’ elected representatives will defect to BJP. Twelve of its candidates, elected in 2017, have already deserted the party, leaving them with just five MLAs in the state legislative assembly. “We failed to weed out this perception from people’s mind. Voters expressed anger by dissent and did not come out to vote for us. We respect their dissent and vow to change. “The party will undertake vigorous membership drive, strengthen its grassroot level and booth level committees, which was in disarray after defections,” said Chodankar . The GPCC president also accused BJP of using power and money to win the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-voters-didnt-trust-our-candidates/articleshow/79729699.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cow hits autorickshaw, woman passenger dies||Ahmedabad: Dholka rural police station of Ahmedabad district on Sunday booked an autorickshaw driver as a 36-year-old woman died on Sunday, 12 days after she met with an accident after a cow hit the autorickshaw in which she was travelling on December 1.According to an FIR filed with Dholka rural police station, the deceased, Kamla Sonara, a resident of Rohitvas in Chandisar village in Dholka taluka, was travelling in the autorickshaw towards her workplace in Changodar when the accident took place. Kamla’s brother Bharat Sonara states in the FIR that she was travelling along with others when a stray cow hit the autorickshaw near a petrol pump in Chandisar village. The autorickshaw driver, Sanjay Thakor, lost control over the steering due to which the vehicle turned turtle. Kamla and two others were taken to a private hospital in Dholka where she was discharged as she had apparently not suffered any major injuries, said her brother in the FIR. From the private hospital in Dholka, she was shifted to Shardaben Hospital in Saraspur. Sonara said that Kamla recovered well and was discharged from Sahrdaben Hospital on December 10. “However, after she moved to her house, her condition deteriorated and she died on Sunday morning. After this, her brother approached the police and filed a complaint against Thakor for rash driving which caused the death,” said an official from Dholka rural police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cow-hits-autorickshaw-woman-passenger-dies/articleshow/79727497.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Agra||30 fresh Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 9,881||Agra: At least 31 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 9,881. The patients included a junior doctor of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and a paramedical staff of the district hospital. Besides, there were four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection and two of coronary artery infection. Also, 42 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Out of the 9,881 cases reported in the district, 95% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 335 on Sunday, to 323 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.5%. So far, 9,389 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/30-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9881/articleshow/79725861.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: After IIT-Madras virus cluster, colleges step up guard||CHENNAI: After IIT-Madras reported several Covid-19 cases, universities and colleges in the city have sprung into action to carry out a reality check of precautionary measures put in place by them. While some have screened their students for Covid-19 symptoms, others are likely to make a 14-day quarantine mandatory for their outstation students. Anna University's College of Engineering, Guindy, and Madras Institute of Technology, Chromepet house more than 1,200 students after the state government allowed reopening classes for final year UG students last week. “We have tested one student, who had fever, and isolated the entire block. The test results will be available tomorrow,” said S Iniyan, dean, College of Engineering, Guindy. CEG administration will organise a camp to test the students with symptoms. Hostel wardens gave counselling to the students on Monday. N Mathivanan, registrar (incharge) of Madras University, said the university had screened students for after receiving information about Covid cluster at IIT Madras. "We do not have any students with Covid symptoms at our hostels. We are closely monitoring the situation," he said. SRM Institute of Science and Technology has opened the campus for medical, dental students and research scholars recently. “Around 500 students are staying on the campus. Fortunately, there are no Covid cases on our campus. The reopening is expected only in January when next semester commences,” said Sandeep Sancheti, vice-chancellor of SRMIST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-iit-m-virus-cluster-colleges-step-up-guard/articleshow/79727563.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kanpur||Behmai massacre survivor & plaintiff Rajaram Singh dies, awaiting justice||Kanpur:Rajaram Singh (85), the main witness of the 1981 Behmai massacre and the plaintiff in the case, died after prolonged illness at his native village Behmai in Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday. He was suffering from chronic liver disease. In the Behmai massacre, 20 men, including 17 Thakurs, one Muslim, one Dalit and one OBC, were killed on February 14, 1981 by dacoit Phoolan Devi and her gang as revenge for the sexual violence perpetrated on her by men of the Thakur caste, in the village less than 100 km from Kanpur. Six others were injured. Rajaram’s two younger brothers Banwari Singh and Himmat Singh, cousin Naresh Singh, nephews Dev Singh, Hukum Singh and Dashrath Singh were among those killed by the Phoolan gang. When the ailing Rajaram was last interviewed by TOI in the first week of December, he had said, “I wish to see the accused of the Behmai massacre hanged for their crime, for the way they shed blood of our innocent family members. But God only knows whether I would be able to witness it as I am suffering from chronic liver ailment. I will get peace only when the killers are punished in my lifetime.” Rajaram, the key complainant and witness, who had reached Kanpur Dehat district court for hearing, had recalled that he was 46 when the massacre took place but memories of the incident still send shivers down his spine even after 39 years. “Our village witnessed 20 cremations on a single day. I was born as a Thakur, who are considered to be brave, but on that day, I was shivering like anything and took refuge under the fodder dump. Maan Singh, Balwan, Shivpal, Mustaqeem, Phoolan Devi and their men were dragging away my brothers, some of whom were just 11, 12 and 14, forced them to kneel down and shot them one by one. They had shot 26 males, out of whom 20 succumbed,” he had said. “Behmai, once known as the village of Thakurs, was transformed into a village of mourners with 17 young widows. What was more painful was how Thakurs were projected as rapists of Phoolan all these years,” Rajaram had rued to TOI. “Such was the fear of Phoolan, that none could even dare to look in her eyes. Now tell me, in such a situation, is it possible that people like us having wives and children would have sexually assaulted Phoolan, that too in the presence of our grandmothers, mothers and sisters. We are not insane, we are also a part of the society,” he had claimed. “In the last 39 years, there was not a single day when we lived happily. For me, it is still quite confusing: When someone commits a crime, he should be punished accordingly, but what if an accused gets punishment 10, 20 or 30 years after the incident. Can we call this justice,” he had asked. His son Ramkesh Singh, who is serving as a police home guard, told TOI on Monday, “Even though my father was old and ailing, he regularly visited court and never missed hearings. It is immensely painful for us that his last wish of witnessing killers getting punishment in his lifetime remained unfulfilled.” “He was suffering from chronic liver disease for the past two years. His condition deteriorated and he breathed his last on Sunday,” added Ramkesh. Rajaram’s one son Kandrapal Singh is serving in the Army, while two others Badam Singh and Deshraj Singh are peasants. A local court of Kanpur had framed charges in the case in August 2012, as many as 31 years after the massacre. Out of the 23 accused in this case, 16, including Phoolan Devi, are already dead. Charges were framed against the four surviving accused, while the court issued a non-bailable warrant against three absconders, including Maan Singh, Ramkesh and Vishwanath alias Ashok. A special court (dacoity) had fixed a date for pronouncing the verdict in the case in January 2020, but it was adjourned several times as the original case diary was reported missing from court records and a probe was ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/behmai-massacre-survivor-plaintiff-rajaram-singh-dies-awaiting-justice/articleshow/79728947.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||ISC viva can be held virtually or on phone||Kolkata: The Council for The Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has decided to allow institutes to conduct viva voce virtually or over the telephone for ISC exams in 2021. Council chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon on Monday informed all school heads that if the Class XII boards candidates did visit campuses for viva voce, social distancing norms must be maintained and that the exams should be held in a staggered manner. Principals, in consultation with visiting examiners, may prepare a timetable for each candidate but for those who can’t attend school physically, can take the viva virtually or over phone. “If this situation persists, the virtual mode is the only possibility for viva voce. As we are holding online classes, contact details are at hand. We will issue further instructions, as and when the council advises,” said principal of Rammohan Mission School Sujoy Biswas. To ease pressure on ISC students, the council has also introduced project work in 11 new subjects. The projects can be scanned copy of handwritten papers, typed papers or PowerPoint presentations. “Visiting examiners should be provided with project work either in hard-copy format or in electronic mode. The hard copies should be properly sanitized,” instructed the council. The council will activate the online module for the submission of project marks from December 18. CISCE is yet to announce the dates for ICSE and ISC 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/isc-viva-can-be-held-virtually-or-on-phone/articleshow/79727557.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Occupancy increases, so do Delhi flight fares||Ludhiana: With the increase in the number of passengers in the lone flight from the city to Delhi after farmers’ protest, the fares have also witnessed a jump. The 70-seater flight’s occupancy continues to be more than 65%.Air India officials said the minimum rate for a ticket was around Rs 2,800, but these were selling at as high as Rs 4,035 due to hindered movement on the Ludhiana-Delhi highway in the wake of farmers’ agitation near Delhi. They said the rates were expected to remain more than the minimum value till the protest and the passenger load may remain high as people were now preferring air travel. As per a ticket booking portal, the December 15 and 17 ticket rate is Rs 4,035 and for December 19, it is available for Rs 3,510 and for December 21 and 22, for Rs 3,090. AI officials said before the protest, the occupancy was between 20-30%, but after November 26, it shot above 65%. In the first fortnight of December, the number of incoming passengers in Delhi-Ludhiana flight was between 42 and 58 and of the outgoing was between 38 and 58.The data of November showed that number of incoming passengers from November 1 to November 26 (when farmers started protest to Delhi) was between 14 and 30 and of outgoing was between 13 and 29. After the start of the protest on November 26, there was a jump in occupancy with 44 passengers arriving from Delhi and 57 leaving. On November 28, the number of incoming passengers jumped to 64 and 65 left for Delhi from Sahnewal.AAI officials said given the significant increase in flight occupancy, they would keep asking Air India to increase the flight frequency from the present four days a week to all seven days.Flight schedule As per the revised schedule effective from December 1 to February 28, the Air India flight takes off from Delhi at 2pm and reaches Sahnewal airport at 3.15pm and from Ludhiana it takes off at 3.45pm and reaches Delhi by 4.55pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/occupancy-increases-so-do-delhi-flight-fares/articleshow/79726609.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 15, 2020||Goa||‘BJP in every nook and corner of Goa’||Panaji: BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade said on Monday the people of the state have reposed faith in the party. He said despite agitations on the Mollem projects, BJP won the zilla panchayat elections, and will win the next (assembly) election with an absolute majority. “This is a historic result for BJP, no other party has won the (ZP) election with such numbers,” he said. “People of the state have shown the opposition their place.” Tanavade addressed reporters along with CM ramod Sawant, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar and health minister Vishwajit Rane. Tanavade said BJP won seats in all talukas, and with huge margins. “Looking at the results, BJP has reached every nook and corner of the state,” he said, adding that the results were a result of BJP MLAs and ministers continuously being in touch with people. Tanavade added that the party is grateful to the people of Goa to come out and vote even in Covid times.“We will fulfil all assurances given to the people in the days to come,” he said. Sawant, meanwhile, said that the people of the state have reposed their faith in the BJP leadership. “We are committed to the development of rural Goa,” he said. Sawant said that this election was a test for the BJP government, and that it has passed. Kavalekar said that the people have made Congress candidates lose their deposits. He also said that all elections are important, and that BJP would win the municipality elections too. This is a historic result for BJP, no other party has won the (ZP) election with such numbers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-in-every-nook-and-corner-of-goa/articleshow/79729732.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Varanasi||SP workers held to prevent from staging protests in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur police arrested several Samajwadi Party workers and leaders including the district president when they were going to participate in a sit-in on Nagar Nigam campus on Monday. On the call of the party president, the SP workers and leaders were going to stage a sit-in at Nagar Nigam premises to show solidarity towards farmers and protesting against the farmer’s bill. The police arrested the party’s district president Ram Nagina Sahini and former president Ziaul Islam on Monday morning. Some workers were arrested near the town hall crossroad and some from Zila Parishad road. “Police and government are crushing our constitutional rights. They have registered fake cases against us to prevent us from staging protest,” said Ram Nagina Sahini. SSP Gorakhpur Jogendra Kumar said, “Section 144 is already imposed in the district and during a pandemic it is also not safe to gather at a place. They should first take permission of staging demonstration from the magistrate. Maintaining law and order is the duty of police.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-workers-held-to-prevent-from-staging-protests-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/79727151.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Agra||Cops forced us to withdraw case, say kin of doctor who died after falling into pit dug by civic workers in Aligarh||AGRA: The family of a 45-year-old doctor, who died on Sunday after falling into a pit dug by civic body workers in Aligarh to lay underground a pipeline, have accused a local BJP leader and police of pressuring them to withdraw the case against the mayor and senior municipal corporation officials. The case under section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against six officials, including the municipal commissioner and mayor, was “expunged” hours after it was registered on Sunday, ostensibly after the victim’s family gave a written statement exonerating the accused and requesting no further action in the matter. Talking to TOI, the family members of Rajeev Kumar Gupta, a BUMS doctor who had a clinic at Babri Mandi, said that they were asked to sign some papers promising them “a job and adequate compensation”. The victim’s wife Rashmi Gupta, who had lodged the police complaint, claimed that former mayor Shakuntala Bharti, who also lives nearby, and police officers visited them in the dead of night asking them to withdraw the case. “I was not in a position to talk. Yet, they went on and on. My husband had died hours earlier and they all bombarded me with some papers and asked me to sign it,” she said, claiming that “we were promised financial assistance and a government job”. According to the deceased’s relatives, Rashmi is a teacher in a local school with a meagre salary. The deceased’s daughter, Nayansi, who is preparing for NEET, said, “We have nothing left now. If I get an admission, who will pay my fee?” Denying the allegation, former mayor Shakuntala Bharti said, “I was present there but did not know when the police came and took anything in writing from them.” When contacted, Aligarh SSP Muniraj G said, “During investigation, it was found that there was no fault of the municipal commissioner, mayor and other officials. The work was being done by a contractor and that’s why the FIR was expunged.” He added that he would inquire into the allegations of police personnel asking the deceased’s family to give in writing that no further action is required into the matter. Meanwhile, the pits which had been lying open in Mahendra Nagar for several days, and into one of which, the doctor had fallen while trying to retrieve his bike, were filled immediately after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-forced-us-to-withdraw-case-say-kin-of-doc-who-died-after-falling-into-pit-dug-by-civic-workers/articleshow/79725872.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 15, 2020||Goa||In Bardez, BJP trumps Congress, secures 7 of 9 seats||PANAJI: Working like a well-oiled machine, BJP managed to get seven of its candidates elected in Bardez, which has nine members in the 25-member North Goa ZP body. Congress was decimated in the taluka, which was its stronghold for long in the past. AAP, too, couldn’t find resonance with the people. Meticulous planning, which was overseen by ports minister Michael Lobo and organising secretary Satish Dhond, saw BJP through with a high success rate, sources said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant himself also held small group meeting in some constituencies in Bardez. According to sources, the plan was quite simple — to target the non-BJP assembly constituencies more. These included Siolim and Saligao represented by GFP, and Porvorim, whose independent MLA Rohan Khaunte has been regularly castigating Sawant. Since January, BJP managers had been working to ensure the opposition defeat in these three constituencies. Socorro ZP constituency traverses through three assembly segments — Porvorim, Saligao and Calangute — as it consists of villages of Saligao, Guirim and Parra besides Socorro. In 2015, Khaunte had joined hands with Lobo to defeat candidates of then tourism minister and then Saligao MLA Dilip Parulekar, especially in Socorro, and they had succeeded. This time, Khaunte joined hands with Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar (GFP). BJP went all out to defeat Khaunte’s candidates. Khaunte, however, managed to retain Penha da Franca seat with his nominee Kavita Naik defeating BJP’s Radhika Sawant. Lobo said that Kartik winning is an indication that the next assembly election will see a change in Povorim . BJP won the neighbouring Reis Magos seat. In Lobo’s own Calangute constituency, BJP failed to win a big margin. In other parts of Bardez, BJP performed well winning Siolim, Anjuna, Aldona and Sirsaim seats. One upset was in Colvale where BJP’s Govind Kubal lost to GFP’s working president Kiran Kandolkar’s wife Kavita. Political analysts say that the way the ZP polls were fought in Bardez, it is to be seen how muddy the electoral battle may be in some constituencies in the next assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-bardez-bjp-trumps-cong-secures-7-of-9-seats/articleshow/79729813.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Teen too succumbs after she, mother entered suicide pact||tnnLudhiana: After a 14-year-old and her mother hanged themselves at their house in Haibowal on Saturday night, the girl, too, succumbed at a hospital on Monday morning. Her mother, 36, had died the same day. Police said the accused not only sent objectionable messages to the duo on social networking sites, but also humiliated them outside their house, forcing them to take the extreme step.The accused have been identified as Tony, a fruit vendor, his wife Nidhi and the victims’ neighbour Anu. Around 9pm on Saturday, the girl and her mother were found hanging at their house. In a suicide note, her mother had held the three responsible for their deaths. A relative of the victims said, “The fruit vendor used to visit the house of their neighbour. About a month ago, the vendor had sent objectionable messages to the girl on Facebook. The family had lodged a police complaint against him, but later they struck a compromise. Thereafter, the vendor stopped visiting Anu’s house.”A few days ago, the vendor again started visiting Anu’s house.“Around 10pm on December 11, the girl, along with her parents, was returning home after dinner when she saw Tony and Nidhi outside Anu’s house. The accused humiliated the girl and her mother. The next day, the two hanged themselves. While the mother died, the girl was admitted to a private hospital. But around 7am on Monday, she too succumbed,” said Haibowal police station ASI Harmesh Lal.A case has been registered against the accused for abetment to suicide. Police have launched a manhunt to nab them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/teen-too-succumbs-after-she-mother-entered-suicide-pact/articleshow/79726616.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||65 contract virus, district case count jumps to 24,007||Ludhiana: Even as no death of a Ludhianvi due to Covid-19 was reported, 65 residents tested positive on Monday.However, two patients from outside the district succumbed to the disease and nine outsiders were confirmed to have contracted the virus here on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana fatality figure stood at 934 and that of outsiders at 412. To date, 4,98,719 persons have been tested.Of the 65 new cases, 30 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 10 positive cases’ contacts, 21 from OPD, two through tracing process and two severe acute respiratory infection cases.The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count was 24,007 and that of outsiders 3,494.So far, 22,365 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.16% of the total cases.There are 705 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,562.On Monday, 174 people were quarantined and 1,523 samples were collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Ten patients, including six Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/65-contract-virus-district-case-count-jumps-to-24007/articleshow/79726623.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||BJP corporators rap BMC over sea link hoardings||MUMBAI: BJP corporators on Monday demanded to know why BMC had not pulled down unauthorised hoardings on the Bandra-Worli sea link. The corporators raised the issue at a law committee meeting and said there were 12 giant hoardings along the sea link while the BMC said there were only two. Corporators sought action against civic officials for not pulling them down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-corporators-rap-bmc-over-sea-link-hoardings/articleshow/79728991.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||On criminals’ target, Ludhiana may get own cyber police station||Ludhiana: On average, around 30 cases related to various cybercrimes are reported every month in Ludhiana commissionerate of police (CP), but there are only 20 staff members in the local cyber cell to handle those cases. Considering the high number of complaints and the fact that being an industrial town, Ludhiana is always on the radar of cybercriminals, the city police is in the process of setting up a separate cyber police station.The Ludhiana CP is also observing ‘Cyber Enforcement Month’ from December 5 to January 5, during which based on the complaints, one FIR is being lodged every day.Given that the pendency of cybercrime-related complaints in the commisionerate is 2,100, police commissioner Rakesh Agarwal has given the deadline of December 31 to the cyber cell to dispose of these complaints.According to a recent report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Ludhiana commissionerate was at the top of the chart in the state in terms of cybercrime cases in 2019.Police commissioner Agarwal said, “At present, we have a cyber cell manned by 20 personnel. It receives around 30 complaints every month. Since so many cybercrime complaints are reported in Ludhiana, we want to have a separate cyber police station. This would get us a dedicated and more efficient staff with better knowledge of information technology to help in the investigation.”BOXNeed for separate police stationAdditional deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, who also heads the cyber cell, said, “There is only one cyber police station in Punjab located in Mohali, which is equipped with the high-tech equipment required for probe. Police from across the state send mobiles and other gadgets there for inspection and then wait for reports. This delays investigation. Once we get a separate police station, we would have all the necessary tools to collect scientific evidence, which would speed up investigations.”BOXAwareness programmePolice commissioner Rakesh Agarwal said during the ongoing Cyber Enforcement Month, the city police has started an awareness programme on social media via the official Twitter handle and Facebook page of Ludhiana police. Soon, street plays would also be held to educate people, he said, adding that many people do not even know that a certain act on social media falls under the cybercrime category.BOXCybercrime in Punjab (2019)District CasesLudhiana 37Sangrur 20SAS Nagar 18Jalandhar 17Amritsar 11Mansa 11Moga 11Patiala 15(Source: NCRB data)BOXCybercrimes since 2016Year Cases in Ludhiana Cases in Punjab2019 37 2432018 24 2392017 33 1762016 16 102BOXSome recent casesNov 25, 2020: The police busted a gang of cybercriminals and arrested seven fraudsters, who were part of an interstate gang of cyber criminals. They would cheat people by taking their sensitive details in the name of providing them cheap loans. Following their arrest, the cops also came to know about a racket selling Aadhaar and PAN details of people for just Rs 100 to cybercriminals.Sept 19, 2020: The Sangrur police arrested Pawan Kumar of Jodhewal area and his accomplice Noor Ali of Mandi Gobindgarh for their involvement in an interstate cyber fraud racket run from Jamtara of Jharkhand. Impersonating as bank officials, they would ask people to update their bank KYC details by downloading TeamViewer QuickSupport app on their phones. Through the app, they would hack into the victims’ phones, take all banking details and siphon off money from their accounts.Aug 21, 2020: The police arrested a Daresi man, who stalked and harassed a 29-year-old woman by morphing her pictures and making it viral on social media. The accused had also got morphed pictures of the woman with him published in different newspapers as advertisements for their marriage anniversary. The man has also been booked in June and December 2019 for similar reasons.Nov 23, 2019: A businessman was duped of Rs 4 crore on the pretext of getting him higher claims on his insurance policies. During the investigation, the police found that the accused had forged several documents and signatures of the complainant and his family members.Oct 17, 2019: The Ludhiana police nabbed four Delhi-based cybercriminals, who duped people by luring them with insurance policies with lucrative returns. According to the cops, they had duped people across the country of around Rs 100 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/on-criminals-target-ludhiana-may-get-own-cyber-police-station/articleshow/79726626.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||Retired ACF has assets worth Rs 1 cr||Vadodara: A retired assistant conservator of forest was booked on Monday for holding disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.1 crore.ACB had received information that Kasim Reshamwala, who used to work at the chief conservator’s office in Vadodara, had indulged in corrupt practices and owns assets valuing more than what he had earned during his lifetime. “We had initiated an inquiry by investigating bank statements and transactions done for buying assets. Forensic auditing was also done by a financial expert,” said an ACB official. Reshamwala had spent and invested Rs 3.2 crore while his income from all legitimate sources was just Rs 2.1 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retired-acf-has-assets-worth-rs-1-cr/articleshow/79727603.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Bishop’s College turns 200 today||Kolkata: Bishop’s College, a landmark institution started by Bishop Middleton, will turn 200 on Tuesday. Given the pandemic, the grand celebrations planned earlier have been postponed in favour of a muted programme by the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India (CNI). The campus that was set up in 1820 on the western banks of the Hooghly in Howrah’s Shibpur, with permission from Warren Hastings, later shifted to Beckbagan, where it still stands. It was the alma mater for first Bengali Christian priest Reverend Krishnamohan Banerjee and Michael Madhusudan Dutt. A documentation of the campus history, piecing together why Middleton set up a college to train the clergy from both among Indians and the British posted in India, will be released on Tuesday. Middleton wrote to the Company in England, attaching a plan laid out on the lines of the theological colleges of Oxford and Cambridge. The Company agreed and Hastings allotted 64 bighas of a portion of the Company Gardens (Botanic Gardens). Bishop’s College, with classrooms, a chapel, libraries, quarters for students and the faculty, was built, resembling Hampton Court. The college was shifted to Beckbagan in 1880 as the faculty and students started suffering from kala azar, cholera and other diseases. In its place, came up Government Engineering College, now IIEST. The compilation by scholar Bivore Das will be released by Bishop Paritosh Canning on the Beckbagan campus. Rare photos of letters by Middleton for the college approval, the deed, paintings and sketches, have been included in the book. College principal Father Sunil Caleb has helped with another scholarly compilation. “It’s a momentous occasion but we can’t involve the community physically in the celebrations. We will also have a virtual streaming of the event on Tuesday. We plan a grand event after the pandemic,” Fr Caleb said. Scholar Nirendra Kumar Biswas, who has studied Bishop’s College for his research, rued that the pandemic held up his work .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bishops-college-turns-200-today/articleshow/79727632.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 15, 2020||Goa||Of 49 seats fought, 11 members re-elected||Panaji: Eleven zilla panchayat members have been re-elected. For most of the remaining seats, almost all parties ensured that they fielded new faces and for some seats this was inevitable as they were reserved. Among the 11 are 10 of BJP’s candidates, including Dhaku Madkaikar, who has been elected from the St Lawrence seat in a tough contest. Independent candidate Antonio Vas from Cortalim was re-elected and attributed his success to the work done over the past two decades. Another independent candidate who regained hold over the seat is Domnic Gaonkar from Raia, who has been elected ZP member for the third term. However, during the last term, his wife was elected on that seat as it was reserved for woman. Two candidates who have been re-elected on the BJP ticket were elected as independent during their previous stint. In 2015, Khushali Velip from Barcaim and Shambu Velip from Cola were elected from reserved seats as independent candidates. Others who have been re-elected are Sanisha Toraskar (Siolim), Diksha Kandolkar (Sirsaim), Shankar Chodankar (Mayem), Deepak Borkar (Borim), Ulhas Tuenkar (Davorlim) and Suvarna Tendulkar (Sanvorem). Independent candidate Kavita Naik has been elected from Penha de Franca seat. During previous term, her husband Gupesh held the seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/of-49-seats-fought-11-members-re-elected/articleshow/79729727.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurates 2000 ‘single-doctor’ clinics across Tamil Nadu to insure early diagnosis||CHENNAI: In an attempt to ensure early diagnosis of diseases, prevent self-medication and to cut down out-of-pocket health expenditures, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated 2,000 Amma mini-clinics. While 47 of 200 clinics in Chennai began their operations on Monday, those in other districts will start functioning in a phased manner. By January 15, all clinics will be operational. Tamil Nadu is high on health indices and has managed to do an exemplary work in testing and treating cases of Covid-19. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has appreciated our government's efforts in controlling coronavirus by doing maximum number of RTPCR tests in the country," he said. The mini clinic, he said, will function between 9 and 11 am and between 4 and 7pm with one doctor, a nurse and health worker. These clinics will offer treatment for minor ailments such as seasonal fevers, do blood tests for early diagnosis of communicable and non-communicable disease and refer patients to higher centres – primary health centre, taluk/district hospital or medical college hospital in case they need specialised care. “These clinics will serve a smaller population in urban and rural areas. Consultation and treatment will be offered free of cost,” he said. “We expect these labs to do even better. Offering free essential health services to people at their doorstep and reduces the financial burden on low-income households by saving travel costs and lost wages, health minister C Vijayabaskar said. “People need not skip work to come to meet a doctor or delay meeting a doctor. They don’t have to go to a private clinic, where they pay for consultation simply because our OP services are closed in the evening. In the long term, we expect this to increase efficiency in higher centres ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-inaugurates-2000-single-doctor-clinics-across-tn-to-insure-early-diagnosis/articleshow/79727593.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Allahabad||Ivermectin doses for kalpwasis at Magh Mela next yr||Prayagraj: Apart from making them undergo a Covid-19 test every week during their stay, health department officials have also mooted a plan to administer prophylactic active dose of Ivermectin to kalpwasis coming to Magh Mela next year. Over 20,000 kalpwasis are likely to camp on the Magh Mela ground next year. Additional chief medical officer and nodal officer Rishi Sahai said, “The health department has mooted a plan to administer a prophylactic active dose of Ivermectin to all kalpwasis. A prophylactic dose would also be administered to frontline workers assigned duties on the Mela campus. The doses will be administered to kalpwasis on the first, seventh and 30th day of the month.” “Apart from bringing a negative RT-PCR test report along with them to get an entry to the Mela ground, they will also undergo a Covid-19 test every week during their month-long stay. Officials would be preparing a health card of each kalpwasi to track their health.”Meanwhile, chief medical officer (Prayagraj) Dr Prabhakar Rai said that at least 10 to 15 health surveillance teams would be deployed in each sector of the Mela ground to track the health of kalpwasis and other seers staying on the Mela ground. “Medical teams equipped with a thermal scanner and sanitizers would be stationed at all entry points of the venue,” he added. “Kalpwasis would also be submitting an undertaking that they agree to be sent to a quarantine or isolation centre in the city, if they test positive for Covid-19,” the officials added. The health department will also set up five booths for collection of swab samples in the five sectors of the Magh Mela ground. The Mela will start from January 14 next year. The state government had recently assured seers and saints associated with Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) that the Magh Mela would be organised despite the pandemic but under strict implementation of Covid-19 safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ivermectin-doses-for-kalpwasis-at-magh-mela-next-yr/articleshow/79728965.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Shahnawaz Qasim is the new Waqf board CEO||Hyderabad: Within a month after the Telangana high court directed the government to relieve Mohammed Qasim from the post of CEO, State Waqf Board, the government has appointed DIG rank IPS officer, Shahnawaz Qasim, as its new CEO. The minorities welfare department, on Monday, issued orders appointing director of minority welfare, Shahnawaz Qasim to the post. Qasim belongs to the 2003 batch of IPS officers and was allotted to the Telangana cadre during the bifurcation of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. In November, a bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy expressed anguish against the then CEO Mohammed Qasim, for failing to protect waqf properties. The Telangana high court had asked the government to replace him immediately, with someone who would be able to do the job better. Taking a strong note of the high court's remarks, the state government transferred him and appointed Shahnawaz Qasim to the post. In 2018 also Shahnawaz Qasim has held temporary charge for a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shahnawaz-qasim-is-the-new-waqf-board-ceo/articleshow/79728548.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Man goes live to end life, cops foil suicide bid||Hyderabad: A person who attempted suicide by going live on a social media platform, was saved by police in the nick of time in Uppal on Sunday night. Rachakonda police said they got a call from Dial-100 informing that a caller gave an alert about a person committing suicide live on social media. Officials said they got the call at 9.26 pm on Sunday and the IT wing of Rachakonda traced the location of the person, who attempted suicide, and shared the location with Uppal police at 9.45 pm. By the time police reached, they found him with wrist injuries. Immediately, he was shifted to hospital and he was saved. Police said he attempted suicide as he was in depression. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-goes-live-to-end-life-cops-foil-suicide-bid/articleshow/79728558.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kanpur||5,100-km yatra to rejuvenate Ganga to flag off from Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Armed forces veterans will get together to unite government, non-government and individual organisations to rejuvenate river Ganga and restore it to its pristine glory by organising a ‘padyatra’ from Prayagraj from December 16. The ‘Atulya Ganga’ yatra will be inaugurated by UP governor Anandiben Patel, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Union minister of culture and tourism Prahlad Patel through video conferencing. The 5,100-kilometre yatra will cover 45 cities, 5,000 villages, forests, mountains and glaciers. Member of Green India Foundation — one of the organisations participating in the yatra — Vijay Shukla said, “The parikrama will last around eight months and volunteers would conduct mapping of several small and big drains along with sewage points which are discharging pollutants into the Ganga. We aim to encourage the public to join the yatra.” Members said that the yatra is a unique initiative launched by ‘Incredible Ganga’ an organisation formed by Armed Forces veterans. This organisation was founded by former military officers Colonel Manoj Keshwar, Lt Col. Hem Lohmi and Colonel Gopal Sharma. The padyatra will start from Sangam in Prayagraj on Wednesday and culminate at the same place on August 14, 2021 after the volunteers visit Ganga Sagar and Goumukh. A plantation drive would also be organised on the route of the parikrama. Apart from ministries like Jal shakti, culture & tourism, other organisations like ITBP, Nehru Parvatarohan Sansthan, Nehru Yuva Kendra, NCC, Green India Foundation, Ganga Sewa Manch and Prayagraj Foundation have joined the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/5100-km-yatra-to-rejuvenate-ganga-to-flag-off-from-city/articleshow/79728975.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Varanasi||SP protests against farm lawsquelled, leaders detained||Varanasi: In a bid to take out ‘Kisan Yatras’ in solidarity with farmers protesting new farm laws, a large number of Samajwadi Party (SP)leaders came on roads on Monday and many of them were arrested in east UP districts, including Mau and Ghazipur on Monday. The SP could not stage any major protest against the new farm laws in Varanasi as most of the party senior leaders, including former minister Surendra Patel, his brother and former MLA Mahendra Patel were not allowed by the police to come out of their residences. Scores of SP workers led by district unit chief Sujit Yadav Lakkad and Shalini Yadav gathered at Shastri Ghat and submitted a memorandum to the district administration. Superintendent of police (City) Vikas Chandra Tripathi said that no procession or demonstration took place in the district. In Ghazipur, former SP minister Om Prakash Singh, MLA Virendra Yadav, district unit chief Ramdhari Yadav and dozens of workers were arrested and sent to police lines from Lanka ground. The party leaders had gathered to march towards collectorate. When they tried to come out of Lanka ground, police stopped them when a scuffle took place. Situation normalised following intervention of senior officials after which they were arrested and sent to police lines. Scores of SP leaders and workers staged a sit-in on the road in front of Lohia Trust campus in Mirzapur. They were later removed from the road by police. Around 40 SP leaders and workers led by party spokesman Rajiv Rai were also arrested while making bid to carry out a procession in the name of Kisan Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-protests-against-farm-lawsquelled-leaders-detained/articleshow/79727112.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kanpur||BJP MP: Khalistanis, ‘tukde-tukde’ gang hijacking farmers’ stir||Kanpur: BJP MP Satyadeo Pachauri on Monday said “farmers’ protest is being hijacked by political parties, Khalistan terrorists and ‘tukde-tukde’ gang.” “Our enemy countries are closely monitoring the agitation and are pushing ‘Khalistan supporters’ and members of ‘tukde-tukde’ gang into it so as to create anarchy in the country. In fact, Khalistan supporters have already made an entry which was evident by vandalising the statue of father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi in the US,” said local BJP MP Pachauri while briefing media at his camp office in the city. He added, “There are also reports that the protesters are raising slogans againstPM Narendra Modi and the posters of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale have surfaced during the protest at the Delhi border. These are the same elements who had majorly protested during abrogation of Article 370, besides over the construction of Ram temple and passing of CAA bill.” Pachauri termed the farm laws a ‘second Green Revolution’. “We have seen the first Green Revolution. Now, it is the second Green Revolution under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said and added, “Passage of three farm bills is only going to make farmers wealthy.” Pachauri attacked the opposition parties, saying that those who are against the new laws are not well-wishers of the farmers. “You all have witnessed how the opposition tried to obstruct the passing of the bills that would liberalise the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-mp-khalistanis-tukde-tukde-gang-hijacking-farmers-stir/articleshow/79728897.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur Mahotsav on Jan 12 & 13||Gorakhpur: The annual fest Gorakhpur Mahotsav will be organized on January 12 and 13 next year amid Covid protocols. Gorakhpur divisional commissioner Jayant Narilikar presided over a meeting of officials on Monday and issued instructions for making requisite preparations for the Mahotsav. “Gorakhpur Mahotsav is a big platform for local artists. Covid-19 protocol will be strictly followed during the fest,” Narlikar said. He instructed the sports officer to organize traditional sports at the fest. He also instructed officials to make arrangements for ensuring proper, regular cleaning of the premises, providing sanitizer and ensuring all visitors wear mask. The commissioner also gave instructions to ensure preparations as per the agenda of the Mahotsav presented by the tourism officer. DM Vijyendra Pandiyan, SSP Jogendra Kumar, CDO Indrajit Singh and other officials were present during the meeting. Gorakhpur Mahotsav has become a highly popular mega event since former MP Yogi Adityanath became the chief minister of UP in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-mahotsav-on-jan-12-13/articleshow/79727128.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Kanpur||Icy winds bring down mercury, city shivers||Kanpur: Icy winds blowing across the city brought the day temperature down to just 21 degrees Celsius on Monday making it the coldest day of the season so far. This was 2.7 degrees less than the normal value. Day temperature on Sunday and Saturday was marginally above the normal value. On December 10, day temperature was 28.4 degree, 4.4 degrees above the normal value. Thus, in past four days, day temperature has fallen by over seven degrees, thereby making people shiver even during the daytime. Snowfall in the hills of Uttarakhand and clear and open skies in the plain areas has been attributed as the reason behind the steep fall in the temperature. According to the Met department, the dry spell of the season will now continue leading to further fall in the temperature - both during the day and the night time. Met further stated that there will be no cloud cover. There was also a fall in the night temperature by three degrees Celsius. While on Saturday, night temperature recorded was 14.6 degrees, it fell to 11 degrees on Sunday night. Further fall in the night temperature is expected in coming days. The impact of the weather was clearly visible as many homeless people made arrangements of bonfire to keep themselves warm. Meanwhile, the city woke up to a foggy morning on Monday. Dense fog enveloped the city especially at the city outskirts reducing the visibility and affecting the vehicular movement. Within the city also the visibility remained little poor during the morning time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/icy-winds-bring-down-mercury-city-shivers/articleshow/79728871.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to table Rs 4,096 crore supplementary budget in assembly||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government would table a supplementary budget of Rs 4,096 crore in the winter session of state assembly commencing in Dehradun from December 21. Through the supplementary budget, the government would seek a grant of Rs 2.68 crore under the revenue head and Rs 2.28 crore under the capital head from the assembly. Sharing the information, urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that the cabinet has given its nod for tabling of the supplementary budget in the House. Earlier in December 2018, the state had tabled a supplementary budget of Rs 2,452 crore and in December 2019, it was a Rs 2,539 crore supplementary budget. In other decisions, the cabinet decided that government doctors opting for postgraduate courses would not need to give bank guarantee. In the last cabinet meeting, it was decided that in addition to the bond, doctors seeking PG courses would have to give a bank guarantee of Rs 50 lakh, which earlier was Rs 1 crore. However, in the cabinet meeting on Monday, the mandatory provision of giving bank guarantee was abolished. Also, the cabinet approved recruitment by the technical education board for the recruitment of nurses in medical colleges. The cabinet also gave approval to the proposal to table the decisions regarding the changes made by the Electricity Regulatory Commission in the assembly. Further, the cabinet also passed a proposal to allow the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited to table its account details of 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-to-table-rs-4096-crore-supplementary-budget-in-assembly/articleshow/79726650.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||4-year-old, mason die in balcony collapse||Ahmedabad: A 4-year-old boy was among two persons killed when part of a balcony of building in Bapunagar known as Satyam Flats collapsed in Bapunagar on Sunday evening. The boy’s father, Nayan Barot, was also injured in the incident. Bapunagar police inspector N K Vyas said that they have registered a case of accidental death regarding the incident, “The other person who died was a mason who had come to do repairs on a toilet built on the gallery which collapsed. He is about 40 years old and a team is working on identifying him,” added Vyas. According to the case registered by Bapunagar police at 12.45am on Monday, they got a message from Civil Hospital regarding the death of the boy. A team went to the hospital and recorded the statement of the boy’s father. “He told us that on Saturday evening while he and his son were standing near the building, the balcony of the flat where repairs were under way suddenly collapsed on them. The mason who was doing the repairs on the toilet also came down with the balcony. They were rushed to Civil Hospital, where the two later died,” added a police official. Vyas said that the building was constructed about 40 years ago. “We are inquiring into whether there was negligence on anybody’s part,” added Vyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-year-old-mason-die-in-balcony-collapse/articleshow/79727455.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Agra||Leaders under detention, farmers stage protests across west UP||AGRA/PILIBHIT: Hundreds of farmers staged protests against the new farm laws in western Uttar Pradesh on Monday amid heavy deployment of police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC). While several farmer leaders were detained at home in Agra, police thwarted their attempt to block the highways in Pilibhit. Meanwhile in Firozabad and Mathura, over 100 SP workers were detained for staging protests in solidarity with the farmers. Security was also beefed up near the houses of BJP functionaries to prevent any untoward incident. Additional superintendent of police (Firozabad city) Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Around 100 SP workers were arrested after they tried to stage a protest at a public place without any prior permission. They were shifted to a temporary jail set up at Police Lines. We are considering taking legal action against them. To maintain the law and order situation, some of the farmer association leaders were also detained at their homes. Following strict security arrangements, no untoward incident was reported in the district.” In Agra district, senior SP leader Ramjilal Suman and 50 other SP leaders were detained when they tried to organize a protest march. The Bharatiya Kisan Union district president was not allowed to enter the district collectorate and launch an indefinite strike while many farmer leaders were detained. In Kasganj, SP workers led by district president Devender Singh Yadav went to district headquarters on a bullock cart and handed over a memorandum to the DM. In Etah, SP workers and farmer leaders organized protest marches at different places and around 50 protesters were detained. Congress, SP and RLD workers staged protests in Mainpuri, Aligarh and Mathura and were taken into police custody. In Mainpuri, 200 SP workers led by MLA Raju Yadav staged a protest in support of the farmers and raised slogans against the government. Mathura SP (city) Uday Shankar Singh said that 35 SP workers and 43 RLD workers were arrested under section 151 of CrPC. In Pilibhit, a few farmer groups succeeded in demonstrating at some spots, including the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) office at the district headquarters, despite their tractor trolleys having been seized by the police. Hundreds of farmers under the aegis of BKU jammed the Bind-Lipulekh highway in front of Pilibhit APMC and raised anti-Modi and anti-government slogans. A group of farmers which included a number of women, began their march on foot from Kalinagar tehsil and after covering a distance of 18 kilometres, reached the district headquarters where they handed over their memorandum to the administrative officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/leaders-under-detention-farmers-stage-protests-across-west-up/articleshow/79725894.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||Leaders under detention, farmers stage protests across west UP||AGRA/PILIBHIT: Hundreds of farmers staged protests against the new farm laws in western Uttar Pradesh on Monday amid heavy deployment of police and Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC). While several farmer leaders were detained at home in Agra, police thwarted their attempt to block the highways in Pilibhit. Meanwhile in Firozabad and Mathura, over 100 SP workers were detained for staging protests in solidarity with the farmers. Security was also beefed up near the houses of BJP functionaries to prevent any untoward incident. Additional superintendent of police (Firozabad city) Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Around 100 SP workers were arrested after they tried to stage a protest at a public place without any prior permission. They were shifted to a temporary jail set up at Police Lines. We are considering taking legal action against them. To maintain the law and order situation, some of the farmer association leaders were also detained at their homes. Following strict security arrangements, no untoward incident was reported in the district.” In Agra district, senior SP leader Ramjilal Suman and 50 other SP leaders were detained when they tried to organize a protest march. The Bharatiya Kisan Union district president was not allowed to enter the district collectorate and launch an indefinite strike while many farmer leaders were detained. In Kasganj, SP workers led by district president Devender Singh Yadav went to district headquarters on a bullock cart and handed over a memorandum to the DM. In Etah, SP workers and farmer leaders organized protest marches at different places and around 50 protesters were detained. Congress, SP and RLD workers staged protests in Mainpuri, Aligarh and Mathura and were taken into police custody. In Mainpuri, 200 SP workers led by MLA Raju Yadav staged a protest in support of the farmers and raised slogans against the government. Mathura SP (city) Uday Shankar Singh said that 35 SP workers and 43 RLD workers were arrested under section 151 of CrPC. In Pilibhit, a few farmer groups succeeded in demonstrating at some spots, including the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) office at the district headquarters, despite their tractor trolleys having been seized by the police. Hundreds of farmers under the aegis of BKU jammed the Bind-Lipulekh highway in front of Pilibhit APMC and raised anti-Modi and anti-government slogans. A group of farmers which included a number of women, began their march on foot from Kalinagar tehsil and after covering a distance of 18 kilometres, reached the district headquarters where they handed over their memorandum to the administrative officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leaders-under-detention-farmers-stage-protests-across-west-up/articleshow/79735891.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||T cops help MP teen reunite with parents||Hyderabad: A boy, who went missing 10 years ago, was traced by Telangana police and he was reunited with his parents, who are residents of Madhya Pradesh. DGP office, in a press note, said Rahul Srivastava, who is mentally challenged, was spotted at Hooghly in West Bengal. Using Darpan application, which is used for linking the missing children photographs with children in various homes, Telangana police found that Rahul, who is now a 17-years-old, was in a home at Hooghly. Madhya Pradesh cops were alerted, who shared Rahul’s location with his parents. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cops-help-mp-teen-reunite-with-parents/articleshow/79728588.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Producer booked over obscene movie posters||HYDERABAD: Jubilee Hills police have registered a suo motu case against producer and director of a Tollywood movie and publisher of the movie posters for putting up obscene posters of the movie in the city. After noticing the posters in Venakatagiri area of the city depicting a man and woman in semi-naked condition, police registered a case against movie producer, director, publisher of the posters under Section 292 (sale, distribution, public exhibition of obscene material) of the IPC. Directed by MS Raju and produced by G Siva Rama, G Sai Puneeth and G Sateesh Babu, the film is scheduled to be released on December 18. In another incident, after a complaint was lodged by a political party worker against the promotional posters of an under-production Telugu movie, alleging that it hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus, Matinee Entertainment issued a statement regretting any unintentional hurt that might have been caused by the movie poster. Hyderabad cyber crime police said so far they have not received any such complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/producer-booked-over-obscene-movie-posters/articleshow/79728580.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC quashes defamation cases against DMK chief||CHENNAI: Three more criminal defamation cases filed by the AIADMK government against DMK president M K Stalin were quashed by the Madras high court, which, however, said it should not be taken as endorsement of ‘blatant accusations’ without any basis. Expressing dismay over use of harsh language by politicians while criticising others, Justice N Sathish Kumar made it clear that merely because the court quashed criminal defamation complaints against politicians it did not mean endorsement of blatant accusations without any basis. Justice Sathish Kumar made the observation while hearing a plea moved by Stalin challenging the complaint made by the state government for his alleged derogatory statements against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy connecting him in the Kodanad estate robbery and murder. When the plea came up for hearing, state public prosecutor A Natarajan contended that Stalin was making baseless allegations against the chief minister even after two restraint orders passed by the court. Recording the submissions, the court said persons like the petitioners, who are lawmakers, must follow self-restraint while making statements in public. The cases were taken up for final hearing in view of a suo motu PIL initiated by the first bench of the court headed by Chief Justice AP Sahi to monitor and review cases pending against MPs and MLAs. The suo motu proceeding was initiated in view of a direction issued by the Supreme Court on a plea moved by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay seeking direction to the Centre to take appropriate steps to debar the person convicted for offences under the Representation of the People Act from contesting elections for members of legislative assemblies (MLA) or members of Parliament (MP) election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-quashes-defamation-cases-against-dmk-chief/articleshow/79727650.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Independents outshine Hand, scalp seven seats to its four||Panaji: Seven independent candidates emerged victorious in the zilla panchayat elections (ZP) for which results were announced on Monday, outshining Congress, which could barely win four seats despite its organisational network and greater outreach. The number of elected independent candidates is less than in 2015 when 25 had won. But at the time, Congress, NCP, AAP and the lesser known party, Rastriya Samaj Paksh, were not in the fray. A total of 78 candidates contested the ZP polls and at most places the fight was four-cornered. Most of the successful independent candidates had the “blessing” of some senior politician, a poll watcher said Domnic Gaonkar, who has been re-elected for the third time from Raia, said that though he was offered tickets by all parties, he decided to fight on his own. “My supporters told me not to contest on any party ticket. Congress was after me to be their candidate, but it was good that I rejected its offer. It has won only four seats. I would have lost face if I were to contest on a Congress ticket,” Gaonkar said. Besides Congress, AAP and another independent contested the Raia seat In 2015, Gaunkar’s wife, Fatima was elected from Raia when the seat was reserved for women. Antonio Vas, an independent, managed to get reelected from Cortalim despite a four-cornered fight. He could win with an impressive lead because of the work he has done for the past two decades. Vas had contested the last assembly elections but lost against BJP’s Cortalim MLA, Alina Saldanha with a margin of less than 500 votes. “I will certainly contest the next assembly elections,” he told reporters after his victory. A source said that though BJP did not field a candidate here an influential minister from a neighbouring constituency supported Vas’ candidature. A surprise win was that of Kavita Kandolkar from Colvale. The wife of former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar, defeated BJP’s Govind Kubal. Her win against outgoing candidate Kubal has sprang a surprise for many. Few months ago, Kiran Kandolkar quit BJP and joined Goa Forward Party. Other two seats — Arambol and Morjim — where independents succeeded is perceived as a setback to BJP MLA Dayanand Sopte. Ranganath Kalshavkar won the Arambol seat and Satish Shetgaonkar the Morjim one. Both beat five candidates. His margin has been slim (24) but it was a tough fight with six candidates in fray. “Both received the tacit support of a senior BJP leader, who likes to keep a low profile since his defeat in the assembly polls last,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/independents-outshine-hand-scalp-seven-seats-to-its-four/articleshow/79729777.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||With snowfall in offing, hill stations in U’khand may witness white Christmas this year||File pic of snowfall in MussoorieDehradun: In good news for local residents and tourists planning to come to Uttarakhand around Christmas, the officials at the meteorological centre have forecast rain and snow activity in the hills of the state between December 24 and December 26. Bikram Singh, director of Dehradun-based regional meteorological centre, told TOI, “As per the current weather inputs, it appears that higher reaches in the state will witness snow activity around December 25. The exact forecast though will be available around December 18.” If the forecast of the Met centre materialises, hill stations like Dhanaulti, Chakrata, Surkanda, Auli, Mukteshwar, Munsyari, Nainital, and upper reaches near Mussoorie are expected to receive snowfall. “High altitude places in Uttarakhand — situated at 2,500 metres and above — are likely to receive snowfall between December 24 and December 26. The foothills and other low-lying places might experience showers during the same period,” said Bikram Singh. It is to be noted that hill stations witness a surge in tourist footfall for Christmas and New Year Year celebrations and snowfall adds to the celebratory mood. Earlier, in 2016, Mussoorie and Nainital had witnessed a white Christmas, according to Met officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-snowfall-in-offing-hill-stations-in-ukhand-may-witness-white-christmas-this-year/articleshow/79726653.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Two-wheeler rider dies after crashing into road median in Trichy||TRICHY: Rash and negligent riding by a man cost his life as his bike hit the centre median on the rail overbridge in Trichy city on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as P Vignesh, 25 of Salai Pillaiyarkovil Street in Puthur. The incident happened around 7pm when he lost control over the bike while riding on the ROB connecting Oyamari and Anna statue road. Traffic north investigation wing police attached to Trichy city took up the investigation. Preliminary inquiry revealed that he was on the way back home from his father’s shop. When the two-wheeler rammed into the median, Vignesh fell on the road hitting his stomach hard on the road. A passer-by came in for his rescue and rushed him to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital. But the doctors declared him brought dead. A postmortem was performed on him at MGMGH on Monday. Inspector of police, Meerabai said the body was handed over to his family after the autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-wheeler-rider-dies-after-crashing-into-road-median/articleshow/79729854.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Victory beats go missing as police enforce pandemic norms||Panaji: Regardless of the limited role of zilla panchayats in the state, normally, on the day of election results, the fervour among winning candidates and their supporters is no less than that seen for the assembly polls. This time around though, on Monday, as votes were being counted, the beating of drums, the splash of coloured powder, the hugging and the ritual tossing of the winning candidates in the air were mostly missing. It was mainly polling agents seen scattered outside counting centres, unusually quiet with the pandemic seemingly subduing their reactions to the results. The numbers waiting for the outcome in and around counting centres were far fewer than usually seen on such occasions. It was only in the late evening — by which time it had sufficiently sunk in that BJP had swept the polls — that the party’s victory rallies and bursting of some firecrackers were witnessed in different parts of the state. For winning candidates, the festivities began and ended with them being garlanded and surrounded by a few supporters wanting to get the mandatory victory photographs clicked. Even the mildest of celebrations were moved to the winning candidates’ constituency areas, where the victorious teams felt more comfortable away from the watchful eyes of policemen around counting centres, who were ensuring that pandemic norms were adhered to. “In Sattari, though BJP swept the polls, till late evening there was no celebration visible. Since the counting centre was just opposite the office of the sitting MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane, the winning candidates just walked over and met him, Some token bursting of crackers was done as they got together for group photographs of the win,” a Valpoi resident said. “My aim will be to give jobs to youths. If the government cannot give jobs to youth then what is the use of government’s existence,” said Rane, as social distancing took a hit at least momentarily when some 100 supporters crowded him for photographs. But such scenes were rare and short-lived. Losing candidates appeared to have plenty to blame, mainly the time lapse between the original ZP election schedule and the new dates due to the arrival of the pandemic on the scene. “People didn’t know about elections and the government took advantage of that. People wanted change but time given was not enough,” said AAP candidate from Cortalim Probes Vaz, who finished third at the polls. (With inputs from Afaq Khan and Ruvina Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/victory-beats-go-missing-as-police-enforce-pandemic-norms/articleshow/79729849.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police to get ‘smart’ system to help beat cops||Dehradun: Uttarakhand police department is set to introduce an e-beat book system, in order to reduce the burden of beat constables and increase their efficiency, director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said on Monday. The proposed system is a web and mobile based application that will collect, update and analyse information on crimes and criminals on a real-time basis. “When linked with Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS), it will update data on crimes and criminals,” said Ashok Kumar. Kumar also made a series of announcements regarding the police department. “For increasing operational mobility of police, we have got an in-principle approval for adding 100 SUVs in the existing fleet of city patrol and highway patrol units of Uttarakhand police. The vehicles will be equipped with modern gadgets and will help in reducing the response time of the police,” the DGP said. Also, a new application called “Public Eye app” will be made on the lines of “Traffic Eye”, where one can report traffic violations. “Public Eye app” will receive and process complaints regarding crimes and drug peddling, police officials said. The home department also agreed on increasing the power of DGP to give away a reward of Rs1 lakh, from existing Rs 20,000 to cops as encouragement for good work. Also, good samaritans who help road accident victims can receive up to Rs 1 lakh. City police will be given short-range weapons, while efforts will be made to include INSAS rifles among the long range weapons available with Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and armed police, said the DGP. He added PAC personnel units will be provided with combat uniforms and a new structure of tourist police will be introduced and will be made “more smart”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-police-to-get-smart-system-to-help-beat-cops/articleshow/79726705.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Stray cow strike kills bike rider, he’s booked for own death||Ahmedabad: A 36-year-old man who died on Sunday after his bike was hit by a stray cow has been booked for his own demise — for causing death by negligence.The victim, Kamalsingh Kushwaha, used to run a food outlet and was riding his motorcycle from Mohammedpura Circle to his SG Road establishment when the cow suddenly appeared on his path.According to the FIR filed by Kushwaha’s brother-in-law, Dinesh Chauhan, Kushwaha had gone to deliver tiffin to a customer.The FIR states Kushwaha met with the accident between 9.30pm and 10.03pm. Locals called police, the ambulance, and Kushwaha’s son. But by the time help arrived, Kushwaha was already dead due to severe injuries.The M Division traffic police have charged Kushwaha with rash driving and causing death by negligence. Sources in police said that the traffic cops should have identified the owner of the cow and booked him for negligence that led to the death of a man. M Division traffic police inspector B S Rabari was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stray-cow-strike-kills-bike-rider-hes-booked-for-own-death/articleshow/79727463.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metrowater mulls buying 20 sewage tankers to check illegal waste disposal||CHENNAI: To reduce illegal sewage disposal along Buckingham Canal, Chennai Metrowater Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) has proposed to purchase 20 sewerage lorries for Shollinganallur area. Tender work is currently underway, CMWSSB told National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel constituted to study pollution in the canal along Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and East Coast Road (ECR) in South Chennai. Currently, around 50 sewage trucks are being operated in Sholinganallur area. All of them are run by private firms. While the state government claims that these trucks charge only Rs 150 per trip, OMR residents said it was at least Rs 650 per trip for treatment and disposal. These trucks travel all the way to Perungudi Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) to decant waste as the local STP in Kalaignar Karunanidhi Salai, Sholinganallur, has a capacity of only 18 million litres per day (MLD). But Sholinganallur, with a population of 3.98 lakh (including 89,000 household, 12 major hotels, 10 major IT firms and hundreds of other shops), generates much more sewage. Even though most of the individual households collect sewage in septic tanks, sewage generated from commercial sector is disposed largely with the help of tankers, which in turn decant the same in Perungudi STP, whose handling capacity is 126 MLD. In a meeting with CMWSSB officials, Private Sewage Lorry Owners Association said that the roads connecting Sholinganallur and Perungudi were in bad shape and decanting process at Perungudi was time-consuming. They also agreed that private lorry owners, who were not a part of their association, indulge in illegal decanting activities. In order to reduce waiting time at Perungudi STP, CMWSSB has further proposed to add 13 more decanting points so that more trucks can decant waste simultaneously, according to the NGT panel's report dated October 20. At present, there are only 11 decanting points. The report also mentioned that CMWSSB has further plans to construct a new STP at Sholinganallur itself so that the menace of illegal decanting activities into the Buckingham canal can be stopped. When the case came up for hearing on December 3, NGT Southern Zone advised local authorities to explore the possibilities of installing CCTV cameras along areas abutting the water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metrowater-mulls-buying-20-sewage-tankers-to-check-illegal-waste-disposal/articleshow/79727734.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 15, 2020||Pune||Four hurt as drunk driver dashes car against three vehicles in Pune's Koregaon Park||PUNE: A man driving his car allegedly in an inebriated state lost control over his vehicle and rammed a four-wheeler as well as two motorcycles on Sadhu Vaswani rail overbridge at Koregaon Park around 2am on Sunday, leaving four persons injured. The car driver, Abhishek Sanjay Nafde (35) from Vimannagar, was arrested on the charge of drink-and-drive and other offences. “The Sassoon General Hospital has given a preliminary medical examination report, stating that the car driver, Nafde, was under the influence of liquor. The medical authorities have collected and sent his blood samples to a chemical analyser and the latter’s report is awaited,” sub-inspector Bhagwat Shendge from the Koregaon Park police said on Monday, Shendge said, “Nafde, working with a construction firm, was driving a Hyundai Creta car. He was on his way to Koregaon Park from Camp. He told police that he lost control over the wheels in a bid to save a motorcyclist, and his car grazed the biker before hitting an Audi car and another bike. The front wheel of Nafde’s car came off.” Shendge said. “One of the bikers, Sampat Lahu Bhoge (34) from Dattanagar in Ambegaon Khurd, suffered a fracture to his left leg and injuries to his face. He is recuperating in a private hospital and his condition is stable. The three others — Audi car driver Ashok Dharnappa Papnor (36) from Vimannagar, his friend Sandeep Bhagat (24) from Vadgaonsheri, and a high-end motorcycle rider, Abu Bakar Shaikh (25) from Yeolewadi, escaped with minor injuries.” A night patrol team rushed to spot after receiving alert about the accident from the city police control room and moved the injured victims to a hospital in an ambulance. The patrol cleared traffic from the bridge and towed the vehicles to the police station. Officials of the Regional Transport Office, Pune, will inspect them and submit a report to the police. Shendge further said, “Bhoge, who works with an eatery, was going home. We are securing details of the other victims.” Bhoge underwent a surgery on Monday and was not available for comment. His wife Shobha told TOI, “My husband called me saying that he had finished his work at the eatery and was on way home. But he did not come till 4.30am. I came to know about the incident after I received a call from his employer. We then reached the hospital. He later told me that he got injured after a drunk car driver lost control and hit three vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-hurt-as-drunk-driver-dashes-car-against-3-vehicles-in-kp/articleshow/79727729.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||One in five girls in Gujarat marries before turning 18||AHMEDABAD: One in every five girls in Gujarat gets married before turning 18, the legal marriage age. This fact has been highlighted by the National Family Health Survey (NFHS). Besides, 21.8% of the women in the 20-24 age group had married before they had turned 18, the survey said. The NFHS-5 (2019-20) was released on Sunday. Overall, 5.2% of the married girls in the 15-19 age group were mothers or pregnant at the time of the survey. In rural areas, the figure was 6.7%; it was 2.6% in urban areas.  The NFHS also shows that 27.7% of males in the state had tied the knot before they turned 21, the legal age for men to marry. The survey suggests that underage marriage was more prevalent in rural areas: with 26.9% of girls getting married before turning 18. The figure was 33.9% for boys. A senior officer of the health department said no serious effort is being made by the government to curb child marriage. He said cultural sensitivities often blunt drives against child marriage. Between 2017 and 2019, the Abhayam 181 helpline recorded a 90% rise in calls relating to underage marriage in Gujarat. “In 2019, we had recorded a five-year high in the number of calls, at 271. Multiple factors including belief systems play a role in the phenomenon,” said a senior coordinator for the helpline. “We have also stopped marriages at mass-wedding ceremonies where it’s easy to hide minor brides.” Gaurang Jani, a sociologist, said: “The issue of child marriage was never taken seriously and was not considered a social issue.” He added: “In areas such as North Gujarat, Kheda, and Kutch child marriage is rampant.” Jani went on to say: “With communities organizing mass-wedding events, people hasten to get their girls married. Many parents fear that if they delay the marriage of their girls, they might not find a groom within their community.” Jani said the use of mobile phones was a cause of anxiety among many parents. Some communities have banned the use of mobile phones to ensure that their girls do not establish any non-approved contacts. So, the worry that the communication revolution brings is one of the reasons girls are married early. Ganpat Vasava, the minister for women and child development, said: “Preventing child marriage falls within the purview of the social justice and empowerment department.” He added: “The women and child development department has launched several schemes to encourage girls to study, to prevent early marriage, and to improve the sex ratio.” Social justice and empowerment minister Ishwar Parmar was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-in-five-girls-in-gujarat-marries-before-turning-18/articleshow/79728674.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||MSETCL doesn’t need environ nod for felling trees: CCF||Nagpur: P Kalyan Kumar, chief conservator of forests (territorial), Nagpur circle, has opined that Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL) does not need to apply for environmental clearance for felling trees in Ambazari Biodiversity Park and Little Woods plantation. This has raised the hackles of environmentalists, who have alleged that he has ignored the norms of Wildlife Institute of India (WII). Prabhu Nath Shukla, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Nagpur, had sought opinion from the CCF a few days ago following objections raised by Jaydeep Das, former honorary wildlife warden. MSETCL is laying a 132 KV line from Mankapur to Hingna I substation to feed the under-construction Lendra Park substation. In a letter to Shukla, Kalyan Kumar wrote that the MSETCL project had already received final approval from ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) in August 2013. “Therefore, keeping in view the provisions contained in environment impact assessment (EIA) notification of 2006 and also the observations of expert appraisal committee on EIA held in July 2019, it is hereby informed that environmental clearance for the said project is not mandatory." Kumar further stated in the letter, “However, keeping in view the migratory birds habitat of the Ambazari Biodiversity Park, the following instructions are issued: “The user agency should be asked to take mitigation measures by taking expert advice from WII. MoEFCC has granted permission for felling 900 trees. However, all efforts should be made to reduce felling of trees. Also, transplanting of trees should be explored and MSETCL should be asked to contact Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) or Tropical Forest Research Institute (TFRI), Jabalpur.” Das told TOI that the CCF had only partially referred to WII norms. “As per WII’s regulatory procedures for environmental clearance of projects, if the proposed projects within category B1 and B2 are located within 10km of sensitive areas, then they are assigned to category A. Sensitive areas include habitat of migratory birds and also lakes and dams. Clearly, MSETCL project is category A by this definition,” he said. The environmentalist said transplantation had been a failure as the experience of MahaMetro shows. “MSETCL should not fell even a single tree until opinion of WII is received. Moreover, the question arises as to how the forest department allowed erection of five towers without permission,” he added. Another environmentalist Shrikant Deshpande said if MSETCL could lay underground cable inside the city, why was it not doing the same to prevent felling of trees. “First, Metro felled trees and then did compensatory afforestation. Now, MSETCL wants to fell these trees,” he added. Das has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to save 900 trees. He is hoping that it will be registered soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msetcl-doesnt-need-environ-nod-for-felling-trees-ccf/articleshow/79728682.cms||Ashish Roy
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Rs 4 lakh cash, gold stolen from papad unit||TRICHY: Unidentified burglars broke into a papad manufacturing unit in Tharanallur and took away Rs 4 lakh cash and gold ornaments. The burglary came to light when the owner of the company G Rajendran, 68, from Agaraharam visited his unit around 9pm on Sunday. Based on a complaint given by Rajendran, the Gandhi market police took up the case. According to his complaint, he locked the unit at around 7.30pm on Sunday. He returned again by 9pm and found the cash, eight sovereigns of gold ornaments, a mobile phone kept in the unit missing. The culprits had reportedly gained entry into the unit from the upstairs of a neighbouring house. The glass door of the unit was found removed using a screwdriver. Police are checking for CCTV footage in the area to identify the accused. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rs-4l-cash-gold-stolen-from-papad-unit/articleshow/79729856.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||NMC sets target to vaccinate 20,000 health care staff at 50 UPHCs first||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started preparations for Covid-19 vaccination of around 20,000 health care workers at its 50 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) under phase-I. Tentative schedule for availability of vaccine and guidelines for storage are awaited from the central and state government. After receiving guidelines for setting up centres and training staff from the government, Urban Task Force headed by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B held its first meeting on Tuesday. Surveillance medical officer from WHO Dr Mohammed Sajid gave presentation of guidelines to set up centres and training staff. He said training of vaccinators will start from December 19. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Health care workers will be administered vaccine in phase-I. List of around 15,000 health care workers has been prepared. Majority of the private hospitals are yet to submit the list. We will encourage them to give the names as soon as possible. We have kept target of vaccinating 20,000 health care workers in phase-I.” The list of health care workers from NMC, GMCH, IGGMCH, trust-run hospitals and 209 private hospitals is ready with NMC. Around 450 private hospitals are yet to submit the list despite deadline over ending on October 28. Radhakrishnan directed Joshi, chief medical officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar, additional chief medical officer Dr Pravin Gantawar, and zonal medical officers to identify centres and submit list with details within a week. Joshi said, “NMC will develop centres at its 50 UPHCs for phase-I. These UPHCs have storage capacity of 2-8 degree Celsius, medical officer, nursing staff and security guards as per requirement for vaccination programme. Each centre will have an observation room, where beneficiary will be kept under observation for 30 minutes after being administered vaccine. Most UPHCs have these rooms. We will identify adjacent buildings if any UPHC lacks these. Each centre will have a five-member team for the vaccination programme. Schedule will be given to each health care worker for turning up at the centre,” he said. On storage preparations, Joshi said, “NMC has identified storage places and capacities tentatively. We will finalize it whenever guidelines related to storage are received from the government. There would be no problems in storing vaccines.” Radhakrishnan did not mention any tentative schedule for receipt of vaccine and further programme. He said vaccination programme can start at any time as guidelines have been issued by the government. On December 8, collector Ravindra Thakare had claimed Covid vaccine will be made available by end of December or first week of January. The statement came in the backdrop of three companies filing applications with the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorization of their vaccine candidates. The civic chief also directed NMC officials to prepare list of front-line workers who will be administered vaccine in phase-II. On December 9, chief secretary had cleared police personnel of Centre and state, CRPF, SRPF, NMC workers, civil security personnel, representatives of NGOs working in disaster management as recipients of vaccine in phase-II. Persons above 50 years and persons with comorbidities below 50 years will be administered vaccine in phase-III. Radhakrishnan also reviewed pulse polio drive to be held on January 17 and ongoing drive to identify patients of TB and leprosy. Additional municipal commissioners Jalaj Sharma, Sanjay Nipane, additional assistant medical officer Dr Vijay Joshi, education officer Priti Mishrikotkar, executive engineer Sonali Chauhan, project manager of Tata Trusts Dr Tikesh Bisen and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-sets-target-to-vaccinate-20k-health-care-staff-at-50-uphcs-first/articleshow/79754180.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy Corporation resumes anti-plastic drive, 3 tonnes seized||TRICHY: Following the public outcry over the return of banned plastic products during the lockdown period, Trichy Corporation after eight months resumed the anti-plastic drive. On Monday, the civic body officials carried out surprise inspections in the shops across the four zones resulting in the seizure of over three tonne of banned plastic items. According to sanitary department officials, around Rs 1.4 lakh was collected as penalty from the shops caught hoarding the banned plastic items for circulation. In K Abishkepuram zone, 18 of the 99 shops inspected in Thillai Nagar, Thennur, Woraiyur and Puthur were penalized for having banned plastic carry bags. Similarly, in Ariyamangalam zone that covers the Gandhi market area, three tonne were confiscated and a penalty of Rs 1.18 lakh levied on the erring shops. Ponmalai and Srirangam managed to collect Rs 6,600 each as penalty. This, despite Srirangam zone accounting for the majority of commercial streets in Big Bazaar street. Environmental activists said that conducting a synchronised enforcement drive in all four zones will only prevent offenders from going unpunished. Since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, corporation which was occupied with the disease control measures, claimed it was unable to focus on the intrusion of banned plastic products. The previous plastic seizure was conducted by the civic body in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-resumes-anti-plastic-drive-3-tonne-seized/articleshow/79729872.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||In Benaulim, AAP’s greenhorn candidate pips Congress’s Royla||MARGAO: AAP scored an upset victory in Benaulim constituency with its 26-year old candidate Hanzel Feliciano Fernandes emerging victorious in a three-cornered fight. Fernandes defeated Congress candidate, former sarpanch Royla Fernandes, and NCP’s Menino Fernandes, a renowned tiatrist who is popular by his stage name Menino de Bandar. Poll watchers are of the view that the victory for AAP in Benaulim is significant on many counts. One, the victory has served in opening its account in Goa for the Arvind Kejrival-led party, especially considering its ignominious defeat in the 2017 assembly polls when all its 39 candidates lost. Secondly, the win is likely to pump some adrenaline into the party’s cadre, coming as it does at a time when AAP is facing an intra-party existential crisis. Elvis Gomes, a former bureaucrat who led the AAP’s Goa unit as the state convener for nearly four years, resigned from the party days ahead of the ZP polls along with several other functionaries thereby throwing the party in the throes of turmoil. Thirdly, political observers feel the defeat of Congress candidate Fernandes, who had come within striking distance of victory as an AAP candidate in 2017 assembly polls in Benaulim, and who was the face of the anti-coal protests in Salcete, signifies the “political insignificance” of the agitation. This is also illustrated by the fact that despite Salcete being the epicentre of protests, and a significant number of protesters being sympathisers or supporters of AAP, the anti-government sentiments whipped up by the agitations across the Salcete countryside failed to make any meaningful dent into the fortunes of the ruling party. Consequently, protesters now fear that BJP will use its “brute force to suppress the voice of the people” and go ahead with the three contentious linear projects. AAP had contested the ZP polls in altogether 20 constituencies for both zilla panchayat bodies. Buoyed by its success in Benaulim, the party plans to focus on constituencies where it gained vote share. “We got a good response in Saligao, Aldona and Calangute. We have a very short time and will try to keep up the momentum,” said party convener for Goa, Rahul Mhambre. “We will put up more efforts in Salcete.” With AAP piping Congress to the second position in many constituencies, party office-bearers feel AAP offers a credible alternative to Congress. “In many constituencies AAP candidates polled more votes than the Congress candidate thus establishing the fact that Goans are looking at AAP as an alternative to the ruling BJP,” Mhambre said. A greenhorn in grassroots politics, Hanzel Fernandes hails from a family rooted in social activism. “So, when I got this opportunity to contest, My intention was to enter the system and do something for society,” the 26-year old mechanical engineer, who has now taken over his father’s carpentry business, told TOI. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal conveyed his wishes to Fernandes through a tweet.”Congratulations to AAP’s Hanzel Fernandes on winning the Benaulim ZP seat in Goa. Many other AAP candidates have secured a much higher vote share than last time. This is just the beginning. I am sure AAP will live up to the trust and expectations of Goans,” Kejriwal said. Fernandes now plans to concentrate on environment and health issues. “In order to survive we need both, environment and health. We need development alright, but we have to plan it in such a way that the development doesn’t destroy some other part of the environment,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-benaulim-aaps-greenhorn-candidate-pips-congs-royla/articleshow/79729887.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala govt may mull reopening bar hotels after poll results||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government is likely to review its decision to reopen bar hotels in the state after the declaration of results of the election to local bodies. Many organizations, the latest being the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), have urged the government to review the policy immediately and consider reopening bar hotels in the wake of increased tourist inflows into the state. In a press release, CII said tourists -- both domestic and foreign – are increasingly visiting the state. This is a clear indication of the growing popularity of the state as a favourite destination among all type of tourists; and it is time that the state government supports the tourism, travel and the hospitality industry with fiscal and macro-economic measures. Among the steps to offset the negative economic impact of Covid-19, CII Kerala tourism panel recommended that hotels be given permission to open bars and serve alcohol. It also noted that people are very keen to travel to the state to experience wellness. “Hence it is very important to permit and open wellness spa services. There is huge potential in this segment and this would in a large way ease the financial crisis which hotels are at present undergoing,” CII said in its statement. CII Kerala chapter chairman Thomas John Muthoot met chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran recently and requested urgent action in this regard. The government had twice earlier considered reopening bar hotels. But the decision was deferred until such time as the Covid-19 situation improves. The last review was undertaken in the first week of October when the government concurred with objections raised by the health department under the then prevailing circumstances. The excise department had, in September itself, suggested that the government could reconsider its decision in the wake of the unlocking of most sectors and many other states reopening their bars. Excise commissioner S Aananthakrishnan had submitted a report recommending that the government can consider the proposal to reopen bar hotels by adhering to Covid-19 protocols. This included reducing seating capacity for increased physical distancing, mandating wearing of masks, frequent sanitization of bars and premises, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-may-mull-reopening-bar-hotels-after-poll-results/articleshow/79726725.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Crucial flyover work on Airport Road speeds up||PUNE: The civic administration has expedited the construction of a flyover coming up at Golf Course Chowk in Yerawada, aimed at easing traffic congestion and providing a smoother route to the Lohegaon airport. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also sped up the work of widening the road in the area, officials said. Work on the project had slowed down earlier this year due to the lockdown. As per officials involved in the project, the construction of seven of the 10 pillars for the flyover is nearing completion. PMC has also started shifting utility lines and making adequate arrangements for a footpath at the landing site of the flyover on the airport end. About 28% of the work on the flyover has been completed so far, PMC officials said. Work on the project, the cost of which is pegged at Rs28 crore, had begun in September 2019. The work slowed down after March as many workers left for their hometowns during the lockdown. As per the tender, 30 months have been allotted for the completion of the entire project. PMC officials said they were confident of meeting the deadline. “Our workforce is back to nearly full capacity. After shifting the utility lines and re-arrangement the footpath and utilities at he airport end, we will get started with the remaining work of the pillars,” a civic official said. Major IT and commercial establishments are located near the junction, which often causes heavy traffic congestion. Regular commuters have complained that they waste a lot of time at the traffic signal and that a flyover would ease the snarls to a great extent. The work was recently inspected by former Wadgaonsheri MLA Jagdish Mulik of the BJP. Mulik said he has been pushing for timely completion of the work. “Some more projects are under consideration to streamline traffic movement in the area,” Mulik said. The bi-directional flyover will have four lanes. It will be 15.6 metres wide and around 270 metres long. Sanjay Kude, a regular commuter in the area, said, “The officials need to prepare comprehensive plans which will cater to the needs of this area for 15 years,” Kude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crucial-flyover-work-on-airport-road-speeds-up/articleshow/79727758.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Smart city roads proposal for Trichy put on the back burner||TRICHY: The smart roads proposal for Trichy under the aegis of smart cities mission programme has been unofficially dropped, according to sources in the Trichy Corporation. The decision comes as two major upcoming renovation projects involve digging trenches on the roads. The corporation in August had finalised a detailed project report (DPR) for Rs 77 crore to convert 10 existing roads as smart roads. However, the proposal is highly unlikely to materialise since the civic body will take up renovation of the underground system and British-era drinking water lines at a cost of Rs 214 crore and Rs 54 crore respectively under the smart cities mission. As around 9sqkm of the city overlaps with the roads identified for smart road proposal, sources said that the smart cities mission authorities insisted the corporation to hold the proposal. Officials also said that several other road projects will be on hold to avoid damaging the new roads for underground civil work. “The proposed UGD rehabilitation and drinking water redevelopment work will be carried out simultaneously in various parts of the city. New roads can be laid only after the two projects conclude,” a senior corporation official said. As the duration of smart cities programme is only five years, Trichy city that was inducted in June 2017, must initiate the civil work for the proposals on or before June 2022. But, with the UGD and drinking water projects expected to go on for more than two years, sources said the roads proposal may not receive the funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/smart-city-roads-proposal-for-trichy-put-on-the-back-burner/articleshow/79729882.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 15, 2020||Pune||Woman called for questioning tries to end life at police station in Pune||PUNE: A 30-year-old woman tried to end her life at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station on Sunday afternoon after she was summoned for questioning in an attempted murder case. Police are looking for her husband in the case. The police had summoned the woman, her brother and brother-in-law for questioning after her husband and four others were suspected of assaulting a 34-year-old mathadi worker with sharp weapons at Jambhulwadi road at Ambegaon Khurd early on Sunday. The five men suspected that the victim was having an affair with the wife of one of them, the police said. The woman went to the washroom on the police station premises and did not come out for 15 minutes. A woman police constable checked and found that she had inflicted a cut on her nerve. “We have admitted her to a private hospital and registered a separate offence of attempt to commit suicide,” a police officer said. Earlier, the police had arrested three of the five assailants and started a search for the other two, including the woman’s husband, on the charge of assaulting Ajit Ombase, who works at a vegetable market at Katraj. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Monday said, “Ombase was on way to the vegetable market on his motorcycle when the five suspects chased and attacked him with sickles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-called-for-questioning-tries-to-end-life-at-police-station/articleshow/79727749.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Shadnagar police arrest ATM thief||Hyderabad: Shadnagar police arrested a person, who attempted to steal cash from two ATM centres in the wee hours of Monday. According to police, C Ganesh tried to break open an ATM belonging to a private company around 2 am on Monday. Though he managed to break the external structure, he failed to open the chest. Later, he made another vain bid to open an ATM belonging to a public sector unit (PSU). At around the same time, a police patrolling team found that an ATM machine was damaged. Sensing trouble, policemen checked the nearby ATM and it was also damaged. After analysing the CCTV footages available at the nearby ATM centres, they identified the accused. Later, the cops found Ganesh in a drunken condition near an ATM and took him into custody. The accused, who belongs to Nandigama, does not have any criminal history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shadnagar-police-arrest-atm-thief/articleshow/79728709.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Citizens seek information on big civic projects||Pune: A conglomerate of NGOs and citizens’ groups has requested the civic body to start a platform for interactions with public on major infrastructure projects. The citizens’ groups, including Sajag Nagrik Manch, Surajya Sangharsha Samiti and Nagarik Chetana Manch, and around 25 other organizations have sent a letter to the civic body, urging it to organize public interactions and keep the people informed about the status of various ongoing big ticket projects. “The impact of these projects on environment and natural resources should be explained to the citizens. The programmes should be organized within fortnight,” said Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch. As per the letter, the groups want information on projects such as the high capacity mass transit route, 24X7 water supply, roads on hills, flyovers, cycle tracks and also those causing air and river pollution. The groups have also sought information about tree felling and urban forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-seek-information-on-big-civic-projects/articleshow/79727762.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Tangedco urges people to opt for energy-efficient appliances||TRICHY: Tangedco has launched electricity conservation awareness week on Monday to promote the importance of using energy-efficient products. The department has also launched online and offline campaigns to promote use of five-star BEE (bureau of energy efficiency) rated home appliances. Officials said that Trichy city consumes 1.7 lakh electricity units per year on an average and the demand increases 10% every year. Tangedco has placed awareness banners at 40 public gathering places encouraging people to charge their mobile phones during the day. “As people tend to sleep with their phone plugged in, even after attaining full charge the switch will be still on,” a Tangedco official said. Industrial electricity consumers were urged to use capacitors for avoiding electricity loss and to maintain power factor.  The officials also urged residents to opt for BEE five-stars rated home appliances such as air conditioners, televisions and refrigerators, apart from giving advice on saving electricity at EB billing counters and social media handles. “Residents can avoid using re-winded motors. The process of new copper winding in motors will consume more electricity and people will end up paying more electricity charges,” the official added. Tangedco has launched an awareness drive on installing solar panels. Owing to the Covid19 pandemic, officials said that competitions usually conducted for students to promote electricity conservation was suspended this year. The awareness drives were conducted across seven divisions of Tangedco in the district. The drive will go on till December 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tangedco-urges-people-to-opt-for-energy-efficient-appliances/articleshow/79729885.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Congress: Voters didn’t trust our candidates||PANAJI: Stung by the zilla panchayat results, Congress admitted it had failed to convince voters but vowed to “rise up again” ahead of the state assembly elections in 2022. “We never leave our fighting spirit. Congress has seen similar setbacks before and emerged victorious several times. We have a lot to learn from the results,” said state party president Girish Chodankar. Chodankar attributed the party’s loss to the perception that Congress’ elected representatives will defect to BJP. Twelve of its candidates, elected in 2017, have already deserted the party, leaving them with just five MLAs in the state legislative assembly. “We failed to weed out this perception from people’s mind. Voters expressed anger by dissent and did not come out to vote for us. We respect their dissent and vow to change. “The party will undertake vigorous membership drive, strengthen its grassroot level and booth level committees, which was in disarray after defections,” said Chodankar . The GPCC president also accused BJP of using power and money to win the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-voters-didnt-trust-our-candidates/articleshow/79729902.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Vijai: ZP polls prove Cong not a credible alternative||Panaji: While insisting that the zilla panchayat (ZP) elections cannot be considered an indicator for the 2022 state assembly elections, president of Goa Forward Party (GFP) Vijai Sardesai said that the results suggest that Goan voters do not see Congress as a credible alternative against BJP. Sardesai also blamed Congress for “taking voters for granted” and for the failure to project a united opposition face. “The message from the voter is that opportunistic politics has no place in Goa,” Sardesai said. To illustrate his point, Sardesai pointed out that Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao’s candidate lost in Benaulim to AAP’s candidate. Congress’ candidate for Guirdolim, who was backed by Joaquim Alemao, failed to notch up a victory, despite the ongoing protests against BJP’s policies. “People have shown Joaquim Alemao his place after he ran away from us to join Congress where he thought he would ride the crest of the wave and easily win. If you can’t win in the heart of the agitation when there is a wave against BJP, then you should step down,” said Sardesai. Though GFP did not officially contest the elections, the polls did help the party make inroads into Tivim where GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar’s wife Kavita won the Colvale seat. However, in Siolim, where GFP MLA Vinod Paliencar lent his support, the Congress candidate lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vijai-zp-polls-prove-cong-not-a-credible-alternative/articleshow/79729916.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Pune||34 cadets commissioned into Army||Pune: A total of 34 cadets of the 36th technical entry scheme course have been commissioned into the Indian Army. They completed their training at the cadets training wing located on the College of Military Engineering (CME) campus in Dapodi. Parents of the passing out cadets were not allowed to attend the ceremony due to Covid-19 restrictions. The parade was telecast online. The CME commandant Lt Gen PP Malhotra reviewed the parade and presented awards to the meritorious cadets. The officers training academy commandant’s gold medal and the general officer commanding-in-chief Army training command gold medal were awarded to wing cadet captain Shivanshu Singh for all-round excellence during training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/34-cadets-commissioned-into-army/articleshow/79727766.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Drunk man climbs coconut tree in Thanjavur, falls asleep||THANJAVUR: A 42-year-old man, who climbed a coconut tree to pluck coconuts, did not come down for more than three hours. It later came to light that he fell asleep atop the 50-feet tall tree in an inebriated condition. He was brought down from the tree by the fire and rescue services personnel. According to Thanjavur west police, Thamizharasan, a resident of Jain Moopa Street in Thanjavur, had hired M Loganathan, a native of Sarukkai Velur area of Karanthai, to pluck coconuts from his grove. When Loganathan climbed a tree, he neither plucked coconut not climbed down for more than 30 minutes. When Thamizharasan called out Loganathan, he did not respond. Thamizharasan along with the neighbours alerted Thanjavur west police and fire and rescue services department personnel. Firefighters reached the top of the tree using a ladder and woke him up. However, Loganathan refused to climb down the ladder and came down along the tree trunk. It came to light that he had consumed liquor. As he felt tired, he fell asleep. When contacted, police inspector S Chandramohan told TOI that he was taken to the station for inquiry. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/drunk-man-climbs-coconut-tree-falls-asleep/articleshow/79729905.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||To recover Rs 98.51 crore water dues, NMC to waive Rs 114.16 crore penalty||NAGPUR: A day after announcing 50-80% penalty amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters, the BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Tuesday announced one time settlement (OTS) scheme for water tax defaulters. The OTS will be implemented from December 21 and continue till January 21, 2021. Citizens will get 100% waiver on interest if they pay the water bills till January 21. The waiver will be reduced to 30% if citizens pay outstanding bills between January 22 and February 22, said standing committee and water works committee chairman Vijay Zalke and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B in a joint press conference on Tuesday. NMC has 3.72 lakh water consumers. Of this, 2.57 lakh consumers have defaulted on water bills to the tune of Rs212.67 crore, including the principal amount of Rs98.51 crore and Rs114.16 crore penalty. Radhakrishnan said the current year’s target for water works department was Rs175 crore, of which it has already achieved Rs98 crore. Data obtained from the water works department shows 22,120 disconnected consumers owe Rs99.02 crore (Rs33.2 principal amount, Rs65.74 crore penalty). The 2,35,752 consumers availing water too have defaulted over Rs113.54 crore, including Rs65.23 crore as principle amount. The highest number of defaulters were from East Nagpur. Lakadganj and Satranjipura zones have 2,995 and 2,900 consumers who have defaulted Rs12.15 crores and Rs13.25 crore respectively. The water works department had disconnected their water connections, claimed the statement shared by the department. In the past too, the department had twice introduced OTS. In 2016-17, the scheme had generated only Rs12.45 crore from outstanding amount of Rs33 crore. Similarly in 2017-18, it had once again declared OTS and that time it evoked poor response with only Rs13.80 crore recovered from outstanding Rs103 crore. Zalke said a survey revealed the city has 50,000 illegal connections and the process to legalize their water connection is underway. He added NMC will not levy any penalty on water bill defaulters. He said after the date of OTS, NMC will launch special disconnection drive of water defaulters. To improve collection during OTS, NMC will open special counters in all 10 zonal offices and at overhead water tanks offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/to-recover-rs98-51cr-water-dues-nmc-to-waive-rs114-16cr-penalty/articleshow/79754201.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 15, 2020||Pune||Cops probe insider role in illegal horse race betting racket||Pune: City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Monday said the investigation into the illegal horse race betting racket would now focus on the possible involvement of insiders from the Royal Western India Turf Club (RWITC) in it.“Our team is examining how information related to the racing odds and betting was going outside the racecourse and how bets were accepted outside the racecourse premises, which is illegal under the Bombay Horse Racing Licensing Act,” the commissioner said.On the night intervening Friday and Saturday, the city police had raided establishments in Wanowrie, Kondhwa and Hadapsar and arrested 31 men, including three prominent bookies. In all, six cases were registered against them. The police have invoked provisions of Gambling Act, Bombay Racecourse Licensing Act and Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC against the arrested men.Gupta said “The racecourse authorities provide bookies stalls and books to accept bets. In these cases, the arrested men were found accepting bets on a mobile application and on phones. How these men were operating outside the racecourse is being probed. We shall probe if any office-bearers of the turf club were involved in it and supporting the arrested men. Their role will be ascertained before taking any action.”He said, “The arrested men accepted bets on different horse races in different parts of the country in November-December. These races were telecast live on different online platforms. If bets are accepted on the premises of the racecourse, GST is applicable to them. In this situation, they denied GST to the government. There are many issues involved and we shall probe all of them.”DCP (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “A majority of the arrested men said they were licensed to accept bets. But none of them produced their licence when demanded by the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-probe-insider-role-in-illegal-horse-race-betting-racket/articleshow/79727764.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Vaikunta Ekadasi: 600 devotees to be allowed inside temple per hour||TRICHY: As the 22-day-long Vaikunta Ekadasi festival begins at Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam on Monday night, the Trichy city police opened a police outpost to prevent crowd gathering. In view of the Covid 19 pandemic, only 600 devotees per hour would be allowed to enter the temple between 8am and 8pm of the festival days. “On a rotational basis, around 2,450 police personnel will be deployed in and around the temple for crowd control. Only the devotees who had booked online for darshan will be allowed. People must cooperate,” Trichy city police commissioner J Loganathan said. A total of 207 CCTV cameras, including 117 on the temple premises, would be used monitor the crowd. Devotees, who had booked for darshan through the online portal of Srirangam temple, must visit the shrine at least 30 minutes before their slot, officials said. The live streaming of the temple proceedings throughout the festival days will also be available online at www.srirangam.org. The festival shall conclude on January 4, 2021. The opening of Paramapathavasal gate will be held in the early hours of December 25. For the first time, devotees will not be allowed inside the temple during the Paramapathavasal opening due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vaikunta-ekadasi-600-devotees-to-be-allowed-inside-temple-per-hour/articleshow/79729903.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Cloudy sky causes warmest December of last 3 years, light rainfall predicted over next 2 days||NAGPUR: Wind discontinuity in the region has led to cloud cover and an unreasonably warm December this year, the met department has said. On Saturday and Sunday, the sky turned cloudy and some parts of the city also experienced slight rainfall, which may continue for two more days. According to officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Nagpur, the wind discontinuity at the lower level is causing these weather changes. Wind discontinuity refers to formation of trough — an elongated region of relatively low atmospheric pressure — at the lower levels. “While the trough may be caused due to large-scale systems, at present a cyclonic circulation is present over the Arabian Sea and the trough is running from South West Madhya Pradesh. This phenomenon has caused the weather to turn cloudy and led to increase in the mercury levels,” an official said. Interestingly while the maximum temperatures have been on the decline, the minimum temperatures are witnessing a rise. “This is the reason why this December is comparatively warmer,” the official added. Data provided by the met department shows that the minimum temperatures have significantly increased in the last few days. From 14 degree Celsius on December 8, the minimum temperature reached 15.8 degree Celsius on December 10, and then went up to 18.8 degree Celsius on December 12. The month’s highest minimum temperature till date was recorded on December 13 at 19.5 degree Celsius. In the month of December in last two years, the minimum temperature has never been this high. Last year’s highest minimum temperature was 18 degree Celsius recorded on December 14. Same was the highest minimum temperature in 2019 too on December 10. In both years, minimum mercury levels had witnessed a drop post mid-December. On Monday, Nagpur recorded the second highest minimum temperature in the region at 19.4 degree Celsius. Wardha recorded the highest at 19.8 degree Celsius. As per the forecast of met department, minimum temperatures in the city will start falling after December 17 and are expected to be around 15 degree Celsius. Some parts might experience cloudy sky and light rainfall in the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cloudy-sky-causes-warmest-dec-of-last-3-yrs-light-rainfall-predicted-over-next-2-days/articleshow/79728754.cms||Manka Behl
December 15, 2020||Pune||Six arrested on charge of robbing bus passenger||Pune: The Hinjewadi police arrested all six members of a gang on the charge of robbing gold ornaments and cash, collectively worth Rs1.8 lakh, from a woman travelling on a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus on Sunday. A team led by senior inspector Balkrishna Sawant recovered the booty from the arrested women. Archana Devkar (30) of Ghatkopar, Mumbai, had lodged the complaint. On Sunday, Devkar was travelling from Karad to Mumbai. “When the bus reached near Hinjewadi around 3pm, the six members of an all-woman gang, also on the bus, got into an argument with Devkar. One of them then snatched Devkar’s gold chain and her purse containing Rs10,000 and ornaments,” sub-inspector Kavita Rupnar said. When the bus reached Radha Chowk, the six women started to force the driver to stop the vehicle. They still had Devkar’s valuables with them. “As one of the passengers had already alerted the control room, we managed to nab the three of the women when the bus stopped,” she said, adding, “Their three accomplices were taken into custody later, as they managed to flee to spot.” Senior inspector Sawant said the women used to travel in the bus between Satara and Pune in a group regularly. After identifying the target passenger, the women used to the gather around their target and snatch their ornaments or steal valuables from their luggage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-arrested-on-charge-of-robbing-bus-passenger/articleshow/79727774.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED to quiz Swapna Suresh & Sarith PS again in prison||KOCHI: On Monday, the special court for considering Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases granted permission to enforcement directorate (ED) – probing the gold smuggling case – to question Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS in prison for three days. After considering the agency’s petition to permit interrogation without the presence of prison officials, the court directed that the interrogation shall be conducted in the presence and supervision of the prison superintendent or his subordinate. However, they shall not stand within audible limits, said the court order. ED had put in its request before the court to ensure secrecy. However as per prison department norms, interrogation at prison is conducted only in the presence of a prison official. After hearing both counsels, court granted permission to investigating officer as well as assistant investigating officer to interrogate the two accused at respective prisons, where they are in judicial custody, from Monday till Wednesday in coordination with the superintendent of the respective prisons. “The interrogation shall be done from 10am to 4pm. After two hours’ continuous questioning, the accused shall be allowed to take rest for half an hour…the accused shall not be harassed or tortured in any way during interrogation,” stated the court order granting permission. Though ED investigation officer and another officer assisting him had reached Thiruvananthapuram to quiz the duo on Monday, the questioning reportedly didn’t take place as Swapna was being questioned by another agency. Swapna is lodged at Attakulangara women’s prison and Sarith is at Poojappura central prison. ED had approached the court seeking permission to question the duo after both of them gave confession statements in the customs case. According to court documents, the duo had given statements about influential persons. ED filed a request to question the duo again after reports of the same surfaced. Earlier, former principal secretary M Sivasankar was arrested by ED and Swapna’s statement was a crucial feature that led to his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-to-quiz-swapna-sarith-again-in-prison/articleshow/79726746.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||People draw up travel plans as celebrations to be tame this time||Ahmedabad: Almost everyone is waiting for 2020 to end and people want to ring in 2021 with hope and positivity, especially with vaccines for Covid-19 beginning to roll out across the world. In a major dampener to the people’s mood, Ahmedabad police on Monday announced that no New Year’s celebrations will be held in the city due to the ongoing pandemic as the night curfew will continue.While social gatherings have been permitted with a cap of 100 guests, it seems there is a strict no-no from Ahmedabad city police for New Year’s celebrations and parties, which will be confined indoors.“Since Ahmedabad city is under night curfew indefinitely; permission for New Year’s parties at night will not be given,” said deputy commissioner of police (control room), Harshad Patel, at a press briefing on Monday.Irrespective of what the government decides, many people seem to have made up their minds to move out of Gujarat or have a quiet time with their loved ones, indoors. “With prohibition in place, many Gujaratis are known to flock to the nearest watering holes for celebrations. Upscale properties at nearby destinations such as Udaipur and Mount Abu are already selling at premium prices, with many having planned getaways in advance. People don’t want to violate the law for the sake of good times and are chosing to step out,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Gujarat.Goa, Rajasthan, Silvassa, Diu and Daman are a few preferred destinations among travellers and inquiries have also poured in for travel to Dubai since flights have resumed, industry sources said.“This year due to Covid-19, I wasn’t able to travel. I’ve been constantly keeping a tab on the situation and of late things seem to have eased. I plan to travel to Goa with my family for the New Year’s long weekend. I’m looking forward to some relaxation,” said Pranav Vyas, a city-based physiotherapist.Round-trip airfare to Goa surges by 50%It seems party-goers already have New Year’s holiday plans for Goa. With New Year’s Eve falling on a Thursday, and New Year’s day being a holiday for most on Friday, it becomes the perfect long weekend getaway. Round-trip airfares to Goa have surged by almost 50%, with a fortnight to go for New Year’s Eve. Tour operators say the Ahmedabad-Goa-Ahmedabad round-trip typically costs between Rs 7,000-7,500 per person, if booked a fortnight in advance. However, fares have surged to Rs 10,500 or so due to dynamic pricing, which is at least 50% higher than normal, the operators said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/people-draw-up-travel-plans-as-celebrations-to-be-tame-this-time/articleshow/79728842.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Night curfew darkens New Year party prospects||Ahmedabad: This year, the night curfew may beat the living daylights out of New Year parties. Deputy commissioner of police (control room) Harshad Patel said that the city is under the night curfew for an indefinite period and hence permission for late-night New Year parties will not be given. Patel added that if anybody gathers for a party and violates Covid-19 guidelines or curfew norms, strict action will be taken. The curfew in the city is in place from 9pm to 6am. In a notification issued late on December 7, city police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava had imposed the night curfew for an indefinite period. Patel said the decision on New Year celebrations has not been taken yet. Even if permission for such events is granted, Covid-19 guidelines will have to be followed rigorously. As for the corona effect on police and other security agencies, Patel said that till date 1,423 personnel have been infected in the city. “While 349 of them are under treatment, the rest have recovered,” he said. “Covid has killed 13 police personnel and Home Guard jawans in the city so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/night-curfew-darkens-new-year-party-prospects/articleshow/79728843.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Trichy||‘Convene tripartite meeting for paddy procurement issues’||TRICHY: As the early samba paddy crop raised in the delta districts will be ready for harvest by the end of December, farmers have appealed to the state government to convene a tripartite meeting to discuss the paddy procurement and related issues faced by them. The state government usually convenes a tripartite meeting before the commencement of samba paddy harvest, where ministers from agriculture and food department, Tamil Nadu civil supplies corporation (TNCSC) MD, collectors of delta districts, officials from the agriculture department, regional managers of TNCSC and representatives of farmers’ associations would participate. “Every year tripartite meeting would be conducted by any one of the districts in the delta region before the commencement of procurement at DPCs. This year, cultivable areas have increased due to good monsoon and continuous flow in Cauvery. So, harvest of early samba in many places in the districts is going to commence by the end of December. There are a number of issues revolving at DPCs across the delta districts to be resolved. So, the meeting should be convened at the earliest to fix the procurement price for paddy,” secretary of Thanjavur district Cauvery farmers’ protection association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. The long-pending demand of procurement at field itself should be considered for the benefits of farmers, he added. As there are widespread allegations against the staff of DPCs asking bribe to procure paddy, the stage government should take concrete steps to stop the unfair practice from across the delta region, he stressed. “To prevent any such unfair practices at the DPCs, the government should take steps to fix CCTV cameras in all the centres immediately besides establishing proper shed to safeguard paddy bags at the centre,” Vimalnathan further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/convene-tripartite-meeting-for-paddy-procurement-issues/articleshow/79729909.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: MNC employee tries to sell furniture online, loses Rs 3.5 lakh||PUNE: A 30-year-old woman, who wanted to sell a table and chair for Rs5,500 on an online classifieds website, instead ended up transferring Rs3.5 lakh to a fraudster. Police said the fraudster used a tried and tested trick — he told her to scan a QR code on her UPI application to receive money. She did as asked and ended up transferring money to the man. Police said woman works in the pharmacovigilance department of a multinational company in Hinjewadi. Recently, she posted an advertisement about her furniture on the website. On December 4, a man identifying himself as Samir Saxena got in touch with her and asked her to share photographs of the furniture, police said. “After seeing the photographs, he agreed to buy the furniture. They finalized a deal for Rs5,500,” sub-inspector Kavita Rupnar of the Hinjewadi police said. The man said he would send her a QR code and said she would get back twice any amount that may get transferred from her account. “The woman believed him and scanned the multiple QR codes, entering her four-digit UPI PIN each time, and lost nearly her entire savings in the next two days,” Rupnar said. The sub-inspector said the man first told the woman to transfer Rs5 as a trial. When she did that, she immediately received Rs10 in return. “Convinced, she scanned the QR codes the man sent her. When she did not get the double amount and in fact lost money, she contacted the man, who blamed technical glitches,” Rupnar said. On December 5, the man told her to use another UPI appl. This time, she transferred Rs100 and immediately got Rs200 in return. “Once again, she scanned multiple QR codes, authenticating each transaction. She realized she was duped only when she found out her savings account was completely drained,” Rupnar said. The woman approached the police on Sunday and lodged an FIR. “The prima facie probe revealed that the money was transferred to the accounts in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Assam,” Rupnar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mnc-employee-tries-to-sell-furniture-online-loses-rs-3-5l/articleshow/79727770.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 1.4 lakh students take semester exams for BDU colleges||TRICHY: The online semester exams for close to 1.4 lakh students from non-autonomous Bharathidasan University colleges began on Monday. Students got question papers through mail and appeared from their respective homes. According to controller of examination S Srinivasaragavan, among them about 16,000 are postgraduate students and rest are undergraduate students. The semester examination will get over by December 23. However, for students with arrears, it may go up to first week of January. Question papers were sent to the students through email and also can downloaded through a dedicated portal created for the examination. Students will have to submit the hard copy of the answer scripts to their respective colleges. The controller said that there were minimal technical glitches this time as they had experience from conducting end semester examination earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-4l-students-take-sem-exams-for-bdu-colleges/articleshow/79729907.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 1% city nazul leaseholders apply for freehold status in 22 months||Nagpur: Though the last state government, led by Devendra Fadnavis, had allowed conversion of nazul leasehold lands into freehold with much fanfare, less than 1% city leaseholders have applied for the status in 22 months. The leaseholders are reportedly expecting free of cost conversion, or premium of just 1% instead of 5% currently. TOI had on Monday reported statement of revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat that stay imposed on conversion of government-owned leasehold lands into freehold (conversion from occupancy class-II to class-I) will also be applicable to nazul plots situated in few districts of Vidarbha. On March 2, 2019, the then government had implemented the scheme to fulfil its poll promise. The leaseholders were supposed to pay premium of 5% for residential and 10% for commercial. There are over 25,000 nazul plots in Vidarbha, including around 11,000 in posh localities in the city — Dhantoli, Ramdaspeth, Kachipura, Gadga, Dharampeth, Shivaji Nagar, Indora, Jaripatka etc. Flat schemes, commercial complexes, hospitals, individual houses etc have come up on these plots. As per data available from collector office, 96 nazul leasehold lands were converted to freehold in 21 months. Sources from collector office told TOI, “Majority of beneficiaries are either builders or applications driven by builders, who proposed redevelopment of residential flat schemes on nazul land. Only one of the 96 approved cases is commercial, while remaining are residential,” sources said. Asked reasons for the stay, Thorat told TOI on Saturday conversion was halted as general public did not benefit from the policy and also it did not receive satisfactory response. He also went on to say some people took undue advantage of some clauses in the policy. The government is likely to make some amendments in the policy. Activist Swanand Soni, who had pursued freehold issue for many years, said, “People had purchased nazul plots by paying 100% or more of ready reckoner value between 1906 and 1945. Still they did not get actual ownership and were forced to remain leaseholders. The policy for conversion to freehold was a welcome step. But there should have been no premium for conversion, as people had already paid full market value.” He added people were forced to pay annual ground rent and charges for transactions for years now. “Levy, if any, should have been below 1%. Premium of 5% is very high, so people did not avail it and are waiting for amendments,” he said. Soni added conversion without premium is possible for the government as it is being given to people from Sindhi community. “Nazul leaseholders paid full or above market value and did not get plots free of cost or at concessional rates. Government is taking no premium from people from Sindhi community as they had to leave their properties in Pakistan free of cost. Therefore, nazul leaseholders should also get the same benefits,” he said. Soni also said government should accept applications from each flat owner instead of all residing on one nazul plot. “Big residential flat schemes are on nazul lands. Application process will get stuck if all flat owners are not united,” he said. In the policy, the government had placed some more conditions that were not acceptable to leaseholders. “For freehold, we will have to first get regularized any violations including sale deeds without permission, change in user, division of plots etc. This will attract some penalties and lengthy process. We will also have to clear dues of ground rent. In flat schemes, some are willing to pay arrears while some not ready,” said couple of nazul leaseholders. IAN * Around 11,000 nazul plots in city * Big residential flat schemes, commercial complexes, hospitals, individual bungalows on these lands * People procured nazul plots paying 100% or above market value * Still, government released lands on lease instead of giving freehold status * Leaseholders paying annual ground rent, taking permissions for any transactions, paying penalties for violations etc * Government allowed conversion to freehold on March 2, 2019 * Leaseholders have to pay premium of 5% for residential and 10% for commercial * Just 96 nazul leasehold plots converted to freehold in 21 months * Leaseholders want free conversion like that offered to Sindhi community * Want conversion for individual flat owners too, instead of entire flat scheme * Demand scrapping of condition to regularize earlier violations||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-1-city-nazul-leaseholders-apply-for-freehold-status-in-22-months/articleshow/79728790.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 15, 2020||Pune||Gajanan Jagirdar’s memorabilia handed over to NFAI||PUNE: A set of 130 photographs and memorabilia associated with noted actor and filmmaker Gajanan Jagirdar has been handed over to the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) by his son Ashok Jagirdar. The set of memorabilia covers Jagirdar’s professional career as an actor, filmmaker, and an academician, with the set including photographs of Jagirdar from his time as the first principal of the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), stills from the film Ramshastri, which he starred in and directed. The stills also include his supporting roles in the final years of his career, including one with actress Rekha from the film Umrao Jaan. The production stills include his look from films that did not take off, such as an untitled project by Prabhat Studios, where he started his career, in a role where he would have played Bal Gangadhar Tilak. Also, a sketch of his lead character from the film Mahatma, written by PL Deshpande. “We received an original sketch of Jagirdar’s character in Mahatma, which was made by Bal Thackeray,” said Prakash Magdum, the director of NFAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jagirdars-memorabilia-handed-over-to-nfai/articleshow/79727789.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Seven women, two men held in Camp shoplifting cases||PUNE: The Cantonment police have arrested seven women, including two each from Aurangabad and Malegaon, and two men on the charge of stealing items from garment and jewellery shops in Camp in the recent past. Three women and the two men are from Mundhwa. The police said three shoplifting cases were solved after the arrest of nine people following an investigation spanning over three weeks. The police recovered gold ornaments worth Rs57,000, saris worth Rs1.15 lakh and shirts and trousers worth Rs45,000. Senior inspector Ashok Kadam of the Cantonment police said, “The women, clad in saris or burkas, would enter an outlet and engage the shopkeeper or salesperson in talks They would then put the lifted items in bags tied around their waist and leave the shop. The arrested suspects operated in groups, like the three women and two men from Mundhwa or the two women each from Aurangabad and Malegaon.” Sub-inspector Pralhad Dongle of the Cantonment police said, “The police arrested the five members of the Mundhwa group, all in their mid 50s or early 60s, in the last week of November and recovered garments worth Rs45,000 from them.” The Aurangabad women, both aged 35 years, were arrested on December 7. The police had established their involvement from an analysis of cell phone data dumps and other investigations. PSI Dongle said, “The women from Malegaon would use a hired four-wheeler for travelling to Pune to commit the crime. The vehicle was spotted in CCTV footage from around a prominent jewellery shop on MG Road from where they had stolen 20g gold ornaments. We intercepted the car at Wakdewadi on Sunday and arrested the two women.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-women-2-men-held-in-camp-shoplifting-cases/articleshow/79727780.cms||Gitesh Shelke
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Opposition parties misleading agitating farmers: BJP||NAGPUR: BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule on Monday accused Congress and other opposition parties of misleading farmers agitating on the borders of the national capital. He said as these parties did not have an issue to counter Prime Minister Narendra Modi, these are spreading lies about the new farm laws. Addressing a press conference on Monday, Bawankule said, “The Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra had passed similar laws for the state. However, when Modi enacted similar laws for the entire country, they are opposing it.” “When Sharad Pawar was the Union agriculture minister, he had written to all chief ministers asking them to amend agricultural produce market committee (APMC) laws. He had stressed on private participation in the procurement process,” said the BJP leader. “Congress in its manifesto for 2019 elections had promised to enact similar laws. Now that Modi is fulfilling the promises of Congress, its leaders are crying foul. Parties like Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, DMK etc have also promised to end the monopoly of APMCs on various forums. However, now these parties are singing a different tune,” he said. “The new farm laws will only hit the middlemen. In Punjab, they (the middlemen) get 10% commission in APMCs and hence they are protesting,” said Bawankule. The BJP leader said the central government had agreed to amend the laws as per demands of the agitating farmers during every round of talks. “However, as soon as the farm union leaders go back to their tents, they start demanding that the laws should be repealed. We will not repeal these laws at any cost,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oppn-parties-misleading-agitating-farmers-bjp/articleshow/79728794.cms||Ashish Roy
December 15, 2020||Goa||Writing on the wall is clear for grand old party||Panaji: Already plagued by in-fighting, mistrust, defections and a weak organisational structure, Congress hit yet another low when the party won just four of the 49 zilla panchayat seats on Monday. Three of the seats –Nuvem, Velim and Curtorim -- came from its traditional stronghold of Salcete. Even here it was found wanting as the party lost five constituencies, while the only other place they managed to win was in Santa Cruz. What adds a bigger sting to Congress party’s woes will be the vote share percentage, which shows that Congress ate into votes of independent candidates, some of whom offered a serious challenge to BJP, in Socorro, for example. BJP swept the zilla panchayat elections, winning 33 seats across north and south Goa. Congress didn’t even finish second; that space was taken over by independents who won in seven constituencies. MGP (3), NCP and AAP completed the tail end with one seat each. “Congress’ performance has been miserable,” said advocate Cleofato Coutinho, a keen political observer. “I would look at it that BJP, which was on a decline, and which Congress could not harvest. Here the opposition could have done a better job, which I would say they failed to do.” Several factors for Congress’s fall and BJP’s success are being talked about. A livid Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai, blamed Congress’ stubborn failure to see its own flaws and refusal to bring all opposition parties together. “Absence of a united alternative definitely helped BJP. There was no single credible alternative and this is just because of one party’s leaders,” said Sardesai. GFP, which officially did not contest the elections, managed to walk away with head high as its working president Kiran Kandolkar’s wife defeated BJP candidate in Colvale. Even AAP had something to cheer. The party opened its account in Goa’s electoral politics and gained a sizeable vote share in constituencies where the party did not have a base. AAP’s aggressive campaign, particularly the agitations, appear to have helped them wrest control of the Benaulim constituency from local MLA Churchill Alemao and Congress, who interestingly fielded a former AAP candidate. The results serve as a rude wake-up call for Congress ahead of the 2022 state assembly elections. This may fuel calls for an organisational shake-up, particularly at the helm of the state. Pundits said Congress will have to go back to the drawing board, if it wants to remain a serious contender in the coming elections. The poll debacle will invariably lead to talks of a united opposition and an organisational shake-up in Congress. Like Coutinho said, “questions would certainly be raised about Girish Chodankar’s leadership.” Several Congress workers and GFP office bearers also said the GPCC president is unable to galvanise the Goan voter. “The party needs a strong leader who can inspire,” said one worker. That Congress’ failure came at a time of rising protests surprised many. BJP has been on the backfoot for the last six months, thanks to several protests. From diversion of water from the Mhadei basin to protests against coal transportation, from inflated power bills to a state-wide agitation against environmentally destructive projects, BJP found itself in fire-fighting mode. The zilla panchayat results, though, showed none of these issues made a dent in BJP’s popularity, or ability to win votes. According to political observers, the opposition only ended up with a discordant and sluggish front against BJP’s well-oiled organisational machinery. “The majority of seats won by BJP is not a reflection of its policies, but a lacklustre show by the opposition who are divided from within,” said Goencho Avaaz co-convenor Viriato Fernandes. “Despite large scale dissension against the government at the ground level, mismanagement of Covid crisis, unemployment, rising debt, and most importantly, anger against the destructive projects, BJP has effectively used money and muscle power to win seats,” said Viriato. At 56% voter turnout, it was clear that voters did not take the zilla panchayat elections seriously. This may not necessarily be a barometer for the assembly elections due in 2022, but for Congress, the writing is on the wall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/writing-on-the-wall-is-clear-for-grand-old-party/articleshow/79729912.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 15, 2020||Goa||Congress: Voters didn’t trust our candidates||Panaji: Stung by the zilla panchayat results, Congress admitted it had failed to convince voters but vowed to “rise up again” ahead of the state assembly elections in 2022. “We never leave our fighting spirit. Congress has seen similar setbacks before and emerged victorious several times. We have a lot to learn from the results,” said party president Girish Chodankar. Chodankar attributed the party’s loss to the perception that Congress’ elected representatives will defect to BJP. Twelve of its candidates, elected in 2017, have already deserted the party, leaving them with just five MLAs in the state legislative assembly. “We failed to weed out this perception from people’s mind. Voters expressed anger by dissent and did not come out to vote for us. We respect their dissent and vow to change,” Chodankar said. “The party will undertake vigorous membership drive, strengthen its grassroot level and booth level committees, which was in disarray after mass defections of our public representatives.” The GPCC president also accused BJP of using power and money to win the elections. “BJP won because the defected MLAs helped them to garner votes. Besides, this BJP used government machinery to campaign for the election and stopped us from even meeting people,” Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-voters-didnt-trust-our-candidates/articleshow/79729917.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Trichy||Himalayan vulture at Point Calimere after 12-year gap||TRICHY: The Himalayan griffon vulture, a migratory bird native to the Himalayas, has been spotted at the Point Calimere wildlife sanctuary after a gap of 12 years, said officials from the forest department. There are forest department records of this bird being spotted in 1964 in the central region while Biodiversity Conservation Foundation founder director A Kumaraguru said that the bird was last spotted in 2008 at Point Calimere. The bird was spotted near Thambusamy illam – a forest guest house ravaged by cyclone Gaja two years back. The forest officer who spotted the bird took pictures with his phone while it was perching on a manilkara hexandra tree. The migration of this bird is unique as it belongs to high altitude and has come down to sea level. Terming it a rare happening, S Ramasubramanian, conservator of forest (Thanjavur circle), said people may not believe that the bird was spotted in the region. “But the picture taken with the manilkara hexandra tree in the backdrop was evidence of the bird spotted at Point Calimere. Manilkara hexandra is an important species of a dry evergreen tree found in the region.” He said that a team of forest officials are looking into the possibility of more such birds in the sanctuary as the bird may have tried to migrate somewhere else but could have come here due to successive cyclones. “It used Point Calimere as a transit and may not stay here for long. Food requirements of the bird is also different as they feed on animal carcases which they may not find in abundance in this region,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rare-sighting-of-himalayan-griffon-vulture-at-point-calimere/articleshow/79729915.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey fire probe shifted to Justice Mehta panel||Ahmedabad: The state government on Monday transferred the inquiry into the Shrey Hospital fire incident from Justice (retd) K A Puj to Justice (retd) D A Mehta, who is probing the Rajkot hospital fire incident. State home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja said that since Justice Puj is overburdened with other works, the government has decided to transfer the inquiry to the probe panel, which is conducting inquiry into another fire incident. The state government had initially handed over the inquiry into the Rajkot hospital fire incident to Justice Puj, but later shifted it to Justice Mehta stating that Justice Puj is busy with other works. Five persons were killed in Rajkot’s Uday Shivanand Covid hospital on November 27. Last week, the state government told the Supreme Court that it intended to shift the probe in the Shrey Hospital fire case to Justice Mehta committee. To this, the apex court said that the government was free to do so. Justice Puj committee was to visit Shrey Hospital on December 7, but the visit was postponed. The state government’s statement before the SC that it was mulling to change the probe panel came after this. Eight Covid-19 patients were killed in Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura on August 6, when fire broke out in the ICU ward. The judicial inquiry was ordered on August 11. Kin of the victims were not satisfied with the state government’s decision to announce judicial inquiry and they insisted on a thorough probe by police. When the police invoked milder charges in the case, they demanded CBI probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-fire-probe-shifted-to-justice-mehta-panel/articleshow/79728844.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||‘Drama, dirty politics’: Saurabh Bharadwaj slams BJP||NEW DELHI: AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Monday claimed that BJP was just doing “drama all day” and playing “dirty politics”. While the mayors of the BJP-run corporations have been protesting for their “pending dues”, AAP has alleged that North Delhi Municipal Corporation is involved in a scam worth Rs 2,500 crore, which, Bharadwaj claimed, is bigger than the 2010 Commonwealth Games scam. AAP has recently levelled a series of corruption allegations in the running of the municipal corporations, where the election is due in 2022. “While the mayors of the corporations are sitting outside the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the commissioners of the civic bodies are on leave for the past 15 days. They have left the running of the corporations to the grace of god,” the Greater Kailash MLA claimed. “In the coming elections, BJP will drop sitting councillors and give tickets to new faces due to corruption. The party is yet to give a single answer on the allegations raised by AAP. Earlier too, we exposed how CBI had arrested a BJP councillor for taking a bribe of Rs 10 lakh. BJP did not respond to that matter either,” he alleged. Taking a swipe at the protests by the mayors and several councillors, Bharadwaj said people of Delhi were sure that the BJP-governed civic bodies would not work for them any more. “Be it sanitation work or cleaning roads or maintenance of parks or handling the monkey menace, none of these work is being done by them,” he said, claiming that Delhiites had decided to throw BJP out of power in the next polls. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called the allegation of scam baseless. “There is a budget proposal of the north corporation commissioner to waive off South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s Rs 2,500-crore rent dues. AAP is calling this a scam, which is ridiculous and false,” Kapoor claimed. He added that instead of releasing the corporations’ dues worth Rs 1,300 crore, Delhi government was using wild allegations to divert people’s attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drama-dirty-politics-bharadwaj-slams-bjp/articleshow/79727812.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Pune man grows veggies on rooftop without soil or digging||PUNE: A few years ago, Sameer A found a book about aquaponics and his love for fish inspired him to read it and start an interesting journey. “My dad did a course in hydroponics and I knew about the subject but aquaponics was new. Based on the information in the book, I designed my own pixel farm concept in 2016. I have since been setting up a farm on my terrace,” said Sameer, who lives in Hadapsar. Over the years, he has grown 46 types of vegetables without any soil and need for digging. “The fish do all the work. The farm recirculates the water system, recreating river water conditions. The urea-laden water from the fish contains ammonia, which is good for the plants, and the clean water is given back to the fish. The crops are also 100% pesticide free, since I cannot use anything poisonous because it will harm the fish as well,” said the 38-year-old. Sameer pointed out that ancient agriculture was set up on the banks of rivers because of the benefits of fish waste much before cow dung was used as manure. The crops grown on the soilless terrace include rice, baby corn, varieties of cucumber and tomato, among others. “Seeds from UK are growing well here and so is celery that is a notoriously delicate crop, which needs proper temperature control and attracts insects. The idea is to build crop immunity and grow it quickly,” he added. Sameer aims to spread awareness about the need to grow one’s own food instead of buying vegetables from commercial farms that are laden with pesticide. His company PluckIt owns the intellectual property and wants to take it to schools so that children can learn about growing their own food. “I share what I have learnt via social media and address people’s concerns about their home farms. Anyone can start growing their own vegetables in their homes, all they need is two buckets and fish. You can use any fish except salt water fish,” said Sameer. The lockdown brought the opportunity for people to understand how important it is to be in charge of their own food. “While colder states like Delhi need to implement temperature control to grow their crops at home, in cities such as Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, this is not required because the weather is great. You don’t have to get dirty in the soil, all you have to do is feed the fish,” said Sameer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-grows-veggies-on-rooftop-without-soil-or-digging/articleshow/79727794.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Impressive voter turnout of 78.8% in Malappuram||KOZHIKODE: Malappuram district, which has the highest number of voters and also the highest number of candidates in the state, registered an impressive turnout of 78.8% in the third and final phase of local body elections held on Monday. Reflective of the spirited campaign witnessed in the district in the run-up to the polls, enthusiastic voters lined up before the polling booths in large numbers to exercise their franchise. Heavy turnout was reported in the coastal areas as well as the hilly regions. The polling extended to late night at a booth at Chembra AMUP School in Tirur allegedly due to slow pace of polling at the booth during the course of the day resulting in around 400 persons of the total of 1,600 voters in the booth left in the queue at 6pm when the polling was supposed to close. Many voters complained of having made to stand in the queue for five hours and voters were provided with benches to sit. Tirur tahsildar said that additional polling officials were appointed at the booth and the polling is expected to be completed after 9pm. The district recorded 24.3% polling by 10am and the number crossed the 50% mark by 1pm. The turnout grew steadily as 70% polling was recorded soon after 4 pm. EVM glitches were reported in as many as half a dozen polling booths in the morning leading to brief delays in the commencement of the voting process. At the St Gemma’s School in Malappuram and three other booths, EVM malfunction persisted for around an hour. Though considered as a traditional IUML stronghold, the district had seen LDF making impressive gains in the 2015 elections. The local-level understanding by the UDF with the Welfare Party of India was the political highlight in the elections in the district. Among the municipalities, Manjeri, Kondotty and Malappuram registered over 80% polling with Manjeri recording the highest polling of 84.03%. As many as 26,47,946 persons of the total of 33,55,028 voters exercised their franchise. There were 8,387 candidates in the fray in the district. The polling was held in 3,975 booths, including 516 booths coming under municipal limits and 3,459 booths in panchayats. As many as 19,875 officials along with 6,190 police personnel were deployed for poll duty. The elections were held adhering to the green protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/impressive-voter-turnout-of-78-8-in-malappuram/articleshow/79726767.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||GSL launches 5th Coast Guard patrol vessel, assures delivery by Oct 2021||Panaji: Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) on Monday launched the fifth and last of the five offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) being built for the Indian Coast Guard. GSL said that the vessel, ICGS Saksham, will be delivered to by October 2021. The Indian Coast Guard will also commission ISCG Sujeet, the second of the five OPVs, at GSL’s shipyard on Tuesday. The OPVs are from the second batch of vessels of the Samarth class ordered by the Indian Coast Guard to patrol India’s Exclusive Economic Zone and protect territorial waters. GSL has managed to overcome the disruptions in supply chains and adhered to the contractual schedule, said GSL chairman and managing director B B Nagpal. “At GSL we have managed to complete 100% hull construction and launch the vessel within 18 months from keel laying, which was in June 2019. The vessel is in advanced stage of outfitting and will be ready for delivery by Oct 2021,” Nagpal said. ICGS Saksham was launched by Jayanthi Natarajan, the wife of Krishnaswamy Natarajan, director general Coast Guard. The offshore patrol vessels will form a formidable part of the Coast Guard fleet and are equipped with computerised controls systems, making them the most advanced patrol vessels in service with the Coast Guard. “The launching of this majestic ship, which is an example of fine workmanship and equipped with most advanced machinery, will help Indian Coast Guard in performing multifarious roles chartered to Indian Coast Guard more effectively,” Natarajan said. Nagpal said that GSL had to overcome serious supply chain constraints caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our endeavour has been to maximize the indigenous content on these ships and I am happy to state that more than 70% indigenisation has been achieved for these ships,” Nagpal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-launches-5th-coast-guard-patrol-vessel-assures-delivery-by-oct-2021/articleshow/79729963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Patna||5 murders in 24 hours keep Bihar cops on toes||PATNA: Five murders, house robberies and an attempt to murder case in the state in the last 24 hours kept police on their toes. A 60-year-old manager of a multinational company was shot dead at Madhubani village under the Sadar police station area in Muzaffarpur district on Monday. Two motorcycle-borne criminals reached the house of the victim, Satya Prakash Thakur, at around 11am and pumped two bullets into his body. Satya Prakash was rushed to a private nursing home at Bairia in Muzaffarpur where the doctors declared him brought dead. The victim’s wife, Nilu Devi, teacher at a government school, told the police that her husband was scheduled to go to his workplace, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, two days ago, but cancelled his journey for some reasons. SHO of Sadar police station Sanjiv Kumar Nirala said four people have been named as accused in the FIR lodged on the basis of the statement of the victim’s wife. “One of the named accused has already been arrested and raids are on to nab three others,” he added. Barely two hours later, criminals shot dead the son of a fuel station owner at Kochas under the same police station area in Rohtas district. Three robbers intercepted Rahul Kumar (40) and snatched a bag containing money from him near the entrance gate of the Kochas branch of the State Bank of India. Rahul was rushed to the primary health centre where he was declared brought dead. A shopkeeper, Dipak Kumar, was also attacked when he tried to catch hold of the criminals fleeing with cash. Dipak, who received bullet injuries in his leg, is undergoing treatment at a local hospital. SHO of Kochas police station Rakesh Kumar said the incident took place around 1pm when the victim was on way to deposit the money in the bank in his car. In Banka, police recovered the body of a 50-year-old farmer, Kalyug Paswan, from Loharia village under the Rajaun police station area on Monday. Paswan had gone to his farmland on Sunday night and didn’t return home. Police said the deceased’s son-in-law, Rajesh Paswan, has been detained for interrogation. In Buxar, a 25-year-old youth was beaten to death at Palia village under the Rajpur police station area on theft suspicion. The identity of the deceased is yet to be ascertained. Earlier on Sunday, a Patna-based dealer of the building construction material, Yogendra Kumar (45), was shot dead by criminals near Raghai village on Kanti-Sheohar road in Muzaffarpur district. Police said the incident took place when Yogendra with his family was on way to his residence at Kankarbagh in Patna along with his family after attending a wedding ceremony at Rajepur village in East Champaran district. Meanwhile, armed dacoits looted cash and property worth over Rs 10 lakh from the houses of Bhushan Kewat, Praveshi Kewat, Phanu Yadav and others at Gobraha Tola under Belaganj police station in Gaya district on Sunday night. In another incident, former block president of BJP Kalanand Singh survived a murderous attack from illicit liquor traders in Araria district on Sunday night. SHO of Raniganj police station Shyam Nandan Yadav said, “Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-murders-in-24-hours-keep-bihar-cops-on-toes/articleshow/79726804.cms||Ramashankar
December 15, 2020||Patna||As Patna chokes, CM seeks an end to stubble burning||PATNA: Amid the choking air pollution in the city that is repeatedly touching the ‘very poor’ category, CM Nitish Kumar on Monday expressed grave concerns over the burning of crop residue by farmers despite repeated warnings by the state government. The CM asked the state’s top officials to carry out an aerial survey in the next three-four days to assess the ground situation as stubble burning is adding to the pollution woes of the city. He directed the officials to take all necessary measures to stop the practice of stubble burning by educating and persuading farmers, but without taking any punitive actions. While formally inaugurating the launch of the climate-smart agriculture programme (CSAP) in all 38 districts in the state, Nitish said during his return from Banka on a chopper on Saturday, he saw crop residues being burnt almost everywhere in Banka and Jamui districts. “A few days ago, when I went to Nalanda district, I saw similar scenes of stubble burning there. Plots after plots were covered with ‘black ash’ due to the practice of stubble burning. I saw the incidents of crop residue burning even in Patna district,” the CM said and asked the state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar and the agriculture secretary N Saravana Kumar (who were present there) to take the state helicopter for the next three-four days to assess the ground scenario. The CM said the state government last year launched a vigorous campaign to educate farmers against stubble burning. Still, the farmers are indulging in the practice. Moreover, the practice of stubble burning is spreading to new areas, despite efforts to check it. “Please go to the districts, take officials of the agriculture department and the concerned DM and try to know from villagers why the farmers are not dumping the practice of crop residue burning,” Nitish told the chief secretary and other top officials. CM said all farmers must be educated about the harms of stubble burning. They should be informed that the crop residue burning would create a serious environmental crisis for the next generation. “Farmers should be also informed that the state government was providing a subsidy of 75%, (up to 80% for those belonging to the SCs and STs and EBCs), towards the purchase of agricultural implements like rotary mulcher, straw reaper, straw baler and reaper cum binder. By using these implements, farmers can better utilize the crop residues without burning them in the field,” Nitish said. One of the 11 components of the ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Abhiyan’, which was also lauded by internationally renowned personalities like Bill Gates, the CSAP was launched in eight districts of the state last year as a pilot project. The eight districts which were covered in the first phase were Madhubani, Khagaria, Bhagalpur, Banka, Munger, Nawada, Nalanda and Gaya. “Today, the CSAP is being extended in all 38 districts,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-patna-chokes-cm-seeks-an-end-to-stubble-burning/articleshow/79726780.cms||Madan Kumar
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Protest site turns into open-air office as mayors clear files||NEW DELHI: Mayors of three municipal corporations on Monday started operating their “open-air offices” from outside the chief minister’s residence. Meetings with senior officials were held and several files were cleared at the site of the protest, which entered its eighth day. The three mayors, Leaders of the Houses and standing committee chairpersons along with 20 councillors have been protesting outside the CM’s residence seeking release of “pending dues worth Rs 13,000 crore”. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash held meetings with additional commissioners, heads of the departments and deputy commissioners of all six zones along with the elected functionaries. Twenty-five files were cleared, the civic body’s spokesperson said. Prakash directed the education department not to ask old age employees and those with co-morbidities to report on duty in view of their vulnerability towards the novel coronavirus. “I have also told officials to organise property tax camps,” he said. South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Singh said that more than 20 female councillors have been spending days and nights under open sky. “Why can’t CM meet us? We will not leave unless our demands are met. We do not want any delay in day-to-day work and hence, we have started working from the protest site,” she added. “I have reviewed progress of the work done over the last one week and gave necessary directions to officials,” she said. Responding to AAP’s allegations of cameras being vandalised, she added: “The CM has allowed installation of new CCTV cameras near the protest site, which violates the privacy of protesting women councillors.” East Delhi corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said: “I discussed issues related to the remediation of Ghazipur landfill site and efforts being taken to mitigate air pollution. I directed officials that the 2024 target of clearing the landfill site should be met.” Meanwhile, the north corporation mayor said that if the salaries of sanitation staff were not paid soon, they might also go on strike and Kejriwal would be responsible for it. Delhi BJP said that safai karamchari association and 34 other employee unions had extended their support to the dharna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protest-site-turns-into-open-air-office-as-mayors-clear-files/articleshow/79727829.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 2,000 interns at govt hospitals go on token strike||AHMEDABAD: Over 2,000 intern doctors at the 14 government-run hospitals in Gujarat on Monday observed a token one-day strike as a sign of protest over pending demands. The groups said that the protest would continue even as the government officials on Monday warned them against applying ‘pressure tactics.’ “We demand that the stipend should be increased from Rs 12,800 to Rs 20,000 per month considering our duty in Covid wards. The bond period should be considered in accordance with our Covid duty. We should be paid the remuneration at the rate of Rs 1,000 per day if we are on Covid duty, and the remuneration be at least on par with our counterparts in AMC hospitals,” said a doctor on protest. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and state health minister, on Monday assured the doctors of decision on their demands at ‘appropriate time.’ “Instead of thinking about patients in these difficult times, interns must not apply pressure tactics to press for their demand,” said Patel, adding that the strike was “uncalled-for” in the present scenario. Officials also warned the students that they would be marked absent if they refrained from duty and it could hamper their admission to PG courses. The doctors, however, said that they were adamant on their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2k-interns-at-govt-hospitals-go-on-token-strike/articleshow/79728869.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||JU arts students’ protest||Kolkata: After the Executive Council of Jadavpur University decided to scrap the convocation for 2020 and distribute the degree certificates virtually, the members of Arts Faculty Students’ Union staged a demonstration on Monday. They demanded reopening of the campus from January, physical verification of the newly admitted students and asked to continue the UG admission process till the end of January to ensure that no seat remains vacant. The students also started a demonstration outside the main administrative building. It was lifted in the evening after the students received a response from VCSuranjan Das. Das said that while campus reopening is a call that the state would take, the matter of physically verifying documents will be discussed with the higher education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-arts-students-protest/articleshow/79727826.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Low onion output worries farmers as hopes of profits dim||NAGPUR: “At Rs35 a kg, it’s a rather comfortable price for onion growers but the output is too less for us to reap any profit,” said Kundlik Rathore, a farmer from Paithan taluka of Aurangabad district. He had come to the agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC)-run yard at Kalamna with his initial lot of onions. “I don’t expect more than 25 quintals of output this season. Last year, it was nearly 100 quintals. So even if the rates are good, it’s of no use,” said Rathore as Ravji Pawar, also from a neighbouring village in Paithan, agreed. Excessive rains has damaged the crops at many places, say farmers. Rathore said with cotton crop also hit, his overall income from for the Kharif season is down to less than half of last year at around Rs3 lakh. Onion rates at Kalamna are in the range of Rs15 to Rs40 a kg depending on the grade. This is double than the average rates of last year. The season has begun and arrivals are poor. As against 40 vehicles a day last year, it’s only 10 to 15 this time. The supply of white onions which are favourite in Vidarbha has diminished too. Hardly 2 to 3 vehicles are reaching Kalamana in a day. Traders said it’s not just farmers from the state who are complaining of low output of onion. There appears to be an overall shortage. If this continues, the onion prices may once again shoot. Neighbourhood vegetable vendors are selling onions at Rs40-50 a kg. At this time, farmers from Dhule, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Chalisgaon and parts of Vidarbha like Amravati, and Akola reach Kalamna. However, the season beings with arrivals from Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh. The supplies from Andhra has not reached Kalamna yet. The situation has led to short supply of white onions which are the largely consumed in Vidarbha. “There have been no arrivals from Andhra yet which makes a major difference. By next month, white onions from Bhavnagar in Gujarat arrive but there are reports of low crop even there,” said Jaiprakash Wasani of M/s Pankaj Traders at Kalamna. “A section of farmers are bringing out old stock of the previous season. Its rate is slightly better due to less moisture and fetching a higher rate up to Rs40 a kg,” he said. The old stock may last for a month or so. After that, there has to be enough arrivals from the fresh crop or else rates may shoot, said Wasani. Shahdab Ali from M/s Momindudin Traders said, “The next crop will be sown soon and will be due for harvest in the next three months. If the weather remains conducive, the situation may normalize. But the supplies will be hit if the forthcoming crop is hampered too.” Ali said farmers from the state are in major losses this time. Prakash Sakarkar from Chandur Bazar taluka in Amravati said his produce of white onions has been halved as compared to last year. Losses were nearly total in soyabean and cotton wasn’t encouraging too. Sakarkar said the rates fluctuated, began with Rs75 and reaching Rs14 a kg last year. He said Rs35 a kg is enough but also agrees that there are losses due to low output. Exports had pushed the rates at that time. Exports have not been allowed so far this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/low-onion-output-worries-farmers-as-hopes-of-profits-dim/articleshow/79728849.cms||Shishir Arya
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||84% of Covid beds in Guj vacant: Dy CM||Ahmedabad: Nitin Patel, Gujarat deputy chief minister and state health minister, on Monday said that about 84% of the beds in Covid-19 hospitals in the state were vacant as on Monday afternoon. Patel termed this a major success and attributed it to steps such as night curfews in the four major cities and support from the citizens. Patel was interacting with the media in Gandhinagar on Monday after his meeting with the deans of government and GMERS-run medical colleges. The meeting was convened to oversee medical admissions based on NEET and the resuming of the academic work. Patel also announced a 100-seat medical college in Morbi from the next academic year. “After Diwali, when COVID-19 cases started increasing in Gujarat, it was a challenge for us to accommodate all those patients. We even sent some of the patients (from Ahmedabad) to hospitals situated in nearby cities of Anand and Nadiad,” said Patel. “But now, the situation has improved and around 84% of all the beds available in Covid-19 hospitals across the state are vacant,” he added. The Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) website on Monday morning showed 40% occupancy on 3,775 beds, which was one of the lowest in over one month. “The evening OPDs at the Civil Hospital will be resumed now with the burden of Covid-19 treatment on the doctors having reduced,” said the deputy CM. Five new operation theatres have also been constructed or upgraded at the trauma centre of the Civil Hospital. Patel also announced that the doctors with private practice would also be able to serve in the government civil hospitals. Patel said that so far, no side effects have been seen in the volunteers who are part of the Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin trial at Sola Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/84-of-covid-beds-in-guj-vacant-dy-cm/articleshow/79728868.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kochi||Poll verdict will be a reply to all allegations: Kerala CM||KOZHIKODE: As the third phase of the elections to the local bodies in Kerala has concluded, all three fronts have exuded confidence that they would better their performance. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the elections will be an answer to the allegations raised by various quarters. “It was an election where all the reactionary forces came together against us, amply aided by the central agencies,” he said. He discounted the allegation that the announcement that Covid vaccine will be distributed free of cost in Kerala was a violation of code of conduct. “Covid treatment in Kerala is completely free of cost and the administration of the vaccine is a continuation of the policy,” the CM said. Vijayan said the opponents believed that with such allegations they could shake us a bit, but after the announcement of the results it will be known as to who will be shaken. Former CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said the people will not let down a government that cared to feed them at the time of Covid-19. Speaking after casting his vote in Thalassery, he said while in other states the BJP won power by purchasing opponents, they are using investigating agencies for the purpose. Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said that those who are engaged in levelling false allegations will not emerge victorious in the local body elections. Speaking to reporters after casting his vote at Khadermullah School at Perinthalmanna in Malappuram, he said that false allegations will not have any impact in the polls. People will react: UDF KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the results will be a reply to a government that failed in all sectors. He told reporters that the people in all areas are completely dejected with the LDF rule and their ire will be reflected in the results. Reiterating that the announcement of free vaccine was a violation of poll code, Ramachandran said the chief minister is making false claims on fighting Covid-19. “Kerala has been insulted at the national level through gold smuggling and drug racket cases,” he said. IUML state president Panakkad Syed Hyder Ali Shihab Thangal said that UDF will sweep the polls. After casting his vote at Panakkad in Malappuram, Thangal said that the political atmosphere in the state is very favourable for the UDF. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran claimed that NDA will come into power in many local bodies. Surendran added that the people will punish Congress for aligning with extremist forces and many traditional CPM votes will flow to the BJP this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-poll-verdict-will-be-a-reply-to-all-allegations/articleshow/79726781.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad now has 73 societies contained||AHMEDABAD: The city now has 73 housing societies that are micro-contained. Officials said in the last four days only two societies were micro-contained. On Monday, Block B of Sudarshan Gold, on Science City Road in Gota was micro-contained. About 18 houses with 70 population were micro contained. On Sunday, 20 houses in Regency Tower were contained. Officials said the number of active cases in the city has gone down to 2,504 from 2,530 on Sunday. The western parts of the city, that is the areas of Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi, Ghatlodia, Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Thaltej, Gota and Bopal accounted to 53.6% of active cases. The was an increase of 11 active cases in North West Zone in the 24 hours ending 11am on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-now-has-73-societies-contained/articleshow/79728860.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Local bodies not paying power bills||NAGPUR: Farmers are not the only category of consumers who are not paying MSEDCL’s bills. The local bodies, urban as well as rural, which use power for lighting streetlights and operating water works are also major defaulters. According to MSEDCL sources, the total dues owed by local bodies till October 2020 was Rs7,208 crore. Alarmed over the continuous rise in dues, MSEDCL has written to the state finance department to deposit the entire fifteenth finance commission funds meant for streetlights and water supply, to it. MSEDCL used to get 50% of fourteenth finance commission funds under these heads but still the dues kept on increasing. Therefore, this time it has demanded the entire amount. An MSEDCL officer said local bodies did not pay for streetlights and water works as they knew that the company could not disconnect them. “The financial condition of most local bodies is very poor and this is also the reason for non-payment of bills,” he added. Leniency towards farmers by former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule caused MSEDCL dearly as its arrears increased from Rs14,000 crore in March 2014 to a whopping Rs51,000 crore in March 2020. As many people have not paid their power bills, the figure rose by another Rs6,000 crore after March 2020. Sources in MSEDCL said of the Rs14,000 crore, about Rs10,040 crore were owed by farmers only. Similarly, of the Rs51,000 crore, about Rs40,160 crore were due to agricultural consumers. If this was not enough, many residential and commercial consumers have also not paid their bills this year. The arrears owed by non-agricultural consumers to MSEDCL in March 2020 was Rs2,726 crore. This figure shot up to Rs6,829 crore in September, which translates into an increase of 150% or 2.5 times the March figure. MSEDCL had sent average bills during the lockdown period. During summer in spite of use of air-conditioners and air coolers, people got low bills. However, when readings were taken in July and August, the accumulated consumption was very high and people got bills in thousands. Most felt cheated and many did not pay bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/local-bodies-not-paying-power-bills/articleshow/79728859.cms||Ashish Roy
December 15, 2020||Goa||In Salcete, BJP’s ‘Ind’ route leads to nowhere||MARGAO: Traditionally inimical to BJP, Salcete dealt yet another blow to the saffron party on Monday. BJP’s strategy to back independent candidates for the zilla panchayat elections in Nuvem and Velim constituencies failed miserably. Breezy Fernandes, openly supported by BJP Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa, was defeated by Congress candidate Assuciana Rodrigues, while in Velim, Juliao Fernandes (Congress) trounced independent Anthony Rodrigues, clandestinely backed by local MLA and water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues. In the eight ZP constituencies of Salcete, BJP fielded its candidates in just two places – Guirdolim and Davorlim – while backing independents in the rest, a strategic move aimed at gaining a toehold in the Catholic-dominated taluka. However, its ‘independent’ route turned out to be a road to nowhere, as the voters rejected all independent candidates it supported, overtly or covertly. However, in the two constituencies - Guirdolim and Davorlim – where BJP fielded its candidates, the gamble paid off with both candidates turning victorious. A part of the Guirdolim constituency lies in Salcete, and the other in Quepem, both of which are represented by neo-saffronites, Cuncolim BJP MLA Clafacio Dias and BJP deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar. The victories will help these two MLAs earn the trust of BJP leadership and help cement their positions in the party. Conversely, the defeat of Congress candidate in Guirdolim signifies the waning influence of former Cuncolim MLA Joaquim Alemao in the constituency, political sources said. Joaquim’s son Yuri, who had recently switched over to Congress after a brief engagement with the Goa Forward Party (GFP), had actively canvassed for the candidate. In Davorlim, BJP’s Ulhas Tuyekar retained his seat defeating Murtuza Kuknoor (Congress) by 1593 votes, while in Guirdolim, BJP’s Sanjana Velip edged out Congress candidate Sonia Fernandes by 593 votes. Considering that both Guirdolim and Davorlim were seats of the midnight vigil and protest over railway track doubling last month, the outcome of the result indicates that anti-government sentiments failed to have any adverse impact on BJP’s fortunes. Elsewhere, attempts by opposition parties to make political capital of the ant-coal agitation failed to have the desired result in terms of electoral success. If anything, the results saw a further slide in Congress’s popularity in Salcete, once its fortress. Though Congress fielded candidates in all eight Salcete constituencies, it won just three. AAP opened its account with victory in Benaulim, while Churchill Alemao’s NCP won just the Colva seat by a slender margin of 75 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-salcete-bjps-ind-route-leads-to-nowhere/articleshow/79729929.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||28-day new-case low for state at 1,120||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Monday added 1,120 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the tally to 2.28 lakh. It was the lowest daily tally for the state in the past 28 days. The cases included 247 from Ahmedabad, 175 from Surat, 151 from Vadodara and 129 from Rajkot districts. The state also recorded the deaths of 11 positive patients, taking the death toll to 4,182. The deaths included seven from Ahmedabad, three from Surat, and one from Vadodara. All the deaths were recorded from the areas of the municipal corporations of these cities. It was the 25-day low for Ahmedabad city with 237 new positive cases in 24 hours, whereas at 146, it was the 28-day low for Surat city. Cumulatively, eight municipal corporations accounted for 58.5% of the daily cases. For the past seven days, the eight cities’ contribution increased at an average 58% of the cases, reveals the analysis. The cities also accounted for an average 85% of the daily Covid-19 related deaths. Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 55,807 tests, taking the total to 87.25 lakh tests. As of Monday evening, Gujarat had 13,018 active cases, which were 5.7% of the total cases of the state. Out of the total, 92.5% of the patients recovered, whereas 1.8% have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28-day-new-case-low-for-state-at-1120/articleshow/79728863.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Registration of non-agri assets begins, few on day 1||HYDERABAD: After a three-month gap registration of non-agricultural properties got underway at the 141 sub-registrar offices across the state on Monday. However, with Monday being not an auspicious day, many preferred to delay registration of properties. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said that as many as 24 slots per day are available. It would mean that one slot will be available for every 15 minutes. With the government not clarifying registrations regarding LRS, confusion prevailed at the sub-registrar offices. Though the government directed not to allow registration of properties without LRS in the GO issued on Friday, a final decision is expected to be taken on this issue in a few days. Meanwhile, minor protests were reported from some sub-registrar offices as several realtors and document writers were upset with the new registration process. “There is no scope of power of attorney too,” said SV Teja, a document writer from Chikkadapally. As of Monday only a few services like sale, a mortgage with possession, deposit of title deed, development of the agreement, civil agreement with possession are available. There is no chance to make changes in the sale deed as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/registration-of-non-agri-assets-begins-few-on-day-1/articleshow/79728852.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 15, 2020||Goa||Mollem factor plays out in Borim?||Though BJP won the Borim seat, the party’s vote percentage appears to have shrunk. BJP candidate Dipak Naik Borkar won with 32.4% votes, but this was down from the party’s 44% in the 2015 polls. This came as a surprise as Borim is considered a stronghold of incumbent BJP MLA Subhash Shirodkar. The Mollem protests were among the reasons, some locals said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-factor-plays-out-in-borim/articleshow/79729936.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Act against naturopaths spreading Covid’||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Ghatlodia has approached the Gujarat high court seeking criminal action against two naturopaths for spreading Covid-19 as their clientèle did not maintain social distancing norms and spread Covid-19. Petitioner Deepak Vyas has requested the HC to direct the police to register an FIR against Kunjal Patel and Jitendra Panchal, who run a naturopathy-homeopathy and dieting clinic in Shree Avenue Flats, where Vyas’s family lives. Vyas is seeking charges of causing death by negligence, and spreading infectious disease against Patel and Panchal because their patients used to crowd the place, did not maintain social distancing and thereby posed danger of infection for the residents. Vyas further mentioned that her mother, Jyotsnaben (82), passed away in August, and he and his son were also infected with Covid-19. He also attributed the spread of the disease in his residential society to the clinic’s activities. Vyas first filed a complaint with Ghatlodia police in July. He sent a reminder to the police in October after his mother’s demise. He has also mentioned that he had requested both the doctors not to continue with their practice during the Covid-19 pandemic because their patients were not maintaining social distancing norms.  But this communication resulted in an altercation and therefore Vyas also sought to book them for criminal intimidation and assault. After his reminders, the Ghatlodia police conducted an inquiry and replied to Vyas that as he could not furnish evidence to substantiate his allegations against the clinic, his complaint was closed. This led Vyas to file the petition in the high court. After hearing his advocate, Justice A C Joshi admitted his petition. The high court has issued notice to the state government and sought a reply in this regard by January 6, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/act-against-naturopaths-spreading-covid/articleshow/79728857.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP to cash in on staff resentment||HYDERABAD: In a bid to cash in on confusion over revenue reforms in the state, BJP has started focusing on the functioning of Dharani portal and other changes in the revenue department. A team of former revenue employees and other experts are currently studying the changes that have taken place, specifically Dharani portal. “We are of the opinion that if any fault happens in Dharani, officials are not in a position to rectify it because of new changes. Farmers have no option but move court. Small and marginal farmers cannot do this,” a top leader leader. They are even evaluatiang the differences between the revenue systems in BJP-ruled states and Telangana. Government has scrapped the VRO system, leading to a lot of heartburn among employees. BJP is all set to cash in on this and focus on on it for discussion during the next assembly session. Ever since former council chairman Swamy Goud, who was former employee leader, joined BJP, the party has been focusing on employee issues and turning the anti-establishment sentiment against the TRS regime in favour of the saffron party. On Monday, BJP activists conducted dharnas across the state before collectorates, pressing the government to resolve pending employee issues, including the long pending demand of Pay Revision Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-cash-in-on-staff-resentment/articleshow/79728855.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Family held captive in south Delhi; Rs 4 lakh, other valuables looted; six arrested||NEW DELHI: On December 9, half a dozen armed men forcibly entered the house of a woman chartered accountant in South Delhi’s Sainik Farm area. They held the family captive and looted cash and jewellery worth several lakhs. The sensational daylight robbery remained under wraps until Monday when police disclosed they had cracked the case and arrested six men using advanced technical surveillance. The cops, it has come to fore, made a 25km-long electronic route by analysing footage from cameras installed from Saidulajab to Zakir Nagar and nabbed the suspects. “The arrested men have been identified as Arman Malik, Mohammed Danish, Anil Kumar, Shiv Kumar, Vijay Rana and Sandeep Fauji,” DCP (south) Atul Thakur said. The robbery had taken place around 4.45pm. The dacoits got the main door opened by posing as courier delivery boys and barged into the house. They held the woman’s mother, son, daughter and maid hostage at gunpoint and ransacked the house for over forty minutes. The accused persons were wearing masks, gloves, etc. They took away Rs 4 lakh in cash, gold, diamond, silver jewellery and other valuables. They also took away the DVR of the CCTV camera installed in the house. The cops had filed an FIR and a team, which was led by additional DCP Anuj Kumar, ACP Achin Garg and inspectors Jatan Singh, Prafull Jha and Girish, was formed. The team collected CCTV footage of cameras installed near the house. It was found that five of the accused came around 4.20pm on two bikes. After the robbery, they interchanged bikes and left around 5pm. All of them were wearing helmets and had fake numbers on bikes. “One team worked on analysis of footage and coordinated with the transport department for identifying vehicles used in the crime. The second team verified maids, servants and staff. Another team collected intelligence on criminals using similar modus operandi while another team studied victim’s recent transactions and conducted technical analysis with data from cellular firms,” DCP Thakur said. Based on the CCTV footage and technical surveillance, Zakir Nagar locality was zeroed down upon and then ground operations were initiated. The cops first nabbed Malik and he led them to others. Looted jewellery was recovered along with Rs 75,000 cash. One of the accused, Shiv Kumar, had worked as a driver with the victim earlier. He came into contact of criminals through common friends and tipped them off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/family-held-captive-in-s-delhi-rs-4l-other-valuables-looted-six-arrested/articleshow/79727840.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||A strengthened challenger||Independent candidate from Cortalim Antonio Vas won the ZP seat with a massive margin of 4,567 votes against Congress candidate Lupino Xavier. While Vas polled 5,855 votes, Xavier bagged 1,288 votes. Vas, who was defeated by Cortalim BJP MLA Alina Saldanha at the last assembly elections by a margin of about 500 votes, said the outcome of the ZP polls was a sign that he is set to win the 2022 assembly polls. Vas has won zilla panchayat elections for the second time. The Congress candidate blamed low voter turnout for his loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-strengthened-challenger/articleshow/79729947.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Blame it on the pandemic||After three party candidates and two independents backed by the MGP won the ZP polls, MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar claimed that his party lost out on at least 2,000 more votes in Kavlem itself and lost other seats by a narrow margin as ‘even well educated people refrained from voting’ due to fear of the pandemic. In Kavlem, MGP won a vote share of over 50%, while BJP ended up at fourth place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/blame-it-on-the-pandemic/articleshow/79729941.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Unemployed welcome KCR’s move but say there are more vacancies to be filled||Hyderabad: The students and unemployed youth have welcomed the decision of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to fill up 50,000 vacant posts in the government sector, but said there are about 2.50 lakh vacancies more in government departments, corporations, police, universities, degree and junior colleges and schools. They demanded that the state government should come out with a white paper on the number of vacancies department-wise and also a recruitment calendar, so that lakhs of candidates waiting for government jobs can prepare accordingly for recruitment tests and interviews. Telangana Students and Unemployed JAC chairman Manavta Roy said there were 1.2 lakh vacancies when Telangana State was formed and KCR had assured on the floor of the assembly to fill up all these posts. “Due to the retirement of employees from June 2014 to December 2020, and the emergence of new posts due to the formation of new districts, the overall vacancy position has risen to 2.50 lakh posts,” Roy said. National BC Welfare Association president R Krishnaiah, who has been spearheading the cause of the unemployed, said additional budget is not required for vacancies arising out of retirement as they are sanctioned posts. “The state already has budget provision for these posts. The budget meant for them was being diverted to other welfare schemes. There have been complaints that government had been saving thousands of crores of rupees by not filling up over 2 lakh posts,” Krishnaiah said. Meanwhile, chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Monday convened a meeting with secretaries of various departments and asked them to come up with the details of the vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unemployed-welcome-kcrs-move-but-say-there-are-more-vacancies-to-be-filled/articleshow/79728861.cms||Roushan Ali
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Won’t take soft stance against TRS: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said there is no question of adopting a soft stance against the TRS government in the state. Addressing a press conference in New Delhi he said that even though KCR met primer minster Narendra Modi and other Union ministers there is no change in the party’s strategy in Telangana. “The chief minister did not speak anything in those meetings. He wanted to make a big issue if the appointments were not given. We were consulted before CM was given those appointments,” the Karimnagar MP said, adding that in the name of three more TMCs for the Kaleswaram project, KCR looted a lot of public money. “TRS government itself is saying that Kaleswaram is an old project so there is no need for any DPR and there is no plan to give water to more acres. Then what is the need for a third TMC. This is only to loot more money,” Sanjay said. He also alleged that state government did not allocate its share of Rs 196 crore for Warangal smart city programme even though the Centre released its share of Rs 196 crore.  “He did not release the state’s share but diverted the money. He diverted Centre’s share for other programmes and used only Rs 40 crore for Warangal.Beacuse of this Warangal may even lose smart city status. He never has the habit of submitting DPR,” Sanjay lashed out at KCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wont-take-soft-stance-against-trs-bandi/articleshow/79728870.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||Retired ACF has assets worth Rs 1 cr||Vadodara: A retired assistant conservator of forest was booked on Monday for holding disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.1 crore.ACB had received information that Kasim Reshamwala, who used to work at the chief conservator’s office in Vadodara, had indulged in corrupt practices and owns assets valuing more than what he had earned during his lifetime. “We had initiated an inquiry by investigating bank statements and transactions done for buying assets. Forensic auditing was also done by a financial expert,” said an ACB official. Reshamwala had spent and invested Rs 3.2 crore while his income from all legitimate sources was just Rs 2.1 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retired-acf-has-assets-worth-rs-1-cr/articleshow/79727838.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Protesters helped me keep biz running: Woman shopkeeper at Tikri border||Tikri Border (Jhajjar): Ruby Upadhyay (40), who belongs to Chhapra district in Bihar, runs a sweet shop at Tikri border, where farmers have been protesting against the three agricultural laws. Ruby, who runs the shop with her husband, said she wanted to close her establishment when she first learnt that farmers from Punjab were coming to Tikri border in large numbers, but was pleasantly surprised at the treatment meted out to them by the farmers. “They (Sardars) come to my shop for tea and snacks and ensure that every protester pays the bill. If they learn that someone has not paid, they pay from their own pocket,” she said. According to her, the behaviour of Punjab farmers camping out in the biting cold gave her the courage to keep her shop running amid the protest. “The best thing I like about Sardars is the respect they give to girls and women passing through the protest site. They ensure that no one causes trouble in the chaos of the agitation,” she said, adding that some elderly farmers keep coming to ask her whether their presence is causing issues. “It was so kind of them to ensure my comfort while running their massive protest,” she said. Ruby, whose shop is located close to the main stage set up at Tikri border by farmers under the banner of BKU (Ugrahan), said she wished she had settled in Punjab instead of Delhi after migrating from Bihar a decade ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesters-helped-me-keep-biz-running-woman-shopkeeper-at-tikri-border/articleshow/79729960.cms||Sat Singh
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Release water, Raghav Chadha to Haryana||NEW DELHI: Depleting water levels in the Yamuna and extremely high levels of ammonia in the water released from Haryana continue to affect water supply in the national capital, Delhi Jal Board has said. Till Monday evening, the ammonia level was three times more than the treatable limit but a downward trend was being observed, senior officials said. DJB has the capacity to treat up to 0.9 ppm ammonia level while 3-4 ppm pollutant concentration was being observed at Wazirabad pondage area. At the same time, the water level in the river has also gone down to 672.20ft, which is much lower than the normal level (674.5 ft), affecting the operations at both Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants. DJB has approached Upper Yamuna River Board over the resolution of the matter. The jal board has also sent a letter to the Haryana irrigation department urging it to take urgent steps to look into the water problems faced by Delhi. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said that they were anguished over the Haryana government’s abject response to the depleting levels of water in the Yamuna and hoped for a speedy solution. “The continuous fall in the level of Yamuna is a matter of grave concern,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/release-water-chadha-to-haryana/articleshow/79727849.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre appointed NIT trustee||NAGPUR: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has appointed Congress MLA from Nagpur West Vikas Thakre as a trustee of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). He will remain NIT trustee till the end of his term as an MLA or till further orders of the state government. At present, Bhushan Shingane of BJP is a trustee of NIT from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) quota. His term is up to February 2022. Standing committee chairperson of NMC is ex officio trustee of the NIT. Thakre’s appointment has been done quite late as the MVA had come to power in November 2019. There are only two MVA MLAs in the city — Thakre and Nitin Raut. As Raut is a cabinet minister, Thakre had no other competitors. BJP government led by Devendra Fadnavis had decided to dissolve the NIT, but MVA government wants to make it development authority for Gunthewari layouts. The MVA cabinet is, however, yet to annul Fadnavis government’s decision about the future of the NIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-mla-vikas-thakre-appointed-nit-trustee/articleshow/79728912.cms||Ashish Roy
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||Retired ACF has assets worth Rs 1 cr||Vadodara: A retired assistant conservator of forest was booked on Monday for holding disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.1 crore.ACB had received information that Kasim Reshamwala, who used to work at the chief conservator’s office in Vadodara, had indulged in corrupt practices and owns assets valuing more than what he had earned during his lifetime. “We had initiated an inquiry by investigating bank statements and transactions done for buying assets. Forensic auditing was also done by a financial expert,” said an ACB official. Reshamwala had spent and invested Rs 3.2 crore while his income from all legitimate sources was just Rs 2.1 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retired-acf-has-assets-worth-rs-1-cr/articleshow/79727850.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Business||Apple launches probe into Narasapura's Wistron violence||BENGALURU: Apple has launched a full-scale investigation into iPhone contract manufacturer Wistron’s Narasapura facility, about 70km from Bengaluru, after workers went on the rampage on Saturday alleging non-payment of due wages. “Apple is dedicated to ensuring everyone in our supply chain is treated with dignity and respect. We have teams on the ground and immediately launched a detailed investigation at Wistron’s Narasapura facility in India. We are also dispatching additional Apple team members and auditors to the facility. Our teams are in close touch with the local authorities and we’re offering our full support to their investigation,” the company said. The violence is estimated to have caused Rs 437 crore in losses. Had anticipated trouble and approached police: WistronSaturday's violence is estimated to have caused Rs 437 crore in losses, much of it because of damage to equipment, and pilferage of iPhones and laptops. Some 156 people have been arrested. TOI reported on Sunday that the incident has come under Apple’s scanner. In the past, Apple has come down heavily on contract manufacturers for breaching its supplier code of conduct. Last month, Apple’s key supplier Pegatron broke the former’s supply chain rules after the Taiwanese firm asked students to work night shifts and overtime at one of its plants in mainland China. Apple Supplier Responsibility 2020 Progress Report showed that of the12 core violations found in the labour and human rights category in 2019, 10 were related to working-hours violations. Sudipto Gupta, managing director of the innovation business group at Wistron Smart Devices, said, “We are deeply shocked by the events at our Narasapura facility. We follow the law and are supporting the authorities with their investigation. The safety and wellbeing of our team members is always our top priority.” Wistron had committed to investing Rs 3,000 crore in the 43-acre Narasapura land. It has ramped up its headcount in the facility from 1,500 to 12,000 in three months through third-party contract staffing agencies. Wistron and the recruitment agencies had signed contracts on the terms of payment to these employees including overtime dues. Wistron pays the agencies after they produce invoices on the payment of salaries. Sources told TOI that the overtime wages took time to be tabulated and there was a delay. Sources said Wistron had submitted an advanced information complaint on December 11 at the local police station. “Only four constables showed up. When the violence broke out, most troublemakers were in buses on a specific route. There is a conspiracy,” one source said. The incident has Karnataka worried, since Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are aggressively wooing manufacturers. Three of Apple’s contract manufacturers -- Foxconn, Pegatron and Wistron --have big plans in India. Reuters had reported that Foxconn plans to invest up to $1billion to expand its factory in Sriperumbudur where the iPhone XR is made. Pegatron’s board is said to have approved a $150-million investment to set up manufacturing facilities in India. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary, commerce & industries, Karnataka government, said, “Whatever has happened is unprecedented and unfortunate.... Our priority is to ensure Wistron restarts its operations after required certifications and addressing the issues adequately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/apple-launches-probe-into-wistron-violence/articleshow/79730771.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Ready to relaunch Vidyagama with tweaks: Karnataka govt||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government is set to restart Vidyagama — the education department’s continuous learning programme during the pandemic — by making slight modifications, which include moving away from temple premises to community halls and other local facilities. The government is expected to make a submission to this effect to the high court, which has been hearing a PIL on the issue of students in rural areas being denied access to quality education after the outbreak of Covid. The next court hearing is on December 17. The government has not given a date by which the modified Vidyagama can be rolled out. “We will express our willingness (in court) to restart the programme,” said an official. Govt may suggest not using temple premisesources said a problem with previous arrange- Sments in Vidyagama was classes being held on temple premises. Girls, during menstruation, were not allowed inside temple complexes. Similarly, the issue of untouchability — prevalent in certain areas — was creating an issue with classes inside temple premises, the source said. The government is likely to suggest not using temple complexes for conducting classes. Instead, Vidyagama 2.0 will continue as before in community halls or other facilities. In case there are no suitable places, school campuses can be used. “The problem with campuses is they might be far and would require travel which needs to be avoided in times of pandemic,” the source said. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar has asked all parents to re-enroll kids to the next class. Speaking at a meeting with representatives of managements of unaided schools, he requested private institutions not to increase fees and to let parents pay in installments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-ready-to-relaunch-vidyagama-with-tweaks/articleshow/79730772.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC raps CBSE for ‘treating students like enemies’||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday rapped the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for its “anti-student attitude” and observed that it is “treating students as enemies” by dragging them in prolonged litigation. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan made the remarks while hearing a plea by CBSE opposing an earlier court order that improvement candidates be included in the reassessment scheme for students whose board exams got cancelled due to Covid-19. “We don’t like this anti-student attitude of CBSE. You are dragging students all the way to the Supreme Court. Should they be studying or going to court? We should start imposing costs on the board...you are treating students as enemies,” an irked bench observed. Addressing the issue at hand, it asked CBSE to explain “what is the harm” if the scheme applies to all improvement students. A single-judge had held on August 14 that the scheme approved by the Supreme Court for assessing students due to cancellation of CBSE exams in light of Covid-19 will also apply to students, who appeared for improvement examinations as they are equal victims of the pandemic. “There is no earthshaking emergency for you to come to court now all guns blazing,” the bench pointed out, adding that CBSE should have itself gone to the apex court to seek a clarification, instead of dragging students to court. The August 14 order had come on a plea by a student who appeared in the CBSE Class XII exams but sought improvement since one of the papers was cancelled. The court had directed CBSE to issue a corrected marksheet, which was done. However, it also challenged the order. The high court issued notice to the student and sought his reply to the CBSE’s plea. The bench listed the matter for hearing on February 5, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-raps-cbse-for-treating-students-like-enemies/articleshow/79727905.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Over 16k students flock back to school with masked enthusiasm, say no substitute to physical learning||NAGPUR: Schools in Nagpur (rural) finally reopened their gates on Monday with excited students infusing life back into corridors and classrooms that had been lying silent for almost nine months. Gone were the handshakes and hugs among friends that were the norm after every vacation break, instead it was time for a very youthful version of ‘namaste’ and smiles hidden by masks. Around 12% of the total enrolled students in Nagpur (rural) attended school on Monday. Around 29,000 parents gave consent to send children to school, of which just over 16,000 attended. Std XI student Satyam Yadav said, “I am very excited to be back in school. For so many months, I have been missing my friends, teachers and this place. It’s like a second home and I have been waiting eagerly for reopening,” said Satyam. In any other year, entry into school would have meant chatting with friends all the way to the class, but Monday was different. Outside school gates, students had to submit the physical copy of consent forms signed by parents/guardians. After that, the first of many rounds of hand sanitization began. Body temperature was checked, followed by pulse and then again a vigorous rubbing of hands with sanitizers. After a short walk from the gate to the school building, students were guided by staff to ‘handwash’ stations where washing hands with soap is mandatory. Only after this, students were allowed entry inside classrooms. From a distance, Prerna Tembhurkar watched her son enter the campus, and it took her down the memory lane. “Just like they were kids in KG school. My only worry is that kids must not get too complacent regarding safety guidelines. But there’s no doubt in my mind that physical classrooms are the need of the hour,” said Tembhurkar. Policeman Sanjeev Upadhyay had just returned from night duty and decided to drop his son to school. “Online classes don’t even come close to the real thing. My son has board exams in a few months and for that physical classrooms are needed,” said Upadhyay. Inside classrooms, students maintained distance physically, but even the mask could not hide their joy of being together in the same room. Std X student Kesar Mulchandani glanced at her classmates and said, “I am so happy to see them after a long time. Also, online classes cannot match up to physical learning.” Teachers too seemed to be pleased with the new beginnings. Ritu Sharma, principal of DPS (Kamptee Road), said “We have trained for all the possibilities and are ready for reopening. Right from managing medical emergencies to teaching in the hybrid model, where both online and offline classes are held simultaneously, we are well prepared.” Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer said, “Over 16,000 students attended schools on Monday and everything went off smoothly. This figure will keep rising as parents gain confidence. All schools are complying with safety norms and even our teachers have got their RT-PCR tests done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-16k-students-flock-back-to-school-with-masked-enthusiasm-say-no-substitute-to-physical-learning/articleshow/79726894.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Repeated surface cleaning not needed, say experts||Nagpur: As life after Covid peak is here, and most of the activities including schools and restaurants have resumed, rules to control spread of the infection have also got some revisions. Experts who had earlier warned a lot about contaminated surfaces are now saying that the virus spreads primarily through inhaled droplets, and there is no need of repeated deep surface cleaning with sanitizers.“Be it restaurants, airports, schools or shopping malls, we can see people scrubbing, rubbing, wiping and fumigating surfaces repeatedly. There is in fact no use of this exercise any more. Scientists worldwide have suggested the same,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde.“We have already moved in public life and virus can enter through droplets by activities like talking, breathing, yelling, coughing, singing and sneezing. Surprisingly, there is not a single documented case of Covid transmission through surfaces,” he said, adding that regular cleaning activity is enough. Agreeing with him, epidemiologist Anand Thatte said people must concentrate on Covid distancing and wearing masks.“Most of us remember the disinfection tunnel which was an instant hit in the beginning of Covid. Later, it was termed useless by experts. On the same line, we must evolve now with surface cleaning,” said Thatte.Another wrong practice doctors have noticed is wearing gloves in markets and public places. “Gloves are required only during taking care of patients,” said cardiologist Dr Hrushikesh Umalkar. “Contaminated gloves spread other bacteria everywhere. We won’t wash hands when we wear gloves. Washing hands get rid of bacteria. Gloves give us false sense of security. They may bring skin problem too,” he added.Worldwide, the scientific evidence is growing that novel coronavirus stays aloft for hours in tiny droplets in stagnant air. Such droplets get inhaled in crowded indoor spaces with poor ventilation. Experts have suggested that restaurants, night clubs, offices and places of worship must be well-ventilated. Even schools may think about conducting classes in the open rather than closed classrooms.New normal, new rulesVirus spreads primarily through inhaled dropletsTalking, breathing, yelling, coughing, singing and sneezing are the activities that spray respiratory dropletsAs indoor activities like schools, colleges, theatres, parties, restaurants etc have started, droplets can spread more nowSo, surface cleaning has little role in stopping SARS-COV-2Hand washing with soap and water for 20 seconds is bestWearing masks and maintaining Covid distancing all the time is must||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/repeated-surface-cleaning-not-needed-say-experts/articleshow/79726862.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 15, 2020||Goa||Lost by narrow margins: MGP||Panaji: Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar said BJP used government machinery to win the zilla panchatyat elections which is why MGP was unable to compete with the party. Dhavalikar told TOI that they had expectations from the ZP election, but “we have lost few seats with a narrow margin”. He added that MGP lost the Dharbandora seat by just 150 and Betqui-Candola by 200 votes. “We have had a close contest with BJP. If there was free and fair elections, we would have won at least 10 seats,” he said. He also said MGP won three seats, including Curti, Veling-Priol and Queula, with a huge margin. “With lower voter turnout, this has been the result. If there was more voting, the results would have been something else,” he said. The MGP president said that going at the results it appears that Congress has lost its ground in Goa. With lower voter turnout, this has been the result. If there was more voting, the results would have been something else||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lost-by-narrow-margins-mgp/articleshow/79730161.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Top scientist Roddam Narasimha passes away in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Renowned aerospace scientist Roddam Narasimha (in photo) passed away at a hospital in Bengaluru late Monday. He was 87. Roddam has contributed to some of India’s major scientific programmes, including Isro and the Light Combat Aircraft. He was professor Satish Dhawan’s first student. He remained active till the end, working from the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research and IISc. He was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 2013. He obtained an ME-equivalent degree in 1955 and MSc in 1957 from the Indian Institute of Science, and PhD from Caltech in 1961. After he returned from the US, he created a research group at IISc. Led early studies of Indo-French satelliteReturning from the US in 1962, he built an active research group at IISc in aerospace and atmospheric fluid dynamics. “His major research interests are in transitional and turbulent flows, the design of aerodynamically efficient wings for turboprop aircraft, the flow within a shockwave, the atmospheric boundary layer in the Indian tropics, and the fluid dynamics of cumulus clouds,” a profile shared by JNCASR reads. From 1978 to 1983, Roddam led early conceptual studies of the LCA. During his tenure at the National Aerospace Laboratories as director (1984-93), he led the lab in playing a major role in designing carbon composite wings and flight control systems for the LCA, designing and using the first parallel computer in the country, and defining an Indian standard atmosphere. In the space sector, he led early studies of Indo-French satellite Megha-Tropiques. As director of National Institute of Advanced Studies (1997-2004), he led annual dialogues with the US National Academy of Science following the Pokhran II tests. Roddam served on many policymaking bodies of the government of India, including the Space Commission, the Prime Minister’s Science Advisory Council, as well as the National Security Advisory Board. Roddam received Bhatnagar Prize (1978), the AIAA Fluid Dynamics Award (2000), the Trieste Science Prize (2008), and was elected to all the academies of science and engineering in India, the Royal Society London, and the US National Academies of Engineering as well as of Science. He is survived by wife and a daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/led-early-studies-of-indo-french-satellite/articleshow/79730784.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 250 councillors wait for office buildings||JAIPUR: Municipal corporation elections are over, but councillors are yet to get a designated office to start functioning in their wards. According to a rule, Jaipur Municipal Corporation – Greater and Heritage — will provide offices to councillors but due to lack of space it has become increasingly difficult for them. Last session when there were 90 councillors, 60 had offices and rest were given rental amount. Karan Sharma, councillor of ward 134 in JMC Greater said that without offices the distance between the public and councillor has increased. He explained, “We are not able to meet the public at a definite place or keep a track on sanitation workers. It is not possible for an individual councillor to pay Rs 15,000 from his pocket for an office.” When asked about the problems faced by councillors, Munesh Gurjar, mayor of JMC Heritage, said “Functioning offices have been opened after necessary renovation. We are looking for JMC land where we don’t have offices so that we can construct them. In cases where we have found land belonging to some other government department we have written to the department concerned to let us open the offices,” said Gurjar. She said they are also planning to give rental allowance to councillors for offices in theri wards after board meeting. Similar plan is being made in JMC Greater. Deputy mayor of JMC Greater, Puneet Karnawat, said that they are planning to construct a precasted office for councillors that will be ready in 10 days. “We have asked officials to prepare a plan for constructing new offices where old offices are not available. Also, most of the former councillors’ offices are being used for some other work – Indira Rasoi, Adhaar Card centre etc. as the board wasn’t formed. Now we are planning to give them back to councillors,” assured Karnawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/250-councillors-wait-for-office-buildings-in-jaipur/articleshow/79727909.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||A year on, Jamia Millia Islamia probe nears its conclusion||NEW DELHI: It’s been a year since the violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Jamia Millia Islamia and the neighbourhood and Delhi Police is close to winding up the investigation. Primary charge sheets in most cases have already been filed. The complaint against police for excesses is also in court, the next hearing slated for December 21. Delhi Police officials said on Monday that 22 people were arrested for the violence. Over 189 students and policemen were injured in the frenzy on December 15 last year. While the cases are sub-judice, Delhi Police maintained that the student protests around the Jamia campus were “well-planned” and carried out by a “riotous mob” who intended to disrupt law and order. Three cases were registered for the riotous situation, first on December 13 in Jamia and some nearby localities and then on December 15 when buses and cars were set ablaze at New Friends Colony and police entered the Jamia campus. Apart from these three cases, an FIR was registered on January 20 under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against JNU student Sharjeel Imam for his inflammatory speeches at Jamia and later at Aligarh Muslim University. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district. Amid the arson and rioting in December last year, the cops came under fire for entering the Jamia library and using force on students. Activists and students petitioned the court for action against the cops and the case is still being heard. Police also faced flak after a video of a cop pointing a pistol at protestors went viral. Accused of opening fire on students, the cops stoutly denied these allegations, with an officer saying, “The weapons of the police personnel were sent for medical examination and the findings revealed that the bullets that hurt some protesters weren’t fired from service weapons.” The investigators examined hundreds of people to identify the perpetrators of the violence besides scanning the footage from 300 CCTV cameras. Police released 70 images of people shown with brickbat or involved in violence. Some of them have been arrested, while raids are still on to nab the rest. The man who set a bus on fire in New Friends Colony is yet to be arrested and there’s a reward of Rs 1 lakh for his capture. An officer said a school bus was torched, several cars damaged and 10 police barricades messed up on December 13, followed by damage to16 DTC buses, three police booths damaged, several parked cars and a CAT ambulance set afire two days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-year-on-jamia-probe-nears-its-conclusion/articleshow/79727954.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Worst two-year pollution peak in first two weeks of December’||KOLKATA: Even though the fog has dissipated, the pollutants are still hanging low in the ambient air of the city for a longer duration. For the last few days, the city’ air has been very poor. So far, December 2020 proved to be the worst in the last two years, despite no major change in atmospheric temperature, said a study. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), in the first two weeks of December, the city saw its worst peak of PM2.5 level, compared to December 2019. It hovered around 130 µg/m3 on an average. Last year, the PM2.5 level hovered around 70-80 µg/m3. “In Kolkata, the cyclical ups and downs of pollution this winter is more volatile, showing quicker rise and fall than in previous winters. This could also be a reflection of changes in local pollution patterns and overall lower pollution load in the air-shed while aided by meteorology,” said air quality expert Anumita Roychowdhury, who led the analysis of the city pollution level since lockdown. Ultrafine PM2.5 is considered much more lethal compared to the relatively coarser PM10. Vehicular population has witnessed a record rise in the city and suburbs. Apart from the noxious fume of the vehicles, factories, open burning and thermal power station continued belching smoke in the air. “The mitigating measures adopted by the state pollution control board, Kolkata Police and civic body last year are missing this year,” said environment crusader Subhas Datta. Kolkata, CSE said, needs a deep cut in the average PM2.5 levels. “Enforce power plant standards in the larger region, provide clean fuels to the industry, scale up public transport and vehicle restraint measures and manage waste to have a zero waste and zero landfill strategy. But the peak winter pollution also shows that the city needs a graded response action plan (GRAP) to slow down the peaking winter pollution,” said Roy Chowdhury. “The sprinkling of water on thorough fare to stop re-suspension of dust is not being done properly. Open burning is rampant. Last year, city police took stringent measures against open burning of wastes,” said environment activist Somendra Mohan Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/worst-2-yr-pollution-peak-in-first-two-weeks-of-dec/articleshow/79727908.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||School attendance in Maharashtra almost triples in 3 weeks||NAGPUR: Since reopening on November 23, attendance in Maharashtra schools has almost tripled with figures now within touching distance of 11-lakh-mark. The steady climb from around 3 lakh students to today’s figures has happened even though schools in some high population density urban areas have not reopened yet. Apart from this, some districts where schools are open have still not updated the attendance statistics in the online database. As more data is collated in the coming days, it’s clear that the attendance figures will rise sharply. Wardha district has seen a stupendous 1700% jump in attendance since the reopening day. Speaking to TOI, district collector Vivek Bhimanwar said the steady rise in attendance is due to allaying fears of teachers and parents. “We had multiple discussions with the stakeholders and tried to understand what is in their mind. The best way to implement any government decision is to take stakeholders into confidence and include them as partners. If we try to force our way, then there is bound to be resistance,” said Bhimanwar. Chandrapur district, which witnessed a 250% jump in attendance figures since the reopening, is a prime example of the psychological factor. Ulhas Narad, Chandrapur district education officer, said, “In the initial days, both students and parents were in wait-and-watch mode. As days went by, a certain comfort level grew in them after getting feedback from other students. So, this attendance figures will keep rising.” Schools in Nagpur district, barring city, reopened on Monday. Just over 56 lakh students are enrolled in Std 9-12 in entire state. However, schools in many high enrolment districts/cities have not got permission to reopen. Places like Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Pune (city), Nagpur (city) account for a huge chunk of enrolled students and local authorities have not allowed school reopening there. Keeping these places aside, around 28% of eligible students are attending schools, reveals data provided by the education department. An education official, who did not wish to be identified, said, “I feel parents are getting worried without looking into the facts. It’s been three weeks since the schools reopened and we have not had any Covid cases reported. No school has shut down because dozens of students getting infected. Ample precautions are being taken by every school and children too are showing maturity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-attendance-in-maha-almost-triples-in-3-weeks/articleshow/79726900.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 15, 2020||India||BJP clout growing in rural areas, local poll results in Rajasthan show||JAIPUR: The results of the recent panchayat samiti and local bodies’ elections have shown the growing clout of the BJP in rural areas and that the Congress’ strongholds in these areas may be slipping away. The BJP emerged as the largest party in panchayat samitis and zila parishads polls, but in the urban local bodies, tables turned with the Congress winning 619 wards out of 1,775 in the 50 municipalities. The BJP was relegated to the third position below independents with 549 wards. The BJP had always maintained an edge in the local bodies’ elections. Results of the last five elections since 1995 show that the saffron party enjoyed a lead in four elections except in 2000. In the 2000 election, the Congress was in power and Ashok Gehlot at the helm of affairs as it managed to outwit the BJP by winning 65 local bodies while BJP was relegated to the second position with 52. In the other four elections, the BJP maintained supremacy. BJP president Satish Poonia accepted that the local bodies’ election results were a setback to the party. The Congress garnered 40.87% votes while the BJP got 40.58% votes in the elections held to 222 panchayat samitis in 21 zila parishads. Congress, despite being in power, got 0.29% more votes than BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-clout-growing-in-rural-areas-local-poll-results-in-rajasthan-show/articleshow/79730589.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||38% Covid-19 patients in Nagpur division used 108 ambulances: Data||Nagpur: Ambulances operating for East Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS), linked to the 108 emergency number, have served 64,273 Covid-19 patients in Nagpur division till November 30, said data released by Bharat Vikas Group, the company that operates these services.This accounts for almost 38% of all patients reported in Nagpur division till November 30. In Nagpur, the number of patients using 108 vans is less than 30%, but nearly 50 to 90% Covid patients in districts like Wardha, Gondia, Chandrapur, Bhandara have commuted in these ambulances. In Wardha, over 90% patients were brought to hospitals in these ambulances. Dr Deepakkumar Uke, operations head, east Maharashtra, said as days progressed and Covid situation changed constantly, MEMS 108 also took front seat in this battle and supported government of Maharashtra in transporting Covid patients day and night. “With specialized equipment, trained manpower and constant supply of PPE material to every staff, 108 ambulances worked 24X7 during Covid. For our services, district health department, NGOs and social organizations have appreciated us corona warriors,” said Uke while sharing the appreciation letters given by disaster management cells of different districts in Nagpur division.TOI had reported in May 2020 about the work being done by the 108 ambulances. After that, Covid-19 peak was witnessed in Vidarbha in September and their work increased multifold. All dedicated Covid specific ambulances are equipped with Oxygen Delivery System (ODS), two jumbo oxygen cylinders, one portable oxygen cylinder, and disposable oxygen delivery masks. These saved many lives. Total 937 ambulances including 233 Advanced Life Support (ALS) and 704 Basic Life Support Ambulances (BLS) with over 5,000 EMS professionals like doctors, drivers and managers are working in MEMS. In Vidarbha, 151 such ambulances are serving in 11 districts. NUMBER GAME TILL NOV 30CITY — Ambulance patients — Total Covid cases — PercentageNagpur -—- 29,666 -—- 1,11,765 -—- 26.54%Chandrapur -—- 12,551 -—- 19,948 -—- 63%Gondia -—- 9,078 -—- 12,442 -—- 73%Wardha -—- 7,119 -—- 7,861 -—- 90.50%Bhandara -—- 4,697 -—- 10,770 -—- 44%Gadchiroli -—- 1,162 -—- 7,940 -—- 15%TOTAL -—- 64,273 -—- 1,70,726 -—- 37.64%108 AmbulancesMaharashtra department of public health launched MEMS in 2014 Project operated by BVG India Ltd It provides 108 based toll-free emergency medical access anywhere in Maharashtra 108 can be dialled from any landline or mobile phone to avail this serviceProvides free of cost service to entire population||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/38-covid-19-patients-in-nagpur-division-used-108-ambulances-data/articleshow/79726908.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||State govt announces addl 3% DA||Kolkata: Following the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, the state government has decided to provide one more installment of DA to all levels of government employees and pensioners from next month. A notification in this regard was issued by the finance department on Monday. All the workers, who have a basic salary of Rs 2,10,000, will get an expensive allowance at the rate of 3% from January 1. According to the notification, the cumulative rate of payment that includes DA plus basic will increase from 125% to 133%. The state will have to cough up Rs 2,200 crore to negotiate this additional cost. The minimum wage law will also increase the daily wage of workers working in various government agencies by Rs 17 from next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-govt-announces-addl-3-da/articleshow/79727920.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Court seeks report on training progress of PwDs||JAIPUR: The court of the commissioner for specially abled persons has sought a reply from the Rajasthan Skill and Livelihoods Development Corporation (RSLDC) on the number of persons with disabilities (PwDs) who have received skill development training under the corporation. Five per cent reservation is guaranteed to specially abled persons according to an advisory issued by the department in July. The court has sought a report from RSLDC on the progress done so far on providing skill development training (online and offline) to the specially abled persons and securing their livelihood in view of Covid pandemic situation in the state. “While the advisory was issued in July to reserve 5% for PwDs in skill development training under RSLDC, the court has sought information with regard to the progress of work on December 7,” said Hemant Bhai Goyal, national vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh. Meanwhile, Jaipur divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Monday instructed the officials to ensure wearing of uniforms by those employees who are supposed to wear them. It was found that may were not wearing uniforms on duty. Hence, the order was issued to ensure discipline at workplaces. 5 file nomination papers for civic bodies’ pollsJaipur: On the first day of filing of nominations for elections to the posts of chairpersons in 50 municipal bodies across 12 districts, only five candidates submitted their nomination papers. The elections will be held on December 20. While Congress party won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, Independents won 595 and the BJP had to settle for 549 wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-seeks-report-on-training-progress-of-pwds/articleshow/79727924.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Edu dept to probe Narayana e-Techno school’s legal status||Nagpur: The local education department has decided to send a special team to Narayana e-Techno School (NET) this week, to probe its registration status.This school is not connected to Narayana Vidyalayam.RTE Foundation, an association of schools, has alleged that Narayana e-Techno School is not registered with the state education department and does not even have a Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) number. In simple terms, UDISE number is like Aadhaar number for schools. Non-confidential information about every school, like address and infrastructure etc is available in public domain and can be searched through the UDISE number.RTE Foundation alleged that a student of NET had applied for transfer certificate, and that’s when this ‘irregularity’ came to the fore.Sachin Kalbande, president of RTE Foundation, said ,“The student was shifting to another school, hence applied for TC. When the TC came, some other school’s name was mentioned on it. The parent then checked the UDISE number and it belonged to a third school.” As per Kalbande, the student was studying in Narayana e-Techno, but the TC was issued in the name of Kids Play School (Dabha) and the UDISE number printed on the TC belonged to Yeshwant English Primary School.“Narayana e-Techno has been operating without any recognition. It has fooled almost a thousand parents, who are now stuck after paying high fees there,” said Kalbande.TOI spoke to the school’s divisional general manager Ram Mohan Reddy, who denied the charges. “The entire TC allegation is false,” said Reddy. When asked about the UDISE number, Reddy said, “Our UDISE file is in Mantralaya.” But he refused to comment on whether or not his school is authorized to operate without a UDISE number.District education officials have taken cognisance of the RTE Foundation’s complaint. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer, said, “It’s clear that Narayana e-Techno does not have UDISE number. Soon I will be sending a team to go through their documents and find out on what basis they are operating the institution.”As per the school’s web site, the education group operates mostly in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-dept-to-probe-narayana-e-techno-schools-legal-status/articleshow/79726921.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||JDA will provide land to establish 75 EV stations in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Electric vehicles’ (EVs) charging infrastructure will soon be available at 75 locations in the Pink City. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will identify locations for setting up EV stations within a week. In Jaipur, a total of 54 stations will be established by the Rajasthan Electronics & Instruments Ltd (REIL) and remaining 21 stations will be set up by the Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL). An official said, “EV chargers are being installed by REIL under the FAME Scheme of Department of Heavy Industry, Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises, Government of India with the objective to promote electric mobility by creating charging infrastructure and creating awareness.” The city will have two types of charging stations - fast and slow. The fast charging station will take 60 minutes and slow charging station will take 6 hours. “For slow charging station 800 square feet land will be required and 10 vehicles can be charged at a time. Similarly, fast charging station will be set up in 460 square feet and its capacity will be 6 vehicles. However, it would also depend on the size of the vehicle.” A meeting of Jaipur development commissioner Gaurav Goyal with the senior officials of REIL and ESSL was held where it was discussed that electric vehicles will make Pink City pollution-free. As per a survey there are 15,000 EVs in the city. In the coming days, these stations will be as ubiquitous as petrol pumps in the JDA region. “The tentative cost of running an e-vehicle is between Rs 1.25 and Rs 1.50 per km, depending on the vehicle’s make. A user can save substantially per km on an electric vehicle,” said an official. The land-owning agency will work to establish infrastructure as per its EV policy to increase electric vehicle number. “Building an effective EV infrastructure across the city will increase use of electric vehicles. The JDA would identify locations, which will be centrally located and in reach of vehicle owners. We have also suggested to set up these charging stations in community centres and parks,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-will-provide-land-to-establish-75-ev-stations-in-city/articleshow/79727915.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to allot plots to more Pak Hindu migrants in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is gearing up to provide plots more to Pakistani Hindu migrants who have been granted Indian citizenship and are residing in Jaipur. As majority of these migrants are economically weak, the civic body will provide plots at concessional rates. So far, the JDA has provided plots to 100 such families who have applied for land allotment. Plots to 76 more families will be allotted soon. An official said, “After providing 100 plots in Zone-8, Govindpura Yojana, the JDA will provide plots to 76 applicants who have requested for plots.” The (JDA) had invited applications from such residents in this regard. “The JDA received 358 applications. An administrative decision was made by authority following which the eligible applicants were chosen for allotment land,” said a JDA official. The state government had announced a policy for land allotment to the migrants on May 10, 2018. Earlier, there was neither any clear provision in the Rajasthan Urban Improvement Trust (disposal of urban land) Rules 1974, nor any policy for land allotment to such people. This had caused serious inconvenience to these people. A JDA official said, “In 2018, a circular was issued stating that all displaced Pakistan Hindus who obtained Indian citizenship were eligible for land allotment at concessional rates.” For allotment of land at a place other than the district where they got citizenship, they only had to only prove that their close relatives are residing in that district or they or their relatives have business interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-allot-plots-to-more-pak-hindu-migrants/articleshow/79727918.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan Covid cases doubling in 69 days against country’s average of 89||JAIPUR: The state is lagging behind the national average in doubling of Covid cases and deaths. In comparison to the national average of 88.9 days to double cases and 96.3 days to double Covid deaths, the state is currently taking 68.8 days for doubling and 88.3 days in doubling of Covid deaths. On October 10, the time taking by the state and the country was almost equal for doubling cases which was 42.1 and 41.5, but as time progressed, the country’s performance turned better as it now takes 88.8 days to doubke cases in comparision to the state which is taking 68.8 days. In recovery rate, the state has performed well from Novermber 29 to December 13. During this period, the state jumped from 88.3% to 93.4 %, while country’s recovery rate improved from 93.7% to 94.9% in the same period. “We have improved our recovery rate in the past 14-15 days with an increase of more than 5%. The occupancy of beds in the hospitals for Covid treatment has also reduced,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died while 1,250 tested positive in the state taking the casualty count to 2,555 and overall count to 2,92,539. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (256), Pali (101), Jodhpur (99), Bhilwara (74), Sriganganagar (61), Kota (59), Ajmer (51), Alwar (51), Nagaur (45), Udaipur (42), Dungarpur (41), Sikar (33), Rajsamand (31), Bharatpur (31), Bundi (31), Jaisalmer (28), Chittorgarh (24), Jhalawar (20), Bikaner (20), Barmer (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Baran (17), Jhunjhunu (16), Jalore (15), Churu (15), Sirohi (12), Hanumangarh (10), Dholpur (10), Dausa (9), Karauli (6), Banswara (5) and Tonk (1). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 478, three persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 272, two persons died in Kota taking its toll to 159, Ajmer its 209th, Nagaur 87th, Sirohi 27th and Pratapgarh reported its 18th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-covid-cases-doubling-in-69-days-against-countrys-average-of-89/articleshow/79731803.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Allahabad||Constable among five killed in road mishap in Pratapgarh||PRAYAGRAJ: At least five persons including a constable were killed in a road mishap when the SUV carrying them rammed into a tree near Pipri Khalsa turn under Kandhai police station of Pratapgarh district late on Sunday night. The incident, according to police, took place when the victims were returning to their Khajurani village after attending a marriage function at Kundanpur village. The deceased identified as Sandeep Yadav (constable), Rahul Yadav, Akhilesh Yadav, Pappu Yadav and another deceased were residents of Khajurani village. The deceased Sandeep Yadav was a 2013 batch constable and was posted at Chiraiya police outpost in Mau district. Ironically, the marriage fixing ceremony of Sandeep Yadav was also held on Sunday morning, and he too lost his life in the road mishap on Sunday night incident. The bodies have been sent for post mortem examination. Additional SP ( East) Pratapgarh, Surendra P Dwivedi, said the incident took place at around 10:30 pm when a group of family members were returning after attending a marriage ceremony at Kundanpur (Patti) village to their native Khajauri village. He further added that police have been probing the incident in connection with the road mishap. ASP also said that police had to call up the gas cutter to take out bodies from the ill-fated SUV. Locals told police that they rushed to the spot after hearing massive collision sound and did their best to rescue those in the SUV. Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also expressed grief over the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/constable-among-five-killed-in-road-mishap-in-pgarh/articleshow/79728979.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to waive 80% interest on property tax from December 15 to January 14||NAGPUR: To give some relief in ongoing financial crisis caused due to Covid-19 pandemic and full lockdown, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Monday announced ‘Abhay Yojana-2020’. Citizens will get 80% waiver on interest if they pay property tax dues till 2020-21 between December 15 and January 14, 2021. The waiver will be reduced to 50% if paid between January 15 and February 14. Radhakrishnan and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke are likely to announce similar scheme for water bills on Tuesday. As per Maharashtra Municipal Corporations (MMC) Act, the civic chief has power to waive off entire interest as well as penalties on property tax. However, Radhakrishnan has announced 50-80% waiver of interest on property tax. “Full lockdown implemented to control Covid-19 caused an impact on financial condition of the people. Therefore, public representatives and taxpayers requested waiver of interest. People have to pay total arrears up to March 31, 2020, and current demand of 2020-21 to avail the scheme,” Radhakrishnan said. The demand got some momentum when BJP started to demand waiver in power bills from the state government. Taxpayers who do not owe arrears up to March 31, 2020, and have failed to pay current fiscal’s tax before December 31 will also be eligible for the scheme. Such taxpayers will not have to pay interest of 2% per month if they pay before February 14. The taxpayers will not get the benefit if they are paying part amount. Usually, interest of 2% is applicable if tax is not paid on or before December 31. NMC is updating its payment gateway system so that people can take advantage of the scheme even while paying online. NMC’s system will calculate and display total arrears with 20% of total interest automatically if anyone pays between December 15 and January 14. It will calculate total arrears with 50% of interest between January 15 and February 14. The civic body will also waive off fees levied on some taxpayers for attaching properties and expenditure incurred for recovering tax. In case of sub-judice matters, taxpayers will have to give in writing, assuring to withdraw the case, to avail the scheme. NMC has warned it will recover the exempted amount in case beneficiary again defaults on property tax or challenges the scheme or benefits in any court of law. Similar amnesty scheme for water bills and property tax was launched in July-August 2017 but received a dismal response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-waive-80-interest-on-property-tax-from-dec-15-to-jan-14/articleshow/79726925.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 15, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan Covid cases doubling in 69 days against country’s average of 89||JAIPUR: The state is lagging behind the national average in doubling of Covid cases and deaths. In comparison to the national average of 88.9 days to double cases and 96.3 days to double Covid deaths, the state is currently taking 68.8 days for doubling and 88.3 days in doubling of Covid deaths. On October 10, the time taking by the state and the country was almost equal for doubling cases which was 42.1 and 41.5, but as time progressed, the country’s performance turned better as it now takes 88.8 days to doubke cases in comparision to the state which is taking 68.8 days. In recovery rate, the state has performed well from Novermber 29 to December 13. During this period, the state jumped from 88.3% to 93.4 %, while country’s recovery rate improved from 93.7% to 94.9% in the same period. “We have improved our recovery rate in the past 14-15 days with an increase of more than 5%. The occupancy of beds in the hospitals for Covid treatment has also reduced,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died while 1,250 tested positive in the state taking the casualty count to 2,555 and overall count to 2,92,539. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (256), Pali (101), Jodhpur (99), Bhilwara (74), Sriganganagar (61), Kota (59), Ajmer (51), Alwar (51), Nagaur (45), Udaipur (42), Dungarpur (41), Sikar (33), Rajsamand (31), Bharatpur (31), Bundi (31), Jaisalmer (28), Chittorgarh (24), Jhalawar (20), Bikaner (20), Barmer (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Baran (17), Jhunjhunu (16), Jalore (15), Churu (15), Sirohi (12), Hanumangarh (10), Dholpur (10), Dausa (9), Karauli (6), Banswara (5) and Tonk (1). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 478, three persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 272, two persons died in Kota taking its toll to 159, Ajmer its 209th, Nagaur 87th, Sirohi 27th and Pratapgarh reported its 18th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-covid-cases-doubling-in-69-days-against-countrys-average-of-89/articleshow/79731806.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan Covid cases doubling in 69 days against country’s average of 89||JAIPUR: The state is lagging behind the national average in doubling of Covid cases and deaths. In comparison to the national average of 88.9 days to double cases and 96.3 days to double Covid deaths, the state is currently taking 68.8 days for doubling and 88.3 days in doubling of Covid deaths. On October 10, the time taking by the state and the country was almost equal for doubling cases which was 42.1 and 41.5, but as time progressed, the country’s performance turned better as it now takes 88.8 days to doubke cases in comparision to the state which is taking 68.8 days. In recovery rate, the state has performed well from Novermber 29 to December 13. During this period, the state jumped from 88.3% to 93.4 %, while country’s recovery rate improved from 93.7% to 94.9% in the same period. “We have improved our recovery rate in the past 14-15 days with an increase of more than 5%. The occupancy of beds in the hospitals for Covid treatment has also reduced,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died while 1,250 tested positive in the state taking the casualty count to 2,555 and overall count to 2,92,539. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (256), Pali (101), Jodhpur (99), Bhilwara (74), Sriganganagar (61), Kota (59), Ajmer (51), Alwar (51), Nagaur (45), Udaipur (42), Dungarpur (41), Sikar (33), Rajsamand (31), Bharatpur (31), Bundi (31), Jaisalmer (28), Chittorgarh (24), Jhalawar (20), Bikaner (20), Barmer (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Baran (17), Jhunjhunu (16), Jalore (15), Churu (15), Sirohi (12), Hanumangarh (10), Dholpur (10), Dausa (9), Karauli (6), Banswara (5) and Tonk (1). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 478, three persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 272, two persons died in Kota taking its toll to 159, Ajmer its 209th, Nagaur 87th, Sirohi 27th and Pratapgarh reported its 18th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-covid-cases-doubling-in-69-days-against-countrys-average-of-89/articleshow/79731804.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s 63% cases from 13 hotspots as spread rate dives||JAIPUR: Though daily new infections have been reducing in the city’s 13 worst Covid hotspots, the collective daily new infections of these areas are 63.6% of the cases reported in the city. The city’s worst Covid affected areas are Jhotwara, Mansarovar, Malviya Nagar, Sodala, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jagatpura, Bani Park, Sanganer, Durgapura, Pratap Nagar, Gopalpura and Vidhyadhar Nagar. These areas collectively reported 163 cases out of 256 in the city, accounting for 63.6% of daily new infections. “We have started taking measures to ensure that patients under home isolation should follow home isolation guidelines. Also, emphasis was more on contact tracing since the beginning of December. The daily new infections in the city have been reducing over the past few days,” said a health department official. The city is the worst Covid-hit districts of the state. It is under the watchful eyes of the Centre. A team of experts from the Centre had reviewed the situation on December 3 and suggested the health department to lay emphasis on contact tracing. Even the active cases in the city have reduced to 6,814 from 9,462 in the past 14 days, which has brought down the occupancy of Covid beds. Over the past 14 days, the occupancy of beds in the dedicated Covid hospitals in the city has reduced to half. Currently, the occupancy of Covid beds in hospitals is just above 1,000, which was over 2,000 some days ago. In the last week of November, 70 to 80 areas in the city were reporting Covid cases daily, but now it has been reducted to 40 to 50 areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-13-worst-covid-hit-areas-report-63-of-daily-cases/articleshow/79727933.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid cases doubling in 69 days against country’s average of 89||JAIPUR: The state is lagging behind the national average in doubling of Covid cases and deaths. In comparison to the national average of 88.9 days to double cases and 96.3 days to double Covid deaths, the state is currently taking 68.8 days for doubling and 88.3 days in doubling of Covid deaths. On October 10, the time taking by the state and the country was almost equal for doubling cases which was 42.1 and 41.5, but as time progressed, the country’s performance turned better as it now takes 88.8 days to doubke cases in comparision to the state which is taking 68.8 days. In recovery rate, the state has performed well from Novermber 29 to December 13. During this period, the state jumped from 88.3% to 93.4 %, while country’s recovery rate improved from 93.7% to 94.9% in the same period. “We have improved our recovery rate in the past 14-15 days with an increase of more than 5%. The occupancy of beds in the hospitals for Covid treatment has also reduced,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died while 1,250 tested positive in the state taking the casualty count to 2,555 and overall count to 2,92,539. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (256), Pali (101), Jodhpur (99), Bhilwara (74), Sriganganagar (61), Kota (59), Ajmer (51), Alwar (51), Nagaur (45), Udaipur (42), Dungarpur (41), Sikar (33), Rajsamand (31), Bharatpur (31), Bundi (31), Jaisalmer (28), Chittorgarh (24), Jhalawar (20), Bikaner (20), Barmer (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Baran (17), Jhunjhunu (16), Jalore (15), Churu (15), Sirohi (12), Hanumangarh (10), Dholpur (10), Dausa (9), Karauli (6), Banswara (5) and Tonk (1). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 478, three persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 272, two persons died in Kota taking its toll to 159, Ajmer its 209th, Nagaur 87th, Sirohi 27th and Pratapgarh reported its 18th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-covid-cases-doubling-in-69-days-against-countrys-average-of-89/articleshow/79727938.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Soon, commuters may get to board Saturday Metro without e-passes||KOLKATA: Soon, commuters may not need e-passes to board the Metro on Saturdays. On Monday, Metro Railway reduced e-pass hours to just two-and-a-half in the morning and three in the evening. Starting this week, no e-passes will be required on Sundays. On Monday, north-south Metro clocked 1,35,187 ridership. The digital passes, downloaded from a URL in advance for accessing the north-south line, are key to restricting crowd. With the technology in place, only 400 ride at a time. In pre-pandemic times, 6.5 lakh rode the north-south Metro daily and around 3,000 travelled in an eight-coach train at a time. Now, nearly 1.3 lakh ride daily, but only 400 are allowed at a time. This way, physical distancing is being maintained on India’s oldest Metro that has had the highest passenger density. “We may exempt the e-pass rule on Saturdays as well, because less people travel,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI on Monday. There are no office-goers on Saturdays. Sanjay Chatterjee, who has developed the e-pass technology, said, “Considering Saturday’s less footfall, we have recommended lifting e-pass bookings for Saturdays, as well.” But last Saturday, Metro clocked almost 1.1 lakh. Sunday’s ridership was merely 43,586. Women, kids below 15 years and elderly people can board without e-passes. From Monday, the relief was extended to one and all, except between 8.30am and 11am, and from 5pm to 8pm. Last Wednesday, while taking these decisions, Metro Railway also took a call on the e-pass-free Sunday commuting. Bablu Das, a Bhownipore resident, said, “I took the Metro for the first time this afternoon when I learnt that I won’t have to book e-pass.” The city’s transport lifeline is walking towards the old normal. From Monday, there were 12 more services, taking the total weekday services to 216. Services start at 7am and end at 10.30pm. Before Covid, the first and last trains left at 6.45am and 9.55pm, respectively. “Around 30% of passenger capacity is not filled between 11am and 5pm. Presuming some may find the e-pass cumbersome, we have eased rules. Further restrictions may be lifted once we get this week’s ridership,” said Joshi, adding, “E-passes are but a compulsion. We will have to do away with them when the situation improves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soon-commuters-may-get-to-board-saturday-metro-without-e-passes/articleshow/79727937.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||‘Check on protein spike is key to containing disease’||JAIPUR: SMS Medical College has claimed that certain proteins and enzymes, whose level increases in blood after corona infection, causes Covid disease progression. Among those are C-reactive protein (CRP), a protein made by the liver, ferritin (a major iron storage protein in the body), troponins (a group of proteins found in skeletal and heart muscle fibres), D-dimer (a small protein fragment present in the blood), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), an enzyme found in almost every cell of one’s body, and creatine phosphokinase (CPK), an enzyme. If the level of these proteins and enzymes are found to be elevated than normal levels in Covid-19, it shows that the disease is progressing and need immediate requirement of treatment. SMS Medical College has included these proteins as risk factors for Covid disease progression in its revised management protocol prepared under principal and controller Dr Sudhir Bhandari. “The first week is infection period while second and third week is inflammatory week. First the ferritin and LDH rises, followed by d-dimer, CRP and other inflammatory markers rise such as interleukin 6 (IL-6) and IL-10. The rise in these inflammatory markers affect the functioning of kidney, heart and liver. It causes blot clots in vessels, pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) also it may cause cardiac attack,” said Dr Bhandari. The SMS Medical College’s revised treatment protocol encourages physicians to keep an eye on the level of these body proteins and enzymes for providing treatment immediately to avoid complications. In case the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test rises alarmingly, it may damage to the body’s tissues as it is found in almost every cell of the body, including blood, muscles, brain, kidneys, and pancreas. Besides, doctors have related blood ferritin levels to the severity of Covid as it can be a marker of viral replication. Since, blood clotting has been seen in serious Covid patients, d-dimer test has become an effective tool for assessing clot formation. Besides, CRP levels in the blood increase due to inflammation. It is a tool to assess inflammation due to infection or disease. For ensuring that heart has not been damaged due to Covid, the revised treatment protocol has suggested to doctors to conduct troponin test, which helps in detecting that heart muscles have not been damaged. If the level of troponin proteins rises to certain point, it indicates that heart muscles have been damaged. Besides, Creatine Phosphokinase or CPK test helps in detecting heart attack. The doctors are using the protein and enzymes tests in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals regularly to provide the treatment to the patients accordingly to prevent mortality due to complications caused by Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-spikes-certain-proteins-enzymes/articleshow/79727953.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
December 15, 2020||Goa||CM should now go ahead with IIT-Goa plans: Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: After sweeping Sattari taluka in the zilla panchayat (ZP) polls, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to go ahead with plans for setting up IIT-Goa at Melaulim in Sattari. Speaking to reporters, Rane said “I have not publicly spoken about the IIT-Goa issue. IIT will definitely come up. I want to publicly urge the chief minister that if he wants to set up the IIT, then you have to start the process of setting it up immediately.” Candidates backed by Rane won all ZP constituencies in Sattari including Honda, Querim, Nagargao and Usgao-Ganje. “During the election we tried to take opinion from the people and the results have been good,” he said. Rane added that because around 600 people from two villages are protesting, “we have taken this issue to entire of Sattari and people have told us to do what is good for the development of Sattari and the neighbouring constituency of the chief minister”. “People have reposed faith in BJP,” he added. The proposed campus for the institute in Melaulim had sparked sharp protests from locals who have been strongly opposing the setting up of IIT-Goa in their village and had even blocked authorities in the past from entering their village and to the proposed project site. Rane said that BJP had gone to the people with the ideology of the party and with the work done by the government during the pandemic. “We have gone to people with a positive mind and the government will fulfill all the assurances given to the people of the state,” he said. We have taken the issue to entire Sattari and people have told us to do what is good for the development of Sattari and the neighbouring constituency. He also said that he had gone to every nook and corner of Sattari and people told him to do what is in the interest of Sattari. People have reposed faith in BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-cm-should-now-go-ahead-with-iit-goa-plans/articleshow/79730197.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Newlyweds killed after bus hits bike on NH-8 near Jaipur||JAIPUR: A couple, who got married 14 days ago, was killed after the bike on which they were travelling was hit by a private bus near Tala Mode under Chandwaji police station on NH-8 in the outskirts of Jaipur on Monday. They were on their way to the house of a relative for lunch when the accident occurred. According to police, Mahesh Kumar Yadav took a gap on a road divider for a U-turn when his bike was hit by a bus coming from the opposite direction. ‘Driver stopped bus and informed police’Jaipur: Mahesh died on the spot after his head was crushed under the tyres of the bus. His wife Sanjana succumbed at the hospital. A large number of villagers had gathered at the spot and took the injured to the hospital. The driver stopped the bus after the accident and informed the police. A team of senior police officers rushed to the spot. According to police, Mahesh (22) had married Sanjana on November 30. “A relative had invited them for lunch and they were going there when the accident took place,” said a senior police officer. Mahesh was the only son in the family and has seven sisters. “He was also preparing for competitive exams,” said an officer. At least 15 passengers in the bus sustained minor injuries. A case has been registered against the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/newlyweds-killed-afterbus-hits-bike-on-nh-8/articleshow/79729015.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: University students say violence has forever changed how they perceive dissent||NEW DELHI: A year ago, Mohammad Minhajuddin, now a lawyer in Samastipur, Bihar, was studying in the Jamia Millia Islamia library on December 15. Even before he could react, policemen, countering the anti-Citizenships Amendment Act protestors, entered the library and used their lathis on the students. Minhajuddin lost an eye. The physical scars, and the psychological ones, are still fresh on the campus even after a year. The violence that erupted near the Jamia campus and neighbouring localities in south Delhi on December 15 last year was preceded by an event organised by the Jamia Teachers’ Association on December 13 in which hundred students attempted to march to Parliament, but were stopped by police near the Jamia stadium. The teargassing that day led to an escalation in tensions, culminating in the cops entering the campus. Minhajuddin, who was preparing for his law exam, claimed, “We have not received any compensation so far despite our lawyers requesting an interim relief.” Mohammad Mustafa too was injured in the library melee. “Both my arms were fractured. In fact, this affected my plans for the civil services exam,” said the former student, who now resides in Hyderabad, where he is preparing for the UPSC exams. “Along with the monetary cost of my laptop being broken, I also suffered academic loss. But there is no compensation till now, with matter pending in Delhi High Court. Only when the court grants us compensation and directs action against the cops can we believe our society is just.” Mustafa and Minhajuddin became the faces of the Jamia protest, appearing in the graffiti on the university walls, which were erased by policemen after the Covid-19 lockdown came into effect. The graffiti was part of the 138-day sit-in led by the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC) comprising students and alumni of the university. JCC was dissolved when its members like students Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider and Asif Iqbal and alumni association president Shifa-Ur-Rahman were arrested by police on charges of conspiring on the Delhi riots of February. Srijan Chawla, an MCRC student, said these arrests have influenced how students consider dissent now. “Students had always had an idea of dissent, but never lost their trust in the cops. Then this incident came and exposed their need to have psychological domination over students and to suppress their thinking,” Chawla said. Mohammad Harris, an alumnus of Jamia, claimed that the protest and its aftermath had led even teachers to curb student activism. This, he opined, will have an impact on the future of campus politics. Ayesha Renna, who became the iconic figure of police victimisation after being caught on video being beaten by police at New Friends Colony on December 15, however, disagreed with Harris and thought the events that day actually “led to many Muslims starting to speak up against oppression and discrimination”. Renna believed that “the anti-CAA protest hasn’t ended and will gain momentum when the campus reopens after the pandemic”. This was also something that Shadab Farooq Najar, an MCRC student shot at by a juvenile during protests on January 30, subscribes to. “The confidence of Jamia students hasn’t reduced,” he said. “Authorities can paint the students as terrorists and rioters, but they will continue to speak up for the marginalised.” While the students wait for closure, Jamia administration is yet to come out with its internal investigation report. The promised complaint against the cops for their actions a year ago hasn’t materialised, though vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar alleged that the university did try to lodge an FIR but police weren’t keen to register a case. Najma Akhtar told TOI, “These are bad memories and despite everything, Jamia did well in the past year, being ranked as a top university by the Union education ministry. Our teachers were also felicitated for their work internationally and the university was able to conduct classes and finish the admissions process on time despite the Covid outbreak. We want to look at the future, not be bogged in the past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/univ-students-say-violence-has-forever-changed-how-they-perceive-dissent/articleshow/79728012.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee recovers, to go home from hospital today||KOLKATA: Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee will be released from Woodlands Hospital on Tuesday. The 76-year-old CPM veteran, who was admitted to the hospital with severe breathing distress on December 9, has recovered sufficiently and all his health parameters are normal. Bhattacharjee is now on intermittent non-invasive ventilation and has completed his antibiotic course. A statement issued by the hospital said he remains ‘alert and has been communicating verbally and otherwise’. Even though he is still being fed with a Ryles tube, Bhattacharjee was given a soft, oral diet of fruits on Monday. He has been consuming liquids for the last two days. On Monday evening, his ‘arterial and central lines’ were removed. “He has completed a five-day course of antibiotics on Monday morning. Other supportive medications are on. He remains on oral steroids. His prognosis is good and we plan to discharge him on Tuesday,” said Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu. She added that treating doctors are keeping a constant vigil on his health situation and he will be monitored till he is comfortable at home/domiciliary care. Bhattacharjee is being treated by a five-member medical team comprising pulmonologist Kaushik Chakraborty, critical care expert Soutik Panda, cardiologist Saroj Mondal, pulmonologist Ankan Bandopadhyay and anaesthesiologist Asis Patra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/buddhadeb-recovers-to-go-home-from-hosp-today/articleshow/79727965.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 vaccine likely to be rolled out in Telangana from mid-January||HYDERABAD: The much-awaited Covid-19 vaccine will be rolled out in Telangana around January 15. Around 2.7 lakh health workers, including doctors, nurses, ward boys and technicians, have been identified and enrolled in the CoWin software as they will be the first to be inoculated. Disclosing this to TOI, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, state director of public health, said, “Vaccination will start by mid-January for sure. This will be similar to the electoral process. Beneficiaries will be registered and allotted to vaccination session sites (vaccination centres). They have to come with an ID card except Aadhar, get it verified and get the shot. Following this they will be sent an SMS and will be issued a vaccination host certificate.” Most of the vaccination sites will be in the government health facilities, starting from primary health centres (PHC) to teaching hospitals, while a few private facilities will also be selected for the purpose. Three levels of training at the state, district and primary health centre (PHC) level will be completed by December 22. The Centre will be allocating, 1.6 crore doses (two doses for 80 lakh people) to the state. Although it is not clear which vaccine will be used, sources said it would most likely be from a manufacturer based in Hyderabad. The doses will arrive in the next 20 to 25 days. After healthcare workers, the other three categories on the priority list are frontline workers of different government departments, people above 50 years of age and people below 50 years of age having comorbidities. “The vaccine can be given to people over 15 years of age. So, the fourth category will be the age group between 15 and 50 with comorbidities. Enrolment for people in these categories will be taken up shortly,” an official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-vaccine-likely-to-be-rolled-out-in-t-from-mid-jan/articleshow/79730226.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Solar benches light up New Town spots||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has installed some Internet-of-Things (IOT)-enabled smart solar benches at three spots beside the New Town mela grounds off the main arterial road in Action Area I. The solar lights will be illuminated automatically when people sit on the benches. Officials said the solar panel will work as a shed for the bench and the solar power will be generated during the day. An IOT device that will be placed to link the shed with the bench will act as a sensor. So, the lights will be switched on automatically when someone sits on the bench and the lights will be put off when the person leaves the bench. “A little bit of work is left to be completed. The smart benches will be made functional within the next two weeks on an experimental basis,” said an official. There will also be a provision for people to get their mobiles charged up with solar power, if necessary. The installation will also collect relevant data about how much solar energy is being generated and consumed each day.  Earlier, NKDA had engaged an agency that designed and manufactured the smart solar benches. However, NKDA has been working on the installation of more solar panels and renewable energy devices to promote solar energy in New Town, which they are planning to develop as a green and sustainable smart city. In 2013, the authorities had made it mandatory for all residential and commercial high-rises across New Town to install solar roof top systems that would meet at least 2% of a building’s requirement for power. NKDA also started the work recently to set up a 1,000 KW on-grid canal top solar power plant over Bagjola canal that would be the largest solar project under the authorities so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/solar-benches-light-up-new-town-spots/articleshow/79728031.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt teachers dip into savings to hold e-classes for poor||HYDERABAD: With little or no access to online classes until now, at least 25,000 students enrolled with state-run schools across Telangana have now found new hope. And it’s all thanks to a battery of government teachers — spread across Hyderabad, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam etc — who are pulling out all the stops to ensure these kids get quality education. Apart from dipping into their savings to buy smartphones, headsets and other hi-tech paraphernalia for the children, these teachers are also working extra hours, before and after regular school hours, to conduct online classes and tutorials for their underprivileged students — all for free. If Zoom, Google Meet and YouTube are being used for live classes, they are taking to WhatsApp to send assignments and audio-visual lessons. Reason for this mission: To bring government-school students on par with those studying in private institutions. Also, the digital classes — telecast on television and TSAT — aren’t enough, confess teachers. Teachers say they raised money for mobiles“In our school, for instance, we realised many of my students weren’t being able to attend digital classes because there was only one mobile phone in the family, which was in use by a parent for work. So, now we conduct online classes either before 8 am or after 6 pm, when students can use the phone,” said A Padma Latha, headmaster, Zilla Parishad Girls Secondary School (ZPGSS), Paloncha, Bhadradri Kothagudem. Closer home in Hyderabad, R Sharada, in charge headmaster of Government High School, Majeedia, Masab Tank, said she had to raise funds to get new mobiles for students of classes 9 and 10 as many did not have one. The teachers here also bought data plans for a few. And the result, students confess, have been overwhelming. “I could not understand concepts and do my worksheets when I only took digital classes. But since I started attending these online classes — with support from my teachers — learning has become very easy,” said M Poojitha, a class 10 student of a government school in Khammam. Both her parents are construction labourers. Started in October-November while most of these classes are targeted at students from classes 9 to 10, some even cater to those in classes 6 to 8. “We are not looking at numbers here. Even if one student benefits because of our online classes it is enough. Our aim is to fill the gap caused by Covid-19 and ensure that our students are not left out and get personal attention just like in a physical classroom,” said E Someshwar Sarma, district education officer, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Mahabubabad districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-teachers-dip-into-savings-to-hold-e-classes-for-poor/articleshow/79730241.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Prosecution contests bail given to Pinjra Tod activist||NEW DELHI: The prosecution on Monday contested the bail plea of Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita, stating before a Delhi court that a “narrative” was being created on the basis of media reports that pro-CAA protesters initiated the violence in northeast Delhi in February when clearly the evidence suggested otherwise. “If the investigation in this country is to continue on the foundation of what is being reported in the media, then that is the end of rule of law,” submitted special public prosecutor Amit Prasad before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat. Prasad was referring to some media reports, which in his opinion, had given a narrative of how the riots were on the instigation of pro-CAA protesters led by BJP’s Kapil Mishra. “The accused is trying to show that Mishra was behind all these and that police was investigating only one side. The accused first created a narrative and then they made it viral and then made people believe that this is what happened as everybody is saying so,” said Prasad. The prosecutor also referred to a portion of the case’s chargesheet having WhatsApp chats of the pro-CAA protesters to contend that at the pro-CAA rally, “Nothing had happened – neither stone pelting nor tear gas”. Prasad also referred to the predecessor court, which he said “was made to believe that the investigation was targeted towards one community”. The prosecutor referred to the predecessor court observing in the case “inscrutable indolence” while referring to the state of investigation by Delhi Police. Kalita’s counsel Adit S Pujari, however, questioned why police were not investigating certain videos doing the rounds on the farmers’ protests and claiming to “have another Jafrabad akin to the one in February”. Pujari said the prosecution was opting to “legerdemain” of not contesting the bail plea on merits. According to the lawyer, his grounds of bail hadn’t been dealt with by the prosecutor. During an earlier hearing, Pujari had said that there were actual videos of trucks bringing and unloading stones in Jafrabad. On Monday he said, “Instead of investigating stones you are investigating people.” The counsel also said that Kalita was surrounded by two layers of crowd – police and journalists. “If at all she was carrying chilli powder or glass bottles as claimed by the prosecution, she could have been arrested then,” it was argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/prosecution-contests-bail-given-to-pinjra-tod-activist/articleshow/79728134.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Activists, lawyers oppose initiative||Pune: Several activists, lawyers and women’s organisations have opposed the proposed Shakti Act, calling it a draconian legislation, and urged the state not to pass it in haste. The proposed act, modelled on the Disha Act in Andhra Pradesh, provides for completion of investigation and filing of chargesheet within 15 days, and completion of trial within 30 days. Even as it is meant to bring down the rate of crime against women, organisation leaders and academicians working on the issue said that the initiative goes against the fundamental rights and should not be “passed in haste”. Activist Kiran Moghe said that ihe bills should be allowed to be reviewed by women’s groups. “The bills came to them on December 10, hence giving them less time for a detailed review and critique,” she said. Moghe said that the women’s groups find it extremely surprising that the government did not find it necessary to consult them or share the draft of the bills in public domain and condemned the “undemocratic method” of functioning of the state government. — Nisha Nambiar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-lawyers-oppose-initiative/articleshow/79728068.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Lake Town man held for SIM card fraud||Kolkata: The Lake Town police on Monday arrested a point-of-sales (PoS) agent for issuing cellphone connections by using forged documents pertaining to identity and address proof. The accused, Yogendra Ojha, had issued SIM cards to several people, using the same documents. Bidhannagar City police said the retailer of the shop on Sadhana Aushadhalaya Road was issuing mobile connections illegally through forged documents with the intention to indulge in criminal activities. “Ojha was arrested based on a specific complaint from the circle nodal official of a telecom firm,” said an officer. A month ago, Entally police had arrested two persons — one of them a PoS agent of a telecom firm — for issuing hundreds of SIM cards with fake addresses. The cards were bought by fake call centre owners during lockdown. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-town-man-held-for-sim-card-fraud/articleshow/79728066.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) holds protest outside mini-secretariat||Ludhiana: Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Ekta Ugrahan, held a demonstration outside the mini-secretariat as part of its nationwide protest programme on Monday. The members of the organisation also blocked the busy Ferozepur road for half an hour. Giving details, Gurpreet Singh, convener of the farmers’ organisation for Ludhiana district, said that they sat on the protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office from 12noon to 3pm against the central government. He added that after that they had to give a memorandum to the DC as some farmers had lost their lives during the ongoing agitation and demanded Rs 10 lakh each and debt waiver for their families and a government job for a family member. The office-bearers of the BKU claimed that at 3.15pm they were given time by the administration for accepting the memorandum, but their members had to wait for half an hour as the DC didn’t meet them. They added that after that they blocked the road for half an hour, following which the DC came to the site and accepted the memorandum from them. The BKU leader said that they would now take the families of debt-ridden farmers who had committed suicide to Delhi to show to the central government that already so many farmers had committed suicide. He added that through these families they wanted to communicate to the central government that by bringing ‘black laws’ they would force many more farmers to end their lives. The DC said that he accepted four memorandums in the morning. He added that there was a general call by farmers’ union, but there was no timeframe for the same. The DC said that he went to diffuse the situation so that there was no inconvenience to commuters due to traffic jam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bku-ekta-ugrahan-holds-protest-outside-mini-secretariat/articleshow/79726980.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Become a Secret Santa for your loved ones this Christmas||PUNE: So what if Saint Nicholas is quarantining this year and he won’t be able to perform his Christmas duties? You can still celebrate Christmas and end this challenging year on a high note, by being the Secret Santa for a loved one, courtesy The Times of India. The Times of India is launching the Times Secret Santa in the city on Tuesday, ahead of the Christmas festivities. Our readers will get a chance to spread the Christmas joy of being a Secret Santa to a loved one, all anonymously, and all from the safety of their homes. All you have to do is log on to www.toisecretsanta.com, or scan the QR Code (see box). Enter the details of the loved ones you want to send the gifts to and let TOI take care of the rest. However, you must do it before December 24. TOI will send attractive and exciting e-gift vouchers to those loved ones, along with a text message. Be rest assured, your name will not be revealed. The text messages will also help your loved ones avail the exciting gift vouchers. The first 500 to register each day will be able to send the e-gift vouchers to their loved ones. The rest will be carried over to the following day. But, we all want to know who our Secret Santa is, don’t we? For that, all recipients of the gifts need to read the TOI very carefully and between the lines from December 26 to January 1, 2021. The names of the Secret Santas will be revealed sometime then. Merry Christmas, to all of our readers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/become-a-secret-santa-for-your-loved-ones-this-christmas/articleshow/79728116.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||68 booked for assaulting cops while protesting against post-mortem report of man found hanging||Pilibhit: Eight named, including Samajwadi Party’s former minister Hemraj Verma, and 60 unidentified protesters were booked for allegedly assaulting a police team in Pilibhit’s Bisalpur area while staging a protest. Three of the named protesters were arrested on Monday. The family and villagers had staged a protest demanding a second post-mortem of a missing man who was found hanging four days after his marriage. They rejected his post-mortem report that stated suicide as cause of death. The placed the body on Bilsanda-Gola road on Sunday evening, blocking traffic and raising slogans against police, accusing them of colluding with the “killer”.Verma had reached the spot to support the protesters. Bisalpur circle officer Lallan Singh had rushed to the spot and tried to reason with the protesters but to no avail. Additional force was sent to the spot. When the mob refused to disperse, police resorted to a mild lathicharge.The mob assaulted police and three constables were injured, said Birja Ram, SHO. The dead man was cremated on Monday morning amid tight security. The police lodged an FIR against the protesters under IPC section 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 336 (doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 283 (causing danger, obstruction or injury to any person in any public way or public line of navigation), 270 (malignantly doing any act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant) and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/68-booked-for-assaulting-cops-while-protesting-against-post-mortem-report-of-man-found-hanging/articleshow/79726965.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 15, 2020||Pune||Drive against errant trash generators||Pune: The PMC is set to resume action against bulk waste generators not processing it at source this week, following a long break due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body has planned action against residential and commercial establishments generating 100 tonnes or more garbage per day, but not treating it at source. Fine ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 will be levied on the violators. The law makes it mandatory for big garbage generators to treat the waste at source. The civic body had issued notification in accordance to it in 2018. “Societies taking the benefit of 5% discount for garbage processing within their premises need to make sure that the waste plants are working. If they are found to be closed, society owners will face action,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner, PMC. Any property generating over 100kg waste per day is supposed to have processing facility on the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drive-against-errant-trash-generators/articleshow/79728090.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC hauls up officials over Osman Nagar inundation||HYDERABAD: Wondering whether municipal officials of Jalpally need time till 2025 to clear waterlogging in flood-hit Osman Nagar, Telangana high court on Monday directed Jalpally municipal commissioner to be present before the court on Tuesday to explain as to why he has failed to drain stagnant water from the area even after several weeks and also to explain why the area is inundated till now. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy took a serious view while hearing a petition of Syeda Begum of Shaheen Nagar in Osman Nagar who charged the municipal officials of Jalpally and revenue officials of Balapur mandal in Rangareddy district with inaction in attending to the problem. N Praveen Kumar, counsel for the municipality, said six more pumps have been pressed into service to drain the rainwater. “We have no place to re-direct the water. If we rigorously pump out water from Osman Nagar, it will inundate colonies of the adjacent areas,” he said. He said it could take another 15 days to completely get rid of the excess water and dirt from the area. The judges, who expressed concern over diseases spreading from the stagnant water, were also upset with an affidavit filed by the municipal commissioner. “He says nothing about the effort being made to remove the water. His affidavit is absolutely vague,” the bench said citing the municipal commissioner’s reply. They further said, “Let him come to court on Tuesday and explain the measures.” Upon a request from a counsel, the bench tagged a PIL filed by Syed Bilal on the same issue and posted the case to Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-hauls-up-officials-over-osman-nagar-inundation/articleshow/79730242.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 15, 2020||Surat||Husband, in-laws of woman cop who shot herself to death booked||SURAT: The husband and in-laws of the female police sub-inspector Amita Joshi who died by suicide on December 5, were booked for abatement of suicide by Udhna police on Sunday night. Amita, who was posted at the Udhna police station had shot herself in the abdomen with her service revolver at her residence in Falsawadi police colony. She was alone at that time and her family had gone to Bhavnagar to attend a marriage function. She is survived by a four-year-old son, Jaimin and police constable husband, Vaibhav Vyas. Based on Amita’s father Babu Joshi’s complaint with Mahidharpura police station, police booked her husband Vaibhav Vyas, mother-in-law Harsha Vyas, father-in-law Jitesh Vyas, sister-in-law Manisha for abatement of suicide. However, the police are yet to arrest the accused. Babu Joshi, a retired assistant sub-inspector himself, also alleged in his complaint that Vaibhav had an extra-marital affair about which Amita had told his younger daughter living in Ahmedabad. Amita’s husband Vaibhav is currently posted at Sachin police station. On December 5, Vaibhav had noticed the status of his Amita’s Whatsapp ‘Miss You’ after which he had asked his relative to go and check on her. When the relatives visited the police colony Amita house was locked from inside. After breaking the door open, the relatives found her body lying in the pool of blood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/husband-in-laws-of-woman-cop-who-shot-herself-to-death-booked/articleshow/79726183.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||After 2 deaths, 2 docs, among 4 booked for running illegal maternity centre in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Five days after a 28-year-old woman and her newborn died within hours of the delivery at an unregistered private maternity centre in Pilibhit, two gynecologists, the promoter of the centre and its owner were booked for cheating and violation of medical norms. Police took action based on a written complaint filed by additional chief medical officer, Dr Harpal Singh, who said the nursing home was being operated illegally without valid registration. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said he FIR was lodged against Dr Saumya Sinha, Dr Ruhi Naseem, Prem Singh Gangwar and Anita Singh under IPC section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of IPC and provisions of the of Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-2-deaths-2-docs-among-4-booked-for-running-illegal-maternity-centre-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79726203.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||‘Love jihad’: Pulled out of hospital twice in 5 hours, pregnant woman tells court she wasn't coerced||Moradabad: In less than five hours, the 22-year-old pregnant woman whose husband has been arrested for “love jihad” was taken from the hospital where she was admitted to the judicial magistrate twice to record her statement on Monday. The first time, bleeding profusely and barely able to sit up, she was shoved by a male sub inspector and two women constables into a cramped hatchback. This was around 12.30pm. By the time she got to the judicial magistrate, she got worse and had to be brought back to the hospital without recording her statement. Around 5pm, police took her to the magistrate again. This time, she managed to speak. “In her statement before the court, she has said she was coerced, that she had married the man of her own accord and that her husband is innocent,” additional SP (rural) Vidyasagar Mishra said. “She can go live with in-laws or parents now. We will ensure she gets the security she needs.” Her mother-in-law told TOI that she had called from a constable’s phone on Sunday and told them that she feared she had miscarried. Chairperson of the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights Dr Vishesh Gupta, who had visited the hospital earlier in the day, said action would be taken if police had not treated her right while escorting her to the judicial magistrate. The woman and her husband had been accosted by Bajrang Dal men at the marriage registration office on December 5, after which they had “handed over” the interfaith couple to the police. While the man and his brother were arrested the following day, the woman was sent away to a shelter. With her statement, they could be released soon. “The evidence in favour of the accused has come to our notice. That will be taken into account," said Mishra. "We have also got the nikahnama (the religious certification of their marriage) which confirms they got married before the new (anti-conversion) law came into effect. We are trying to verify the documents and may file a closure report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/love-jihad-pulled-out-of-hospital-twice-in-5-hours-pregnant-woman-tells-court-she-wasnt-coerced/articleshow/79726198.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Plastic mix to repair New Town roads||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) will repair both the flanks of a 1.5-km stretch (Street number 626) in New Town’s Action Area II by mixing shredded plastic waste with bitumen for the wearing course to relay the road. The stretch that will be repaired is between Akankha Housing complex and Moon Beam bus stand. The cost of the project has been estimated to be Rs 1.2 crore while the work will have to be completed within six months. “Plastic is water-resistant and its properties can tighten the bitumen that increases the longevity and does not allow potholes to be developed on the road after heavy rains,” said an official. Earlier, the authorities had successfully repaired a one km stretch near City Centre II mall by mixing some plastic waste with bituminous macadam as a pilot project. As the project was successful, they are repairing other roads in the same way. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plastic-mix-to-repair-new-town-roads/articleshow/79728131.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 15, 2020||Pune||Rain & cloudy skies bring down day temperature in Pune||PUNE: Fog and light drizzles sprang a surprise for residents as they woke up on Monday morning, while the chill-feel continued throughout the day as the city’s maximum temperature dropped significantly because of cloudy skies and intermittent showers. The maximum temperature on Monday dropped to 23.6°C in Shivajinagar and 24.2°C Lohegaon, giving Pune it’s coolest day so far this season. The maximum temperature was five-six degrees below normal on Sunday, too. It was 27.4°C in Shivajinagar and 28.2°C in Lohegaon, while Pashan recorded a highest day temperature of 26.4°C on Sunday. Citizens felt the drop in the day temperature on Monday, as it lent a chill in the air. A resident said, “I was out when I noticed the light drizzle and felt the temperature-drop in the space of two hours. Wet roads and skiddy surfaces made the drive wobbly. I pulled out rainwear that was packed away and slipped into a sweater as well.” Shivajinagar on Monday recorded 5mm rain, while Lohegaon registered 2mm showers. The rainfall in Shivajinagar on Monday was higher than that in other locations, including Mahabaleshwar, Mumbai and Ratnagiri, on Monday. Pune might witness very light rain on Tuesday as well, said an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). It will be followed by dry weather and clear skies from Thursday, the official added. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “The clouding and very light rain in Pune have been a result of confluence between westerly, easterly and southerly winds over north Maharashtra. Though the rainfall has been traces to very light in Pune, the wind pattern has caused considerable clouding, causing the day temperature to fall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rain-cloudy-skies-bring-down-day-temperature/articleshow/79728130.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||Minor sisters from Nepal in searchof work raped in UP, probe ordered||Pilibhit: Two minor sisters from Nepal were allegedly kept in a farm against their will and repeatedly raped for nearly two months at a village in UP's Pilibhit. The girls - aged 14 and 15 years - had crossed over to India along with their parents in search of work. Their parents are labourers and belong to Kanchanpur district. The Puranpur circle officer (CO) is now probing the case, days after the girls' initial complaint was not taken seriously. An FIR will be registered soon, police said on Monday. The Nepalese family was earlier working in a different farm at the same village when the accused, identified as one Satnam Singh, lured the parents with higher wages for "farm work". The family then shifted to Satnam's plot of land. Soon, the family's ordeal began. They were allegedly abused and beaten up over petty issues. And the two minors were sexually assaulted, several times, the girls alleged. After regular "torture", the parents managed to flee from Satnam's clutches 10 days ago, and took shelter in their earlier farm. The SHO of Hajara, at first, turned them away, the girls said. He refused to accept their written complaint. However, on Sunday, the superintendent of police (SP) came to their aid. He forwarded a copy of their complaint to the DGP, the girls added. SP Jai Prakash Yadav said that the case has been referred to Puranpur CO Pramod Yadav. "There will be a transparent probe. Action against the accused will be taken accordingly," the SP added. On whether the police would send a special report to the government or the Nepal embassy, the SP said those decisions will be taken after the probe, "once the abuse against the two girls is established".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-sisters-from-nepal-in-searchof-work-raped-in-up-probe-ordered/articleshow/79726208.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Banks, BEE to sign MoU for energy-efficiency projects||Visakhapatnam: The committee of financial institutions, empanelled by AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), will enter into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Bureau of Energy Efficiency for facilitating financing of energy-efficiency projects in the state under Partial Risk Guarantee Fund for Energy Efficiency (PRGFEE) scheme, said secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli. Addressing a rally while inaugurating energy conservation week, Srikant said the government has decided to encourage energy-efficiency in all key energy-intensive sectors, particularly industries, buildings and agriculture. “The APSECM had constituted a committee of eight banks and three non-banking financial companies for facilitating financing of energy-efficiency projects in the state under PRGFEE. The BEE has institutionalised the PRGFEE that provides banks and NBFCs with a partial coverage of risk involved in extending loans to energy-efficiency projects. This would guarantee 50% of loan amount or Rs 10 crore per project with an objective of scaling up energy-efficiency investments in Andhra Pradesh. The APSECM would invite tenders for selecting an agency to supply IoT-enabled power monitoring devices to MSMEs that would help promote energy-efficiency in industries. The device gives real-time information on electricity voltage fluctuations that would help the MSME’s owner take immediate steps to save energy and ensure safety of machines,” said Srikant. He further said the government is spending around Rs 42,000 crore for purchasing power from various sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/banks-bee-to-sign-mou-for-energy-efficiency-projects/articleshow/79726591.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||AAP too holds dharna against farm laws||Ludhiana: The district unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) under the leadership of Jagraon MLA Sarabjit Kaur Manuke participated in a district-level dharna on Monday in response to the call given by farmers against the central agricultural laws enacted by the Modi government. She was accompanied by Suresh Goyal and other local leaders of the party. Sarabjit on the occasion said that AAP had been opposing these laws as they were designed to ‘encroach’ upon the legitimate rights of the farmers. She said that everyone, from volunteers to leaders, had been participating in the ongoing peasant struggle. The leader further said that the movement was not confined to agriculture sector or farming, it was a decisive struggle to safeguard the economic interests of every class and category. She said that if the interests of the farmers were not protected they won’t be able to save the interests of other sections of society associated with agriculture and it was imperative upon us to protect it. ‘Cursing’ chief minister Amarinder Singh and the Badal clan, the AAP leader said, “If these so-called ‘messiahs’ of the farmers had taken a clear stand against these black laws from day one, then Modi government would not have dared bring these laws. Sarabjit further said that all MLAs, MPs, seniors and local leaders and a large number of activists of the party, including Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab state unit Bhagwant Mann, were on hunger strike on Monday in support of the farmers’ call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-too-holds-dharna-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79726989.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC seeks govt reply on steps to prevent MRP violations in Tasmac||MADURAI: On what basis are prices fixed for liquor varieties sold in Tasmac shops?, the Madras high court has asked the state government and sought a response from it on the steps taken to prevent MRP violations at Tasmac. outlets. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi also posed the following queries to the government: Steps taken to prevent overcharging above the MRP; action taken against the employees of Tasmac who are involved in MRP violations; steps taken to prevent the sale of spurious liquor, details of number of companies from whom liquor is procured; year-wise details on the turnover from Tasmac shops for the past 10 years. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Rajeswaripriya, a resident of Chennai who is the founder-president of Anaithu Makkal Arasiyal Katchi, a registered political party. She stated that several irregularities and corrupt activities are taking place at Tasmac shops across the state. She stated that no bills or receipts are given to the customers. Selling liquor more than MRP would lead to corrupt activities and sale of fake liquor by sticking holographic stickers. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench seeking for a direction to take immediate steps to prevent corrupt activities at the Tasmac shops by strictly prohibiting the sale of liquor above MRP, providing bill and receipt to the customers and prohibiting the sale of fake liquor. The petitioner also sought to seal the shops which are involved in MRP violation. The petitioner further sought to implement prohibition as a step by step process and also to create awareness to the people on the ill effects of consumption of alcohol. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-steps-to-prevent-mrp-violations-in-tasmac/articleshow/79729108.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Driver dead, bishop & wife hurt in car mishap||VIJAYAWADA: T George Cornelious, a bishop belonging to Church of South India (CSI), suffered injuries while his driver died on the spot after their SUV lost control and rammed against a parked car and a few motorcycles on the side of the road near Gannavaram Bus Stand in Krishna district on Monday. The deceased driver was identified as Moses. According to Gannavaram police, the incident happened in the afternoon when the Bishop in Krishna-Godavari diocese was returning to Vijayawada after attending an inauguration ceremony of a church in Dharmajigudem village near Chintalapudi. Cops said that Cornelious was in the back seat with his wife during the incident when Moses suddenly suffered a heart attack resulting in the pile up. By the time traffic police reached the spot, they noticed that Moses had died on the spot and soon rushed Bishop and his wife to a local government hospital for treatment. Cops said that both of them are safe with minor injuries. Meanwhile, a case has been registered under section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) at Gannavaram police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/driver-dead-bishop-wife-hurt-in-car-mishap/articleshow/79726493.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Anna Hazare fast threat over agro-related demands||PUNE: Social crusader Anna Hazare has threatened to resume his fast to protest the alleged failure of the Union government to honour the promises made to him. Hazare had put his fast on hold on February 5, 2019, following an assurance by then Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh that the Centre would form a high-level committee to decide on giving statutory status to the agriculture price commission. The other assurances he received were minimum support price (MSP) for fruits, vegetables and milk, drafting of agri-produce import export policy and subsidy on agri-equipment. In a letter to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Hazare said that he was considering resuming his fast as the Centre had not kept its promise. The social crusader said that he would soon decide the location, date and schedule of the fast. Hazare said that Radha Mohan Singh along with then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, minister of state for defence Subhash Bhamre and state minister Girish Mahajan had held detailed discussion with him on February 5, 2019, and handed over a letter at Ralegan Siddhi assuring formation of a high-level committee which was to submit its report before October 30, 2019. This assurance has not been fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hazare-fast-threat-over-agro-related-demands/articleshow/79728135.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: At 565, Vidarbha reports lowest cases in a day since Diwali||NAGPUR: Vidarbha reported 565 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, lowest since November 16 when 530 cases were reported. But, the present decline has a special significance. On November 15 and 16, the number of new cases had gone down as it was Diwali on November 14 and tests reduced substantially due to the festival. But on Monday, the number of tests across 11 districts of Vidarbha was more than average. Nagpur alone conducted more than 5,000 tests and reported only 282 cases, which means below 300 cases for the first time in December. Other districts in Vidarbha together conducted about 7,000 tests and reported less than 300 cases. This figure indicates that the post-Diwali surge in cases is concluding and the region is moving towards a better controlled situation. On Monday, all districts, except Nagpur, reported less than 50 new cases which has happened for the first time since mid-August. With 864 recoveries, 2.23 lakh patients of the total 2.39 lakh cases have recovered. Recovery rate is now 93.2%, chasing the state average of 93.5% and national average of about 95%. Total number of patients under treatment came to 9,963, under the 10,000-mark for the first time in December. Total 17 deaths were reported. These include 7 from Nagpur. With Bhandara (3), Wardha (2), Yavatmal (2), Chandrapur (1), Akola (1), and Buldhana (1), the Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha reached 6,317. Case fatality rate is still at 2.63% which is higher than state and national averages. Wardha: Two women, a 68-year-old from the city and a 55-year-old from Samudrapur died while seven tested positive, taking the caseload to 8,428. Meanwhile, 23 patients were discharged and recoveries reached 7,903. Chandrapur: With the detection of 35 cases, the caseload rose to 21,355. There was one death, taking the toll to 337. In all, 93 patients were discharged from hospital and isolation. Yavatmal: Two deaths were recorded — a 68-year-old woman from Wani and a 21-year-old from Arni. The death toll has risen to 385. Out of 292 test reports, 43 tested positive. Currently, 301 active positive patients are under treatment in Covid Care Centres. Amravati: There were 52 recoveries and 39 new cases. The caseload reached 18,634 while recoveries totalled 17,805. This left 439 active cases, including 250 in home isolation. Bhandara: Three deaths took Bhandara’s toll to 276. The district reported 32 new cases while 97 patients recovered in a day. Total 326 RT-PCR tests were done. Now, the district has 11,593 cases, 10,771 recoveries, and 276 deaths. Recovery rate is 92.9%. Total 546 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district saw 24 new cases and 83 recoveries. Though overall Covid situation seems to be improving in the district but constant sample positivity rate and increasing death rate are two major concerns. The district now has 13,117 total cases, 12,616 recoveries, 174 deaths and 327 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 17 new cases while 47 patients recovered. No death was reported. Total cases reached 8,558, inducing 8,099 recoveries. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is touching the 95%-mark now. Death toll remained at 92. Total 367 patients are under treatment. Akola: After reporting only 3 cases of the 1,147 tests on Sunday, Akola reported 24 new cases in the last 24 hours. This took the caseload in Akola to 9,888. With 97 patients recovering in a day, total 8,932 patients have recovered till date. A 65-year-old woman patient died during treatment in a private Covid hospital on Monday. This took the death toll to 304. Now, 652 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: Death of a 70-year-old man admitted in a Covid hospital took the toll to 144. Of the total 303 reports received in a day, 27 tested positive. This took the caseload to 11,853. With 19 patients recovering in a day, total 11,360 of them have recovered. At present, 330 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 35 new patients, while 6 recovered. This took total cases to 6,447 and recoveries to 6,037. With no death reported on Monday, the toll remained at 148. Washim has 261 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/at-565-vidarbha-reports-lowest-cases-in-a-day-since-diwali/articleshow/79728163.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, police chief bans sale of online weapons||Nagpur: City police chief Amitesh Kumar may have become the first officer in the state to issue a prohibitory order under the criminal procedure code (CrPC) 144 to ban online sale of sharp weapons in the city on Monday. Cops have also recovered 32 sharp weapons after initiating legal action against 29 persons, including FIR against one. Kumar is learnt to have initiated the action after the use of sharp weapons, procured through online portals, in at least two murder cases that came to the fore during custodial interrogation. The two murders, including that of gambling kingpin Balya Binekar, who was hacked to death in full public view in October this year, had created ripples across the state. The order will remain in force for 45 days and shall be extended after scrutiny. “The genesis of our action is the concern for reducing body offences and putting the brakes on the weapons reaching the doorsteps of offenders,” said the CP. Kumar said notices for furnishing details of customers and deliveries were served to three online shopping portals who are engaged in selling sharp weapons. One of them had responded with a list of 122 persons who had procured such weapons in the last three months. “During scrutiny, it was found that many customers were housewives who had procured knives for kitchen use while the others have smaller dimensions which cannot be acted upon. The recoveries of such weapons were made which were potentially threatening and crime can be perpetrated with them,” he said. “In the past, Chhattisgarh police had sent letters to shopping portals but we have initiated a legal process,” said the top cop. Kumar said any knife or such weapon, more than nine-inch long and two-inch wide, is illegal as per the Indian Arms Act and hence, attracts stringent action. “We have asked the shopping portals to henceforth furnish details of the purchasers to the crime branch. Their transactions may attract legal action in case they fail to comply with our notice. We shall book them for non-compliance,” said the CP. In order to put a check and balance in the system, Kumar had cautioned his department to ensure that innocent purchasers are not hassled, the right to privacy is not infringed, the knives or tools meant for cutlery or agricultural works are not seized and someone having no criminal past or records too should be acted upon. “Any accused found with evidence of any portal or site from which he or she may have procured the weapon for a crime would attract legal action against such platforms,” he said. Indian Arms Act, 1878 Any weapon above nine inches and more than two inches in width is illegal and attracts penal provisions under the Indian Arms Act attracting punishment and fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-police-chief-bans-sale-of-online-weapons/articleshow/79728186.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Special prayers mark end of Karthika Maasam||Vijayawada: Devotees offered special prayers at Lord Shiva temples in the city on the eve of the fifth Karthika Somavaram and last day of the auspicious Karthika Maasam on Monday. Outside Old Shivalayam in One Town, devotees queued up from the early hours of Monday. Temple authorities and police set up barricades to regulate the crowd and the temple management followed Covid-19 protocols and allowed devotees to enter in small groups. Kanaka Durga temple authorities performed special rituals at Malleswara Swamy temple and prayed for speedy recovery from Covid-19 and the success of a vaccine. Vijayeswaralayam, Ramalingeswara temple at Yenamalakuduru, Sivarama Krishna Kshetram and other temples received large numbers of devotees. Meanwhile, devotees are preparing for Poli Swargam, marking the end of Karthika on Tuesday. As part of a tradition, devotees set afloat lamps on banana stems in the Krishna river. Around 30,000 devotees visit Durga Ghat near Prakasam Barrage every year to participate in special offerings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/special-prayers-mark-end-of-karthika-maasam/articleshow/79726601.cms||Venu Lanka
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Sudhakar case: CBI files report||Vijayawada: The CBI has submitted its findings in a sealed cover regarding the arrest of Dr. Sudhakar to the Andhra Pradesh high court. The bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice Umadevi will now hear the case on December 21. Sudhakar was suspended from service for making allegations against the state government about poor safety gear given to doctors on Covid-19 duties. On May 17, he was taken into custody by Visakhapatnam police by excessive force. The high court took the issue as suo-moto and ordered CBI to investigate and directed the agency to file cases against the cops who used excessive force in arresting Sudhakar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sudhakar-case-cbi-files-report/articleshow/79726565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||RSASTF seizes 30 logs but smugglers flee||Tirupati: Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force sleuths seized another 30 red sanders logs on Monday but the smugglers managed to escape during a combing operation inside the Seshachalam forests near Tirupati. RSI Vasu and his task force team who undertook the operation near Srivari Mettu-Bhakrapet areas later reached SV Zoo Park road where they spotted a group of smugglers carrying logs . The smugglers who noticed the police abandoned the logs and escaped. Sleuths collected the logs and moved them to the red sanders timber depot in the city. In operations inside Seshachalam forests over last three days, the task force has seized around four tonnes of red sanders logs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rsastf-seizes-30-logs-but-smugglers-flee/articleshow/79726612.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||1,147 RT-PCR tests in a day, only 3 found +ve in Akola||NAGPUR: Out of 1,147 RT-PCR tests conducted in the last 24 hours, only three came positive for Covid-19 infection, which is indeed a record not only for Akola but entire Vidarbha region. This is a strong indicator that spread of Covid-19 is effectively under control and the chain of infection spread can break if people continue to follow the Covid-19 regulations. Apart from RT-PCR tests, 159 rapid antigen tests (RATs) were also conducted in Akola, of which seven tested positive. RT-PCR and RAT together, 10 new Covid-19 cases were added to Akola’s tally on Sunday, which is least for any district in Vidarbha. Akola had been the worst-hit district of pandemic during April, May and June. It has also witnessed a second surge in September. The RT-PCR is considered a gold standard test for detecting Covid-19 infection and Akola has been conducting on an average 1,000 tests per day in December. With only three testing positive on Sunday, Akola’s sample positivity rate was 0.26% on Sunday. Most districts in Vidarbha have ramped up testing since Diwali, still the number of positive patients is effectively under control. Total 823 new patients were detected in Vidarbha on Sunday, while 967 patients recovered in the day. Now, out of 2.38 lakh Covid-19 total cases till date, 2.22 lakh have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate surpassed 93% mark on Sunday. Covid-19 toll reached 6,300 with 18 deaths reported on Sunday. Deaths came from Nagpur 5, Gondia 4, Bhandara 2, Chandrapur 2, Wardha 1, Gadchiroli 1, Akola 1, Amravati 1, and Yavatmal 1. Of the 5 deaths in Nagpur, 4 were from city and 1 from rural areas. Akola: With 10 cases added in a day, total Covid-19 cases reached 9,864 on Sunday. On the other hand, 24 patients recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,841, for a recovery rate of nearly 90%. A 92-year-old woman, admitted on December 3, died during treatment taking the Covid toll of Akola to 303. Total, 720 patients are under treatment in Akola. Chandrapur: The Covid total mounted to 21,320 with the detection of 54 new cases on Sunday. The day also saw two deaths, taking the toll to 336. In all, 68 patients were discharged from hospital and isolation. The total recoveries are now 20,183, while 801 active patients are under treatment. Amravati: Covid deaths in the district are slowly but surely inching towards the 400 mark. Another death took the toll to 390. Sunday also saw 66 new cases against 62 recoveries. The caseload rose to 18,595 and recoveries to 17,753. This left 452 active cases, including 256 in home isolation. Wardha: One death was reported due to coronavirus in the district on Sunday, taking the total to 262, while new 51 cases tested positive. The caseload of district increased to 8,421 and recoveries 7,880 while the active positive patients under treatment are 279 in district. Out of 676 test reports, 29 men and 22 women (51) tested positive and the cases were reported from Wardha (39), Hinganghat (8), Deoli (2), Selu and Samudrapur (1 each). Yavatmal: There was one death, a 60-year old man from the city. On Sunday, 583 test reports have been received of which 65 are positive while the remaining 518 are negative. Currently 295 are active positive patients undergoing treatment in the Covid Care Centres across the district. 11,969 was the caseload so far of whom 11,294 have recovered. Also 45 positive patients have recovered and discharged from the hospitals on Sunday. Buldhana: The district received 367 reports of Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours. Of these, 44 came positive taking the total Covid caseload the district to 11,826. Out of these, 11,360 have recovered till date, including 24 on Sunday. The district reported no death on Sunday. With 143 deaths due to Covid-19 till date, Buldhana now has 323 patients under treatment. Washim: The district has reported 26 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Now, total number of Covid-19 cases in Washim is 6,412. With 11 patients recovering on Sunday, total 6,031 have recovered. Washim’s recovery rate is 94%. With no death reported in last 10 days, Washim’s Covid toll remains 148, including a suicide by a positive patient. Now, the district has 233 patients under treatment. Bhandara: Death of 2 Covid-19 patients took the district’s toll to 274 on Sunday. Out of 446 samples tested in the last 24 hours, 72 tested positive which took the total caseload of Bhandara to 11,561. Of these, 10,674 have recovered, including 44 getting discharge on Sunday. Now, the recovery rate of Bhandara is 92.32%. Total 614 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 4 Covid deaths in the last 2 days. These include three casualties on Saturday and one on Sunday, taking the district’s Covid toll to 174. In the last two days, 99 new patients were detected, while 95 got recovered. This took total cases to 13,093 and recoveries to 12,533. With this, total 386 patients are under treatment in Gondia at present. Gadchiroli: A 59-year-old man from Dhanora tehsil died of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the district’s toll to 92. The district also reported 36 new cases, while 32 patients recovered in the day. Now, the total cases in Gadchiroli are 8,541, including 8,052 recoveries, which means the recovery rate of 94.27%. Total 397 patients are still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1147-rt-pcr-tests-in-a-day-only-3-found-ve-in-akola/articleshow/79710966.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Social media: CBI gets report deadline||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday directed CBI to submit its final inquiry report in the case related to allegations and objectionable posts on social media against high court judges. The bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice Uma Devi heard CBI’s arguments. A Chennakesavulu, CBI counsel, sought four months to submit a detailed report. He said the agency is trying to track down accused who are located in different parts of the world using international servers. The counsel said that the agency has contacted social media platforms and is gathering data. The HC, however, directed CBI to submit its report by March 30 and posted the matter for further hearing on March 31. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/social-media-cbi-gets-report-deadline/articleshow/79726551.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh ‘love jihad’ case: Woman faces risk of miscarriage||MORADABAD: In the 24 hours since the woman whose husband was arrested for “love jihad” has been at the district hospital in Moradabad, doctors said they have not been able to determine if she has had a miscarriage but added that bleeding could indicate a risk of miscarriage. The 22-year-old was brought in on Sunday with severe bleeding and abdominal pain. Two months into her pregnancy, she had been sent away to a shelter while police investigated if she had been “forcibly” converted by her Muslim husband, a 21-year-old. He was held under UP’s new anti-conversion law when the couple went to register their marriage. “A seven-week foetus can be seen on ultrasound but we cannot tell how the baby is. We have to do a trans-vaginal scan to see if the baby is alright,” said senior gynaecologist and acting chief medical superintendent at the hospital, Dr Nirmala Pathak, on Monday. “The bleeding didn’t happen at the hospital. She had complained that it started at the shelter. We may have to conduct a few other tests to confirm the health of the baby, perhaps get it done from Meerut. There is always a risk of miscarriage when there is spotting (bleeding).” Earlier in the day, chairperson of the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Dr Vishesh Gupta, visited the hospital. While doctors were not sure about the baby’s state, he told TOI, “There were attempts to defame the government. We have ensured the best possible health facilities for the woman and her baby.” He ordered that the woman’s statement be immediately recorded before a magistrate. Over the course of the day, the hospital turned into a fortress, with two SHOs at the gate and cops stationed all over. Why the vigil? “Security had to be placed because no one was allowed to meet the woman until her statement was recorded,” additional SP (rural) Vidyasagar Mishra said. The woman told the magistrate in the evening that she had not been coerced into marrying her husband or converting to Islam. Her doctor, meanwhile, said, “The woman seems fine, but we will keep her under observation ... Since she is pregnant, she should be kept away from mental pressure for the sake of her and her child’s health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/risk-of-miscarriage-says-doc-treating-up-woman-detained-for-love-jihad/articleshow/79726209.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 15, 2020||Pune||No teaching for 3 days in 1,483 schools in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad from today||PUNE: As many as 1,483 private and unaided schools in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will cease to conduct online classes and other academic activities for three days from Tuesday to protest against non-payment of fees by parents. These schools, affiliated to the Federation of Unaided Private Schools Association of Maharashtra, have said if the situation persists even after their protest, they will be forced to close down the schools for the rest of the year. The federation is an umbrella body of private school associations in the district and the state with some 5,800 schools as members. Rajendra Singh, president of the federation, said payment of fees has become increasingly irregular since the pandemic and subsequent lockdown started. “We conducted a survey in our affiliated schools, and found that 30% of the parents have paid the fees, about 12% have genuine financial problems, and the remaining are refusing to pay the fees despite them facing no apparent insurmountable economic hardship. These parents refuse to show any documents, and do not answer calls when authorities from the schools contact them,” he added. Singh said it was not possible to carry on activities and pay teachers their salaries with just the 30% fees and hence they had come to this decision. “We have already told our members not to hike the fees for this year. We also told them not to take fees for any other facilities like annual gatherings, gymkhana, meals, transportation and others. We have also told them to give the parents a facility of monthly or quarterly payment of fees. Despite all this, parents are refusing to pay up. We have our own expenses and we do not get any grants from the government,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-teaching-for-3-days-in-1483-schools-from-today/articleshow/79728143.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: 12,000 street lights to go solar in 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 12,000 street lights in the city will be replaced with solar-fuelled street lights in 2021. The New Delhi-based Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) is preparing a project report for provision of solar street lights. The solar lights will be part of the replacement of existing LED street lights of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) that have to be removed for underground power supply, a World Bank funded project owned by AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (EPDCL). Confirming this to TOI, GVMC superintending engineer (electrical wing) P Siva Prasad Raju said, “EESL will submit the report on solar power street lights by replacing nearly 9000 street lights falling under the underground power supply network. We expect the report by end of this month. We will submit the report to our government for its final nod.” He said that each solar-powered pole will cost around Rs 70,000. According to APEPDCL officials, nearly 12,000 street lights will have to be removed in areas where underground power supply has been provided. Officials said some works have already started as part of the Smart City project. APEPDCL chief general manager (world bank projects) KVCH Pantulu said their role is to provide underground power supply for domestic connections, but not replacement of street lights. The discom can give power supply through underground cables to the street lights, which will have to be designed as per standards. Smart City project superintending engineer M Vinay Kumar said, “We have identified 2,300 street lights for replacement under our Smart City project. All these street lights come under the underground power area. The works of erection of nearly 300 poles have already started and are going on at areas such as Kirlampudi Layout. We will complete the project by February 2021 at a cost of Rs 22 crore from Smart City funds.” The APEPDCL had taken up the underground power supply project at a cost of Rs 790 crores after Cyclone Hudhud. The project is estimated to be completed by March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/12k-street-lights-to-go-solar-in-21/articleshow/79726641.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||Damage by wildlife now covered under PM crop insurance scheme||Nagpur: In a major move to mitigate human-wildlife conflict, crop depredation by wildlife is being included as add-on coverage under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY).PMFBY was launched in 2016 and replaces all the prevailing yield insurance schemes in India. National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has written to all the field directors of tiger reserves to consider providing add-on coverage for crop depredation to farmers in areas near the reserves where the risk is substantial and identifiable.The detailed protocol and procedure for evaluation of bids have been prepared by the government in consultation with MoEFCC and the insurance company. “The add-on coverage will be optional for the farmers and applicable notional premium will be borne by the farmer. However, the state governments may consider providing additional subsidy on this coverage, wherever notified,” said NTCA officials.“Though states already pay crop damage compensation, damage caused by wild animals has been incorporated in the guidelines as per the suggestions received from various states. If the scheme is implemented, farmers will have to contribute to get compensation,” said forest officials. “A panel set up in Maharashtra to suggest steps to curb crop damage too had recommended this step,” they said.It is intended for farmers whose fields are likely to be affected by raiding/grazing or by the impact of damage by wild animals and intends to provide protection against such incidents causing irreversible damage to standing and insured crop.As per the guidelines, the definition of wild animals will be as per the categorization of the MoEFCC and state forest departments based on historic yield losses faced. In Maharashtra, wild boar, nilgai, deer, elephants, and gaurs are included in the list of animals for which crop damage compensation is paid to farmers. The present system is tedious and due to delayed payment, farmers resort to electrocution.NTCA officials said, “Initially this add-on cover would be available on a pilot basis. It would be available for those crops only that have a history of demonstrable economic loss by attack of wild animals. List of these wild animals and area of coverage will be notified by the state government.”As per the guidelines, there will be two alternatives to implement the scheme. In alternative-I, states may ensure the actuarial premium rate quoted by the insurance companies should be rational to the past loss experience. Under this provision, all risks will be borne by the companies.Under alternative-II, states not having requisite historical yield loss data to determine the rational actuarial premium can consider implementing this cover on the corpus model. Under this model government will have to create a corpus fund at the state level to provide claims to eligible farmers over and above the premium collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/damage-by-wildlife-now-covered-under-pm-crop-insurance-scheme/articleshow/79728211.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||8k candidates appear on 1st day of APPSC group-1 mains||Amaravati: Nearly two years after the issuance of notification, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) mains examination for group-I services started on Monday. About 8,000 candidates who cleared the preliminary examination appeared for the mains at various centres in the state. In a first, APPSC provided tabs to candidates to answer questions online. In view of Covid-19, elaborate arrangements were in place for the conduct of the examination. All candidates had to use masks and gloves and were directed to carry their own sanitizers. Candidates were allowed into the examination halls between 8.30-9.45am. APPSC provided the password to open the tabs 15 minutes before the start of the examination at 10 am. No technical glitches were reported from any centre. The mains examination for group-I services comes after a long wait for candidates who cleared the preliminary examination almost a year ago. After candidates filed petitions, alleging mistakes in the group-I preliminary examination and several hearings, the high court paved the way for the conduct of mains examination around two months ago. The high court, however, directed the commission to relvalidate some question sets. After taking the high court’s verdict into consideration, the APPSC declared another 1,400 candidates as eligible for the mains examination. Candidates for the mains examination then approached the high court, seeking its deferral, citing that 45 days between the announcement and date of examination were not sufficient for preparation. The high court disallowed the petitions and directed the APPSC to go ahead with the conduct of the mains examination. While 9,679 candidates were declared eligible for mains, around 8,000 appeared for the exam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/8k-candidates-appear-on-1st-day-of-appsc-group-1-mains/articleshow/79726580.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Winter brings along drop in veggie prices||VIJAYAWADA: Vegetable prices in Vijayawada have seen a sudden drop after three pricey months giving residents much-needed relief. With increase in production, the availability of vegetables has also gone up. In September, incessant rains caused massive crop damage impacting vegetable production and availability. Crops in Krishna delta region were severely hit. This showed an impact on prices. Tomato prices reached Rs 65/kilo gradually moving out of shopping lists of middle-class households. Similarly, poor quality okra, ridge gourd, eggplant, cabbage and carrot sold for hefty prices. But with the arrival of winter, the situation saw a swift change. Tomato farmers of Madanapalli in Chittoor district have grown a significantly large crop. Consequently, tomato prices have come down to Rs 23 per kilo at Rythu Bazaars. Onions, which had touched the Rs 120-mark, now cost Rs 40 per kilo. Vijayawada-based Thamma Suresh, who works at a private firm, said, “Purchasing power came down amid the lockdown. I got a salary cut and the family was supposed to cut down on expenses. The soaring vegetable prices were a huge burden on us.” “We left out tomatoes, onions and eggplants from our recipes. Reduction in vegetable prices has come as a big relief,” he said. Traders at the Rajiv Gandhi Wholesale Vegetable Market say that vegetable prices are likely to come down further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/winter-brings-along-drop-in-veggie-prices/articleshow/79726512.cms||Venu Lanka
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||High court junks govt’s interlocutory application||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh high court on Monday dismissed an interlocutory application (IA) moved by the state government to reconsider the hearing on whether constitutional violation happened in the state as part of the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions. The government later announced that it is going to challenge the issue raised by high court in Supreme Court. The division bench consisting of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice Umadevi on Monday continued the hearing of arguments. The high court had earlier said that it will decide whether constitutional breakdown has happened in the state and asked advocates of habeas corpus petitioners to assist the court in this regard. SS Prasad, special senior counsel, objected to the considering of such a question. The counsel said such question cannot be framed as it does not have any support or basis in any of the pleading in any of the writ petitions before the court. He said the court cannot frame such questions suo moto, especially constitutional questions. Prasad said that any finding or adjudication on such questions will be as good as a letter or report from a politician to the governor complaining failure of law and order in the state. However, the court dismissed the IA and posted the case for further hearing on Wednesdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-junks-govts-interlocutory-application/articleshow/79726478.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Plea to establish coaching centres for Tamil Nadu govt school students||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to establish coaching centres for the government and aided school students to enable them to take part in national-level entrance examinations for joining higher education courses. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the response on a public interest litigation filed by S Manoj Immanuel, an advocate and resident of Dindigul district. The petitioner stated that there are several coaching centres established for NEET and JEE for students who are aspiring to become doctors and engineers. There are several other fields of studies and not all students aspire to become doctors and engineers. The state government could take steps to establish coaching centres at the government and aided schools in order to bring to their knowledge about other courses available other than medicine and engineering. This would be of great benefit for students from rural areas to know about the availability of other higher education courses and modes through which they can apply. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-establish-coaching-centres-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/79729111.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||Intern doctors join protest for stipend hike||Vadodara: Over 250 intern doctors of both state-run SSG Hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri joined the state-wide strike demanding increase in stipend and special pay for Covid-19 duty on Monday. Holding placards, they staged a dharna protest asking the state government to raise their stipend from the existing Rs 12,800 to Rs 20,000. They said that the stipend paid to intern doctors in Gujarat is lower than other states. The agitating interns also demanded Rs 1,000 as daily allowance to those serving in Covid-19 facilities, arrears from April and relaxation in bond conditions that govern their services. The interns said that they are on indefinite strike and will stop all kind of Covid-19, emergency and non-emergency duties till the state government accepts their demands. The doctors claimed that they were forced to protest as earlier representations to chief minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel have gone futile. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/intern-doctors-join-protest-for-stipend-hike/articleshow/79727032.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Madras high court grants bail to govt employee in cheating case||MADURAI: The Madras high court has granted bail to a government employee on condition that he should deposit Rs 10 lakh in a case registered against him for cheating money and issuing fake appointment orders to a few people in Ramanathapuram district. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Kannan, who was arrested by the Ramanathapuram district crime branch police on September 27. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner was working as superintendent in the chief educational officer’s (CEO) office at Ramanathapuram district. He along with other accused had collected Rs 20 lakh to get jobs to three people for the post of junior assistant in government schools, for which fake appointment orders were prepared. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that he was not involved in the crime as alleged by the prosecution. He submitted that police have completed the investigation and also filed the final report before the concerned jurisdictional court. Since custodial interrogation of the petitioner may not be required, he sought bail. The government advocate submitted that the petitioner who was working in the CEO office had obtained money and provided fake appointment orders to people to join as junior assistants at government schools in the district. When the headmasters of the concerned schools found that no appointment orders were issued by the CEO and all were fabricated, they informed the CEO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-bail-to-govt-employee-in-cheating-case/articleshow/79729135.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||Sons arrested for ‘love jihad’, Moradabad family surviving on neighbours’ charity||MORADABAD: Thin blankets on three charpoys, two absolutely bare rooms with chipped walls. The creaking house at Kanth in Moradabad is home to the 21-year-old Muslim man who was arrested along with his brother a week ago under UP’s new anti-conversion law. The two sole earning members gone, the family has fallen on desperate times, counting on neighbours’ charity to get by. “They didn’t even commit a crime,” said their 45-year-old mother. She depended on her elder son, a daily wage labourer, and the younger one, a barber. “I have four daughters and three sons. Two are in jail. We are extremely poor. There is nothing to eat at home.” Their power supply was snapped after they could not afford the bills. Her youngest son is still in his teens. While she does not know how she will get a lawyer for her sons — she said she neither had the money nor the means — she and her family are worried sick about her daughter-in-law, who was taken away to a shelter a week ago and had to be hospitalised after severe bleeding and pregnancy-related complications. “She would call me Papaji. She always loved me, respected me. She is my daughter. I want her back,” her 54-year-old father-in-law said amid tears. Holding up a photo of what she said was a happy family, the 15-year-old daughter said, “Religion was never an issue. She would often talk to my mother, ask why people try to interfere with our lives.” The interfaith couple had been living here for four months after a nikah, an Islamic wedding ceremony. She had converted of her own accord, her mother-in-law said. When they went to get their marriage registered on December 5, a Bajrang Dal group turned up and handed them over to the police. “I always saw her happy with her husband. She was very attached to her sister-in-law,” a neighbour said. “We pray for her recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sons-arrested-for-love-jihad-moradabad-family-surviving-on-neighbours-charity/articleshow/79726212.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana MLA stays put in Germany amid row over his citizenship||HYDERABAD: People of Vemulawada assembly constituency in Rajanna-Sircilla district will have to wait a little longer for their MLA, Chennamaneni Ramesh, to return to the constituency. The TRS MLA is unlikely to return to Vemulawada constituency before Christmas. He had gone to Germany in March and has not returned since then. Also, a case pertaining to a row over his citizenship is posted for hearing in the Telangana high court on December 16. The Union home ministry had cancelled his Indian citizenship in November 2019. However, he got a stay order on it from the high court. If Ramesh loses the case in high court, he not only stands the risk of losing Indian citizenship but also his MLA seat. Though Ramesh has been conducting video conferences from Germany with party leaders and officials working in the constituency and staying in touch with the people, the TRS leadership has taken a serious view of his long absence and has issued an ultimatum asking him to return by December-end. Former Karimnagar MP and state planning commission vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said: “Ramesh has been in constant touch with the people of the constituency in various ways. He was not able to return due to the pandemic and flight services being suspended. We have asked him to return at the earliest. He is expected to arrive any time after Christmas,” Vinod Kumar said. Meanwhile, opposition parties slammed the ruling TRS over the absence of the MLA from the constituency for such a long time. “The local legislator should be with the people in times of crisis. The people of this constituency have suffered due to the lockdown. I was with the people and extended them all the help I could. What is the use of such an MLA who goes and sits in Germany when people who voted for him needed him the most,” said Aadi Srinivas of the Congress who lost the 2018 assembly polls to Ramesh. Repeated calls, messages on WhatsApp and e-mails to Ramesh remained unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mla-stays-put-in-germany-amid-row-over-his-citizenship/articleshow/79728160.cms||Roushan Ali
December 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Special rounds to begin from December 18 after third FYJC list for 66,000 seats||PUNE: The third merit list for the first year junior college (FYJC, std XI) admissions for nearly 66,000 seats will be announced on Tuesday by the centralised admissions committee. Students can confirm their seats up to December 18 after which the CAP will conduct special rounds for the remaining admissions. There are a total of 304 colleges in Pune region for FYJC seats with an intake of 1.07 lakh. The seats for inhouse and management quota are being filled at college level. The cut-offs for the second round also remained above 90% in many reputed colleges due to improved results this year in the secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) exams. For the second round, 46,794 applications were received and 23,120 students were allotted colleges of which 9,954 students have confirmed the admissions in the colleges allotted. Incharge of the CAP in Pune region, Meena Shendkar, said students must fill up the forms looking at the trends in admissions based on the percentages. ‘After two rounds, the picture is clear and students can judge which college they would fit best. While filling the preference forms, they should give priority to the top three colleges which has the cut-off near about their percentages scored," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/special-rounds-to-begin-from-dec-18-after-third-fyjc-list-for-66k-seats/articleshow/79728146.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||600 stressed colleges inSPPU study||Pune: A six-member committee appointed by the Savitribai Phule Pune University will look into financial problems faced by unaided colleges and recommend improvements in 15 days. Colleges must send their grievances and suggestions via email or a letter by December 18. Chairman Gajanan Ekbote said, “SPPU has about 800 affiliated colleges. Only 200-odd colleges are aided. The non-grant colleges, especially those in rural areas, are under financial stress. We had made a representation to the higher education minister and the vice-chancellor who appointed a committee on Saturday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/600-stressed-colleges-insppu-study/articleshow/79728170.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre can amend farm laws, but won’t repeal them: Kishan||Hyderabad: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Monday said that the Union government will not repeal the new farm laws despite protests from farmers. Addressing a press conference at BJP party office, he said, “The government is ready to make amendments to the laws as the farmers wish but will not scrap the laws”. The Union minister alleged that the market yard lobby in Punjab has strong control over the farmers and is behind the protests. The minister said that the farmers’ groups were happy with the discussions with the Centre, however, he said that after going back they refused all amendments and wanted the laws to be repealed.  “Although the MSP (minimum support price) for crops was never legally bound, we even assured them that we will make it a part of MSP. In fact, we will add more varieties of crops under MSP category,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-can-amend-farm-laws-but-wont-repeal-them-kishan/articleshow/79728165.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||130 new Covid cases in south Tamil Nadu, 95 on central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of active cases in the southern districts have climbed marginally to 1,166 with 130 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Monday, taking the total cases in the region to 1.3 lakh. The central districts on the other hand recorded 95 fresh cases taking the number of active cases to 768, and the total to 72,219. As the total cases in the state crossed eight lakh on Monday, the southern districts account for 16.4% of the cases. The two deaths include one each in Madurai and Dindigul. Both of them had comorbid conditions. In Madurai, a 56-year-old woman admitted in a private hospital on November 30 and tested positive on December 1 died on Sunday night. In Dindigul, a 68-year-old man who tested positive on Saturday and was admitted in the Coimbatore medical college hospital died the same evening. With 25 cases each, Madurai and Kanyakumari recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region on Monday, followed by Dindigul (21) and Tuticorin (16). As many as six districts in the region have recorded less than 10 cases each. Tenkasi (3) recorded the lowest, followed by Ramanathapuram (5), Theni (8) and nine each in Virudhunagar, Sivagangai and Tirunelveli. Though fresh cases dropped the number of active cases marginally climbed from 1,163 on Sunday to 1,166 on Monday. Madurai (277) continued to top the list in the region while Kanyakumari (185) is next. The other districts have less than 150 cases each of which four have less than 70 cases. In the central districts, increase in cases in Pudukottai (10), Thanjavur (24), Tiruvarur (18) and Trichy (19) added to the fresh case tally. Even though the numbers of fresh cases is fluctuating daily, the region has been keeping fresh cases below 100 for the last five days. The number of active cases has increased by 35 compared to 733 on Sunday. Perambalur did not report any fresh case again with only three active cases, while Ariyalur reported only one new case and 24 active cases. The district has been impressive in treating patients as the death toll (48) has not increased for several weeks now. The district has already discharged 4,539 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/130-new-cases-in-south-tn-95-on-central-region/articleshow/79729158.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 10.6 lakh pupils back, 70% rural schools now taking classes||PUNE: The attendance of students in classes in the rural areas in standards IX, X and XII has almost doubled after three weeks of partial reopening. Of the 56 lakh students from over 22,200 schools, nearly 19% (10.6 lakh) were attending physical classes on Monday, data released by the MSCERT showed. About 70% schools have reopened and the state education department is aiming at reopening all schools in the next two weeks. However, after Hingoli at 4%, Pune district has the poorest rate of attendance which was about 5% in the first week, and has fallen further in the third week. Only Jalgaon had all its schools open and the best attendance at 52.3%. Speaking to TOI, Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said, “Parents, teachers and students are our brand ambassadors who are going from door-to-door to give that confidence to students to attend schools. It will improve. We are not pressuring anybody to attend, but appealing to them.” Prasad said the low response in Pune district was because students have not returned from their villages . “Teachers are tracking the students who have not reported their availability. Many have left their rented homes so tracking the children and their parents is an uphill task,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-6l-pupils-back-70-rural-schools-now-taking-classes/articleshow/79728169.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 10.6 lakh pupils back, 70% rural schools now taking classes||PUNE: The attendance of students in classes in the rural areas in standards IX, X and XII has almost doubled after three weeks of partial reopening. Of the 56 lakh students from over 22,200 schools, nearly 19% (10.6 lakh) were attending physical classes on Monday, data released by the MSCERT showed. About 70% schools have reopened and the state education department is aiming at reopening all schools in the next two weeks. However, after Hingoli at 4%, Pune district has the poorest rate of attendance which was about 5% in the first week, and has fallen further in the third week. Only Jalgaon had all its schools open and the best attendance at 52.3%. Speaking to TOI, Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said, “Parents, teachers and students are our brand ambassadors who are going from door-to-door to give that confidence to students to attend schools. It will improve. We are not pressuring anybody to attend, but appealing to them.” Prasad said the low response in Pune district was because students have not returned from their villages . “Teachers are tracking the students who have not reported their availability. Many have left their rented homes so tracking the children and their parents is an uphill task,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/10-6l-pupils-back-70-rural-schools-now-taking-classes/articleshow/79731301.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Minor scuffles amid polling in Malabar||KOZHIKODE: Minor scuffles between workers of various political parties were reported from the Malabar districts, where the local body elections were held one Monday. Police fired tear gas grenades and resorted to lathicharge to disperse a group of UDF workers who assembled in the road near the polling booth at a school at Cheeyoor in Nadapuram panchayat in Kozhikode. Six police personnel were injured, and two police vehicles damaged in the stone pelting. Several party workers were also injured in the police action. Nadapuram police have registered a case against 100 people in connection with the incident. Police said a large number of UDF workers had gathered near the premises of the polling station which had booths belonging to two wards. However, the workers refused to clear the area leading to a skirmish with the police. UDF leaders said that it was the police who caused the provocation and had asked to close the shutters of the shops near the booth when the polling was proceeding peacefully. Meanwhile, CPM alleged that IUML workers tried to attack the vehicle of its Kannur district secretary M V Jayarajan at Nellikkappalam after the elections. Jayarajan told reporters that the miscreants were carrying weapons with them. He said it was the timely act of the driver of the car that avoided casualties. LDF and Welfare Party workers clashed at Kodiyathoor in which three persons suffered injuries. A minor scuffle broke out between LDF and SDPI activists at the polling booth at Karuvampoyil higher secondary school where voting was held for three booths of Koduvally municipality. In Malappuram, skirmishes broke out between UDF and LDF activists over casting of an open vote at a polling booth at Kodathur in Perumbadappu panchayat. When the LDF workers brought an elderly person to the booth to cast an open vote, UDF workers objected to it, saying that relatives of the person were absent. UDF candidate Suhara Ahmed complained that two persons deliberately hit her with their motorcycle when she was crossing the road. Police dispersed the workers of the rival fronts. LDF and UDF workers clashed near the polling station of the ward 16 of Tanur municipality over allegations of trying to influence voters. In another incident, UDF and LDF activists clashed near the premises of a polling station at Chenakkal in Vengara panchayat in Malappuram after IUML workers raised the complaint that an IUML rebel candidate solicited votes from voters near the polling station premises. A 68- year old woman voter died following a heart attack after casting her vote at Beypore in Kozhikode. The woman, identified as Devi, wife of Nanu of Nambiar Veedu, suffered a heart attack after casting her vote at booth 5 in Beypore LP School. Meanwhile, police took into custody an IUML worker, Murshid, in Kadannappally grama panchayat in Kannur as he tried to cast the vote of his brother who is in the Gulf. In Muzhappilangad panchayat in Kannur, a voter complained that his vote was cast by another person while he was standing in the queue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/minor-scuffles-amid-polling-in-malabar/articleshow/79727015.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Two, including former DVAC cop sentenced in bribery case||MADURAI: Observing that every member of the disciplinary force should be honest, the Madurai special court for trial of cases under Prevention of Corruption Act, on Monday, convicted and sentenced two people including a former DVAC inspector in a bribery case. According to sources, Perumal Pandian, who was working as the DVAC inspector at Madurai was in 2010 entrusted with an inquiry regarding the disproportionate assets possessed by a doctor Ashok Kumar. In order to complete the investigation in the doctor’s favour, the inspector demanded a bribe. Since Kumar informed the DVAC officials, they set up a trap and arrested Pandian when he received Rs 1.20 lakh bribe. Another man Namachivayam who acted as a mediator for the inspector was also arrested. The special judge T P Vadivelu observed, “This is a rare case in which a vigilance police officer himself indulged in bribery activities. Every member of the disciplinary force who may be a judicial officer or police officer is supposed to be honest and they should be loyal to their institution. Here, the vigilance wing had faith on the accused officer by entrusting with him the sensitive vigilance enquiry cases. But, he had stabbed them in the back by deceiving their faith.” Hence, the judge directed Pandian to undergo three years rigorous imprisonment under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and imposed a fine of Rs 1,000. The judge further directed him to undergo three years rigorous imprisonment under Sections 13(2) r/w 13(1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act and imposed a fine of Rs 1,000. The judge directed him to undergo both the sentences concurrently. The judge also convicted and sentenced Namachivayam to undergo two months simple imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 2,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-including-former-dvac-cop-sentenced-in-bribery-case/articleshow/79729136.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Courtallam falls to reopen today after more than eight months||TENKASI: All the falls in Courtallam will be opened to tourists from Tuesday (December 15) after remaining closed for more than eight months due to the lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19. The district administration on Monday announced that the Main Falls, Old Falls, Five Falls and Tiger Falls will be open from 6am to 6pm by following social distancing and other guidelines. Public will be allowed to maintain social distance while enjoying their bath. The district administration has formed committees to monitor the reopening and movement of public at one committee in each of the falls. The committees will decide the number of people who can have a bath simultaneously after considering various factors. People should wear masks at the tourist spots. Officials have asked public to prioritise health and sanitation and maintain at least two metres distance. People from containment zones are requested to avoid coming to the falls or tourist spots. Tourists staying in lodges, home stays and resorts are asked to keep the doors locked. Traders have been instructed to use disinfectants without fail and to maintain cleanliness. The decision to open the falls has brought cheers among traders as they hope better business during the Christmas, New Year and Pongal holidays. Traders recalled that this time of the year they used to be busy with the Sabarimala season crowd thronging the place. In Kanyakumari, the district administration has announced formal reopening of the Kanyakumari beach, Kanyakumari boat house, Thiruparappu Falls, Eco Park, Mathur Thottipalam, parks and other tourist spots from 6am to 6pm from Tuesday. Fines will be collected by the police, revenue, public health and local body officials from erring tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/courtallam-falls-to-reopen-today-after-more-than-eight-months/articleshow/79729155.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: 10.6 lakh pupils back, 70% rural schools now taking classes||PUNE: The attendance of students in classes in the rural areas in standards IX, X and XII has almost doubled after three weeks of partial reopening. Of the 56 lakh students from over 22,200 schools, nearly 19% (10.6 lakh) were attending physical classes on Monday, data released by the MSCERT showed. About 70% schools have reopened and the state education department is aiming at reopening all schools in the next two weeks. However, after Hingoli at 4%, Pune district has the poorest rate of attendance which was about 5% in the first week, and has fallen further in the third week. Only Jalgaon had all its schools open and the best attendance at 52.3%. Speaking to TOI, Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said, “Parents, teachers and students are our brand ambassadors who are going from door-to-door to give that confidence to students to attend schools. It will improve. We are not pressuring anybody to attend, but appealing to them.” Prasad said the low response in Pune district was because students have not returned from their villages . “Teachers are tracking the students who have not reported their availability. Many have left their rented homes so tracking the children and their parents is an uphill task,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-6l-pupils-back-70-rural-schools-now-taking-classes/articleshow/79731300.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: 10.6 lakh pupils back, 70% rural schools now taking classes||PUNE: The attendance of students in classes in the rural areas in standards IX, X and XII has almost doubled after three weeks of partial reopening. Of the 56 lakh students from over 22,200 schools, nearly 19% (10.6 lakh) were attending physical classes on Monday, data released by the MSCERT showed. About 70% schools have reopened and the state education department is aiming at reopening all schools in the next two weeks. However, after Hingoli at 4%, Pune district has the poorest rate of attendance which was about 5% in the first week, and has fallen further in the third week. Only Jalgaon had all its schools open and the best attendance at 52.3%. Speaking to TOI, Pune ZP chief executive officer, Ayush Prasad, said, “Parents, teachers and students are our brand ambassadors who are going from door-to-door to give that confidence to students to attend schools. It will improve. We are not pressuring anybody to attend, but appealing to them.” Prasad said the low response in Pune district was because students have not returned from their villages . “Teachers are tracking the students who have not reported their availability. Many have left their rented homes so tracking the children and their parents is an uphill task,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/10-6l-pupils-back-70-rural-schools-now-taking-classes/articleshow/79731299.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 15, 2020||Trichy||130 new Covid cases in south Tamil Nadu, 95 on central region||MADURAI/TRICHY: The number of active cases in the southern districts have climbed marginally to 1,166 with 130 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Monday, taking the total cases in the region to 1.3 lakh. The central districts on the other hand recorded 95 fresh cases taking the number of active cases to 768, and the total to 72,219. As the total cases in the state crossed eight lakh on Monday, the southern districts account for 16.4% of the cases. The two deaths include one each in Madurai and Dindigul. Both of them had comorbid conditions. In Madurai, a 56-year-old woman admitted in a private hospital on November 30 and tested positive on December 1 died on Sunday night. In Dindigul, a 68-year-old man who tested positive on Saturday and was admitted in the Coimbatore medical college hospital died the same evening. With 25 cases each, Madurai and Kanyakumari recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region on Monday, followed by Dindigul (21) and Tuticorin (16). As many as six districts in the region have recorded less than 10 cases each. Tenkasi (3) recorded the lowest, followed by Ramanathapuram (5), Theni (8) and nine each in Virudhunagar, Sivagangai and Tirunelveli. Though fresh cases dropped the number of active cases marginally climbed from 1,163 on Sunday to 1,166 on Monday. Madurai (277) continued to top the list in the region while Kanyakumari (185) is next. The other districts have less than 150 cases each of which four have less than 70 cases. In the central districts, increase in cases in Pudukottai (10), Thanjavur (24), Tiruvarur (18) and Trichy (19) added to the fresh case tally. Even though the numbers of fresh cases is fluctuating daily, the region has been keeping fresh cases below 100 for the last five days. The number of active cases has increased by 35 compared to 733 on Sunday. Perambalur did not report any fresh case again with only three active cases, while Ariyalur reported only one new case and 24 active cases. The district has been impressive in treating patients as the death toll (48) has not increased for several weeks now. The district has already discharged 4,539 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/130-new-cases-in-south-tn-95-on-central-region/articleshow/79733074.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: BJP state in-charge says 99% farmers with PM Modi||JAIPUR: BJP state in-charge Arun Singh has accused the Congress, the communists and the separatists of influencing the ongoing farmers protest in Delhi. He said 99% of farmers are with PM Modi and those protesting are not clear on the laws. “The protesting farmers are not even 1%. They are 0.01 per cent if we look at them. It is a democracy and everybody has a right to protest and so do farmers. Our party and leaders are leaving no stone unturned to address their concerns on the laws and I am sure that soon they will understand,” said Singh. He blamed the separatist and communist forces fuelling the protest by misleading them on the facts. “Attempts are being made to hijack the protest by raising posters of Sharjeel Imam,” said Singh. Imam was arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the anti-CAA protest. He accused the Congress for taking a u-turn on the farm laws for the political gains. “The Congress in their manifesto in 2019 polls had advocated to bring similar reforms in the agriculture sector. They are protesting only because it was brought by the BJP,” said Singh, who claimed that the success of the BJP in rural polls in the state makes it clear that people have accepted the farm laws.  Replying to a question on NDA ally and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal taking a stand against the central government, he said that efforts are being made to convince him on farm laws. “I am sure the central leadership will work out on the confusion he has on the laws,” said Singh. During the last two days, he held a meeting with state party leaders and took the update on the party strategy on the upcoming polls in the state. Singh will visit the state in January to hold a meeting with the core committee members to finalise the strategy for the bypolls in three seats. He directed the leaders to track beneficiaries of central government schemes in the bypoll bound constituencies — Rajsamand, Sahara and Sujangarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bjp-state-in-charge-says-99-farmers-with-modi/articleshow/79732583.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: BJP state in-charge says 99% farmers with PM Modi||JAIPUR: BJP state in-charge Arun Singh has accused the Congress, the communists and the separatists of influencing the ongoing farmers protest in Delhi. He said 99% of farmers are with PM Modi and those protesting are not clear on the laws. “The protesting farmers are not even 1%. They are 0.01 per cent if we look at them. It is a democracy and everybody has a right to protest and so do farmers. Our party and leaders are leaving no stone unturned to address their concerns on the laws and I am sure that soon they will understand,” said Singh. He blamed the separatist and communist forces fuelling the protest by misleading them on the facts. “Attempts are being made to hijack the protest by raising posters of Sharjeel Imam,” said Singh. Imam was arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the anti-CAA protest. He accused the Congress for taking a u-turn on the farm laws for the political gains. “The Congress in their manifesto in 2019 polls had advocated to bring similar reforms in the agriculture sector. They are protesting only because it was brought by the BJP,” said Singh, who claimed that the success of the BJP in rural polls in the state makes it clear that people have accepted the farm laws.  Replying to a question on NDA ally and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal taking a stand against the central government, he said that efforts are being made to convince him on farm laws. “I am sure the central leadership will work out on the confusion he has on the laws,” said Singh. During the last two days, he held a meeting with state party leaders and took the update on the party strategy on the upcoming polls in the state. Singh will visit the state in January to hold a meeting with the core committee members to finalise the strategy for the bypolls in three seats. He directed the leaders to track beneficiaries of central government schemes in the bypoll bound constituencies — Rajsamand, Sahara and Sujangarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bjp-state-in-charge-says-99-farmers-with-modi/articleshow/79732584.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Can hold ‘Kisaan Bagh’: Activists||Hyderabad: Social activists on Monday said they are thinking of holding Kisaan Bagh, similar to that of Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh protests against Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens, in an expression of solidarity with the protesting farmers. At a round-table conference organised by Tehreek Muslim Shabban, activists deliberated over forming a joint action committee for the cause while terming the new farm laws anti-farmer.  Mushtaq Malik, president, Tehreek Muslim Shabban, said, “The Centre is exploiting laws and implementing new ones to benefit a handful of rich Indians...” Activists said that the laws were against every Indian household with a kitchen. Professor Kodandaram said that there must be another Million March in support of the farmers’ agitation. The activists also urged the imams of mosques to spread awareness on the farm laws during Friday sermons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-hold-kisaan-bagh-activists/articleshow/79728173.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Kamal Haasan to contest in Tamil Nadu assembly polls; meets business leaders, advocates||MADURAI: Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan on Monday said he will contest in the upcoming assembly election in Tamil Nadu. “But it will not be appropriate now to divulge the constituency from where I will contest,” he said. Interacting with reporters in Madurai before proceeding to campaign in Theni, Kamal, when asked if he saw Rajinikanth as his opponent in politics, said they were not competitors even in the film industry, but an impression had been created as if they were rivals. “We both had clear separate paths which we pursued,” he said. Asked if there was any chance team up with Rajinikanth, Kamal said the right time had to come for it. “We will have to wait till December 31 to reply to that,” he said. On whether he was in talks with any party to form a third front as proposed by him, Kamal said, “It is party secret. It will not be good to divulge it now. We will announce it soon.” When asked why the Tamil Nadu government had restricted his campaign, Kamal said the state government could be afraid that MNM would win the support of people. He said the party’s election manifesto would give importance to a corruption-free government in the state. “Nothing could be changed by merely punishing people in the lower rung of the government. Things have to start from the higher level,” he said. Asked if he would be against corporates, Kamal said it would be foolish to say that there should not be any big corporates. “Big businesses have to take place in order to build big cities. Micro and small industries should also equally flourish,” he said. On Monday afternoon, Kamal left for Theni. He opened a party office at Usilampatti where a large number of people had gathered to greet him. Talking to women party cadres in Theni, Kamal said that there would be a minimum of 20 women achievers in his cabinet. “MNM is the only party where women can function freely,” he said. “Deputy chief minister O Pannerselvam said women can rule 2.5 years out of five years, but why didn't he come forward to hand over key party posts to women in the AIADMK?” he asked. He added that while sons are given importance in politics, daughters are denied the opportunity. Earlier in Madurai, the actor held meetings with businessmen and advocates in a private hotel on his second day in Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kamal-haasan-says-he-will-contest-in-tn-assembly-poll/articleshow/79729168.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Woman seeks transfer of man missing case to CB-CID||TUTICORIN: A woman from Tuticorin has petitioned the SP S Jayakumar urging him to transfer her son’s missing case to CB-CID or CBI as she has lost confidence in the local police’s investigation. She also staged a protest holding a banner of her son’s photo and placards along with her family members and relatives. R Gomathiammal’s son R Kannan, a father of three, went missing after he had gone for fishing in a boat belonging to Christhuraja from Tharuvaikulam on October 24. She was told that he fell into the sea and could not be located. Based on a complaint from Christhuraja, a case was registered with the Marine Police and was later transferred to the local police, she said. Gomathiammal said that Kannan has not been found alive or dead so far. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-seeks-transfer-of-man-missing-case-to-cb-cid/articleshow/79729185.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||VHR goes on hunger strike||Hyderabad: Congress veteran V Hanumanth Rao on Monday observed a day-long hunger strike at his residence here to express support and solidarity with the protesting farmers in New Delhi who are demanding that the farm laws brought by the Centre be repealed. Rao sought to ask why chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has gone silent over the issue of farm laws after his meeting with PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. “KCR had announced total support to the Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers. However, the ruling TRS and its leaders are not participating in any protest programmes of farmers thereafter. KCR should come clear on this,” he demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-goes-on-hunger-strike/articleshow/79728182.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: BJP state in-charge says 99% farmers with PM Modi||JAIPUR: BJP state in-charge Arun Singh has accused the Congress, the communists and the separatists of influencing the ongoing farmers protest in Delhi. He said 99% of farmers are with PM Modi and those protesting are not clear on the laws. “The protesting farmers are not even 1%. They are 0.01 per cent if we look at them. It is a democracy and everybody has a right to protest and so do farmers. Our party and leaders are leaving no stone unturned to address their concerns on the laws and I am sure that soon they will understand,” said Singh. He blamed the separatist and communist forces fuelling the protest by misleading them on the facts. “Attempts are being made to hijack the protest by raising posters of Sharjeel Imam,” said Singh. Imam was arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the anti-CAA protest. He accused the Congress for taking a u-turn on the farm laws for the political gains. “The Congress in their manifesto in 2019 polls had advocated to bring similar reforms in the agriculture sector. They are protesting only because it was brought by the BJP,” said Singh, who claimed that the success of the BJP in rural polls in the state makes it clear that people have accepted the farm laws.  Replying to a question on NDA ally and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal taking a stand against the central government, he said that efforts are being made to convince him on farm laws. “I am sure the central leadership will work out on the confusion he has on the laws,” said Singh. During the last two days, he held a meeting with state party leaders and took the update on the party strategy on the upcoming polls in the state. Singh will visit the state in January to hold a meeting with the core committee members to finalise the strategy for the bypolls in three seats. He directed the leaders to track beneficiaries of central government schemes in the bypoll bound constituencies — Rajsamand, Sahara and Sujangarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bjp-state-in-charge-says-99-farmers-with-modi/articleshow/79732582.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP state in-charge says 99% farmers with PM Modi||JAIPUR: BJP state in-charge Arun Singh has accused the Congress, the communists and the separatists of influencing the ongoing farmers protest in Delhi. He said 99% of farmers are with PM Modi and those protesting are not clear on the laws. “The protesting farmers are not even 1%. They are 0.01 per cent if we look at them. It is a democracy and everybody has a right to protest and so do farmers. Our party and leaders are leaving no stone unturned to address their concerns on the laws and I am sure that soon they will understand,” said Singh. He blamed the separatist and communist forces fuelling the protest by misleading them on the facts. “Attempts are being made to hijack the protest by raising posters of Sharjeel Imam,” said Singh. Imam was arrested by the Delhi police in connection with the anti-CAA protest. He accused the Congress for taking a u-turn on the farm laws for the political gains. “The Congress in their manifesto in 2019 polls had advocated to bring similar reforms in the agriculture sector. They are protesting only because it was brought by the BJP,” said Singh, who claimed that the success of the BJP in rural polls in the state makes it clear that people have accepted the farm laws.  Replying to a question on NDA ally and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal taking a stand against the central government, he said that efforts are being made to convince him on farm laws. “I am sure the central leadership will work out on the confusion he has on the laws,” said Singh. During the last two days, he held a meeting with state party leaders and took the update on the party strategy on the upcoming polls in the state. Singh will visit the state in January to hold a meeting with the core committee members to finalise the strategy for the bypolls in three seats. He directed the leaders to track beneficiaries of central government schemes in the bypoll bound constituencies — Rajsamand, Sahara and Sujangarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-state-in-charge-says-99-farmers-with-modi/articleshow/79728178.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||CS: Introduce e-file tracking system in all departments||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya has given directions to implement e-file tracking system in all departments to enhance transparency and accountability. The chief secretary was holding an open discussion with higher officials on implementation of e-tracking system in all departments through video conferencing at the Secretariat on Monday. He said that according to the intention of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the e-file tracking system will increase transparency and speed in the movement of files and it will also become easier to know when, where and which files are under process and to act quickly. Arya instructed officials that the departments where the e-file tracking system is not implemented yet should implement it with immediate effect. He also discussed the subject of full implementation of Raj-Kaj, e-office, e-file with all the officials and instructed everyone to make preliminary preparations in this regard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cs-introduce-e-file-tracking-system-in-all-departments/articleshow/79728187.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB to seal shops, impose huge fines on traders without licence||Secunderabad: Officials of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) on Monday said that they will take stern action against traders doing business without trade licence and those who fail to renew them. The officials said that either hefty fines would be imposed on such traders or their shops/commercial establishments would be sealed. As per SCB records, out of 4,000 shops and commercial units, only around 1,000 commercial units are operating with a licence while the remaining traders have either not renewed their licence or ignored the SCB’s pleas. “We had appealed to all the traders to apply for a fresh trade licence and the November 30 deadline is over too. We received lukewarm response from the traders. Heavy penalties between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000 will be imposed on the traders and their shops will be sealed if they continue to operate without licence,” SCB senior superintendent (SWM), M Devender, said. The trade licence fee will be collected based on the space of the commercial units in the range of Rs 3 to Rs 5 per square yard,” said the SCB official. The official added that the SCB is incurring a loss of nearly Rs 5 crore per annum due to the issue. However, a trader blamed official apathy for delays in granting licences. “There are delays in issuing of trade licences due to postponement of SCB meetings,” a trader, who received his trade licence after a long wait, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-to-seal-shops-impose-huge-fines-on-traders-without-licence/articleshow/79728194.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers protest: Leaders observe fast at Alwar border||JAIPUR: Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Ram Pal Jat, Swaraj Abhiyaan leader Yogendra Yadav and a few others observed fast at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border to pay their homage to farmers who died during the agitation in Delhi over the past 19 days. “We observed fast till 5pm to express our gratitude and pay homage to the farmers who died during the agitation in Delhi. Another thing, we also did this for soul-searching and introspection. We have been agitating for the past many days, but we should also do a bit of self-analysis,” Ram Pal Jat told TOI. “There should be no feeling of enmity. Neither the government should consider the farmers as its enemies, nor should the farmers feel the same about the government. Four of us observed fast today (Monday) including Yogendra Yadavji,” he added. It is believed that around 20 protesters died at Delhi borders in the past 19 days. The Jaipur-Delhi national highway (NH-8) remained sealed at Shahajahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border on Monday as well, allowing only vehicles coming from Delhi to pass through the border from one side. Meanwhile, the Alwar administration and police diverted the vehicles travelling to Delhi through the Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal route. Meanwhile, farmers’ organisations – led by All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC) - and Left parties protested outside Jaipur Collectorate demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws. Around 250 protesters marched from Khasa Kothi to the Collectorate and staged a demonstration there. They also submitted a memorandum to collector Antar Singh Nehra demanding withdrawal of the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leaders-observe-fast-at-alwar-border/articleshow/79728189.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Arrested fishers intended to surrender, claims activist||Kanyakumari: Five Indian fishermen who fled from Oman to India and were arrested, did not intend to reach home under hiding but wanted to surrender before the Indian Navy or the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) after entering Indian waters, said general secretary of the South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) Churchil, who is fighting for their cause. The men were lodged in the Nagercoil sub-jail in Kanyakumari district on Monday evening. “They went fishing on December 1 but their boat suffered a technical snag. They asked their employer for help but he did not send them. After remaining stranded in the sea for two days they got help from another fishing boat,” Churchil said. According to him, one of the fishermen S Sahaya Thadeus has experience in repairing boats. Once he fixed the engine on December 4 they decided to flee to India instead of suffering harassment by their employer. Directionless, they headed northward and realised that they were near Pakistan when they noticed a few Pakistan fishing vessels. “They sailed south and reached the Lakshadweep, from where they headed to Cochin, Vizhinjam and Muttom. They did not come across the navy or ICG anywhere,” he added. The fishermen Stephen, Thadeus, G Joseph Edwin, M Pranjees and S Aldo and were booked under section 3 (iii) of The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920. Kin of the fishermen and SAFF have appealed to the government to quash the FIR against the fishermen and free them as they only tried to save themselves from their employer. Meanwhile, the marine police said that Bangladeshi national Md Razib Uddin, 29, had no clue that he was leaving Oman and that his fellow fishermen were taking him with them to India. He was booked under section 14(a) (remains in any area in India for a period exceeding the period for which the visa was issued to him) of The Foreigners Act, 1946. Uddin was sent to Chennai to be lodged at the Puzhal Prison as he is a foreign national. Police said his arrest would be taken to the notice of the Bangladesh high commission in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/arrested-fishers-intended-to-surrender-claims-activist/articleshow/79729194.cms||M K Ananth
December 15, 2020||Surat||Over 2,000 duplicate watches seized from shop||Surat: The city police arrested an owner of the watch shop at Bhagal’s Bundelawad with a huge cache of duplicate wristwatches of international brands on Monday.Police said that Imran Memon, owner of Sana Times was arrested for selling duplicate wrist watches of international brands. About 2,075 wrist watches valued at Rs 62 lakh were seized by the police on Monday.Acting on the specific information, a team of sleuths from the Mahidharpura police station raided the shop. Few days ago, a huge stock of duplicate branded watches had arrived at the shop from Mumbai. “We received specific information about the duplicate watches of top brands at the shop. The accused is dealing in the wrist watches for the last many years. We have seized watches of over 20 international brands,” said Valji Hadiya, police sub-inspector of Mahidhapura police station.According to Hadiya, the shop owner has landed in the custody of CID Crime in February. The police had seizedthe watches then and arrested Memon. Hadiya added, “We are trying to find out the source from where the accused brought such a huge quantity of duplicate wrist watch.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-2000-duplicate-watches-seized-from-shop/articleshow/79726234.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Madurai||Protest held against farm laws in south districts||MADURAI: Farmers staged a protest at the Madurai collectorate urging the Central government to withdraw the recently passed farm laws, in solidarity with the farmers protesting in New Delhi. Around 100 farmers, under the banner All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, gathered at Thiruvalluvar statue and marched towards Madurai district collector office where a posse of police was deployed. As they were stopped at the entrance, they sat down and staged a protest. They raised slogans against the central government for its anti farmer attitude and against the state government for refusing to raise voice in support of protesting farmers. The police resorted to arrest as they were blocking vehicular movement. Members of Tamil Puligal Katch attempted to stage a rail roko at Periyar Junction and but were stopped by the police personnel posted there. Some of them were arrested and released later. Members of CPI(M) staged a protest in front of a private apparel retail outlet on the bypass road condemning the farm laws. MP Su Venkatesan took part in the protest organized by CPI’s urban district secretary R Vijayarajan. Members of Naam Tamilar Party staged a protest at Thiruvalluvar statue near collector office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protest-held-against-farm-laws-in-south-dists/articleshow/79729209.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Facebook must act against Bajrang Dal: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi criticised Facebook and alleged that the management of the social media platform is hesitating to act against Bajrang Dal. He also said that Facebook’s management feared attacks on their employees and infrastructure and is trying to keep BJP happy by not initiating action and that would lead to violence against minorities. “Bajrang Dal & 2 other groups weren’t banned on Facebook only because it didn’t want to risk angering BJP leaders. FB also feared that its employees & offices will be attacked. The cost of keeping the BJP happy was that FB ended up amplifying hate & violence against minorities,” tweeted Owaisi. He added that Facebook, by not banning the right-wing group will risk many lives, and the organisation was forced to choose between safety of Indians and investments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-fb-must-act-against-bajrang-dal/articleshow/79728188.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Thane||Thane: Woman falls while boarding train, saved||THANE: Quick thinking by railway police helped avert a mishap involving a woman and her young daughter while they were boarding a moving train at Mumbra on Monday morning. Central Railway officials said Rijban Khan (29) and her sixyear-old daughter from Mumbra were boarding a train for Mumbai on platform 2 at 10.35am when the train started. The mother lost her balance and fell off the footboard. Shahrukh Sheikh, Rahul Sonawane, Santosh Devkar from MSF pulled her away and stopped her from rolling into the gap between the train and platform. The daughter panicked and tried to disembark when constable Anuradha Pagote quickly boarded the coach to ensure her safety. Pagote and the child alighted at Kalwa, returned to Mumbra and reunited the girl with her mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rly-cops-save-woman-reunite-her-with-daughter/articleshow/79727644.cms||Manoj Badgeri
December 15, 2020||Bareilly||DM forms panel, decides to extend limit from 1 to 5 km of Pilibhit wildlife sanctuary’s ESZ||Pilibhit: In an effort to provide a final shape to the proposal of Pilibhit wildlife sanctuary’s eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), the district magistrate (DM) Pulkit Khare has decided to extend its limit from an earlier proposed one km to at least five km. To review the status of existing industries, particularly the brick kilns, saw mills, jaggery units and hotels, a committee of district level officials has been constituted. The panel will also identify the areas critically affected by the man-tiger conflict, and file its report within a week to create a framework for the finalization of the ESZ proposal. Notably, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court on December 11, 2018, had directed the Centre to declare at the earliest the 10 km area around those 21 wildlife sanctuaries (WS) and national parks (NP) in eight states as ESZ which were still awaiting government orders. By this order, the government could modify the size of ESZ as per the local conditions. The provision of ESZ has been subsumed to prohibit, restrict or permit certain activities in proximity of the protected forest area for the conservation and protection of the wildlife. The size of ESZ is ultimately decided by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on the proposals filed by the respective states. Of the total 664 WS and NP across the country, the proposals for ESZ of 21 NP and WS from eight states, including the Pilibhit wildlife sanctuaries, have yet not been filed to the MoEFCC. “The actual size of ESZ may vary at different locations around the forest regions in view of the status of tigers straying and the threats to healthy survival of wildlife posed by certain activities liable for spreading sound, soil, water and air pollution. Such activities would be strictly prohibited within five km of the forest periphery," the DM said on Sunday. Decisions about imposing strict regulations on certain existing units which were deemed to be hazardous for the forest environment such as brick kiln, saw mills and jaggery units would be included in the proposal. “We have decided to ban fishing contracts in the 22-km-long Sharda Sagar dam which is adjacent to the core area of Mahof forest range," the DM added. The ESZ in areas prone to tigers straying out would be kept under 5 km, he said. Deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said the draft of the first proposal has been filed and certain revisions are required for its completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-forms-panel-decides-to-extend-limit-from-1-to-5-km-of-pilibhit-wildlife-sanctuarys-esz/articleshow/79843127.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||New MV guidelines can impact earnings, profits: Transport assns||Hyderabad: A week after the Centre put in place the new Motor Vehicle Aggregator Guidelines 2020, the cab drivers, operators of private buses and other transport associations in the city have raised concerns stating that the increased compliance costs, caps on commission fee and surge fee can impact the earnings and profitability of both drivers and aggregators. The transport associations have submitted a representation to the government to make changes in the guidelines by further reducing the caps on commission fee and make labour code applicable to them to receive benefits like fixed working hours, overtime, ESI and PF. Shaik Salauddin, national general secretary of the Indian Federation of App-based Transport workers (IFAT), said that they have appealed to the government to re-evaluate the 20% commission. “The current version of the guidelines may be detrimental for aggregation models for transport vehicles. Therefore, we have made suggestions and appealed to the government to re-evaluate the 20% commission for cab aggregators and see if it can be lowered further as the drivers are suffering from not only the pandemic but also from rising fuel prices and insurance agents threatening to retake possession of our vehicles,” he said. The drivers have been demanding that the commission be reduced from 20% to 5-10% for months now, especially taking the pandemic impact into account. As per the guidelines, the aggregator has been asked to ensure that every driver is provided with a health insurance integrated with the aggregator for an amount not less than Rs 5 lakh with base year 2020-21 and increased by 5% each year. Additionally, a term insurance of Rs 10 lakh must also be provided to each driver. However, while appreciating the new rules, the drivers said that the benefits can be availed only if they are considered registered employees of the company. P Narayana, an Ola and Uber driver said, “These guidelines will be of no help until we are considered employees of these companies. Only when we are considered employees, the labour code can be applied to us and we will be able to receive benefits such as health insurance and PF. Until then, implementing the guidelines on the ground will be a challenge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-mv-guidelines-can-impact-earnings-profits-transport-assns/articleshow/79728209.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Cold wave grips Raj; Mt Abu at -0.4°C||Jaipur: Majority of the places witnessed dip in temperatures while cold wave conditions were witnessed in the state on Monday. Mount Abu in the hills and Sikar in the plains remained coldest logging temperatures of -0.4°C and 4.5°C respectively. Attributing the continued dip in the mercury to the vanishing of western disturbances and upper air cyclonic circulation, Jaipur Met office said shivering cold conditions will further aggravate in the next couple of days. People in Jaipur witnessed a chilly morning as a minimum temperature of 10°C was recorded in the city. Fog and mist affected road and rail traffic from Jaipur. Due to heavy fog in the morning especially in Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Pilani and Churu, buses to these places from Jaipur were taking more time to reach. The North Western Railway had cancelled trains including Ajmer-Sealdah and Ajmer-Amritsar trains. Mount Abu and Sikar were followed by Pilani (6.4°C), Jaisalmer (7.4°C), Bikaner (7.6°C), Churu (7.7°C), Phalodi (9.8°C), Barmer (9.9°C), Jaipur (10°C), Jodhpur (11.5°C), Ajmer (12.2°C), Bhilwara (12.4°C), Kota (13.4°C) and Udaipur (15.2°C).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cold-wave-grips-raj-mt-abu-at-0-4c/articleshow/79728196.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC buses, trucks remain stranded||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Roadways Corporation (RSRTC) buses and trucks remained disconnected with states including Delhi, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir and some parts of Uttar Pradesh for the second consecutive day on Monday due to farmers’ protest near Shahjahanpur (Haryana) on Jaipur-Delhi NH-8. Cabs and private bus operators also did not operate its buses to Delhi. Farmers had demanded that they should either be allowed to move to Delhi or they would start a dharna at Shahjahanpur. Anticipating trouble, Rajasthan and Haryana police have been diverting the routes of buses, cabs, trucks and other vehicles. However, on Monday at least 20 RSRTC buses to Delhi remained cancelled while more than which plies to Uttrakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Jammu were also cancelled. “We were not been able to send our buses to Delhi because of the jammed NH-8 from Shahjahanpur and diversions from Kothputli itself we could not send a single bus to Delhi. Some of our night buses which departed from Delhi arrived in the morning at Jaipur via diverted routes,” said Sudhir Bhati, chief manager, public relations. Likewise, private cabs which operate between Delhi and Jaipur for pick and drop services did not operate for the second day. “On Sunday, more than 50 of our our vehicles remained stuck near Shahjahanpur. We have asked our drivers to stay back at some hotels and wait for appropriate time to move,” said Sukhdev Singh, a tour operator who provides taxis and cabs to Delhi and other states. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-buses-trucks-remain-stranded/articleshow/79728212.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Thane||Thane: Knockout shot for Thai boxing contest||Shanti Nagar police in Bhiwandi filed an FIR against an organizer and associates of Bhiwandi Fight Club for holding a Thai boxing competition despite restrictions due to Covid-19. It was attended by around 50 persons, violating social distancing norms and without police permission at Yahya compound, Kidwainagar. Salman Abdul Momin, who runs Salman Gymnastic Centre in Bhiwandi, was booked. Police sources said it was inaugurated by BJP MLA Mahesh Chougule, whose son participated in the competition. Police filed an FIR against Momin and associates under IPC and Disaster Management Act 2005 sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/knockout-shot-for-thai-boxing-contest/articleshow/79727654.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Domestic violence victims plan statewide campaign||Hyderabad: A confederation of more than 20 women organisations of married women who are victims of domestic violence on Monday announced a statewide campaign— Movement Against Domestic Violence on Women— and urged the state government to strictly enforce law against perpetrators of domestic violence. Addressing a press conference, the confederation led by (Retd.) Major Professor Sultana Khan, appealed the government to deal with cases of domestic violence strictly. Heads of All India Samajika Mahagana Sangharshan Samithi, United Forum of SC, ST, BC and all minorities, Mahila Wing Anti-Corruption Committee, NFIW and others including women poets and writers participated in the conference. Major Sultana Khan told reporters that several married women are tortured by their in-laws and are living like widows. She cited the example of one Anjum Sultana, whose husband deserted her and their three young children, and married another woman. “Several such cases happen in our society that remain under-reported. If justice is not served to these women, it will tear the fabric of the society,” she said. The confederation appealed the government to support its movement while urging the public to come forward and support their movement by reporting cases of domestic violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/domestic-violence-victims-plan-statewide-campaign/articleshow/79728213.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Meerut||UP: Man kills self after recording suicide video, blames wife, in-laws||MEERUT: A man from Khanpur area in Bulandshahr district killed himself shortly after he recorded a suicide video of himself narrating his ordeal. In the video, the deceased can be heard accusing several members of his in-law’s family for forcing him to take the extreme step. According to police, the deceased man, in his early 20s, is a native of Baghwala village in the district. A suicide note has also been recovered and case of abetment of suicide has been registered based on the complaint. "In the video, the deceased was heard saying that he is going to end life due to harassment by his wife and other family members. We took cognizance of the video and reached out to the family. Based on their complaint, a FIR under section 306 (abetment to suicide) has been registered and probe is underway,” Santosh Kumar, senior superintendent of police, Bulandshahr said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-kills-self-after-recording-suicide-video-blames-wife-in-laws/articleshow/79726309.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Meerut||UP: Man, 28, who eloped with lover & died mysteriously, was killed in police custody, say kin||MEERUT: The family members of a man, 28, who died under mysterious circumstances in Bulandshahr on December 9, on Monday alleged that he was killed in police custody at the behest of the kin of a woman he had eloped with a few days ago. They also claimed that their initial statement, in which they had just blamed the woman’s family for the death, was taken under police’s pressure. Somdutt was found dead on December 9, a day after police “recovered” him and the woman he had eloped with. There was no CCTV camera in working condition at the thana where Somdutt was kept, and his body was also cremated in a haste by police without conducting post-mortem examination, the family said. Local police, on their part, said that Somdutt hanged himself at his home, hours after he was handed over to the family. But, the station house office (SHO) of Khurja police station, Mithilesh Kumar Upadhyay, was suspended for “dereliction of duty”. In a letter (a copy of which is with TOI), addressed to the senior superintendent of police, Bulandshahr, the family said, “Due to the media attention on the case, policemen forced us to write a complaint according to their will and later registered a case based on it. We were pressured into giving an affidavit and statement in front of the Khurja SDM.” Speaking to TOI, Bhanu Prakash Vimal, lawyer of the family, said, “We are putting out a denial for the earlier statement. We will be sending an application and affidavit about it to the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police.” Somdutt, a resident of Shahjadpur Kanaini in Khurja, had fled with a local woman on December 6. Based on a complaint by the woman’s brother, an FIR under section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her for marriage) was soon registered. Police recovered the couple on December 9 and handed over the woman to her family after recording her statement in front of a magistrate. But the woman did not press any charge against the man before the magistrate. Somdutt, meanwhile, was allegedly in police custody. “We were not told about Somdutt’s whereabouts when police rescued him with the woman. He was returned to us and we didn’t sign any statement confirming his handing over. In the morning of December 9, local police and people from the woman’s side came to our house and told us that Somdutt had died. They later hurriedly cremated him in our absence,” Anil Kumar, elder brother of the deceased, said. Reacting to the allegation, Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh said, “The family has been consistently changing their statement. We will now wait for the findings of the magisterial probe before taking further action in the case.” When contacted for his comment, IG of Meerut range, Praveen Tripathi, said, “A magisterial probe in the case is going on. It will be not right to comment on this issue, at this stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-28-who-eloped-with-lover-died-mysteriously-was-killed-in-police-custody-say-kin/articleshow/79726316.cms||Piyush Rai
December 15, 2020||Surat||Dog caretaker family threatens owner of escaped Labrador||Surat: A dog caretaker and two of his family members were booked for threatening and abusing a Pardi-based couple in Valsad district, whose dog went missing from the caretaker’s home, on Sunday late at night.Based on the complaint filed by Nutan Upadhyay (55), a resident of Sulabhnagar in Pardi town, the accused Bhavin Desai, his wife Bhagirthi Desai and Hemant Desai of Umarsadi village were booked under section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (b) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.According to case details, Nutan, a primary school teacher in Pardi and her Tushar Upadhyay, general manager with a garment firm in Vapi town had bought a pet Labrador dog five months go and named it Oliver. The couple had to go for their daughter’s marriage on December 12 to their hometown so they were searching for a caretaker. They came to know about the accused through a common friend.On December 8, the couple handed over the dog to the accused in Umarsadi village. “We told them that we will take our dog back on December 10. However, on December 9 morning, Bhagirthiben called up my husband (Tushar) and informed that our Oliver had escaped from their house,” Nutan stated in her complaint.“When we went to inquire about our dog, the Desais got angry with us and started abusing us. Bhagirthiben even told us that nobody would purchase our dog at even Rs 5,000. They even threatened to kill us if we asked for our dog,” the FIR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dog-caretaker-family-threatens-owner-of-escaped-labrador/articleshow/79726301.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Dad in jail & abandoned by mom, homeless kid living with dog melts many hearts||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Ankit doesn’t remember where he belongs to, except the fact that his father is in jail, and mother has abandoned him. He knows no one and survives by selling balloons or working at tea stalls. He sleeps on footpaths with his only friend, Danny, a dog, who stays with him always. Life had been like this for Ankit for the last several years. Whatever Ankit earns during the day, spends in feeding himself and Danny. A fortnight ago, someone clicked a picture of both sleeping in one blanket at night outside a closed shop, and it went viral. Since then, the administration had been trying to trace the child. It was only on Monday morning that the child was eventually found. Ankit who looks 9-10 years old is now under the care of the district police after Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav had pressed a police team to search him several days ago. According to the tea stall owner where he worked at times, Ankit’s dog never leaves his side. “The dog would be sitting in a corner as long as the boy worked here. Ankit is self-respecting and would never take anything for free, not even milk for his dog,” he said. A local photo journalist who passed by Ankit when he was sleeping in the open with his dog by side clicked his picture and uploaded it on social media. The picture went viral. Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav said, “Now, he is under the care of Muzaffarnagar police. We are trying to trace his loved ones and his pictures were sent to various police stations in adjoining districts. We have also alerted the district women and child welfare department.” According to city kotwali SHO Anil Kaparwan, Ankit will live with one Sheela Devi, a friendly local woman the boy is acquainted with and calls her “Bi”, and will study in a private school until his whereabouts are found. The school has agreed to give free education to him after the local police placed a request with the school management. Watch Viral photo: UP cop comes to the rescue of a homeless boy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dad-in-jail-abandoned-by-mom-homeless-kid-living-with-dog-melts-many-hearts/articleshow/79726297.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||BJP ex-MLA gets 3 yrs rigorous imprisonment for assaulting govt officer in Rajasthan||KOTA/JAIPUR: Former BJP MLA from Manohar Thana Kanwar Lal Meena has been sentenced to three years of rigorous imprisonment by a local court in Jhalawar on Monday for threatening and manhandling a government officer in 2005. The incident had happened when Meena and his aides pointed a revolver at the forehead of the then SDM of Aklera Ramnivas Mehta, demanding re-poll in deputy sarpanch elections. Mehta is at present joint secretary, department of home. The additional district judge (ADJ) court in Jhalawar district convicted Meena under Sections 392, 353, 332, 506 of IPC and the PDP Act for three years. “The court also imposed a penalty upon him, however, the detailed copy of the judgment is yet to be received,” said Kalulal Meena, assistant director prosecution, Aklera, ADJ Court. The former MLA (2013-2018) was then a Bajrang Dal leader, leading the agitation demanding re-polling at Akhlera by blocking a road with his supporters. He pointed a revolver at the forehead of the then SDM Mehta who refused to give his consent to the senior officers for re-poll as the polls were held as per the rules. Mehta lodged a report against Meena in the local police station the same day. Meena was later acquitted in the case by the additional chief judicial magistrate court, Manohar Thana in 2018 as most of the 21 witnesses in the case had turned hostile. Five months after the acquittal, Mehta filed an appeal in the Additional District Judge court in Jhalawar. Meena entered in electoral politics in 2013 after winning the assembly polls. His name was dropped by the BJP following the rise in number of criminal cases against him. An RTI report said that Meena has 27 criminal cases pending against him in serious offences including attempt to murder, causing enmity between two groups etc. He hogged national limelight and brought embarrassment to the party in 2016. He attacked the statewide ‘Jawabdehi Yatra’ with his iron and bamboo wielding aides injuring a dozen activists. The yatra was initiated by noted social activist Aruna Roy and Nikhil Dey of Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) to create awareness on accountability law in the governance. The case is pending before the local court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-ex-mla-gets-3-yrs-ri-for-assaulting-govt-officer/articleshow/79728217.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Meerut||Runaway Noida couple uploads video claiming threat to life||Meerut: A Noida-based couple has uploaded a video seeking help from government on the plea that their life is in danger. In the video, a woman can be seen purportedly claiming that her family is threatening her and her “husband” as she married him against their wishes.“We are adults and married to each other. My family is not happy with the marriage. They have threatened us and the local police (in Noida) is hand in glove with them,” the woman purportedly said in the video."My family was not happy with this relationship and they beat me up when they learnt about it. I later fled with my partner and tied the knot with him,” she said. She also displayed her marriage registration certificate and pictures of the wedding to corroborate her claim. The video of her plea was widely shared on social media, including Twitter. Later, Bulandshahar police intervened after it was claimed that the man in the video is a native of the district. At present, he is living in Surajpur, Noida. The girl hails from there. Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr SSP, said, an FIR of abduction had been registered against the woman’s partner at Surajpur police station based on a complaint by her mother, who claimed that she was a minor. Necessary steps would be taken to ensure the couple comes to no harm, he said. “They will be provided with security in Bulandshahr if need be,” Santosh Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/runaway-noida-couple-uploads-video-claiming-threat-to-life/articleshow/79726318.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Meerut||Seven monkeys electrocuted while drinking water from tubewell||Bijnor: Seven monkeys were electrocuted on Monday while drinking water from a tubewell as they came in contact with a “live” submersible pipe. The accident took place in a government school at Bagwara village under Seohara police station in Bijnor when the electric pump was on. It is believed that due to malfunctioning of the pump, a live wire came in contact with the pipe, causing the electrocution of the monkeys. The village head informed police about the accident. Police rushed to the spot. Later, a forest department team inspected the place. M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer, said, “A troop of monkeys were drinking water at a tubewell in the school when they came in contact with a charged pipe. All seven died one by one in trying to save one another. However, a probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/seven-monkeys-electrocuted-while-drinking-water-from-tubewell/articleshow/79726320.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after 13 school employees test +ve, testing increased in pvt schools||Ludhiana: A day after 13 class IV employees of a school at Jalandhar Bypass tested positive for Covid-19, the health department has increased the testing in private schools. District education officer (DEO) Rajinder Kaur said, “We have already started the drive for testing in the government schools and now we will instruct the private schools too. All the teaching as well as non-teaching staff members of the government as well as private educational institutions are being tested compulsorily. We have not made the test mandatory for students, but if any student becomes the primary contact or volunteers to get tested, we will test them. Otherwise, the staff will have to get themselves tested. It is being done by the government of Punjab free of cost.” According to her, daily hundreds of teachers are being tested in government schools, of which a few have been tested positive. “They have been isolated and we have traced their contacts and asked them to isolate themselves as well.” Classes IX to XII had opened for students and final year students have been asked to come to classes in colleges. The teachers said several students were attending the school without face masks and do not bother to use sanitisers. “Though the rules are stipulated on paper, the ground reality is different. Though masks are being supplied to students, they are very careless. Moreover, students — and teachers too — find it very difficult to wear a mask continuously for more than an hour in the classroom,” said a private teacher from a school situated at BRS Nagar, on condition of anonymity. Sources said the wards of the employees too have contracted the virus. The school principal, Sister Limsi said, “The school will be closed for another few days.” According to information from the education department, the attendance among students remained below 50% in private schools, while it was close to 60% in government schools. The figure was slightly higher in rural areas. However, the figure is expected to dwindle further in the coming days, according to sources in the education department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-13-school-employees-test-ve-testing-increased-in-pvt-schools/articleshow/79726319.cms||Mehak Jain
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||Booze industry fails to cheer Maharashtra govt as consumption dips||MUMBAI: A fresh shock is in store for the cash-strapped state government as the excise department will be unable to achieve its target of mobilizing Rs 19,225 crore by the end of the financial year due to a sharp fall in consumption of country, Indian-made foreign liquor, beer and wine, as well as closure of liquor shops for a prolonged period due to Covid-19. The government was banking on excise department for mobilization of resources as the debt burden has crossed the Rs 5.2 lakh crore mark. Excise department records show that when budget estimates for 2020-21 were presented, a target of Rs 19,225 crore was fixed, while during the mid-year review, it was found that at the end of November 2020, the department was able to mobilize Rs 7,776 crore, nearly 40% of the target. “I do not think we will be able to achieve the target of Rs 19,225 crore, we will have to mobilize Rs 11,449 crore in four months. For that people must consume more liquor, which appears difficult due to coronavirus. Last year, we mobilized Rs 10,007 crore till November 19,’’ a senior official said. The official pointed out that initially several shops, particularly along the national and state highways, were closed following a court order. Closure of all shops was ordered after lockdown was imposed in March 2020. “The court modified its order, while lockdown was lifted in a phased manner, but it did not help, and there was a drastic cut in liquor consumption. Though liquor shops were open, bars remained closed for long. Even now, while bars are open, consumption is very less. Revival of the liquor industry will take long, government must extend fresh incentives,” a senior official said. On consumption of country liquor, the official said from April 2020 to November 2020, 1,842 lakh bulk litres was sold against 2,388 lakh BL during the same period last year. For IMFL, against Rs 1,152 lakh BL from April 2020 to November 2020, 1,411 lakh BL was consumed during the same period last year. Maximum reduction was seen in consumption of beer, against 1,073 lakh BL sold from April 2020 to November 2020, 2,077 lakh BL was sold during the same period last year. In the case of wine, against 35 lakh BL sold during April 2020 to November 2020, 45 lakh BL was sold during the same period last year. Bhandara is the only district in the state where more country liquor was sold from April 2020 to November 2020 compared to last year. Against 39 lakh BL country liquor sold in the current year, 37 lakh BL was sold last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/booze-industry-fails-to-cheer-maharashtra-govt-as-consumption-dips/articleshow/79727667.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Leopard cub found dead in Ajmer dist||Ajmer: The carcass of a leopard cub was found near Bamaniya-Jetpura village of Beawar block of the district. During preliminary investigation, it was found that the cub was attacked by some other animal. Forest department took the carcass for postmortem and later buried it as per the rules. It was revealed that there was injury near the neck of the cub which was the reason of its death. According to forest department, they got a call from villagers that a leopard cub was found dead between Bamaniya and Jetpura villages. The team reached the spot and found that the cub was hardly a month old and was a male. “It is possible that the cub was attacked by some animal or by some other leopard and died,” said an official source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-cub-found-dead-in-ajmer-dist/articleshow/79728220.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Tribute paid to martyr who sacrificed life during 1971 Indo-Pak war||LUDHIANA: A wreath-laying ceremony was organised to pay tributes to the Param Vir Chakra recipient flying officer Nirmaljit Singh Sekhon on his martyrdom day at Mini Secretariat on Monday. Martyr Sekhon, a native of Rurka Issewal village in Dakha, had sacrificed his life during the Indo-Pak War of 1971. Air Commodore Shoeb Kazmi, air officer commanding, Air Force Station Halwara, deputy commissioner (DC) Ludhiana Varinder Kumar Sharma and joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian among other prominent persons paid tributes to him by laying wreaths while the Punjab Police presented the Guard of Honour. Martyr Sekhon, born on July 17, 1943 was commissioned in Indian Air Force on July 4, 1967. During the Indo-Pak war of 1971, Srinagar air field was attacked by a wave of six Pakistani aircraft on December 14, 1971. Flag officer Sekhon despite being under attack had displayed exceptional flying skills and took off to counter the enemy attack. The officer had exhibited extreme courage, valour and determination par excellence to thwart the Pakistani attack and destroyed two enemy aircraft forcing the enemy to return. Being heavily outnumbered, flying officer Sekhon eventually made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation while fighting the enemy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tribute-paid-to-martyr-who-sacrificed-life-during-1971-indo-pak-war/articleshow/79726326.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Drink-driving: Car runs over two in run-up to festive season in Kolkata||Kolkata: A 23-year-old son of a businessman driving at a high speed lost control of the car and ran over a cyclist and seriously injured a pedestrian before crashing into a lamp post on Sunday night. The cyclist, Ratan Sarkar (48), was declared dead after he was taken to a hospital while the pedestrian, Nilotpal Biswas (45), is undergoing treatment. Police said the youth at the wheel, Subhan Banerjee, was inebriated. According to DC (South Suburban) Rahid Munir Khan, a blood test on Banerjee had confirmed high alcohol content. Banerjee has been arrested and booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Banerjee was driving the car at a speed of 80km/hr when the fatal accident happened at the Arya Vidyalaya Road-Prince Anwar Shah Connector crossing in the Sapuipara area of Garfa around 10.10pm on Sunday. There were two other occupants in the car, a young woman and man who are believed to be Banerjee’s friends. While being interrogated, Banerjee claimed he spotted guardrails positioned in the middle of the road rather late and hit the brakes hard, triggering the accident. The guard rails are placed before crossings to slow down speed. According to Banerjee, he swerved hard and braked simultaneously, causing the car to skid and dash into the victims. An investigator said the claim would be checked during a mechanical test. Khan said CCTV footage from the intersection were also being analyzed to check if it tallies with the Banerjee’s version. Police sources said that Banerjee, a Regent Park resident, had graduated as a BTech from a Rajarhat college. “He is preparing for higher studies. On Sunday evening, he first drove his friends to their college at Rajarhat. They then drove to various locations in south-central Kolkata and then to Prinsep Ghat and Babughat. He has denied he was at a party in New Alipore. They were driving towards Avishikta when the accident took place,” said an officer. Forensic experts have found 104-ft-long tyre marks from right lane to the left. On impact, Sarkar was thrown inside a pile of asbestos. Locals took time to rescue him and rush to hospital. “The car’s front right side (driver’s side) suffered extensive damage. The tyre almost came off,” said a forensic source. Kolkata Police sources said plans were under way for raids against drink-driving that usually increases in winter, particularly around Christmas and New Year when people get into the partying mood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drink-driving-car-runs-over-two-in-run-up-to-festive-season/articleshow/79727098.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: 180-km baton relay race in honour of 1971 war veterans||JAISALMER: A 180-km-long baton relay race was organised on the intervening night of December 13-14 in honour of 1971 war heroes at Anupgarh, BSF sector, Bikaner. A total of 900 jawans participated in the race that was completed in 11 hours. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat was present on the occasion. BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Ayushmani Tiwari, DIG Madhusudan, DIG MS Rathore, Bikaner sector DIG Puspendra Singh Rathore and other BSF senior officers also attended the event. The minister said that it was because of the BSF guarding the borders that the Indian citizens could sleep peacefully in their homes. He added that everyone knew of the sacrifices that the BSF jawans had made to keep the borders secure. He felicitated the 1971 war veterans with mementos and shawls. IG Ayushmani Tiwari presented memento to Shekhawat on behalf of BSF DG and the entire force. Meanwhile, as a part of Vijay Diwas (that is observed every year on December 16), a cycle rally will be organised on December 15, while on December 16 wreath-laying ceremony will be held at Longewala War ground. Other programmes have also been planned on this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/180-km-baton-relay-race-in-honour-of-1971-war-veterans/articleshow/79728238.cms||Vimal Bhatia
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||CMO marks inquiry into celeberatory shooting by youth Cong members||Ludhiana: The chief minister office (CMO) of Punjab has marked an enquiry into controversial alleged celebratory firing by Youth Congress functionaries at a party. CMO asked director general of police (DGP) office to take necessary action. The complaint was filed by a Congress man Gursimran Singh Mand against the Youth Congress Ludhiana (rural) president Lucky Sandhu, president of Khanna chapter Amit Tiwari and others after a video clip of the incident went viral. Mand said, “I am thankful to the CMO for marking enquiry into my complaint. I have filed complaint about a recent video that went viral on social media on December 12. In this video, Sandhu, Tiwari and other Youth Congress leaders are seen indulging in celebratory firing at a marriage function at Sahnewal. Lots of other young men, including some minors, were visible in the clip and they are shown to be using hookah. This is very shameful act and is not expected from members of a party like Congress. Moreover, when our party’s major fight is against weapons and drugs use in Punjab, leaders like these are nothing less than enemies of our own party. Strict action should be taken against them by the party as well as the police.” Mand also added, “In my complaint I have urged CM that in addition to registering an FIR against these so called leaders, to instruct Punjab police to get their dope tests done. I have come to know that in an effort to save themselves from action and hide their misdeed these leaders are now making false claims that the viral video is four years old. But these are bundle of lies, as the songs being played in the background are latest and police should take statement of the DJ who was playing in the background. Even if the video is four years old, firing bullets at a marriage function is still illegal. All these culprits should be dealt with strictly and put behind bars to set an example that government will deal with rogue elements who are a threat to the society, even if they belong to the ruling party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cmo-marks-inquiry-into-celeberatory-shooting-by-youth-cong-members/articleshow/79726337.cms||Mohit Behl
December 15, 2020||Pune||In absence of clear guidelines, night clubs, lounges may skip New Year’s Eve events||Pune: Puneites may have to bid farewell to 2020 without the usual fun and frolic at night clubs and lounges, as no event has been planned so far at such venues this New Year’s Eve because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Bar and lounge operators said they might skip the New Year’s Eve bash this time because there have been no clear guidelines on the events. Excise department officials confirmed they have not yet received any application for liquor licences to organize the December 31 parties. Representatives of night clubs TOI spoke to said parties would have already been planned by mid-December during previous years, with passes being printed and 25% sales done. A representative of a lounge with branches in Koregaon Park and S B Road, among other places, said, “We have not planned any special event for December 31 and are only going ahead with the normal a la carte bookings for the restos and bars. News of a possible night curfew in Mumbai on New Year’s Eve, the 11.30pm deadline for the restaurants to close and lack of clear guidelines on New Year events have created uncertainty,” he said. Swastik Sirsikar, founder president of Association of Clubs in Pune, told TOI, “The clubs will avoid conducting any such events that may witness a congregation of people this December 31, because it is difficult to maintain social distancing norms during such occasions.” He said, “We also expect some new guidelines to be released before the Christmas-New Year period. Arranging such events now and subsequent denial of permission will be a waste of money. Many members are still not comfortable to step out and be part of any celebratory gatherings, even with social distancing norms.” Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI that the civic body was in the process of framing some guidelines in connection with the New Year’s Eve celebrations. Kunal Mhaske, owner, Coco Sushi & Bar, Penthouze Nightlife, said, “The current deadline for the restaurants and lounges to close is 11:30pm. There’s no point planning any party with such a deadline. New Year parties are usually finalized by the first week of December. But this is not the case this time. Even our Christmas dinner has been fixed for December 25, instead of the December 24 night, because of the 11.30pm deadline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-absence-of-clear-guidelines-night-clubs-lounges-may-skip-new-years-eve-events/articleshow/79728240.cms||Neha Madaan
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Second phase of anti-encroachment drive in Luni River area begins||Jaisalmer: In an ongoing anti-encroachment drive the Barmer administration removed five encroachments in Luni River area, Balotara on Monday. Remaining encroachments will be removed on Tuesday. The revenue department and municipal council officers under SDM Naresh Soni and SHO Niranjan Pratap Singh began action at 11am at Chatriyon ka Morcha bypass road. The administration has to remove a total of 11 encroachments in the second phase (December 11-17). Forces of seven police stations, RAC jawans along with women police officers were deployed at the spot as preventive measure. RTI activist Sumer Gaur had filed a PIL over encroachments on Luni River. The judge had asked the collector and SP to prepare an action plan and to submit the report of action by November 19. The administration, after submitting an action plan in the high court, took a decision to remove encroachments in four phases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-phase-of-anti-encroachment-drive-in-luni-river-area-begins/articleshow/79728237.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||Farmers protests: As cracks show, farm outfits move to forge a united stand||NEW DELHI: NEW DELHI: Seeking to keep its flock together, AIKSCC, which has been coordinating with Punjab farmer unions for the current protests, has evicted its convenor V M Singh who went against its stand on repeal of three farm laws as a precondition for talks with the government. After Singh pitched for a middle path and wanted his own group, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan (RKMS), and others to demand legal guarantee to purchase at minimum support price (MSP) through a legislation as a way out to end the stalemate, AIKSCC sought to distance itself from him. Singh, however, insisted that the Committee does not have right to evict him unless it is ratified by its national council. He was the Congress candidate from Pilibhit constituency against BJP’s Varun Gandhi in the 2009 elections. RKMS, working with farmers in UP, is one of the constituents of AIKSCC which has over 400 farmer organisations from across the country as its members. In order to avoid confusion within its ranks, the Committee on Monday issued a statement, saying, “the National Working Group of AIKSCC met on Sunday and decided to do away with the post of convenor. Henceforth, all decisions of AIKSCC shall be taken only by the Working Group, which shall be the official position of AIKSCC and shall be announced as such.” Its working group has over a dozen members, including Yogendra Yadav, Avik Saha, Darshan Pal and Hannan Mollah, who took key decisions on course of the current protests in coordination with 32 farmers’ unions from Punjab and different groups from other states. Asked about the Committee’s move, Singh told TOI that the AIKSCC has by insisting for repeal of three laws as a precondition for talks deviated from its original goal – ‘Karza Mukti Pura Daam’ (free from debt and remunerative prices through legal guarantee to MSP). “Punjab and Haryana are a different ball game where 90% of the marketable produce are procured at MSP. We need to think what farmers of other states want. This is the reason I insisted for legal guarantee to MSP and consider it as a middle path to end the current deadlock,” said Singh. He said, “The three laws will automatically become infructuous if a law on giving guarantee to MSP is passed. That was our original stand as per our goal of ‘Karza Mukti Pura Daam’. But other groups within the AIKSCC have changed the goalpost”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-cracks-show-farm-outfits-move-to-forge-a-united-stand/articleshow/79730948.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Hundreds protest against farm laws||Coimbatore: Farmers, lawyers and cadres of political parties on Monday protested at different places in the city against the central government and demanded the repeal of three controversial farm laws. While members of the Coimbatore Bar Association (CBA) protested in front of the post office near the collectorate, cadres of CPM staged protests in front of shops of a private retail chain. The CPM cadres urged the public to avoid the corporate company's products.Members of the Coimbatore district unit of All India Farmers Protest Organising Committee gathered in front of the district collectorate around 10.30am on Monday. To prevent their entry to the collectorate, more than 50 cops were deployed in the area.The farmers raised slogans against the central government and demanded the repeal of three farm laws. They also demanded to withdraw the privatization of electricity generation. The protesters sat on the road in front of the collectorate.President of the Tamil Nadu Farmers Association Su Palanisamy said the protest committee has seven associations in the district and the committee has been discussing to expand the protest to Mettupalayam and Pollachi. “The central government’s new law is against the welfare of the farmers. It is attempting to eradicate agriculture in India. Farmers won’t go back and will fight against the law,” Palanisamy said.The city police arrested 83 protesters and lodged them in a marriage hall. Later, they were let off.Lawyers from the CBA demanded the repeal of the new farm laws and raised slogans against the central government. CBA president P R Arulmoli said that the farmers should not be affected, and the laws should be withdrawn immediately. “The central government did not hear the opinion of the farmers before enacting the new laws. The anti-farmers law cannot be accepted,” Arulmoli said.Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) members attempted to conduct a rail-roko at Coimbatore railway junction. They raised slogans against the Centre for bringing anti-farmers law. The city police arrested around 80 protesters and later, they were let off.CPM cadres attempted to besiege a shop belonging to a private retail chain at BrookeField mall. The cadres were stopped by police and protesters sat on the road and raised slogans against the central government. Police arrested 41 protesters.CPM cadres held similar protests at Chinna Mettupalayam and Masakkalipalayam. CPI cadres staged a protest near a petrol bunk at Karamadai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hundreds-protest-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79728249.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Notices to Prakash Jha, Bobby Deol over web series||JODHPUR: District & sessions court here on Monday issued notices to film producer-director Prakash Jha and actor Bobby Deol seeking reply on a petition taking offence at the portrayal of Hindu godman in their recently released web series Aashram on an OTT platform. District and sessions judge Justice Ravindra Joshi, while issuing notices to Jha and Deol, has listed the matter for hearing on January 11. Petitioner Khush Khandelwal said the producer and director Prakash Jha made a web series Ashram recently which was released on an OTT platform. Actor Bobby Deol played the central role of a Hindu godman. “The portrayal of Deol as a godman has hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus, who respect and worship saints. His portrayal as a rapist, corrupt and drug dealer has diminished the place, saints hold for Hindus,” Khadelwal said. The petitioner had earlier moved police station for filing an FIR against the duo, but on denial, moved the ACJMM court, where too, his petition was rejected. Khandelwal then moved the District & Sessions court on Monday with the prayer for the direction to police to register an FIR. But refusing to grant the prayer of petitioner, the court issued notices to Jha and Deol seeking their reply on the matter. It may be noted that the second season of the web series had been released on November 11, but the series had triggered social media outrage right with the launch of its first season trailer. Karni Sena had also sent a legal notice to the producers of the film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notices-to-prakash-jha-bobby-deol-over-web-series/articleshow/79728248.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: At the wheel after years, man drives straight into pond, dies||KOLKATA: An engineer who retired from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation water supply department got drowned on Thursday morning after he drove his car straight into a pond near his home in Behala. The victim, Ashok Roy (65), possibly stepped on the accelerator instead of the brake pedal, leading to the accident. Though the family driver was seated next to Roy, he could not react in time to prevent the mishap. According to police, Roy was possibly out of practice and attempting to drive after a long time. “On Monday morning, he had asked the family driver to get into the co-driver’s seat as he was driving after a while. While negotiating a bend around the pond, he appears to have stepped on the accelerator and the car hurtled into the pond at high speed,” said an officer of Behala police station. However, Roy’s former boss Bibhas Maity, who was the director general of water supply at KMC, recalled he had driven him to a number of places and it was hard to believe that he had forgotten how to drive. “May be he had suffered an ailment that led to the mishap. It is surprising that he drove drove into the pond,” he said. Roy’s family was too distraught to speak. The 9am incident initially left bystanders too startled to react immediately. Soon though, some of the locals dived into the pond and attempted to rescue the occupants. While they managed to drag the co-driver out in time, Roy had already died by the time he was pulled out. He was declared dead at a local nursing home. The driver, Subhas Banerjee (49), is under treatment. Once he recovers, police will question him to find out what led to the accident. A crane was brought to pull the car out of water. The car’s mechanicals will also be examined to check if a fault had developed. The Jayasree Park pond where the incident happened doesn’t have railings around it. Locals said had there been a barrier, the accident could have been averted. Borough coordinator Susanta Ghosh agreed and said a railing could be installed to prevent a repeat. If the accident had happened due to lack of driving practice, police felt it is best to get into a driving school to gain confidence as the vehicles there have two-pedal configuration that allows the co-driver to control the brake and clutch and thereby prevent the mishap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-the-wheel-after-years-man-drives-straight-into-pond-dies/articleshow/79727114.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 15, 2020||Surat||Casual labourer held from Agra for raping seven-year-old girl||SURAT: The police have arrested a casual labourer for allegedly raping a seven-year-old girl. Mukesh Sah, who stays in Sachin GIDC, was arrested from Agra and brought to the city on Monday. The police said that he has admitted to have committed the rape. According to the police, Sah, who is a native of Champaran district in Bihar, had kidnapped the girl when she was asleep at a construction site with her father and sister in Sachin GIDC on the night of December 10. Sah raped the girl in an open plot and fled from the spot. The girl, daughter of a construction labourer, was spotted by a tea-stall owner after about nine hours when she was crying while trying to look for her family. He immediately took her to the police that tracked down her father. A complaint of rape was registered and the cops began search for the accused. The police said that it traced and nab the accused on the basis of technical surveillance. The accused has been sent for Covid-19 test at New Civil Hospital and will be arrested if tested negative. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/casual-labourer-held-from-agra-for-raping-seven-year-old-girl/articleshow/79728260.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Meerut||Officer of CRPF’s elite CoBRA unit who hailed from UP dies in Chhattisgarh blast||Muzaffarnagar: A 35-year-old officer of the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) elite CoBRA unit, who was critically injured in an IED blast in Chhattisgarh's Maoist-infested Sukma district, died early on Monday, officials said. Deputy commandant Vikas Kumar was from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh and was inducted into the paramilitary force in 2010. He was part of CoBRA's 208th battalion, and received serious injuries on Sunday when the IED exploded while it was being defused. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced Rs 50 lakh compensation and a government job for a member of Kumar's family. A road will be named after him, the CM said. "The officer hailed from Pachenda village. His body will reach here any moment," SDM Deepak Kumar said. The officer's brother Pankaj Singhal said that they were informed on Sunday night. He was being treated at a hospital in Raipur. A pall of gloom descended over the officer's ancestral village after the news of his death spread on Monday. The officer is survived by his wife and two little children. The family was living in Madhya Pradesh while he was posted in Chhattisgarh, village head Nukul Chaudhry said. "He made the country and his village proud." The officer will be cremated with full state honour, ADM Amit Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/officer-of-crpfs-elite-cobra-unit-whohailed-from-up-dies-in-chhattisgarh-blast/articleshow/79726359.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 15, 2020||Ludhiana||PAUTA president’s fast enters sixth day||Ludhiana: The fast unto death of Harmeet Sing Kingra, president of Punjab Agricultural University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) in protest against non acceptance of the demands of teachers entered 6th day on Monday. A large number of teachers, including women teachers, visited the dharna site in support of Kingra on Monday. In a release here, D K Sharma, secretary of PAUTA, said Amrinder Singh Malhi, sub-divisional magistrate of Ludhiana west met Kingra and apprised him that the his meeting has been fixed with Anirudh Tiwari, additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner, development, Punjab to sort the issue out. Sharma also said the election of the PAU Teachers Association has been postponed to January 20, 2021. Earlier it was scheduled for December 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pauta-presidents-fast-enters-sixth-day/articleshow/79726347.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ‘Descriptive’ consent forms can hit vaccine plan, say experts||PUNE: A very descriptive consent form, detailing possible side effects, was among the main reasons that caused scores of healthcare workers in the state to refuse a vaccine during the 2009-2010 H1N1 pandemic. The consent form specifically stated recipients were fully aware of the vaccine’s potential side effects, mainly the possibility of developing acute infective polyneuritis (Guillain-Barré syndrome). READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+. Why Covid vaccine should not go the H1N1 way||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/descriptive-consent-forms-can-hit-vaccine-plan-experts/articleshow/79728258.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||SHRC team at Kota JK Lon hospital, seeks report on infant deaths||KOTA: A delegation of State Human Rights Commission on Monday visited Kota’s JK Lon Hospital that had yet again hit the headlines and sparked a political debate following the deaths of 18 infants on December 10 and 11. Following interaction with patients, attendants in wards and medical staff, the commission sought a detailed report on each of the infant’s death during the two days and the proposed plan of action to ensure that no such deaths may occur in future. The facility reported no unusual deaths of infants in the last two days. The delegation, comprising secretary BL Meena and registrar Omi Purohit, visited the hospital on Monday noon and interacted with patients and attendants in the wards and the medical staff while taking stock of the existing arrangements and facilities. The delegation expressed satisfaction on response by the attendants but asked the hospital management to improve the facilities. The delegation has asked to submit a detailed report on deaths of the infants on December 10 and 11 in the hospital with reasons of deaths mentioned by medical board, said JK Lon superintendent Suresh Chand Dulara. The delegation has also asked the district and hospital officials to submit a plan of action to ensure that no such deaths occur in future for the want of facilities. “We have directed the district officials for the investigation by medical board into the death of each of the infants in the hospital on December 10 and 11 and following the receipt of the report, we will visit the hospital next week,” a member of the delegation said after the visit, while speaking to the media. However, no one has lodged any report anywhere in the matter but even then the commission would probe into the deaths as it wants that the mortality rate should come down, he added. No complaint was received from the patients and attendants during the visit and the hospital officials also expressed satisfaction with the raised number of medical staff, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shrc-team-at-kota-jk-lon-hosp-seeks-report-on-infant-deaths/articleshow/79728253.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Fire at private hospital in Kota, patients escape unhurt||Kota: A massive fire broke out in the first floor residential portion of a three-storey private hospital in Talwandi area of the city late on Sunday night. The patients undergoing treatment on the ground floor and family members on the upper floor escaped unhurt as the fire was doused within 45 minutes. The fire broke out around 11.15 on Sunday night following which two fire-tenders were rushed to the spot, said Devendra Gautam, assistant fire officer, Kota Municipal Corporation. The patients, who were undergoing treatment in wards on ground floor and some on the first floor escaped unhurt as they were, along with the family, rescued to a safe place before the fire flames completely engulfed the drawing and dining rooms and furniture, he said. The first floor of the hospital, where the family resides, was engulfed by flames, he said, adding the family members reported that a puja lamp lit earlier caused the fire. But the fire was most likely to have been caused by a short circuit, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fire-at-private-hospital-in-kota-patients-escape-unhurt/articleshow/79728273.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rape accused undertrial dies during treatment||Kota: A 55-year-old rape accused under-trial inmate, lodged in Kota central jail for over two years, died during treatment in MBS hospital of the city. Bablu Sardar alias Jaspal Singh, a resident of Old Dhanmandi area of the city, was rushed to the hospital late on Sunday night after he sustained head injuries after falling onto the ground near toilets in his jail barrack. Police handed over the body after postmortem by medical board and magisterial probe into the matter is under way, deputy jailor, Kota central jail, Lalchand Regar said. The deceased inmate was also suffering from hernia and blood pressure and had complained of health complications on Sunday afternoon following which around 4pm he was taken to MBS hospital and was discharged at 8pm on Sunday only to be brought back late in the night, the deputy jailor said. The deceased was lodged in Kota central jail since October 2018 under Sections 376 and 120B and since then he had been facing the trial in jail, he further said. Meanwhile, the deceased inmates’ brother Harvinder Singh demanded fair probe into the matter and pointed out the deep wound on his brother’s forehead could not have been caused only by falling on the ground. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-undertrial-dies-during-treatment/articleshow/79728263.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Aurangabad||80:20 bed reservation policy to be extended till February 15, Maharashtra CM nod ‘soon’||PUNE: The Maharashtra government is keen on extending the 80:20 bed reservation for Covid patients till February 15, officials have said. Sources said the proposal to extend the policy is likely to be approved in a day or two by the chief minister as health minister Rajesh Tope has already moved it. The rule states that hospitals can admit non-Covid patients as long as they have enough beds set aside to treat those sickened by the virus. Health officials said they will recall the policy, if there are no more infection spikes. “The state Covid task force has warned of a second wave. So we have forwarded the proposal to extend the reservation policy from December 15 to February 15. We have to be prepared,” a state health official said. The official added, “The two-day assembly session may delay the announcement. But the health minister has said the policy should be extended.” Technical advisor to the state government on Covid control, Dr Subhash Salunke, said on Monday that current preparedness levels should continue at least till the end of February. He said, “When the vaccine comes, it will be given to healthcare workers first. So, we cannot drop our guard. Also, district collectors should carry out assessments to ensure non-Covid patients have access to treatment even with the 80:20 rule in place.” Administrators of private hospitals said while they had earlier opposed the government’s cap on treatment charges, recent relaxations on patient admissions had been of help to them. The state currently has over 72,000 Covid patients undergoing treatment. The situation in Pune district has been under control for some weeks now, but experts said authorities and citizens can only relax when the region’s positivity rate — currently at around 9% — goes below 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/8020-bed-reservation-policy-to-be-extended-till-feb-15-cm-nod-soon/articleshow/79732781.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 15, 2020||Pune||Recoveries rise above 3.35 lakh in PMR, 12 more dead||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries increased above 3.35 lakh in the Pune Metropolitan region (PMR) on Monday, following 726 discharges as against 475 new cases in the last 24 hours. Among the total recoveries in PMR on Monday, the rural areas recorded maximum 337 discharges, followed by the PMC limits (257) and the PCMC areas (132). In case of new cases, the PCMC limits recorded just 95 on Monday. The rural areas and the PMC limits added 184 and 196 new patients, respectively. With this, the caseload has increased above 3.52 lakh. As per the report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, as many as 5,574 tests were conducted in PMR on Monday, taking the total tests above 17.51 lakh. The region reported 12 deaths on Monday, including five each from the rural and PMC areas. Two patients succumbed to the infection in the PCMC limits. Tally of active patients in PMR further dropped to 9,089 on Monday, including 6,196 patients in home isolation and 2,893 admitted in various hospitals. A report released by PMC stated that as many as 796 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-rise-above-3-35l-in-pmr-12-more-dead/articleshow/79728275.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Engineering admissions to be further delayed by a week||MUMBAI: Admissions to engineering, management and nine technical undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be further delayed by a week, after the state’s CET cell issued a revised schedule on Monday evening. The last dates for registering online for these courses has been extended by a week, following requests from students on non-availability of documents and few technical glitches. “The department got appeals from students who were unable to collect marksheets due to lockdown. Some claimed their caste validity certificates were not ready. Considering the requests, the department decided to give enough time to ensure no eligible candidate is left out,” a CET cell official said. The cell decided to complete admission processes for professional courses in two rounds instead of three this year. For the first time, to meet an All-India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) deadline, the department decided to start the academic session after the first round from January 4. With the extension, the schedule is likely to be pushed further. The official said the state will write to AICTE to seek an extension. Another official said there was a technical problem too. With too many logging in at the same time, there was a load on the server. Some students had difficulties in registration too, he added. Admissions for MBA/MMS had to be deferred to give more time to students who had taken entrance tests other than state’s CET, CAT and CMAT, after a court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/engineering-admissions-to-be-further-delayed-by-a-week/articleshow/79727677.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolhapur||80:20 bed reservation policy to be extended till February 15, Maharashtra CM nod ‘soon’||PUNE: The Maharashtra government is keen on extending the 80:20 bed reservation for Covid patients till February 15, officials have said. Sources said the proposal to extend the policy is likely to be approved in a day or two by the chief minister as health minister Rajesh Tope has already moved it. The rule states that hospitals can admit non-Covid patients as long as they have enough beds set aside to treat those sickened by the virus. Health officials said they will recall the policy, if there are no more infection spikes. “The state Covid task force has warned of a second wave. So we have forwarded the proposal to extend the reservation policy from December 15 to February 15. We have to be prepared,” a state health official said. The official added, “The two-day assembly session may delay the announcement. But the health minister has said the policy should be extended.” Technical advisor to the state government on Covid control, Dr Subhash Salunke, said on Monday that current preparedness levels should continue at least till the end of February. He said, “When the vaccine comes, it will be given to healthcare workers first. So, we cannot drop our guard. Also, district collectors should carry out assessments to ensure non-Covid patients have access to treatment even with the 80:20 rule in place.” Administrators of private hospitals said while they had earlier opposed the government’s cap on treatment charges, recent relaxations on patient admissions had been of help to them. The state currently has over 72,000 Covid patients undergoing treatment. The situation in Pune district has been under control for some weeks now, but experts said authorities and citizens can only relax when the region’s positivity rate — currently at around 9% — goes below 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/8020-bed-reservation-policy-to-be-extended-till-feb-15-cm-nod-soon/articleshow/79732780.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 15, 2020||Nashik||80:20 bed reservation policy to be extended till February 15, Maharashtra CM nod ‘soon’||PUNE: The Maharashtra government is keen on extending the 80:20 bed reservation for Covid patients till February 15, officials have said. Sources said the proposal to extend the policy is likely to be approved in a day or two by the chief minister as health minister Rajesh Tope has already moved it. The rule states that hospitals can admit non-Covid patients as long as they have enough beds set aside to treat those sickened by the virus. Health officials said they will recall the policy, if there are no more infection spikes. “The state Covid task force has warned of a second wave. So we have forwarded the proposal to extend the reservation policy from December 15 to February 15. We have to be prepared,” a state health official said. The official added, “The two-day assembly session may delay the announcement. But the health minister has said the policy should be extended.” Technical advisor to the state government on Covid control, Dr Subhash Salunke, said on Monday that current preparedness levels should continue at least till the end of February. He said, “When the vaccine comes, it will be given to healthcare workers first. So, we cannot drop our guard. Also, district collectors should carry out assessments to ensure non-Covid patients have access to treatment even with the 80:20 rule in place.” Administrators of private hospitals said while they had earlier opposed the government’s cap on treatment charges, recent relaxations on patient admissions had been of help to them. The state currently has over 72,000 Covid patients undergoing treatment. The situation in Pune district has been under control for some weeks now, but experts said authorities and citizens can only relax when the region’s positivity rate — currently at around 9% — goes below 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8020-bed-reservation-policy-to-be-extended-till-feb-15-cm-nod-soon/articleshow/79732777.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Congress, BJP traditional strongholds shaky in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The results of the recent panchayat samiti and local bodies’ elections have shattered the myth that the BJP is an urban party and that the Congress strongholds are in rural areas. The BJP emerged as the largest party in panchayat samitis and zilla parishads, but in the urban local bodies, tables turned, and Congress came out strongly winning 619 wards out of 1,775 in the 50 municipalities, while the BJP relegated to the third position below independents with 549 wards. Read AlsoCongress back to winning ways in Rajasthan municipal body electionsAfter a relatively poor showing in the recently concluded panchayat and zila parishad polls, the ruling Congress roared back when results of elections to 50 municipal bodies were announced on Sunday. While Congress won 619 of the 1,775 wards in 12 districts, Independents came second winning 595The BJP had always maintained an edge in the local bodies’ elections. If the results of the last five elections since 1995 are examined, the saffron party enjoyed a lead in four elections except in 2000. In 2000 election, the Congress party was in power and Ashok Gehlot at the helm of affairs, the ruling party managed to outwit the BJP by winning 65 local bodies and BJP was relegated to the second position with 52. In all the other four elections, the BJP enjoyed supremacy. BJP president Satish Poonia accepted that the local bodies election results were a setback to the party. “These results are a lesson for the workers. We need a special action plan to strengthen our organizational and political ground in these areas. I am confident that the workers will move ahead by accepting the challenges and work hard.” However, the BJP leader reminded the Congress of ‘the difference in the results of Panchayati Raj elections results in 21 districts and the results of the civic elections in 12 districts. There were about 2.5 crore voters in the panchayat elections and while a total of 14 lakh voters in the bodies,’ said the BJP leader. Read AlsoBig blow for Congress in Rajasthan as BJP sweeps local body pollsJAIPUR: In a major upset for Congress, BJP relegated the former to the second position in the Rajasthan local body elections by winning many more seats in both panchayat samitis and zila parishads than the governing party. BJP won 1,989 seats in the panchayat samiti elections while Congress couldThe Congress garnered 40.87% votes while the BJP got 40.58% votes in the elections held to 222 panchayat samitis in 21 zila parishads. Congress, despite being in power, got 0.29% more votes than BJP. In the last assembly polls, the Congress polled just over 0.5 % more vote than the BJP. The trend shows the opposition is reducing the margin making inroads into the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-bjp-traditional-strongholds-shaky/articleshow/79728276.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||80:20 bed reservation policy to be extended till February 15, Maharashtra CM nod ‘soon’||PUNE: The Maharashtra government is keen on extending the 80:20 bed reservation for Covid patients till February 15, officials have said. Sources said the proposal to extend the policy is likely to be approved in a day or two by the chief minister as health minister Rajesh Tope has already moved it. The rule states that hospitals can admit non-Covid patients as long as they have enough beds set aside to treat those sickened by the virus. Health officials said they will recall the policy, if there are no more infection spikes. “The state Covid task force has warned of a second wave. So we have forwarded the proposal to extend the reservation policy from December 15 to February 15. We have to be prepared,” a state health official said. The official added, “The two-day assembly session may delay the announcement. But the health minister has said the policy should be extended.” Technical advisor to the state government on Covid control, Dr Subhash Salunke, said on Monday that current preparedness levels should continue at least till the end of February. He said, “When the vaccine comes, it will be given to healthcare workers first. So, we cannot drop our guard. Also, district collectors should carry out assessments to ensure non-Covid patients have access to treatment even with the 80:20 rule in place.” Administrators of private hospitals said while they had earlier opposed the government’s cap on treatment charges, recent relaxations on patient admissions had been of help to them. The state currently has over 72,000 Covid patients undergoing treatment. The situation in Pune district has been under control for some weeks now, but experts said authorities and citizens can only relax when the region’s positivity rate — currently at around 9% — goes below 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8020-bed-reservation-policy-to-be-extended-till-feb-15-cm-nod-soon/articleshow/79728272.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Man informs officials about bogus voters||COIMBATORE: An 81-year-old Saramedu resident on Monday alerted election officials about some people, who had used his residential address to register their names in the electoral roll. V S Baskaran, a labourer, told reporters that he has been residing in his house (Door no -51) for the last 40 years. “My sons are residing in Door no-51 A. Me as well as my family members could not exercise our franchise as our names are not in the electoral roll. Recently, I came to know that my neighbours and some unknown people had used my address to enrol their names in the electoral roll. I approached the election department officials to rectify the issue. But they have not done it,” he said. Baskaran met election tahsildar Sundararaman and submitted a petition. The tahsildar told Baskaran that he would send a team to verify the details. The voters who used Baskaran’s address to enroll their names will be removed from the roll, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-informs-officials-about-bogus-voters/articleshow/79728255.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 3 youths held for stabbing habitual offender to death||COIMBATORE: The Saravanampatti police on Monday arrested three Ganapathy residents for stabbing a 23-year-old history-sheeter to death. Police identified the deceased as J Karan of Kasthuri Bhai Street in Ganapathy. “He was facing eight criminal cases including robbery and assault at Saravanampatti police station limits. The Rathinapuri police had arrested him last month for possession of ganja. He came out on bail from the Coimbatore Central Prison 15 days ago,” Saravanampatti inspector Thirupathi said. “Ganapathy residents despised Karan for creating nuisance in public places.” Two days ago, Karan had a confrontation with Ganapathy residents P Muthan, 24, M Ravishankar, 22 and A Srinivasan, 23. “He asked one of the youths to get a haircut and shave off his beard. On Sunday night, a drunk Karan stopped an autorickshaw carrying the trio at Moogambigai Nagar in Ganapathy. He rebuked the youth for not obeying his instruction and attempted to stab him using a knife. One of the youths took an iron rod from the autorickshaw and hit Karan on his head. Another one snatched the knife from Karan and stabbed him on his neck and head. He died on the spot,” the inspector said. The trio surrendered before the Saravanampatti police on Monday morning. They were booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-youths-held-for-stabbing-habitual-offender-to-death/articleshow/79728279.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: After dip in cases, state reports 112 new infections||PANAJI: After a dip in new Covid-19 infections for two days, Goa reported 112 cases on Monday. With one death and recoveries exceeding new cases, the tally of active cases dropped to 1,029. The state though reported more than double the cases vis-à-vis Sunday, its case positivity rate remained at 7%, three points more than on Saturday. A senior doctor said that if cases are rising, it is due to sociological reasons. “All activities have started in full swing, but safety norms are not followed. People need to sanitise hands, wear masks and maintain social distancing even when among friends and family at social events,” he said. The Covid-19 mortality count shot up to 708 on Monday with the death of a 42-year-old woman from Sindhudurg, Maharashtra. The woman had a comorbidity, pancytopenia, the condition in which a person’s body has too few red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets. She died after undergoing treatment for eight days. Monday saw 26 patients admitted to the hospital, while 112 chose to be home isolated. Margao urban health centre witnessed a jump in infections, with 34 new cases. With it tally rose to 153, which for several days hovered between 100 to 130 cases. Other centres in South Goa that reported marginal rise in cases were Curchorem, Quepem and Ponda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-dip-in-cases-state-reports-112-new-infections/articleshow/79729284.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Focus on 2-8°C capacity cold chain to store shots||PUNE: Experts part of the Covid-19 vaccination plan said the country was currently focusing on cold chain facilities with the capacity to save the shots in temperatures between 2°C and 8°C. An expert said the country would gear up for the vaccine storage in temperatures between -60ºC and -70 degrees at a later stage. A member of the central vaccine task force said, “The country will have to focus on creating cold chain facilities to store vaccines at -70°C only if no shot that can be stored between 2ºC and 8ºC is available.” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI that the state was well equipped with cold chain facilities that could store vaccines in the range of 2°C-8°C. He said the additional walk-in freezers would ensure vaccine storage in temperatures between -15°C and -25°C. “Similar arrangements are being made across the country,” an official said. The Centre has announced that the machinery would deliver nearly 600 million doses to the most vulnerable people of the country in the next 8-9 months through the conventional cold chain systems. Central health authorities have mapped 28,932 cold chain points for all the states and Union Territories of the country. Of these, 240 are walk-in coolers, 70 ice-lined refrigerators,40,792 deep freezers and 294 are solar units. Maharashtra (3,257) has the maximum cold chain points, followed by Karnataka (2,870), Tamil Nadu (2,599) and Rajasthan (2,405). The four vaccines of Serum Institute of India-AstraZeneca, Bharat Biotech, Zydus, and Sputnik are in the race for approval in India and these shots can be stored in normal cold chain facilities. The Serum Institute of India is mass-producing and stockpiling AstraZeneca’s Covishield, while Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila are developing their own vaccine candidates. Last month, Indian pharmaceutical player Hetero inked a deal with Russia’s RDIF to manufacture over 100 million doses of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine per year in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-2-8c-capacity-cold-chain-to-store-shots/articleshow/79728285.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||12 new Covid cases in Nilgiris district||UDHAGAMANDALAM: With 12 new Covid-19 cases, the virus tally stood at 7,682 in the Nilgiris on Monday. According to Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, the new cases were spread across the district, mostly rural areas and were contacts of earlier cases with travel history. The same day, 29 patients recovered and were discharged from the health facilities. With this, 7,494 people had recovered. The recovery rate has increased to 97.5%. “Of the 146 active cases, almost 80% of them are from rural areas,” said the health official. Of them, 31 patients are being treated at government facilities and private hospitals in Coimbatore. At least 26 patients are in home quarantine. The others are being treated at government hospitals at Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides two Covid care centres in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/12-new-cases-in-nilgiris-district/articleshow/79728284.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||4 e-toilets opened in Coonoor||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya inaugurated four e-toilets in Coonoor on Monday. The project was initiated by the district administration in association with Kinder Trust, a local NGO, and sponsored by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL). One e-toilet was placed at the court complex, another near the Coonoor –Mettupalayam bus stand and two inside the Coonoor municipal market. During the event, HPCL exchanged an MOU with the Coonoor municipality in connection with the sponsorship of the e-toilets at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. The sponsorship covers four years of AMC maintenance, an additional water tank with capacity of 2,000 litres, a modern one-hour power back up and multi coin usage. Vasanta Rao, DGM (retail), HPCL, said, “This is part of our CSR initiative that complements the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan of the government of India. These automatic self-cleaning toilets will benefit locals and the tourists who visit the town.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-e-toilets-opened-in-coonoor/articleshow/79728290.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur: HC notices to govt, MLSU on fee waiver for law students||UDAIPUR: Hearing a civil writ petition of BA LLB-5-yr course students of Mohanlal Sukhadia University’s Law College, a single bench headed by Justice Vijay Bishnoi on Monday, ordered to issue notices to Chief Secretary and Registrar (MLSU). The notice is to seek response over a demand for fees waiver due to suspension of classroom teaching since March, this year. In the writ, the petitioners’ advocate Sajjan Singh Rathore apprised the court that the semester exam of academic year (2019-2020) concluded in February this year and since March, the subsequent sessions are being held through online mode. The petitioner students are only getting online lectures while other campus activities and facilities like library, reading room, seminars, extension lectures, moot courts, legal aid camps, sports or cultural activities have been on hold since March. The petitioners, who are enrolled under the self-finance scheme, claimed the university is charging them for facilities and services they have not utilised the entire year. Students must pay fees under various heads like cycle stand, development, e-journals and software, campus cleaning, entertainment fees etc which is unjustifiable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notices-to-govt-mlsu-on-fee-waiver-for-law-students/articleshow/79728288.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Surat||Ex-minister, 18 others get bail||Surat: Former minister and senior BJP leader, Kanti Gamit, and 18 others, who were arrested on charges of culpable homicide and others for the massive gathering in Dosvada village of Vyara taluka on December 1, were granted bail on Monday. The additional district and sessions court in Tapi granted bail to Gamit, his son Jitu, sarpanch of Dosvada village and others. Throwing Covid-19 rules in a bin, thousands of people had danced to DJ tunes at the engagement ceremony of Gamit’s granddaughter on December 1. The video of the gathering which went viral had angered the Gujarat high court too and it was this ire that forced Tapi police to lodge an offence and add the section of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against Gamit and others. An FIR was lodged by Songadh police on December 2. The high court had termed the incident ‘absolutely shocking’ and ‘unfortunate’ during Covid-19 pandemic when social distancing was the norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ex-minister-18-others-get-bail/articleshow/79727146.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||Jumbo unit intake down by 200 beds||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic administration has decided to reduce the intake capacity of the Covid-19 jumbo unit at Annasaheb Magar Stadium to 600 from the earlier 800 in the view of decline in the number of coronavirus patients. At present, there are around 200 patients in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation-run jumbo unit. “The numbers have largely remained consistent, with minor fluctuations in the past few weeks,” PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said. Patil said the reduced intake capacity would ease the financial burden on the PCMC, as the minimum 50% beds payment clause will now be applicable on 300 beds. Patil said if the number of patients continue to drop, the PCMC would consider not renewing the contract with the MedBros, the agency which looks after the operations of the unit. Patil added that over 2,400 Covid patients have received treatment at the Pimpri jumbo facility till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-unit-intake-down-by-200-beds/articleshow/79728319.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||MoU signed to promote entrepreneurship||MoU signed to promote entrepreneurship: PSG College of Arts and Science and AIC-NIFT TEA Incubation Centre for Textiles and Apparels signed a memorandum of understanding on Monday to improve students’ entrepreneurship skills. The incubation centre, supported by Atal Innovation Mission and NITI Aayog, will finance some of the PSG students’ ideas and will collaborate with them on research to improve the prototype. “NIFT incubation centre will help some students by taking their products and service to the next level. They will fund the students by giving them Rs 2 lakh. Experts will help to improve the prototype design and function, and explore further research possibilities,” said PSG CAS principal D Brindha.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mou-signed-to-promote-entrepreneurship/articleshow/79728297.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Surat||Accused to get back seized bike||Surat: The Surat district and sessions court ordered release of muddamal (seized property used in crime or in possession of the accused), in this case a motorcycle, which was seized from the accused in an attempt to murder case, observing that it was not reasonable to keep the vehicle without proper care and maintenance for a longer period.Prakash Maisuriya (52), a lawyer accused of opening fire at Arvind Solanki on June 20, 2020 in Kamrej, had moved the application before the court for release of his motorcycle (Royal Enfield 350 Classic) which has been in possession of the police for over five months. Maisuriya is accused of attempted murder, under Atrocity Act and various sections of the Arms Act. He is currently out on bail since the past few weeks.The petitioner, who is also trustee of an educational trust in his Kathor village near Kamrej, sought release of his motorcycle on the grounds that it was his source of earning income and owing to the seizure he was facing financial crunch. He also contended that the vehicle was lying in an open area of Kamrej police station unused. Non-usage is likely to ruin the vehicle and also lead to depreciation in its value, he added.However, the public prosecutor opposed Maisuriya’s plea stating that there is a likelihood of the accused using the vehicle for purpose of committing a crime.Court observed, “The vehicle has been lying in the police station since the date of its seizure and the report of the investigation officer does not mention any specific facility at the police station for keeping and maintaining such vehicles. Thus, it would not be reasonable to keep the vehicle without proper care and maintenance for a longer period till the conclusion of trial.”It allowed Maisuriya’s plea and ordered release of the motorcycle on furnishing personal bond amounting to twice the value of the vehicle. The Court also imposed conditions that accused cannot sell, transfer or alienate the vehicle in any manner, pending the trial and shall produce the vehicle before the authorized officer or Court, as and when called upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/accused-to-get-back-seized-bike/articleshow/79726410.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: PMPML to allow passengers to occupy all seats on buses currently in service||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has decided to operate buses at full capacity with immediate effect. Rajendra Jagtap, chairman-cum-managing director of the transport body, said that the decision has been taken after assessment of the Covid-19 situation in urban and rural areas of the district. “We have increased the number of buses by almost 1,200. However, it is being seen that despite the increase, some buses are running packed. Last week, we had a talk with both the corporations as well the district administration and assessed the Covid situation in the city. With the conditions well under control now, we have decided to allow all the buses running presently to operate at full capacity. Passengers will be allowed to occupy all seats from now on,” Jagtap told TOI. “The services of the state transport buses (MSRTC) and BEST in Mumbai resumed to full capacity around two months back. We, however, decided to wait and take it slow to ensure safety. We have taken several initiatives to ensure buses in urban areas and rural areas are available at 5-10minutes’ and 20-30 minutes’ intervals, respectively. Commuters need to decide for themselves whether they want to risk themselves and others by boarding one bus in large numbers or be patient and wait for the next bus to arrive,” he said. The official said that soon there would be a system of checking temperatures of commuters at busy bus stands. “For certain commuters, conductors could ask for medical certificates. We have requested the corporations and other concerned authorities to allow us to fine commuters found travelling without masks on buses,” Jagtap added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-allow-passengers-to-occupy-all-seats-on-buses-currently-in-service/articleshow/79728296.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Prices of steel furniture, grinders will increase’||SALEM: Prices of steel furniture and grinders will increase as the cost of raw materials had increased, shopowners said. KNP Rajagopal, president of the steel furniture and grinders merchants’ association, said, “We have decided to increase the prices by about 25% from the current rates.” Esan D Ezhil Vizhiyan, owner of Ezhil Furniture in Salem, said, “The price of one tonne of steel was Rs 53,000 before the outbreak of Covid-19, but it costs Rs 83,000 now.” He said there was no specific reason for the steel price hike and it had happened only in India. “The steel prices in other countries are more or less stable and only India is witnessing the increase in steel price,” he said. Salem district is known for manufacturing of steel furniture and its related products. There are also a few grinders manufactures in the district. Ezhil Vizhiyan said the price rise will affect people from the lower and middle-class segments as the affluent had switched to wooden wardrobes and almirahs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/prices-of-steel-furniture-grinders-will-increase/articleshow/79728324.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Shops in Pandalur taluk down shutters demanding translocation of rogue jumbo||UDHAGAMANDALAM: All the shops and commercial establishments in Pandalur taluk downed their shutters on Monday demanding the translocation of a rogue elephant, which killed three people in the past one week in the area, to deep forest. Locals also staged a road roko in Pandalur. On Sunday evening, the elephant killed A Prasanth and his father Anandaraj of Kolapalli near Cherambadi in Pandalur taluk. Two days ago, a 65-year-old man was killed by the same elephant at Kannampalli in Pandalur taluk. According to the locals, the rogue elephant has been damaging houses and farm lands in the past few months. Despite several complaints to the forest department, they did not take a concrete initiative to chase away the elephant into deep forest. Kolapalli and Kannampalli are located close to reserve forest areas. The rogue elephant moves within the forest areas during the day time and strays into human habitats during the nights, a resident of Kolappalli said. Locals also demanded a sum of Rs 10 lakh each as compensation for families of those killed by the elephant and Rs one lakh from the CM’s relief fund besides a government job for one of the members of the family. On Monday, the forest department pacified the protesters. “We released Rs 4 lakh each for the families of the victims today (Monday). A representation has been sent to the government informing about their demands,” district forest officer of Nilgiris division Guru Swamy Baddal said. He is also in charge of Gudalur division. He added, “The protesters dispersed after holding day-long talks with them and assuring to take up their demands to the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shops-in-pandalur-taluk-down-shutters-demanding-translocation-of-rogue-jumbo/articleshow/79728293.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Vajpayee’s statue unveiled||Lucknow: A bronze statue of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was unveiled during the DSMNRU convocation on Monday. The statue has been installed at the university’s Atal auditorium. An art gallery based on Atal’s poems was inaugurated at Atal auditorium. A postal stamp on the university was also released on the occasion The statue was inaugurated by Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. They praised the university for this tribute to Vajpayee ahead of his birth anniversary which falls on December 25. They also asked students to taken inspiration from Vajpayee’s life and to use their education in the interest of the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vajpayees-statue-unveiled/articleshow/79729303.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Meeting held on way to reduce accidents on Thoppur Road||DHARMAPURI: District collector S P Karthika chaired a meeting on Monday with the NHAI officials to discuss the possibilities of reducing accidents on Thoppur Ghat Road. The meeting was convened after a speeding truck ploughed into a vehicles that were piled up on the Thoppur ghat road three days ago and claimed four lives. “The ghat road has sharp turns and slope due to which the truck drivers unable to control their vehicles leading to accidents,” she told reporters after the meeting. To avoid this, solar lights and blinkers, sign boards to indicate sharp curves and awareness campaigns will be conducted among truck drivers. “L&T which maintains the stretch of the highway will do these works. Besides, CCTV cameras will be installed at the cost of Rs 40 lakh to monitor speeding vehicles. Officials will impose fine against the errant drivers,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/meeting-held-on-way-to-reduce-accidents-on-thoppur-road/articleshow/79728303.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Foundation stone laid for police station||COIMBATORE: City police commissioner Sumit Sharan laid foundation stone to construct B-15 Rathinapuri police station at Sanganoor on Monday. As the station has been functioning in a rented building, the police department had written to the state government seeking permission to construct a building. Subsequently, the city corporation passed a resolution to provide right for a 10,956sqft land in Sanganoor in 2014. A government order for the process was passed in 2019. While the ground floor will be occupied by traffic police, first floor and second floor are allotted to law and order, and crime police. A conference hall will be set up on the third floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foundation-stone-laid-for-police-station/articleshow/79728360.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Pune||At 868, rural Pune’s active containment zone count still high||Pune: The rural parts of Pune still have 868 active containment zones, with Baramati taluka leading the list with 193 sealed areas, followed by Haveli (161) and Shirur (102), a report from the district health office revealed. The report, which takes into account data till December 12, stated that Pune rural had recorded over 59,000 Covid-19 cases. It revealed that Velhe taluka had only one active containment zone, the lowest in the rural parts. Throwing light on the overall containment zones formed, the report stated that Khed taluka had accounted for highest 1,232 sealed areas in rural Pune so far. Of these, only 77 are active currently. Till now, as many as 5,201 containment zones have been formed in the rural parts of Pune, of which 4,333 have now been removed due to decline in the number of cases. Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad told TOI, “They have eased the entry-exit point restrictions in the active containment zones. These areas have been helpful in mapping the patients showing symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI). Our surveys are still under way for active containment zones. All the protocols are still being followed as per the Centre and state government’s instructions.” On Baramati, Haveli, and Shirur’s count of highest active containment zones, Prasad said, “The floating population in the industrial belt of these areas is one of the reasons why the number of containment zones is still high in these blocks. The connectivity to the highway is also one of the reasons.” When asked about the citizens’ response on the continuation of containment zones, he said, “The response is not that good. People think of it as more like hindrance, which is not true. It is for their own safety and can prevent the spread of the infection. However, we have still eased the entry-exit ban. which was stricter in the earlier phase of the lockdown. People need to change their attitude towards infection. It is still there.” (Box) Containment zone Pune rural as on Dec 12 Block name//Total containment zones//Active//positive cases Ambegaon//209//32//4723 Baramati//739//193//3125 Bhor//189//37//1479 Daund//311//51//2571 Haveli//1171//161//16755 Indapur//187//83//3849 Junnar//147//38//5326 Khed//1232//77//5930 Maval//295//19//3407 Purandar//158//45//2416 Shirur//200//102//4505 Velhe//79//01//721||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-868-rural-punes-active-containment-zone-count-still-high/articleshow/79728340.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Toppers bask in their moment of glory||Lucknow: The meritorious students of Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University were busy flaunting their medals, while two of them were celebrating their PhD degrees for being the varsity’s first two to complete doctoral studies. The first PhD degree was awarded to the granddaughter of Shakuntala Misra after whom the varsity is named. As her father, BSP MP Satish Chandra Misha watched her with pride, Shyamalee Misra, who was awarded PhD on ‘Law as an instrument of social transformation with special reference to the status of women’, said “I had cracked PhD entrance both in Lucknow University and DSMNRU in 2015, but preferred to study here as I am deeply inspired by my grandmother after whom this varsity is named. I thank my father who has been a strong support in this journey.” Even CM Yogi Agityanath in his speech said, “The universities like DSMNRU have helped students achieve their dreams by offering courses in every field. It is a great day for the varsity as after whom the varsity is named, ‘Shakuntala Devi’, her granddaughter is also among the first two PhD students who have been awarded the degree.” Another student, Satya Prakash Tewari was awarded PhD in Physics. His research was on the computational study of a naturally occurring biomolecule. As many as 1,205 students graduated, of which 632 were girls and 573 boys. A total of 151 medals were awarded to 122 students, of which 71 medals were bagged by girls while 51 by boys. Eleven medals were won by differently-abled students including three girls. While Chancellor’s gold, silver and bronze medals were awarded to students scoring highest in all faculties, chief minister’s medals were awarded to the top three high scorers in every faculty and vice-chancellor’s medals were awarded to high scorers in every course. Highest four medals were bagged by a visually impaired student Ram Darash, MA (History). As he walked to collect his medal, the convocation hall resonated with loud cheers. Similar support was seen when a nine month pregnant Jyotsna Singh was conferred the vice-chancellor’s gold medal for scoring highest in her MA (Psychology) course. “Before coming here I consulted my gynecologist. She asked me to take extra care. I was in two minds but this was a big day of my life and I wanted to share this happiness together with my baby who can step anytime into this world”. With huge smiles on their faces, medal winners maintaining social distancing celebrated their success. “I am happy that I was awarded a medal from the stage as my biggest fear was that due to the pandemic the varsity may award only a few medals, said CM gold medal winner Mansi Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toppers-bask-in-their-moment-of-glory/articleshow/79729310.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||12 women trafficked to Dubai rescued by Indian consulate||Hyderabad: Twelve women from Hyderabad, who were taken to Dubai on a visit visa and forced to work as housemaids, have been rescued by the Consulate General of India (CGI), Dubai. “We have located these women and are making arrangements for their boarding and lodging. They will be sent back to India soon,” CGI Dubai said on Twitter, responding to MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan who sought the authorities’ help to rescue the women. The women were allegedly subjected to harassment and torture by the employers in Dubai. On December 11, TOI had reported about the plight of five women who were allegedly deceived by a travel agent. Apart from the five women, seven other women from the city had also been trafficked to the UAE under the guise of getting them jobs in shops. But once they landed in Dubai, they were handed over to a recruitment agency which forced them to work as maids in the houses of Arabs for more than 15 hours a day. In one instance, a resident of Hassannagar, Rajendranagar, said they were approached by a local travel agent who sent his wife to Dubai. Families of three women who were also sent to Dubai on a visit visa in September-October said they were forced to work as housemaids. The women were also not paid their wages. On December 11, TOI had reported the plight of five women who were allegedly deceived by a travel agent. The families wrote to external affairs minister S Jaishankar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12-women-trafficked-to-dubai-rescued-by-indian-consulate/articleshow/79728347.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Panchayat president alleges caste discrimination by VP||COIMBATORE: A woman panchayat president, who is also a tribal, petitioned district collector K Rajamani on Monday seeking legal action against the vice-president of the panchayat for discriminating against her and not allowing her to carry out administrative work. Sundari, belonging to the scheduled tribe community, was elected panchayat president of Devarayapuram village 11 months ago. Five villages fall under the village panchayat. In her petition to the collector, Sundari said, “Vice-president of the panchayat PT Krishnan, a caste Hindu, is not allowing me to do administrative work. He wanted to control the panchayat administration. The vice-president used my caste names and often scolded me by using my caste. Krishnan and two others demanded money to implement projects for the village panchayat,” Sundari said. She said Krishan often shouted at her for sitting on the president’s chair at the panchayat office. “New vice-president should be appointed for the benefit of villages coming under the panchayat,” she said. “Because of him, we had not carried out any work in the panchayat for the past one month. Over 12 bills for works like changing the street lamps and digging bore well, remain pending for months together and several bills have become invalid as time has lapsed. The president and vice-president of a panchayat need to sign to clear bills of the administrative works. But Krishan refused to sign in the bills. So, all the development works were halted,” Sundari said. Sundari and Krishnan are members of AIADMK. Rajamani said the district administration will stand with her to run the panchayat administration with full freedom. “If anyone unwantedly interferes in the administration of the village panchayat, they will face the consequences,” Rajamani warned. He told Sundari to meet the block development officer or him whenever she faces troubles from others. Meanwhile, Sundari decided to lodge a complaint with police against Krishnan for using her caste names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/panchayat-president-alleges-caste-discrimination-by-vp/articleshow/79728342.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Spinal injury victims in Coimbatore yet to get welfare benefits||COIMBATORE: As many as 30 spinal injury victims complained to the district collector at the collectorate on Monday that they were unable to access the funds or para-quad kits allotted to them by the state government. The collector promised to solve the issue as soon as possible. The victims said the state government had allocated Rs 4.3 lakh per spinal-injured person in Coimbatore, so that the primary health centres can provide urine bags, catheters and suppository tablets every month to the patient. They said the health department had also received the funds, however, officials are yet to disburse the monthly kits Santhosh Kumar, a member of the spinal injury persons’ association in Coimbatore, said, “Because of our condition we have no sensation below the waist. So, we don’t know when we pass urine or stools and need to drain out the urine using catheters and urine bags and get the stools out by placing suppository tablets daily. Understanding that the cost could be burdensome for many, the government passed a GO that gives us the needed items every month,” he said. “The office of joint director of health services has to distribute it at the nearest primary health centre of victims. But we are yet to receive this benefit and the concerned officials claim they have no idea about such a scheme,” he added. Victims also asked for government doctors to conduct health camps for them every month in taluk offices as they frequently suffer urine infections, hemorrhoids etc. “It costs us Rs 1,000 for every visit to a doctor,” said Kumar. The collector has promised to start monthly health camps for them at Pollachi, Mettupalayam and Coimbatore. “The collector told us that doctors will be available for consultation, refer us for ultrasound scans to the nearest GH and also give us medicines for any complication,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spinal-injury-victims-yet-to-get-welfare-benefits/articleshow/79728335.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||NEP will make students ‘atmanirbhar’: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the New Education Policy (NEP) will make students self-dependent, self-sufficient and self-made. Addressing the seventh convocation of Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMNRU), the Chief Minister said universities should make a committee for effective implementation of NEP in educational institutes. He said hosting a convocation ceremony in times of Covid-19 pandemic proved that no hurdle could stop one from achieving success if one is determined enough. “NEP aims at making one ‘Atmanirbhar, Swavalambi and Swadeshi’. It focuses on traditional education, innovation and the power of start-up that our country possesses,” he said. Along with Governor and chancellor of state universities, Anandiben Patel, the Chief Minister inaugurated projects worth over Rs 125 crore at DSMNRU. “In the final year, students take up one subject and are asked to make a project on it. How much this project work will be instrumental in their career and how it will shape their future was something that was never thought about in the past. NEP has been designed in such a manner that the concepts or subjects learnt by them today will be beneficial for them in future as well,” the CM said. He “Imparting education doesn’t only mean theoretical knowledge but also its practical implications. NEP focuses on this concept,” the CM said. Congratulating special students, Yogi said, “We should be grateful to PM Narendra Modi who replaced the word ‘Viklang’ from ‘Divyang’ which means those who have a special power. This change has been a great motivating factor for all special students.” The CM said in times of Covid-19, the government ensured that around 10.7 lakh differently-abled people got government pension. “A sum of Rs 1,000 was credited to the accounts of the special people every month. The government is making efforts to give further push to category reservation to such people in administrative services,” he said. Minister for Divyangjan Empowerment Anil Rajbhar said the government was sensitive towards specially-abled people. The university has been named after the mother of BSP MP Satish Chandra Mishra. Besides SC Mishra, vice-chancellor RKP Singh was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nep-will-make-students-atmanirbhar-yogi/articleshow/79729345.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Pen & paper or CBT: JNTUH to take call on mid-term exam format today||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) is exploring different nature and modes of conducting the mid-term exams of engineering and pharmacy students scheduled to commence from December 21. The university had introduced computer-based test (CBT) for first to third year B Tech and B Pharm students who want to improve their internal marks. These CBTs are scheduled to be held from December 15. However, for the mid-term examinations, the university has constituted a committee to come up with a set of recommendations, listing out different nature and modes of examinations that could be adopted by affiliated colleges for the current academic year. The committee is set to hold a meeting on Tuesday and its decision is likely to affect close to 1.40 lakh students. According to officials, the committee is exploring options such as conducting the exam in the conventional way, wherein students would be asked to appear for the mid-term exams from their parent college or the unconventional way, wherein students would be asked to appear for the exam at a nearby JNTUH-affiliated college. Not just that, the university is also exploring CBT for the mid-term exams. “We have to decide whether to have objective type paper or a descriptive one. In CBT, we also have to decide on whether to allow students to appear from home or call them to a nearby nodal centre,” JNTUH director, evaluation, Kamakshi Prasad said. If the mid-term exams are held as CBT, then the committee would also deliberate upon ways to ensure academic honesty is maintained. “If CBT is held, then we have to ensure that students don’t end up indulging in malpractices by setting up proctor vigilance system or by asking them to keep their cameras on and tracking their physical movement using artificial intelligence tools and various other software,” Prasad added. The committee might recommend one to three exam patterns to all affiliated colleges to choose from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pen-paper-or-cbt-jntuh-to-take-call-on-mid-term-exam-format-today/articleshow/79728368.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Emu farm scam: 3 get 10 years in jail for cheating investors||COIMBATORE: A special court for trial of cases under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1997, on Monday sentenced three people, including a woman, to 10 years of imprisonment for cheating 374 investors of Rs 5.62 crore through an emu farm scam. The convicts were identified as R Raja, his wife R Sasikala and their relative C Ranjith Kumar, residents of Salem district. They had started Abi Emu Farms and Abi Emu and Agro Farms India Private Limited in Salem in May 2012. The firms offered two investment schemes. Under the farm scheme, the company promised to construct a shed and provide six emu chicks, fodder and medicines for Rs 1.5 lakh investment. The investors were promised monthly incentive of Rs 6,000 and yearly bonus of Rs 20,000. It promised to return the invested amount by the end of the second year. Under the VIP scheme, the company promised to rear emu chicks on behalf of those who invest Rs 1.5 lakh. The depositors were promised Rs 7,000 monthly incentive and Rs 25,000 yearly bonus for two years, when the deposit would be returned. As many as 374 people invested Rs 5.62 crore in the company, which failed to fulfil its promises. Later that year, an investor lodged a complaint against the accused with the economic offence wing (EOW) in Salem. The accused were arrested under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian penal code and 5 of TNPID Act. The chargesheet was filed in April 2013. While pronouncing the judgement on Monday, special judge A S Ravi also slapped a penalty of Rs 1.12 crore on each of the accused. The judge also directed authorities to distribute Rs 3.35 crore among the scam victims. The court issued a non-bailable warrant against Sasikala, who failed to appear before it. In another judgement pronounced on Monday, the judge sentenced Ranjith Kumar, his wife R Radha and Raja to 10 years of imprisonment for cheating 173 depositors of Rs 2.33 crore. The trio had started Jai Emu Farms Private Limited in Salem in 2012, which offered similar schemes. As many as 173 depositors invested Rs 2.33 crore in the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/emu-farm-scam-3-get-10-yrs-in-jail-for-cheating-investors/articleshow/79728366.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt inks 18 deals to attract Rs 20,000 crore in new investments||CHENNAI: Continuing its focus on attracting new investments into the state despite the prevailing pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday signed 18 MoUs with investors to attract nearly Rs 20,000 crore in industrial investments. The new investments are across sectors, including electric vehicles, solar and wind energy, pharmaceuticals, city gas distribution, E-education and textiles. The MoUs were signed in the presence of CM Edappadi K Palaniswami to attract investments of Rs 19,995 crore into TN and with a potential to provide employment to more than 26,500 people. In addition, the CM laid the foundation stone for five projects, with an investment commitment of Rs 4,456 crore, a government release said. It would have an employment potential of more than 27,000 people, the state government release said. “With an administration that offered quality healthcare to all those affected by Covid-19 and deftly handled cyclones and heavy rains, the state government ensured Tamil Nadu attracted the highest industrial investments and clocked double digit growth in GST revenue even during the pandemic. The whole country is now looking at our state and Tamil Nadu model of growth is winning accolades,” the CM said. Among the key investments planned in the state include Ola Electric Mobility’s proposal to establish an electric 2-wheeler manufacturing facility at Hosur in Krishnagiri district at an investment of Rs 2,354 crore, and providing employment to nearly 2,200 people.Ola Electric on Monday said it will make two million electric scooters at a greenfield facility in Hosur in Tamil Nadu, displacing Honda Motorcycle and Scooters’ Vithalpur facility in Gujarat which makes 1.2 million units of petrol-powered scooters in a year. “This is a significant milestone for Ola and a proud moment for our country. This will be one of the most advanced manufacturing facilities in the world. This factory will showcase India’s skill and talent to produce world-class products that will cater to global markets,” Bhavish Aggarwal, chairman and group CEO, Ola said. Torrent Gas Chennai is planning to establish a city gas distribution network in Chennai and Tiruvallur with an investment of Rs 5,000 crore, employing 5,000 people. “There were legal challenges in establishing gas distribution network and hence Chennai was missing out so far. Those have now been cleared and we will soon get piped gas supply in our city,” a senior state government official told TOI. Arizona-based First Solar, which is the world’s largest manufacturer of thin film photovoltaic (PV) solar modules, is investing Rs 4,185 crore in a solar module manufacturing facility. “They are looking at two locations and it will come up near Chennai. This will be the largest solar PV plant in the state,” the official said. Society for Smart Electric Mobility (SSEM) proposes to set up an electric vehicle and future mobility park. It will have a research centre and would help skill development. It would facilitate setting up of manufacturing units within the park coming up at Thathanur in Tirupur district. It is investing Rs 2,500 crore and will employ around 1,000 people. Voltas, a leading player in air conditioners and refrigeration products, will establish a manufacturing facility at Vedal village in Kancheepuram district by investing Rs 1,000 crore to make air conditioners and commercial refrigeration products. “This is the first major plant that Tamil Nadu is attracting in this segment,” the official added. Among the MoUs signed on Monday include plans by three pharmaceutical companies to establish new units in Tamil Nadu. The key among them is Mylan Laboratories, a US-based speciality pharmaceuticals manufacturer, investing Rs 350 crore in its unit to come up in Krishnagiri district. “All the three MoUs with pharma companies are for speciality pharmaceuticals, which were not part of the state’s bouquet, even though investments are smaller in size,” the official said. Crown Group has signed an MoU with Tidco to establish an aerospace cluster park for manufacturing of flight components and sub systems and drones in the defence corridor coming up in Salem district. It will invest Rs 2,500 crore and it offers employment potential to 5,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-inks-18-deals-to-attract-rs-20000cr-in-new-investments/articleshow/79728370.cms||D Govardan
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Small foundries feel heat of rising material costs, to down shutters||COIMBATORE: Unable to cope with the rising raw material costs, small-scale foundries in the district have decided to shut operations and launch an indefinite strike from Wednesday. While the foundries were hit hard by the lockdown, the steep hike in raw material prices has worsened the situation, said president of Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners Association (Cosmafan) A Sivashanmuga Kumar. “Price of raw materials has been increasing around the same time for the last four years. Along with the main raw materials like pig iron, scrap and coke, price of allied components has increased by 116%. On an average, raw material prices have increased by 26% since November,” he told reporters. “We have orders for the next three months. With the price hike, it is extremely difficult to deliver the products for the quoted price. We are forced to spend the loan provided during the lockdown period to buy raw materials. We have decided to stop production and go on an indefinite strike till the government intervenes and takes steps to reduce raw material prices,” Kumar said. Over 400 small-scale foundries that manufacture gear boxes and spare parts for pumps, wet grinders, compressors, textile and general engineering products will participate in the strike. The strike may affect four lakh workers and other industries like pump, textiles and automobiles. The foundries produce 800 tonnes of materials that cost about Rs 30 crore per day. “We want the central government to form a price monitoring committee with a representative of small-scale industries and take necessary steps to control the price hike,” the official added. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) had recently urged the government to impose a ban on steel export. “Raw material price hike will affect the entire MSME sector. Three to four major players control steel export. We want the government to ban steel export to reduce raw material price hike,” Codissia vice-president Ramesh Babu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-foundries-feel-heat-of-rising-material-costs-to-down-shutters/articleshow/79728372.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||On a mission to breathe new life into ancient art||COIMBATORE: R Krishna Kitena of Velaricombai village in Nilgiris district is on a mission to document the lifestyle and culture of kurumba tribes and preserve their 3,000-year-old art. The 45-year-old man is using natural dyes to make paintings that portray religious rituals, honey gathering expeditions, traditional ways of harvesting, temples and festivals of the tribal community. He is also teaching the art to youngsters of the community with the help of the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (Trifed). Krishna displayed his paintings at the exhibition organized by Tribal People’s Fellowship for Livelihood Resources, a non-governmental organization, in the city on Sunday. “Paintings of my grandfather late Mathan can be seen even today on rocks and walls. I learnt the art from him when I was six years old. In those days, not many people were interested in learning it. But now, a lot of youngsters are interested,” he told TOI. He had trained over 60 people from the Kurumba community at the workshops conducted by Trifed and 20 of them have become proficient in the art, Krishna said. “I am recreating the lifestyle and culture of our ancestors. I teach others only after explaining about our history. Teaching makes me happy and I am looking forward to teach many people,” he said. His children K Vasuki, 12 and K Ragul, 9, are also learning the art from him. “I started working on commission after attending a three-month-long training programme conducted by C. P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation in 2002. I paint on canvas, trees, bags and on fabrics like sari and dupatta. While I use natural dye obtained from trees and leaves, I use fabric paint on clothes,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/on-a-mission-to-breathe-new-life-into-ancient-art/articleshow/79728369.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Guv: Edu system needs overhaul for benefit of special children||Lucknow: Emphasising on the concept of ‘one country-one syllabus’, governor and chancellor state universities Anandiben Patel on Monday said that the education system needs an overhaul to meet the aspirations of specially able children from anganwadi to higher levels. The governor said that while special arrangements should be made for specially able children at anganwadi centres, at university level, there is a need to review the existing pedagogy and evaluation system for introducing reforms. She added that all this can be achieved by training teachers as per the vision of the New Education Policy (NEP). Patel was addressing students and teachers at the annual convocation of Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMNRU). The governor said that NEP will make a new and powerful India by promoting regional languages, culture, ideas and values as well as by developing swadeshi knowledge and indigenous technology. “NEP will also promote inter- and multi-disciplinary studies and research, besides developing techniques for making education accessible and easy for the specially able,” she said and added, “NEP, she said, has also suggested ways to promote education among girls.” Lauding DSMNRU for empowering the specially able, she said, “We all need to inculcate a sense of pride for the nation and the feeling of universal brotherhood among students to make them global citizens. The governor said that parents should also understand the NEP and cooperate in implementation of the vision at primary, secondary and higher education levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guv-edu-system-needs-overhaul-for-benefit-of-special-children/articleshow/79729370.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||BJP leader’s birthday cake cut in SSG Hospital||Vadodara: It seems that the newly appointed officebearers of Vadodara city BJP are ending up embracing controversies over Covid-19 guidelines. After general secretary of the city unit, Sunil Solanki, it was turn of president Dr Vijay Shah.Shah and his well-wishers had chalked out a detailed programme, largely focusing on social activities, on the occasion of his birthday on Monday. He was to attend a tennis event in the morning followed by darshan at the ISKCON temple. The programme included visits to GMERS, Gotri and SSG Hospital (SSGH) apart from a blood donation camp and a medical camp. He was to go live on Facebook in the night.While there was no controversy at any other event, things went a little too far at the SSGH. Videos of a group having come together in a room to cut a cake have surfaced. Those present in the room ensured that they wore masks, but they were too close to each other keeping the Covid-19 guidelines in mind. Solanki was also present at the venue along with Shah.Earlier, an offence was registered against Solanki and others after a video of his birthday had surfaced. Solanki was seen cutting a cake in the present of several party workers many of whom were not wearing masks. Solanki and others were detained in connection the offence.Shah could not be reached for a comment on the issue. A BJP release issued regarding his birthday celebrations too did not make a comment on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-leaders-birthday-cake-cut-in-ssg-hospital/articleshow/79727268.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TASK, IBM to enhance skills of students||Hyderabad: Telangana government has joined hands with tech major IBM to provide curated online courses to students to help enhance technical and professional skills. IBM will work with the Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) to offer ‘Open P-TECH’, a free digital education platform focused on emerging technologies and professional development skills, to 30,000 students over one year across engineering, degree and polytechnic courses. IBM will offer its entire catalogue of Open P-TECH courses in emerging technologies like cyber security, blockchain, AI and machine learning, cloud, IoT, along with professional skills like Design Thinking free to students between 18 to 22 years. Sandip Patel, MD, IBM India/South Asia said collaboration will complement Telangana’s education curriculum with new-age skill sets. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-ibm-to-enhance-skills-of-students/articleshow/79728374.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Four held for stealing car, bikes and gold chains||COIMBATORE: The rural police arrested four men on Monday for their involvement in a series of chain snatching and vehicle thefts. The arrested were identified as V Ragupathy, 34, K Malleeswaran, 31, from Kottur Malayandipattinam, A. Suryajegadeesh, 27, from Thensangampalayam near Kottur, and P Sabarinathan, 24, from Pongaliyur near Anaimalai. A special team from Pollachi sub-division conducted vehicle check at Vanjiyapuram junction on Monday and held an inquiry with two-wheeler riders Suryajegadeesh and Ragupathy. Police checked the registration number of the two-wheeler and learned that it did not belong to them. The duo told the police that they along with Malleeswaran and Sabarinathan had stolen a car, two motorcycles and snatched 13 sovereigns of gold chains from three women. Police recovered Rs 5 lakh, gold chains and stolen vehicles from them. The arrested accused were produced before a judicial magistrate court and later they were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-held-for-stealing-car-bikes-and-gold-chains/articleshow/79728375.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: These homeless kids don’t want farm stir to end||NEW DELHI: It has been a gala week for Karan. The 12year-old, who lives on the streets, has always begged for his food. “Ever since these uncles began their protest, we have been getting free food. So, we don’t have to stand at the traffic intersections to beg now,” the boy said at Singhu border. Accompanied by four friends, Karan arrived at Singhu to see what the fuss was all about. “That is when we realised we could get free food and a place to sleep in this cold weather,” he smiled brightly. There are many street children like Karan at the numerous langars at the protest site, happy to be receiving food without having to beg for it. “I had mooli, aloo and gobhi paratha with pickle and tea for breakfast,” narrated Kunal, who stays at Shriram Colony nearby. “Then for lunch, dal, kadhi, chapati and rice, pakoras in the evening and roti-sabzi for dinner.” The nine-year-old Class IV student never had full meals like these earlier. “My parents are labourers who lost their jobs during the lockdown. Having three meals is something I cannot even imagine,” the youngster said. “Mere paas to lunch box bhi nahi hai and daily kabhi doodh bhi nahi milta (I don’t even have a lunch box to take food to school and I don’t get milk every day).” With school closed, Kanika, a slum dweller and daughter of a domestic help and a labourer, goes to the trash piles daily to pick out discarded bottles. Kanika, also nine, has been singing songs and shouting slogans alongside the farmer protesters. Vimal, 12, also supports the farmers “because they give us food”. He said, “We have been coming to the protest site for the last five days. The farmers give us extra food and fruits for our family and neighbours.” Along with impoverished children, the agitating farmers are also feeding local people and travellers stuck on the blocked road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/these-homeless-kids-dont-want-farm-stir-to-end/articleshow/79728378.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||It is now time for SGPGI to take next big leap: CM||Lucknow: Congratulating the staff and students of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences for completing 37 years and the milestones achieved by the institute since its inception, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said it is now time for the premier institute to take the next big leap. “The journey through these 37 years has been exemplary, but what I feel for SGPGI now is that time has come for it to rise above and take the next big leap,” the CM said in his address at the institute’s foundation day. “Many times, I have heard people from SGPGI comparing themselves with AIIMS or wanting to come on a par with it, but it is time to realize that two more AIIMS are coming up and will be functional soon. Then the state also has IMS BHU which falls in the same category. SGPGI must, therefore, set new targets for itself,” the CM added, while assuring that the state is ready to help the institute in all possible ways. Listing out a few targets before the apex medical centre in the state, which has been ranked as third best in post graduate teaching, training and patient care in independent assessments, the CM said, “The institute must start its pending projects like liver transplant centre and centre for diabetes and endocrine disease. It must increase its participation in government schemes like Ayushman Bharat.” The CM also urged the SGPGI administration to start the general out-patient services at the earliest in public interest. “Many government medical colleges have already started OPD services, even the private ones are open, then why is it that SGPGI, KGMU and RMLIMS are yet to start general OPD. You all must work to re-start the general OPD not only in public interest but also to give the message that life has to bounce back,” he said. Praising SGPGI experts and faculty members’ role in Covid management and telemedicine facility, the chief minister said that expectation comes naturally from those who have potential. Earlier, minister for medical education, finance and parliamentary affairs, Suresh Khanna lauded SGPGI for going an extra mile in times of Covid-19 pandemic. The programme began with director Prof RK Dhiman presenting the institute’s annual report and concluded with dean Prof SK Mishra proposing the vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/it-is-now-time-for-sgpgi-to-take-next-big-leap-cm/articleshow/79729419.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||‘Counselling helpful in XDR TB treatment’||Lucknow: A study by a resident doctor of respiratory medicine department of KGMU has found that psychological counselling can help in recovery of patients suffering from extensively drug-resistant Tuberculosis (XDR TB), a rare type of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. This study done by Dr Yash Jagdhari, final year MD student, for his superspeciality course was adjudged the ‘best thesis of 2020’ in KGMU and awarded Dr Janhvi Dutt Pandey Scholarship on Monday at a programme organised by the research cell of the university under the direction of Prof Shally Awasthi. Dr Kopal Rohatgi, department of psychiatry and Dr Monika, ENT department, bagged second and third place respectively. Every resident has to submit a thesis. Among them, a few are selected for presentation before the research cell. This year, 14 presentations were made. In his thesis titled ‘Demographic, psychiatric and molecular profile in patients of extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis’, Dr Jagdhari had analyzed 53 XDR TB patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/counselling-helpful-in-xdr-tb-treatment/articleshow/79729394.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Farmers' protest: ‘Refuelling’ at these tents for agitation next day||NEW DELHI: A petrol pump at Singhu border has become home for protesters after NGO Hemkunt Foundation placed insulated tents there to ensure protection from the harsh weather. Jatin Singh, a representative Hemkunt Foundation, said, “A lot of people have suffered the biting cold, and our organisation thought we should do something so that the elderly are warm and safe in the wintry conditions.” He said that there were 84 tents on Monday and they would get at least 100 more by Tuesday. “To use the tents, one has to register with us. After the 100 additional tents arrive, we will place them in the space remaining at the petrol pump. We may add more tents if needed,” Singh said. On Twitter, Hemkunt Foundation said, “It’s late at night with the temperature being 12 degree Celsius and our team is constantly adding tents to the tent city we have set up at Singhu border for the farmers.” Kunal Singh testified to having stayed in one of the tents during the day. With the tents almost all full, he offered his place to an elderly protester who needed it more. “I am just 28 years old and can manage sleeping outside, but he cannot,” Kunal reasoned. “The elderly farmers have been serving us for a long time. Now, when they are standing up for our future, taking care of them during our stay at Singhu border is the least that we can do for them.” Besides the tents, there are several other spots along the stretch where the protest is going on that have shelters erected for the agitators. “There are people who are taking refuge in their tractors. Some of them are sleeping beneath them to keep themselves warm at night,” pointed out Anuj Kumar, a protester from Haryana. “But it is becoming increasingly important to open more shelters here. I am sure such provision will be made because nothing is going to stop us from continuing our protest against the farm laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/refuelling-at-these-tents-for-agitation-next-day/articleshow/79728383.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 15, 2020||Delhi||DDA’s New Year gift — 900 HIG and MIG flats in Jasola, Dwarka||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has a New Year gift for those who want a home of their own in the capital. DDA is going to launch its Housing Scheme 2021 in the first week of January and on offer will be 1,175 flats, including 200 3bhk flats in Jasola and 700 2bhk flats in Dwarka. The last housing scheme was launched by DDA in March, 2019 and on offer were 17,922 flats, even though eventually a draw of lots of 10,294 flats was conducted as more than 7,000 flats for economically weaker sections (EWS) were removed as there were very few applications for this category. The scheme is ready and the proposal is going to be tabled in the authority’s meeting, to be chaired by Lt Governor Anil Baijal soon. “All the flats to be offered in the scheme are completely constructed and ready for disposal. We have made all preparations to launch the scheme as soon as it is approved in the authority’s meeting,” a DDA official said. “All flats on offer this time are in good locations in Dwarka and Jasola and there are only Higher Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) flats in the scheme this time,” he said. In its previous housing schemes, Lower Income Group (LIG) 1bhk flats had found few takers and that is why, DDA hasn’t kept any in the 2021 housing scheme. There are, however, 275 EWS category flats in Manglapuri near Dwarka that will be part of the scheme and priced below Rs 25 lakh. The MIG flats will be priced approximately Rs 1.2 crore and the HIG flats will cost around Rs 2.2 crore. While the MIG flats at Dwarka’s Sector 16-B and 19-B are well-connected to Delhi Metro’s Blue Line (Dwarka-Noida/Vaishali), the HIG flats at Jasola are located near the Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh metro station of Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West). Keeping in mind the pandemic, the housing scheme would be completely online. The scheme will be kept ‘open’ for a far longer period to ensure there is no rush to visit sample flats. DDA, however, has withdrawn its earlier plan to allow applicants to opt for a flat at a floor of their choice, corner location or flats facing green areas or main road by paying 1.5-3% extra of the flat’s cost. The scheme does not include the luxury flats DDA is building at Dwarka’s Sector 19-B, which includes penthouses with terrace gardens and luxury furnishing and ‘Super HIGs’. “The luxury flats will be part of our next housing scheme, which we plan to launch later in 2021,” the official said. DDA has prepared a new software for the housing scheme, which the official claimed, “will bring a lot of changes in the process and make it completely online. While earlier, applicants were redirected to websites of different banks for the application process, the entire exercise will be in a single-window operation on the DDA portal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ddas-new-year-gift-900-hig-and-mig-flats-in-jasola-dwarka/articleshow/79728389.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Investment in med research need of the hour: ICMR DG||Lucknow: Stating that India responded to Covid-19 before many other countries of the world, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Balram Bhargava on Monday said the biggest learning from the pandemic is that spending on health sector needs to be increased significantly. “Health sector expenditure needs to be increased from about 1% to 2.5% of the GDP. Investments in medical research and disease prevention are the need of the hour,” Dr Bhargava said in his keynote address during the 37th foundation day celebrations of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). Tracing the country’s journey through the pandemic, he said India was one of the first countries to start screening for coronavirus to curtail “imported infection”. He said India remained consistent on its strategy and improvised quickly to emerging situations. “One of the key decisions that favoured us was related to herd immunity. We resisted it, didn’t fall in its trap and worked on 5Ts – test, track, treat, trace and technology,” he said. He said India worked round the clock to build a robust testing network of which SGPGI and KGMU were an important part. “Besides creating state of the art labs, we were open to new ideas like pool testing with Uttar Pradesh being the first ones to respond,” Dr Bhargava added. Assuring that India was well prepared to roll out world’s largest vaccination campaign, he said: “I can say that India’s position on global platform in terms of vaccine production and cold chain maintenance is very strong. We hope to immunize over 30 crore Indians by July 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/investment-in-med-research-need-of-the-hour-icmr-dg/articleshow/79729434.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why post-Covid fungal infection is new worry||NEW DELHI: Low immunity among people recovering from Covid-19, either due to the infection or medicines administered, is leading to a unique crisis. Doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH), one of the leading city hospitals, say many patients are developing mucormycosis, a rare-but-deadly fungal infection. It has been a cause of death in patients requiring prolonged ICU stay. However, it is the rapid increase in the numbers seen in unsuspected recovering Covid-19 patients that is causing the grave concern, SGRH states. “In the last 15 days, we have seen 13 cases of Covid-19-triggered mucormycosis. Five have died. At least three patients have suffered vision loss and have had to undergo removal of the nose and jaw bone to prevent the spread of infection. One of them is a 32-year-old,” Dr Manish Munjal, senior ENT surgeon, said. “Usually, we see one to two cases of mucormycosis in a month,” he added. Similar instances of mucormycosis in Covid-19-recovered patients have also been reported from hospitals in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. “The mainstay of Covid-19 treatment in patients with severe symptoms is steroid administration. We also give medicines to suppress the immune system because the infection can lead to a cytokine storm where the body starts to attack its own cells. However, this leaves the patients at risk to develop opportunistic fungal infections. Mucormycosis is one of them,” the SGRH doctors said. They added that the fungal infection was mostly hospital-acquired and seen in admitted patients. “Early clinical suspicion on symptoms such as nose obstruction, swelling in the eye or cheeks, and black dry crusts in the nose should immediately prompt the conduct of a biopsy in the OPD and start of the antifungal therapy as early as possible,” said Dr Varun Rai, consultant ENT surgeon at SGRH. Mucormycosis presents mostly as a sinus infection that is accompanied by nasal congestion, nasal discharge and sinus pain. A fever and headache can also occur. The doctors say the infection spreads in tissues and causes disintegration of the thin wall of cartilage and bone that divides the nostrils among others. According to National Organisation of Rare Disorders (NORD), sometimes, there is bluish discolouration of the skin near the sinuses or the eye socket due to lack of oxygen. “If unrecognised and untreated, significant tissue death (necrosis) can occur and the infection can significantly damage facial structures. It can also affect the brain,” says NORD. The only available treatment for mucormycosis is antifungal medication and symptom management. Despite that, doctors claim that 50% patients succumb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-post-covid-fungal-infection-is-new-worry/articleshow/79728393.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Leadership growth to push edu quality in govt schools||Lucknow: Basic education minister (independent charge) Satish Dwivedi on Monday launched the School Leadership Development programme that aims to improve quality of education in government primary schools. Addressing school heads through a online session on YouTube, Dwivedi said the onus of converting a primary school into a model-cum-grade component school lies on the principals. “On the Diksha app, head teachers will be apprised with various parameters for implementation of school development project,” Dwivedi said. The department has roped in State Institute of Educational Management & Training (SIEMAT) and Bengaluru based non-profit organisation Mantra4Change to prepare modules for the School Leadership Development (SLD) programme. A set of 20 such modules will be uploaded on the Diksha portal. The director general of school education, Vijay Kiran Anand said the SLD programme aims at energising and catalysing leadership for driving improvement in school. The programme also focusses on peer-driven learning community. “It is first time that school heads are given the responsibility through proper training sessions to make their school a grade component school,” Anand said. The head teachers with the assistance of state resource groups (SRGs) and academic resource persons (ARPs), who will conduct training sessions, co-create learning resources, monitor implementation and facilitate learning circles to be held at block level and engage in continuous learning on Diksha platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/leadership-growth-to-push-edu-quality-in-govt-schools/articleshow/79729473.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Goa||Distribution of Class X, XII certs from tomorrow||Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has finally begun the process of distribution of students’ passing certificates for the 2020 Class X and XII public exams. The process was delayed this year due to the pandemic. Goa board has asked institution heads to send an authorised person to collect the certificates, starting this week. The distribution process will begin with Class XII passing certificates. On the first day, December 16, passing certificates will be handed to institutions in Bardez, Bicholim, Pernem and Sattari talukas. On December 17, certificates for talukas of Canacona, Salcete, Quepem and Sanguem will be given out. Certificates for Mormugao, Tiswadi, Ponda and Dharbandora talukas will be distributed on December 18. The distribution will be on from 10am to 5pm each day. Post this, schools will start the process of handing out the certificates to their students. Class X passing certificates will be distributed by the board starting from December 21 for Bardez, Bicholim, Pernem and Sattari talukas. This will be followed by certificates for talukas of Canacona, Salcete, Quepem and Sanguem on December 22 and for the talukas of Mormugao, Tiswadi, Ponda and Dharbandora on December 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/distribution-of-class-x-xii-certs-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79729558.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi to drive through cities for surprise inspections||Lucknow: A chance drive from Moradabad to Ghaziabad last week led chief minister Yogi Adityanath to announce that he would take surprise inspections of cities in the future, by driving through them. A government spokesperson said that last week, the CM was supposed to have taken a helicopter ride from Moradabad to Ghaziabad for the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Bhawan in Indirapuram. However, due to inclement weather, the helicopter was not able to take off but instead of cancelling the programme, the CM chose to drive down for his appointment. “During his ride, the CM noticed that several places were very dirty and realized that officers are not doing their work properly in many cities. On Monday, he summoned senior officials and directed them to take stock of the sanitation conditions in various cities. Now, to check the sanitation, education and health facilities in the state, the CM can take a sudden inspection via car in any city,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-drive-through-cities-for-surprise-inspections/articleshow/79729486.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Ease of doing biz: UP allots land to British co in 15 days||Lucknow: In sync with the focus on ease of doing business in UP, British yeast manufacturing company M/s AB Mauri has been allocated land within 15 days of having made an application for the project. The company, with a turnover of US$ 1.2 billion and 52 plants in 32 countries, has a 45% market share in the world’s yeast production, said UP State Industrial Development Authority. It will be setting up a plant having a capacity of 33,000 million ton in Chitrakoot’s Bargarh area with an investment of more than Rs 400 crore and will provide direct and indirect employment to 5,000 people. UPSIDA officials said that it will be using German and Spanish machines to ensure zero liquid discharge from the project. “The allotment was made under the mega projects category, based on the size of investment. The speed of the allotment will further strengthen the state’s efforts to enhance ease of doing business. The company is planning to start construction at the earliest. The country has been a net importer of yeast till now but with this unit, we will be in a position to significantly change the situation,” an official said. The official added that the company will be sourcing raw material for the manufacturing process, sugarcane and wheat, directly from local farmers. CEO of UPSIDA, Mayur Maheshwari said that the authority had been working relentlessly to simplify investment processes, which includes transparent land allotment, land registry, issuance of NOC and online building plan approval. “The establishment of the manufacturing unit by M/s AB Mauri in Chitrakoot will provide better employment opportunities to locals on one hand and allow local farmers and traders to contribute effectively to the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. UPSIDA plans on introducing many more reforms to facilitate investors and entrepreneurs, making UP a preferred investment destination,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ease-of-doing-biz-up-allots-land-to-british-co-in-15-days/articleshow/79729507.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||CCMB signs MoU with SpiceHealth for dry swab RT-PCR tests||Hyderabad: The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has signed an MoU with SpiceHealth to conduct dry swab RT-PCR test developed by the premier CSIR laboratory. The dry swab RNA-extraction method through RT-PCR was developed by the CCMB and each test costs just Rs 499. As many as 10,000 tests can be done through the five operational labs of SpiceHealth. According to an official statement here on Monday, one can conduct tests at a faster rate using the CCMB method. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) recently granted approval to CCMB to commercially use the game changing technology of dry swab RNA-extraction free coronavirus testing method. The method has a potential to scale up testing by two to three-fold with no additional resources and significantly reduce the time and costs of such tests. Avani Singh of SpiceHealth said, “the dry swab method, developed by CSIR-CCMB, will reduce testing time by 1.5 hours, significantly reduce cost and further revolutionize RT-PCR testing.” Dr Rakesh Mishra, director, CCMB said, “The dry swab testing method will be a game-changer in testing during the Covid-19 pandemic. The method is safer, faster and cheaper than the current testing method without compromising the quality of test results.” Dr Shekhar C Mande, director-general, CSIR, “My compliments to scientists and students of CSIR-CCMB involved in developing this simple but elegant solution that cuts down the time, cost, effort and improves safety and output of the Covid-19 RT-PCR diagnostics.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-signs-mou-with-spicehealth-for-dry-swab-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/79728409.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandaru Dattatreya’s car swerves off road, Himachal Pradesh governor safe||HYDERABAD: Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya had a providential escape on Monday when his car veered off the highway and slipped into roadside bushes near Choutuppal, 50 km from here. Police said no one was injured and no case has been registered. Dattatreya was on his way to Nalgonda from Hyderabad in his personal car to attend a private function when the accident occurred at around 11 am. When the governor’s convoy reached Khaitapuram village in Choutuppal mandal, the Mercedes E class (AP 09 AS 6666) suddenly swerved off the highway. “The car came to a halt after hitting a small tree. The driver managed to control the vehicle. No one was injured,” Bhuvanagiri DCP K Narayana Reddy said. Choutuppal police said the Merc and the driver, Murali are from General Administration Department’s (GAD) protocol wing. The governor and the driver wore belts at the time of the accident. Two other staff members sitting in the back seat escaped unhurt. Dattatreya immediately got out of the vehicle and left for Nalgonda in another vehicle, Choutuppal inspector Ch Venkanna said. When a police team questioned Murali about the accident, he told them that he could not turn the steering wheel at the time of the mishap. However, the RTA staff, who examined the Merc, reportedly did not find any mechanical fault. “We have made a general diary entry of the accident. Once the motor vehicle inspector submits a written statement, we will send a report to the government,” Venkanna said. Police in coordination with the RTA officials are also preparing an incident report suo motu. Meanwhile, after reaching Nalgonda, a medical check-up was done on the governor at the government guest house. Dattatreya then attended his felicitation programme organised by locals before proceeding to Tungaturthi and Alair to attend other events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandarus-car-swerves-off-road-hp-guv-safe/articleshow/79728416.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||White tigress at Delhi zoo dies of delivery complications||NEW DELHI: A couple of days after the birth of two white tiger cubs at Delhi zoo, the mother, six-year-old Nirbhaya, died on Monday. The white tigress developed complications after a difficult delivery on December 10. While she gave birth to two cubs, the zoo veterinary team realised a third remained inside, forcing them to undertake a three-hour long Caesarean section surgery on December 12. The uterus had ruptured and the carcass of the third cub was found in the peritoneal cavity, causing infection and blood poisoning. Despite intensive care, Nirbhaya died early on Monday, a day after one of her two cubs also died. The surviving cub is under the special care of veterinary experts. “After we learnt Nirbhaya was pregnant, we removed the other tigers from her enclosure to give the animal space and peace. We created ideal conditions, including a dark environment, for the tigress and she was able to deliver two cubs on December 10,” said National Zoological Park director Ramesh Pandey. Pandey added, “The tigress started showing signs of complications. After consulting veterinary officials from other zoos and Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, a C-section was performed on December 12, during which we discovered her uterus had ruptured and a third white tiger cub was floating in the abdominal cavity.” Zoo officials said this had a deleterious effect on the health of the tigress, and it was then provided intensive care for the next 24 hours. “However,” said Pandey, “her condition kept deteriorating and the tigress succumbed to the complications at 1.34am on Monday. Of the two cubs born, only one has survived. The surviving cub is doing well and is being hand-reared. We will continue to keep a constant check on its health.” Pandey said that for the zoo authorities, the joy at the birth of two more white tiger cubs proved deceptive and turned into grief in 48 hours. Not only did the tigress and one cub die, but a third was also dead in the mother’s body,” he said. “We will give extra care to ensure that the surviving cub faces no health emergencies.” The autopsy of the tigress will be carried out by a team of veterinary doctors at IVRI, Bareilly, and viscera samples will be sent for histo-pathological and other examinations, Delhi zoo said. The city facility had three pairs of white tigers and is now left with five white ones and two normal coated cats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/white-tigress-at-zoo-dies-of-delivery-complications/articleshow/79728411.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 15, 2020||Goa||‘Pay compensation to former football council staffer’||PANAJI: The Goa Human Rights Commission (GHRC) on Thursday recommended paying of Rs 29,000 as compensation for mental harassment caused to a senior accountant while on contract at the Goa Football Development Council (GFDC) by the member secretary who withheld his salary for half a year. The rights commission also recommended that the compensation be recovered from then member secretary, GFDC Aleixo F da Costa. “For the mental harassment caused to the retired government servant by unduly harassing him by withholding his dues, the commission finds that he is entitled for reasonable compensation,” the commission stated. The recommendation was made by chairperson of the commission Justice U V Bakre and members Desmond D’Costa and Pramod V Kamat. Soon after filing the complaint with the commission on September 19, 2018, GFDC paid the accountant’s salary dues on October 6, 2018 amounting to Rs 2,92,928. The commission calculated the compensation for mental harassment at 10% per annum on Rs 2,92,928. The complainant, was a retired assistant accounts officer with the government of Goa and was re-employed as senior accountant with GFDC on contract basis from February 2016 till August 2018. “The member secretary has made out no grounds for delay of payments of the contractual amount that was due to the complainant from February 2018 till August 2018,” the commission found. Regarding allegations of misbehavior and indiscipline against the complainant, GHRC stated that “the records indicate that there was no indiscipline and misconduct by the complainant as he was entrusted with the responsibility of handling the shifting of office”. Documents obtained from the football council under the RTI Act stated that the complainant was authorised to take charge of shifting the GFDC office from Myles High at Patto in Panaji to Shyama Prasad Mukerjee stadium at Taleigao, and was entrusted with the keys and also to conduct the joint inspection along with GFDC superintending engineer Chimulkar and to hand over the rented premises to Myles High after the shifting. “This supports the stand of the complainant that he was authorised to hold charge of the keys. As such, the commission finds no merits in the submission on behalf of the respondent that the complainant held on to the keys and disobeyed the orders of the member secretary,” the commission held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-compensation-to-former-football-council-staffer/articleshow/79711222.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Critics who made reviews as popular as performances||By Gowri RamnarayanChennai: At a time when reviews of music and dance have been edged out of publications and much of what survives has dwindled into subjective rants and puff pieces, it is intriguing to recall the spirited contributions of yesteryear critics to the growth of Carnatic music and Bharatanatyam.The best critics of old Madras had clear goals. Their reviews had to appeal to the concert-goer, but also make general readers wonder if they should go to the concerts after all. So, no academic jargon, no laundry lists of songs or platitudinous comments.Tamil writer Kalki Krishnamurthy, a pioneer in the genre, was the first to make his review stand on its own as a piece of writing. He took the reader with him into the concert hall, took a stance, made a point and delivered a punch.In 1948, he wrote about a concert by Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar, the monarch of Carnatic music, at Rasika Ranjani Sabha, Mylapore: "In this very sabha, I have heard Iyengar pour out his music like a river in spate. Even today, the concert did flow until he came to the kriti Tanayunibrova in Bhairavi. God knows why, as he finished it, his voice froze and became rock hard. So what? Did the music stop? Iyengar went on for two more hours. When he sang a rare and nuanced Sankarabharanam, who cared about his throat? When we meet a friend after a long time, do we even notice that he has had a bad haircut?"Kalki’s reviews campaigned for his aesthetic ideals. For instance, for a Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer concert he gave zero for ‘bhava’ (emotion). He trounced illustrious veterans for murdering the lyric ("Even our ancestors will not be able to assemble words from these smashed syllables") and attacked the Music Academy for its antipathy to Tamil compositions.Kalki never flinched from calling a spade a spade. Hailing Balasaraswati as matchless in her ‘abhinaya’, which was enhanced by her mother Jayammal’s singing, he would say, "But now they seem to have lost the rapport they once shared. Mother stops singing, daughter turns to glare at her. Therefore, in a situation demanding pathos, the depiction of compassion morphs into an expression of fury."The reviews of Aeolus (S V Seshadri) through the 1960s and 1970s were more like personal essays of an anglophile, quoting Milton and Marvell, drawing imagery from Shakespeare and Sophocles. But he gave it straight from the shoulder as when he dismissed a concert by matinee idol Madurai Mani Iyer as listless, with nothing "to lift it above the commonplace." Accompanist M S Gopalakrishnan was "affectedly puristic," all Carnatic tradition no Hindustani foray, "trying to achieve a rapport with the singer which to him was neither easy nor natural." Elsewhere he would discuss the problems of violinist T N Krishnan while accompanying eccentric genius M D Ramanathan who didn’t provide any "definite point at which (Krishnan) might expect to find a secure landmark to get his moorings." And yet, Krishnan "led Ramanathan by a clear length", though on that day "Ramanathan’s music was mercifully free from gimmicks, and without any trace of that semi-yodelling which has been the signature of his music."Not punditry, but a pleasant poetic touch made him companionable. "Veerusami Pillai’s instrument (nadaswaram) lacks the impassioned utterance which (TN) Rajaratnam Pillai retained. But there is a gentleness in it, a suffused meekness, a twilight calmness."The last of the titans, Subbudu, claimed that Kalki’s advice became his maxim, "Readers must talk about your review, not the performance." Neither in his writings in Tamil nor in English could Subbudu be accused of elegance. But slapdash became catchy, colloquialism banished starch, as Subbudu poured boiling oil on the sacred cows of music and dance. He catapulted unknowns to fame and cut down the stars to size. Subbudu is most remembered for damning patriarch Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer with a single sentence, "Even the dreaded Emergency has come to an end, but there seems to be no end of Semmangudi". He knew his music, but he had to learn his dance. He could be crude, as in condemning a dancer for unseemly opportunism, "a woman giving birth wherever she found a midwife". Often, though not always, he sharpened his claws and drew blood, out of his love of mischief, and his suspected personal animosities. Feared, reviled, physically attacked even, and fawned upon, Subbudu remained an audacious spokesman for the critic’s right to free speech. He was lucky. His editors supported him to the end of his long life.All three critics also composed music. Kalki’s song "Poonkuyil koovum" became such a hit when D K Pattammal sang it that she came to be called "Poonkuyil" Pattammal. "Katrinile varum geetam", the plaintive song Kalki composed for the film ‘Meera’ (1944) became a signature song for M S Subbulakshmi. In concerts, audiences welcomed it with applause whenever she started the song. Aeolus composed songs in Tamil including nine ‘navaratna malika’ kritis on Goddess Meenakshi, and complicated ‘pallavis’ in the ‘sooladi’ rhythm cycles for Carnatic vocalist Tiruvengadu Jayaraman. Subbudu was a composer too, and adept at the harmonium. He accompanied Swami Haridas Giri in bhajan sessions, as also M Balamuralikrishna on occasion, and M S Subbulakshmi in her concert at a national conference in Delhi..(The writer is a musician and a playwright)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/critics-who-made-reviews-as-popular-as-performances/articleshow/79731047.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Three AK-47s among 24 firearms seized from slain gangster Nayeem: Cops||HYDERABAD: Four years after he was gunned down, more than 24 firearms, including three AK-47 rifles, one sten gun, nine pistols, three revolvers, one single barrel gun and a bulletproof jacket, were recovered from slain gangster Nayeem. In an RTI reply to Forum for Good Governance (FGG), police said they had also recovered seven tapanchas, two hand grenades, 10 gelatine sticks, five kg of ammonium nitrate and 10 metres of fuse wire from Nayeem after he was killed in a shootout in Shadnagar town on August 8, 2016. A raid on the gangster’s house and other properties had led to seizure of a huge cache of arms and documents, police said. Demanding that the government order a full-scale probe, FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said, “How did Nayeem possess dangerous weapons like AK-47s without a licence. There should be a detailed probe. No licence is issued for AK-47s and sten guns.” Urging the government to probe the nexus of politicians-police-Nayeem as mentioned in the diaries and as well as analysed call data records, Reddy said about 130 diaries were seized from the gangster’s house. “Some 602 cellphones were recovered from his house. The call data of these cellphones can expose the links of Nayeem with politicians and cops. Nayeem had a habit of maintaining a diary and record all activities carried out. The SIT probe was superficial and there is a need to catch the big fish behind him,” he said. Around 616 live rounds of weapons and 30 detonators were also found with him. In the RTI reply, police said lots of gold and silver, 21 four-wheelers and 26 bikes and 752 land documents were also found. “How did Nayeem get land documents registered without going to the registration office? This can happen only with the connivance of revenue and registration officials. With the backing of police and politicians, he had grabbed the land of several people. Whoever resisted him were murdered,” Reddy said. After Nayeem’s encounter, the state police constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to unearth his links with police officials and political leaders. SIT said that departmental action was initiated against 25 cops for their alleged association with the gangster. However, the SIT later said that no case had been booked against the 25 cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-ak-47s-among-24-firearms-seized-from-nayeem-cops/articleshow/79728424.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||SSP offers his UPSC notes, gets flooded with requests||LUCKNOW: If you are a civil services aspirant and need help on preparing notes for the exam that is among the world’s toughest to crack, there is one place you can look into. It is the twitter profile of Indian Police Services (IPS) officer Akash Tomar. On his handle @akashtomarips, the IPS officer currently senior superintendent of police in Etawah, wrote a post on December 12 saying, “If anyone needs my 2012 UPSC notes (in typed form) in order to get an idea about how notes should be made during preparation for civil services, please reply to the post with your email ID. I’ll mail you my notes”. Tomar told TOI that the response was overwhelming. “By December 13, I had got around 3,500 requests for the mail, which was not possible. Hence, I decided to post several links in PDF format of the notes on my account,” he said. The officer also said that depending on availability, he was ready to guide aspirants requiring any support in preparation for the exams conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). When TOI asked why he suddenly thought of sharing this, the officer replied saying that he had actually been doing this for a long time. “I thought my notes are already in PDF format and it might benefit numerous others,” he added. His twitter was flooded with messages of thanks from over 1,500 aspirants. Many also requested the officer to organise a webinar and give tips for the examination and interview. Indian shooter Manu Bhakar, who won gold in youth Olympics 2018, also demanded notes from the officer, saying she aspired to become an officer. The officer is accessible for people in his office and remains available on the official number too. Tomar, who has a BTech in computer science from Indian Institute of Information Technology (Prayagraj) had secured rank 138 in UPSC in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ssp-offers-his-upsc-notes-gets-flooded-with-requests/articleshow/79729557.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Preparations in full swing to rollout Covid vaccine||Hyderabad: The state is gearing up for the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine. To carry out seamless inoculation, the authorities are spending Rs 15 crores to upgrade the cold chain facilities, walk-in coolers, freezers and insulator transport vehicles. While half of the existing cold chain and vaccine transport facilities in the state will be kept for regular immunization, the rest will be used for storage, transport and delivery of the 1.6 crore doses which the state would receive as part of the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Disclosing the details, Chandrashekhar Reddy, chairman Telangana State Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMIDC) said, “Since the vaccine should be stored at 0-8 degree centigrade, the existing infrastructure is in place for usage. However, we are augmenting the capacity to store and transport 1.6 crore vials. We are adding 40 cubic metres of space of the walk-in coolers for storage, freezers at the state level and around 400 freezers in primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs). The list of these centres will be decided in a day or two.” Meanwhile, training for the health care staff to be involved in the vaccination programme is underway. “This is important training for all the district officials to understand the strategy, operational guidelines and preparations to be made at the district level and downwards. Following this two-day training, we will conduct similar training programmes at the district level. We will complete the entire training in the districts by December 19 and PHC level training by December 22,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. Moreover, the district medical health officers (DMHOs) are in the process of establishing district control rooms to monitor and oversee activities related to Covid vaccine preparedness and implementation. They have been assigned the task to ensure that data of healthcare workers is complete and uploaded on CoWin software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/preparations-in-full-swing-to-rollout-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79728425.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 15, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Behmai Massacre plaintiff, witness Rajaram Singh dies awaiting justice||KANPUR: Rajaram Singh (85), the main witness of the 1981 Behmai massacre and the plaintiff in the case, died after prolonged illness at his native village Behmai in Kanpur Dehat district on Sunday. He was suffering from chronic liver disease. In the Behmai massacre, 20 men, including 17 Thakurs, one Muslim, one Dalit and one OBC, were killed on February 14, 1981 by dacoit Phoolan Devi and her gang as revenge for the sexual violence perpetrated on her by men of the Thakur caste, in the village less than 100 km from Kanpur. Six others were injured. Rajaram’s two younger brothers Banwari Singh and Himmat Singh, cousin Naresh Singh, nephews Dev Singh, Hukum Singh and Dashrath Singh were among those killed by the Phoolan gang. When the ailing Rajaram was last interviewed by TOI in the first week of December, he had said, “I wish to see the accused of the Behmai massacre hanged for their crime, for the way they shed blood of our innocent family members. But God only knows whether I would be able to witness it as I am suffering from chronic liver ailment. I will get peace only when the killers are punished in my lifetime.” Rajaram, the key complainant and witness, who had reached Kanpur Dehat district court for hearing, had recalled that he was 46 when the massacre took place but memories of the incident still send shivers down his spine even after 39 years. “Our village witnessed 20 cremations on a single day. I was born as a Thakur, who are considered to be brave, but on that day, I was shivering like anything and took refuge under the fodder dump. Maan Singh, Balwan, Shivpal, Mustaqeem, Phoolan Devi and their men were dragging away my brothers, some of whom were just 11, 12 and 14, forced them to kneel down and shot them one by one. They had shot 26 males, out of whom 20 succumbed,” he had said. “Behmai, once known as village of Thakurs, changed into a village of mourners with 17 young widows. What was more painful was how Thakurs were projected as rapists all these years,” Rajaram had rued to TOI. His son Ramkesh Singh, who is serving as a police home guard, told TOI on Monday, “Even though my father was old and ailing, he regularly visited court and never missed hearings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/behmai-massacre-plaintiff-witness-rajaram-singh-dies-awaiting-justice/articleshow/79729590.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Staff to be recruited to administer vaccine||HYDERABAD: In preparation for administering Covid-19 vaccine, health authorities are gearing up to recruit staff. For instance, Nagarkurnool district administration has called for applications to fill posts of seven civil assistant surgeons on contract basis for a period of six months. Candidates with MBBS qualification can apply from December 15. A meeting of DMHOs was held on Monday with the director of public health and senior officials in connection with the procedures that will be followed during vaccination. “Though we do have a supply chain in place for vaccination, the methodology that has to be adopted for Covid-19 vaccine was explained to health officials by the state authorities,” Karimnagar district collector K Shashanka said.  The meeting with district health authorities will continue in the city on Tuesday also. It may be mentioned here that the first cases of Covid-19 in the state were detected in Karimnagar when a group of visitors from Indonesia visited the town in March this year. The health authorities were able to track down all the contacts and provide them the necessary treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/staff-to-be-recruited-to-administer-vaccine/articleshow/79728431.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 15, 2020||Agra||Civil suit filed against start of Agra metro project work in Mauja Basai||Agra: A week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the construction of phase-I of Agra Metro Rail project through a video conference, a civil suit was filed in a Agra court by Shree Thakur Rang Ji Virajman Mandir seeking prohibition of commencement of work on the land in Mauja Basai belonging to the temple trust.Talking to TOI on Monday, senior lawyer Suresh Chand Gupta, also former MLC, who filed the petition in the court of civil judge senior division, said, “The temple trust is recorded owner over Gata no 257, comprising of old Gata no 475/1, 476/1, 476/3 and 476/5, having an area of 6-1-13 situates at Mauja Basai Mustaqil, tehsil and district Agra.”Therefore, the UP government and UP Metro Corporation and officials connected with the project should be refrained from interfering in peaceful possession of the plaintiff over its property, he said.The case is scheduled for hearing on December 22.He added that construction work cannot start on the particular piece of land without taking permission of the legal owner.“No one can raise construction under any project until the land is acquired and the owner paid compensation under the Land Acquisition Act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/civil-suit-filed-against-start-of-agra-metro-project-work-in-mauja-basai/articleshow/79727362.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||74% of 1.11L Covid +ve patients recovered in home isolation, CCCs||Nagpur: Of the 1,11,429 Covid-19 positive patients, 73.9% have recovered in home isolation and Covid Care Centres (CCCs) while remaining 22.23% patients required treatment in hospitals. Of total recoveries, the number of patients who overcame the dreadful disease in home isolation is high compared with others.As per data of district civil surgeon, 1,17,211 people tested positive for novel coronavirus between March 11 and December 13 in the district. Of these, 3,797 patients died for a case fatality rate of 3.24%. Currently, 5,782 (4.93%) patients re active cases.As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, recovery rate is calculated considering active cases. Majority of active cases are likely to recover considering the past experience of nine months.Considering 1,07,632 patients recovered as on December 13, as per ICMR guidelines, the recovery rate was 91.83%.After deduction of active cases, 1,11,429 will be recoveries and deaths. Among these, 3,797 (3.4%) died and remaining 1,07,632 (96.59%) recovered.Among 1,07,632 recoveries, 58,420 (54.28%) overcame the virus in home isolation. The number is high even though home isolation was allowed from beginning of August. From March 11 till July end, all patients, including asymptomatic, had to be hospitalized in Dedicated Covid Hospitals.The 23,921 (22.22%) patients who recovered in CCCs, preferred CCCs as they lacked home isolation facilities.Thus, 82,341 patients recovered in home isolation and CCCs, which also means without hospitalization. It is 76.5% among total recoveries and 73.9% among total patients.The ratio would have been even more had facility of home isolation and CCCs been allowed since March 11. By end of July, the district had registered 5,392 cases of which 1,078.4 (20%) required hospitalization and remaining 4,314 (80%) could have recovered in either home isolation or CCCs.Of 29,088 (26.1%) patients admitted for treatment in hospitals, 3,797 died and remaining recovered.The state government had projected expected cases for the first time in April, and said 60% will be asymptomatic and not require hospitalization. This ratio was considered till end of November. But the actual ratio of recoveries in home isolation and CCCs in the district is higher.The government had projected 40% will require hospitalization, of which 20% will need oxygen and remaining 20% will require treatment in ICU and support of ventilator. This ratio is less in the district.The CCCs have been utilized mostly in rural areas compared to the city. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had facilitated CCCs at MLA Hostel, Pachpaoli, VNIT, Vanamati and two private hotels in city. Zilla Parishad had developed CCCs at headquarters of 13 tehsils.Among 23,921 total patients recovered in CCCs, 18,990 (79.39%) were from rural and remaining 4,931 (20.61%) from city. This is the situation despite many patients from city reportedly having no home isolation facilities.Sources said the zilla parishad ensured stay of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients in CCCs if patients had no home isolation facilities. “Teams of ZP had visited homes of positive patients and created awareness,” they said.IANTotal Tests- 8,48,404Positive Cases- 1,17,211 (13.82% test positivity rate)Deaths- 3,797 (3.24% case fatality rate)Active Cases- 5,782 (4.93% of total positive cases)Recoveries- 1,07,632Recoveries & deaths- 1,11,429 (considered as total cases)Recovery rate- 91.83% as per ICMR guidelines (96.59% excluding active cases)Home isolation recoveries- 58,420 (54.28% of total recoveries)CCCs recovered- 23,921 (22.22% of total recoveries)Without hospitalization recoveries- 82,341 (73.9% of total cases)Hospitalized cases- 29,088 (26.1% of total cases)Recoveries in hospitals- 25,291 (22.7%)Deaths- 3,797 (3.4% of total cases)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/74-of-1-11l-covid-ve-patients-recovered-in-home-isolation-cccs/articleshow/79727339.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||SSC exam cheating gang busted, five held from Haridwar||HARIDWAR: A special task force team from Uttar Pradesh and Haridwar police jointly busted a gang, whose members allegedly solved Staff Selection Commission exam question papers for aspirants in return for money. Five accused, including the mastermind of the gang, were held by the police. Police also recovered electronic devices and cash from their possession. The arrests come after two persons, including a woman from Haryana, were arrested by the local police for cheating with the help of a Bluetooth device. Shankar Singh Bisht, SHO Kankhal police station told TOI, “Ankur Kumar, a resident of Saharanpur, is the mastermind of the gang. He would send the question paper through WhatsApp to his team mates, who then solved the paper and gave answers to the examinee through electronic devices. A case has been registered under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigation is ongoing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ssc-exam-cheating-gang-busted-five-held-from-haridwar/articleshow/79726475.cms||MS Nawaz
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Specify standon Srilakshmiplea: HC to CBI||Hyderabad: Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana high court on Monday sought to know the stand of the CBI within two days on a plea filed by senior IAS officer Y Srilakshmi in the illegal mining case. She urged the high court to direct the CBI court in Hyderabad to defer the trial in the illegal mining case related to Obulapuram Mining Company owned by Gali Janardhan Reddy till the border dispute involving OMC and its rival iron ore mining companies on AP-Karnataka border is resolved. The judge posted the case to December 16 for further hearing. The composite AP high court in November 2008 gave an order asking to verify whether the geo trigonometric station (GTS) point at the iron ore mining site was still there or not. OMC's rival mining companies filed a plea at that time complaining about Gali's OMC that it crossed the border and was illegally encroaching into their Karnataka mining areas as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/specify-standon-srilakshmiplea-hc-to-cbi/articleshow/79728432.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||College association, students’ union raises objection on SOPs issued for opening of higher educational institutions in U’khand||Dehradun: The private college associations of Uttarakhand have raised objections against some of the mandatory points of the recently-issued Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) for the reopening of higher educational institutions in the state. The colleges have raised concerns over the clause in the SOP that allows only the students pursuing practical courses to be called for classes in the first phase. The college associations have said that it won’t be feasible to reopen the colleges if the turnout remains low. Many colleges have also claimed that currently, the students will give importance to online classes and are likely to give miss to the offline classes. Meanwhile, the student unions have demanded that the state government should bear the cost of Covid-19 test for students. Notably, the SOP states that students coming from other states will have to undergo Covid-19 tests before joining the college, irrespective of them being day scholars or hostellers. The students claim that the coronavirus-induced lockdown has made it difficult for them to pay the college fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/college-association-students-union-raises-objection-on-sops-issued-for-opening-of-higher-educational-institutions-in-ukhand/articleshow/79726486.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 9 lakh cash missing from store locker; police suspect guard||Hyderabad: A security guard working at a prominent shopping center at Kukatpally has been missing and it is being suspected that he had stolen nearly Rs 9 lakh cash kept in the locker. Kukatpally police said that the guard, who is a native of Assam, gained the confidence of the shopping center’s senior staff after having worked with them for a long time. He was given the task of opening and closing the shutters of the shopping centre. On Saturday night too, the guard downed the shutter and locked the centre. Later, he handed over the bunch of keys to the store managers. On Sunday afternoon, when the store managers tried opening the locker, they were unable to do so. “When the store authorities took a closer look, they found that the key was different from the actual key. When they tried to contact the security guard, they found that his phone was switched off. When some of the store staff went to his residence, he and his family members were missing,” Cyberabad police said. The police believe that accused replaced the original locker key with a duplicate in the bunch of keys. “The accused in the past might have tried to open the locker with the duplicate key, which he got made from a duplicate key maker. But perhaps the locker did not open. So, he replaced the original key with this duplicate key in the key bunch, which the store managers used to try open the locker,” the police said. On Sunday night, the store managers finally managed to open the locker using a spare key. They found nearly Rs 9 lakh cash missing from the locker. Police said that the store manager has a practice of switching the power off in the night. So, there is no footage of what happened inside the store on Saturday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-9-lakh-cash-missing-from-store-locker-police-suspect-guard/articleshow/79728435.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two vehicles torched in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Shyamli Rajput, 43, of Amraiwadi on Saturday lodged a complaint at the local police station stating that her husband’s bike and her son’s scooter were targeted in a December 4 arson attack. Rajput has named Guddu Tiwari, a man identified only as Harpalsinh, and Shailendra Pathak in her complaint. She said the two-wheelers were torched when she, her husband Ajaysinh, and their son Rahul were in Lucknow to attend a wedding. Inspector N L Desai of the Amraiwadi police station said that about 20 days ago, Rahul was booked by Ramol police on the charges of rioting and extortion. Desai said the suspects named in Rajput’s FIR on Saturday were the complainants in the case against Rahul. “Hence, we will act against the accused in the arson case only after getting hard evidence,” Desai said. “There is no CCTV coverage of the area where the vehicles were set afire.” .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-vehicles-torched/articleshow/79712244.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Health panel asks hosp to offer discount||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked Desun Hospital to offer a Rs 50,000 discount to a 67-year-old Covid patient who was treated at the hospital. The patient complainedthat Desun, in its discharge summary, stated that he had type II diabetes, which he contested. The health panel engaged endocrinology head at SSKM Subhankar Chowdhury as an expert and he said that use of steroids during Covid treatment and stress could have pushed his sugar level up. “The patient was treated for diabetes and there was no error in treatment,” said WBCERC chairman Justice (retd) Ashim Kumar Banerjee.WBCERC ordered St Joseph Hospital, Midnapore, to pay an interim compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the family of a 21-year-old accident victim. The victim’s family had accused the hospital of not providing adequate medical care during the golden hour. Dr Lal PathLabs was also asked to return the endoscopy test to a patient. The complainant had taken his mother to the lab’s Barasat unit where the test report said probable hiatus hernia. The patient underwent another test at Peerless Hospital where the report was normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-panel-asks-hosp-to-offer-discount/articleshow/79727374.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Govt should take steps to develop BR Stadium’||Guntur: A TDP delegation led by party general secretary and East constituency in-charge Mohammed Naseer visited the Bramhananda Reddy Stadium on Monday and criticised the neglect of the sports arena. Speaking to the media, Naseer said, “It is shocking that the entire stadium is filled with grass and mud due to negligence of the authorities,” he said, adding the stadium had produced many national and international players including Dronacharya awardees. The government should initiate immediate measures to develop the stadium, Naseer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-should-take-steps-to-develop-br-stadium/articleshow/79726483.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||In a first, Bengal decides to use ‘vaccination officers’ to help deliver Covid-19 shots||KOLKATA: Vaccination officers, similar to poll officers, will debut in Bengal. These officers will help those who administer the vaccine and lead the vaccination teams. Roped in from various state departments, including the auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) from primary health centres, the vaccination officers will assume a pivotal role for the vaccine roll-out in Bengal. Officials from departments like police, home guard, civil defence, NCC, NSS will also be engaged as vaccination officers. According to a broad Covid-19 vaccination plan in the state, these officers will be responsible for sending out a 21-point check list to the state from the vaccination sites. One vaccinator and four vaccination officers will handle every site. The team lead — who is likely to be a healthcare worker — will be designated only as the vaccinator officer, the rest as vaccination officers 1,2,3 and 4 and are likely to be personnel from the police, the home guard personnel, or from bodies like the NCC and the NSS. The vaccinator officer will be responsible for checking the date and time before the vaccine vials are opened for administration. This officer — who may also administer the vaccine — must self-sanitize at regular intervals and mandatorily attend a Covid vaccination programme. Vaccination officers 1 and 2 will regulate and control the beneficiaries, and vaccination officer 3 and 4 will manage crowds and help the vaccination officer or the vaccinator. According to plans, four such teams will be deployed in each of the 341 blocks in Bengal. The mobile numbers and contact details of these vaccination officers will be updated in a centralized database. Health department officials and public health officers will supervise their work and address any immediate issues or concerns. The state has already rolled out a vaccination planning template. These vaccinators will have anaphylaxis kits to treat allergic reactions during vaccination. “This is the initial layout for the Covid vaccination programme. The final plan, however, will be made once a conclusive strategy from the central health ministry comes to us,” said a source at Swasthya Bhawan, the state health headquarters. The state health department has already started training people in all districts. In addition to doctors and nurses, ASHA personnel involved maintaining cold chains are being trained by senior public health and vaccine specialists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-a-first-bengal-decides-to-use-vaccination-officers-to-help-deliver-covid-19-shots/articleshow/79727370.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Officials told to submit reports ahead of cabinet meet on December 18||VIJAYAWADA: The state cabinet will be meeting on December 18 in the first block of the Velagapudi secretariat. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney on Monday asked senior officers and heads of departments to send their issues for the preparation of the meeting’s agenda. Officials of the agriculture, horticulture and aquaculture departments are expected to submit their reports on the damages caused by cyclone Nivar. Other departments such as roads and buildings, Transco, panchayat raj among others — who suffered relatively low damages — will also be submitting their reports to the cabinet for discussion. Following up on chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s announcement that the government would compensate those affected by the cyclone by December 15, officials have been asked to complete these payments and submit a report of the same to the cabinet. The chief minister had also directed officials of the agriculture department to complete the payment of crop insurance to farmers for the current season by December 15. Reports for this are also likely to be tabled at the cabinet meeting. The cabinet is likely to discuss issues such as input subsidy for farmers who lost their crops as a result of the recent cyclone. The cabinet is also likely to discuss the status of the Polavaram project, which the CM visited on Monday. This was his second visit to the site in the last 18 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/officials-told-to-submit-reports-ahead-of-cabinet-meet-on-dec-18/articleshow/79726484.cms||Gopi Dara
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 90 people test Covid-19 positive in Pauri village, cases cross 83,000-mark||DEHRADUN: At least 90 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Silath village of Pauri Garhwal within two days. This surge in infection comes after a local fair was held last week, say health officials. The health department, which has already tested around 233 villagers for the virus, will now collect samples of the entire village population — around 300 people — in the next 24 hours. Talking to TOI, Prakash Thapliyal, microbiologist attached with the Chief Medical Office’s office in Pauri, said that the villagers had organised a local festival, celebrated in the form of a fair, last week. People from outside the village had also come to the fair. “After a few villagers displayed Covid-19 symptoms, we collected samples of 86 people. Among these, 39 people tested Covid-19 positive on day one. And on the second day, we tested some 147 people, out of which, 50 tested positive for Covid-19. We are preparing to collect samples of the rest of the population of the village and their contacts as well,” said Thapliyal. Earlier on Sunday, the district administration had declared the village as a containment zone. At present, essential supplies are being provided to the locals by the administration. Meanwhile, 577 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Monday, taking the coronavirus tally beyond 83,000-mark. Also, 707 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Monday, pushing the number of cured cases to 74,525. “The maximum of 164 cases of Covid-19 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 28 in Almora, 16 in Bageshwar, 39 in Chamoli, seven in Champawat, 39 in Haridwar, 88 in Nainital, 80 in Pauri Garhwal, 25 in Pithoragarh, 11 in Rudraprayag, 24 in Tehri Garhwal, and 28 each in Udham Singh Nagar and Uttarkashi districts. The cases in Uttarakhand, till Monday, stood at 83,006,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Also, six more coronavirus-related fatalities on Monday pushed the toll of the virus to 1,361 in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/90-people-test-covid-19-positive-in-pauri-village-cases-cross-83k-mark/articleshow/79726496.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 15, 2020||Chennai||A walk on the Marina, after nine months||CHENNAI: Riyaz Khan, a resident of Sowcarpet, had been going for a walk along the lanes near his house all these nine months. He had known those lanes for years, but morning walks along them seemed strange. On Monday, he was back in familiar territory. Shut for nine months due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Marina was finally declared open. “After nine months I walked on the sand and I felt very happy,” Riyaz said. Walkers, cyclists, fitness enthusiasts, nature lovers and casual visitors flocked the beach in droves. However, absence of standard operating procedures was a concern, and a littered beach and damaged equipment marred the experience of an outing long awaited. “No one was following the standard safety protocol,” said Riyaz. At Besant Nagar, though, there was little activity. The beach was barricaded and the usual pomp on the promenade were missing. The park equipment were broken and sanitary workers had begun cleaning the beach only on Monday morning. Damaged shanties stood in heaps on the sand. On the Marina, corporation and police personnel did not regulate visitors or check them for Covid symptoms. While all push carts, recreational and park equipment were not functional, most of the visitors did not wear masks. “We do not have standard operating procedures so we do not know how to regulate the crowd now. Police officials ensured barricades were placed so that two-wheelers and cars were not allowed in the service lanes,” said a senior corporation official from the Teynampet zone. Asked about the lack of cleanliness, the official said beach-cleaning machines were deployed. “We have cleaned the beach every day even when the visitors were not there. At Besant Nagar, cleaning began in the morning and the new contractor cleared garbage from the service lane,” said an official. The official said vendors are yet to open shops. “We are waiting for a few more days for the SOPs to come,” he said. Besant Nagar, an official said, will be barricaded during the New Year and Pongal holidays and people will not be allowed near the water. U Rakesh, a resident of Adyar, said he was eagerly waiting for the beach to open. “I usually go cycling and I missed the beach a lot. I am very happy that it is now open. However, we have to wait and see how the crowd behaves as New Year and Pongal are coming,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-walk-on-the-marina-after-nine-months/articleshow/79727379.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag land scam: SIT to submit report soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the alleged land scam in Vizag has finished its investigation and is expected to submit a comprehensive report to the state government by the end of the month. Led by former IAS officers Vijay Kumar and YV Anuradha and retired district and sessions judge T Bhaskara Rao, the SIT began its probe in October, 2019. Three more members were added to the SIT later: former civil servant from Chhattisgarh K Durganand Prasad Rao, for Vizag city police chief RK Meena and former chief conservator of forests, Vizag, Rahul Pandey. Although the SIT is yet to disclose details, it has named some former bureaucrats and senior officials in the alleged scam. The involvement of political leaders remains to be ascertained. The alleged Vizag land scam had created a flutter in political circles during the previous TDP regime. The erstwhile government set up an SIT in June, 2017, headed by IPS officer Vineet Brijlal. The SIT submitted its report in January, 2018 but the TDP government did not publish the report. After coming into power, the YSRC government constituted a new SIT to conduct a comprehensive inquiry into allegations of tampering of land records in Vizag and surrounding areas involving 400 acres of land in Madhurawada and Kommadi. The SIT has identified some lapses and named a few persons as responsible. The team has also recommended measures to prevent such land-related irregularities in future. Speaking to TOI, former IAS officer and SIT member Vijay Kumar said that the team has prepared a comprehensive report on the land scams in Vizag and will submit the detailed report in a few days. Kumar added that the team won’t disclose any details of the report and submit it directly to the government. The main areas under investigation are: all cases of change of classification of government land, assignments made to ex-servicemen, cases of land-grab and encroachment of government land by private individuals and identification of persons responsible for tampering of land records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-land-scam-sit-to-submit-report-soon/articleshow/79726494.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Make Uttar Pradesh $1 trillion economy, CM tells potential US investors||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a virtual interaction with NRIs from UP and potential investors in the US on Sunday night, showcasing Uttar Pradesh as the most favourable destination for investments. Speaking at the ‘Uttar Pradesh investment and tourism event’ organized by the UP Association of North America, the CM said that Indians across the world have made a name for themselves by their hard work and their efforts to remain connected with their motherland was commendable. The association has extended an invitation to the CM to visit the US once the Covid-19 pandemic is over. During his interaction with potential investors from across the US, the CM touched upon the major initiatives taken by his government to attract investment like policy changes, ease of doing business, better law and order, improved infrastructure, etc. He appealed to the investors to contribute towards making India a US$ 5 trillion economy and UP a US $1 trillion economy. “Our government has worked hard to change the perception of the state and our projects, programmes and even our fight against the Covid-19 pandemic has been appreciated by everyone. For the convenience of all those with whom the state signs MoUs, a nodal officer is being appointed for each investor who will take their feedback and resolve any issues that they face,” he said, adding that along with this, a single window platform like Nivesh Mitra and an organization like Invest UP had been set up to promote and encourage investments in the state. The CM made a special pitch for spiritual tourism, saying that the state was home to Lord Ram, Lord Krishna, Lord Buddha and there were tremendous opportunities to explore in this field along with developing eco and heritage tourism as well. Yogi Adityanath also spoke about projects like the upcoming Film City, the defence corridor, the Jewar Airport, metro lines in various cities, expressways to emphasize on the infrastructure developments taking place in UP. A government spokesperson said that among the potential investors, Rakesh Agarwal, Akash Agarwal and Rajesh Shetriya said that they are interested in investing in the pharma sector, while Devendra Shukla spoke about his interest in the entrepreneurship development sector. Anil Chopra said that he is interested in a software park and solar and wind energy while Rajive Agarwal expressed interest in investing in a mega project for education, entertainment, eye hospital, etc. NRI minister Sidharth Nath Singh said that NRIs were not just potential investors but also brand ambassadors for the state. He said that one potential investor had expressed interest in investing Rs 5,000 crore in the state in developing tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-up-1-trn-economy-cm-tells-potential-us-investors/articleshow/79729634.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Underage rider killed in accident, bike owner booked||HYDERABAD: A 14-year-old student died and his 15-year-old friend who was the pillion rider suffered injuries when they ventured onto NH-44 on Monday morning to buy breakfast and came under a container truck. The victims did not wear helmets and police charged the person who gave the bike to minor boy under culpable homicide not amounting to murder under section 304 (ii) of the IPC. The deceased — D Narasimha, 14, a class VIII student — while the injured pillion rider was his friend, 15-year-old K Babu, both from Athvelli. On Monday morning, Narasimha took the bike from his relative, G Sravan Kumar, 26, a private employee. The accident occurred when Narasimha, with Babu, reached ITI College near Dabilpur Kaman on NH-44. “The bike rider and the pillion rider did not wear helmets. Narasimha rode the bike in a negligent manner and applied front brake while trying to over take a DCM van which slowed down due to traffic. The bike came under a container truck on the right lane. Narasimha came under the truck wheel and died on the spot. Babu suffered injuries,” Medchal SI Appa Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/underage-rider-killed-in-accident-bike-owner-booked/articleshow/79728443.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Despite Covid-19 regulations, five lakh people take dip into Ganga on Somvati Amavasya||There was little regard for safety as people congregated at Har ki Pauri on the occassion of Somwati Amavasya on MondayHaridwar: Even as the local administration issued a strict warning against gathering at the banks of Ganga in the wake of Covid-19, around five lakh devotees from different states took a holy dip in Ganga in Haridwar on the occasion of Somvati Amavasya bathing festival on Monday. Several children and elderly reached Har-ki-Pauri on Somvati Amavasya despite the administration issuing an advisory, a day ago, asking them to not venture out to take a holy dip. On Monday, police imposed a penalty on 600 people found violating social distancing and other Covid-19 guidelines. SHO city police station Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “Most of the devotees either visited Har-ki-Pauri or the Malviya Ghat to take the holy dip. Around 5 lakh people took the holy dip in Haridwar on Monday. All throughout, police asked the devotees to maintain social distancing. No untoward incident was reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-covid-19-regulations-five-lakh-people-take-dip-into-ganga-on-somvati-amavasya/articleshow/79726509.cms||MS Nawaz
December 15, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Farm unions distance themselves from BKU Ugrahan’s rights protest||BATHINDA: Punjab farm groups, aiming to get the Union government to repeal the three agri-marketing laws, have distanced themselves from the human rights protest by BKU Ekta Ugrahan even as the umbrella body of the farm groups, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), has abolished the post of convenor after serious differences with incumbent VM Singh. BKU Ekta Ugrahan had on the Human Rights Day waved photos of jailed activists, including those facing charges in Bhima Koregaon and Delhi riots cases. The Union government and BJP leaders had then alleged that the farmer struggle had been infiltrated by Naxals, Maoists and leftists. The meeting of the farm groups on the issue of BKU Ugrahan’s rally, held on Saturday, was long and included heated discussions on whether to isolate BKU Ugrahan from their decision-making process. In the resolution, finally signed by the 30 farm groups, they only distanced themselves from the protest and highlighted that it was organized by BKU Ugrahan in its individual capacity. “The farm organisations had nothing to do with the function. Such things could mar the farm struggle,” BKU Dakonda president Buta Singh Burjgill said. Explaining that the resolution was just to create distance from the event and not BKU Ugrahan itself, BKU Lakhowal general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said BKU Ugrahan had support of other farm organisations and would continue to attend meetings with the rest of the groups for negotiations with the Union ministers. In case of AIKSCC, it decided to abolish the post of national convenor to oust VM Singh, who had increasingly taken different stand on many issues. “All AIKSCC decisions will be taken only by the working group, which shall be the official position,” announced AIKSCC on Monday. VM Singh’s video message before the call for Delhi protests on November 26-27 had caused a rift between him and the constituent groups of AIKSCC as he had urged farmers not to come to Delhi. Then he did not accompany other AIKSCC members in protests at Singhu border and went to Burari grounds. He had also spoken against the government for not inviting protesters sitting at Burari for talks. VM Singh was not available for comments. No Ugrahan hunger strikeBKU Ekta Ugrahan distanced itself from the call for hunger strike given by the 30 Punjab farm organisations. “We were not part of this decision so we will not act accordingly. We did not opt for a hunger strike but continued to hold protests. Our activists in Punjab held massive protests in 12 districts,” said BKU Ekta Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farm-unions-distance-themselves-from-bku-ugrahans-rights-protest/articleshow/79728451.cms||Neel Kamal
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Vacant plots along Medavakkam Road turns dumping ground||CHENNAI: Vacant plots along the busy Medavakkam Main Road are being used as garbage dumping grounds, much to the chagrin of business establishments and residents. The 12km stretch which extends from St Thomas Mount railway station up to Camp Road traverses through both Chennai Corporation and Pallavaram municipality limits. TOI found a vacant plot beside a private lab about 100m from the Keelkattalai junction where garbage was dumped. The area comes under Pallavaram municipality. Local shopkeepers said last week the situation was worse as the garbage spilled over onto the road. “Apart from being an eyesore, it also poses several health hazards to residents. I had taken my senior citizen father for a test at the lab near Keelkattalai. The garbage had spilled onto the carriageway and it was so difficult to walk and I was afraid if my aged father will get infected because of this,” said S Ramanathan, a resident of Ganesh Nagar, Madipakkam. At times, shopkeepers or the local conservancy workers burn the garbage, said a resident. In residential neighbourhoods, dumping of garbage has been a problem and complaints to civic authorities have not yielded any results. D Santhi, a resident of Baliagh Garden said a vacant plot opposite her house in Thilakar Avenue has stagnated water even a week after rain and it has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. “With citizens already living under the fear of a pandemic, allowing such piling up of garbage and rainwater in vacant plots makes residents anxious,” she said. A senior official with the corporation said the onus is on the owners of vacant plots to clear stagnated rainwater. “They should not allow breeding of mosquitoes. Our officials have been identifying such lands and are informing the owners,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vacant-plots-along-medavakkam-road-turns-dumping-ground/articleshow/79727397.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||CS reviews projects under Namami Gange; directs authorities to complete work within set timeframe||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief secretary (CS) Om Prakash on Monday discussed the ongoing works under Namami Gange project with the state Ganga rejuvenation, safety, and management committee. During the meeting held at secretariat, he said that all the works related to sewerage infrastructure, river-front development, plantation in Ganga catchment area, solid and liquid waste management, beautification of ghats, sustainable agriculture, biodiversity and water conservation, should be completed within the set time span and directed authorities to ensure that the quality of works is not compromised. Prakash, while reviewing the extensive plantation to be done in and around the catchment area of the river, told the officials to submit a detailed report on plantation done in 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20 and also its progress report. He also asked to ensure a speedy progress of works related to solid and liquid waste management and waste reuse in the towns adjacent to Ganga. The CS also directed the Urban Development Department and Drinking Water Corporation to complete the tasks of household connectivity under septage management in Devprayag, Gangotri and Badrinath, and said that where septage connection vehicles should be made available where they are required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-reviews-projects-under-namami-gange-directs-authorities-to-complete-work-within-set-timeframe/articleshow/79726504.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt fast-tracks expressway projects with fresh allocations||LUCKNOW: Moving full throttle to expedite the construction of the much-awaited Purvanchal Expressway, the state government has allocated a sum of Rs 525 crore for the project. The fresh budgetary push to the 340-km long expressway between Lucknow and Ghazipur comes a month ahead of its scheduled commissioning and operationalization. The government has also allocated Rs 350 crore to give a push to the 296-km Bundelkhand expressway connecting Chitrakoot with Etawah on Agra-Lucknow expressway. In a communique to the UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority, the department of industries said funds for the projects would be utilised as per immediate need. Officials said the state government had increased its contribution by Rs 1,050 crore due to which the loan proposed to be taken from the consortium of banks to carry out civil works had come down from Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 10,950 crore. Similarly, in case of Bundelkhand expressway, the allocation of Rs 350 crore would be in addition to the state government’s contribution of Rs 750 crore. Here too, the state government has increased its contribution by Rs 350 crore following which the loan proposed to be taken from the consortium of banks has been brought down from Rs 7,000 crore to Rs 6,650 crore. Officials said the two projects are also financially supported by the Centre under a scheme for special assistance to states for capital expenditure. The state government has asked UPEIDA to provide fund utilisation certificate to the industry department and the accountant general whenever required. The department has asked UPEIDA to ensure that the funds are utilized for the intended purpose only. The sanctioned amount will be utilised as per the rules laid down by the finance department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-fast-tracks-e-way-projects-with-fresh-allocations/articleshow/79729643.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Science City Road plot sold for Rs 100 crore||Ahmedabad: In yet another land deal in Ahmedabad, a city-based developer has recently bought a land parcel measuring 5,000 square yard on the Science City Road for approximately Rs 102 crore. The prime piece of land is located opposite Hetarth party plot on the Science City Road in Sola area. The plot is about 1km from Shukan Mall Crossroads towards the Science City Circle. “Going by the estimated deal size of Rs 102 crore, the rate per square yard works out to be Rs 2.05 lakh,” said sources aware of the development. According to the real estate sector players, the plot has fetched rates higher than the prevailing land prices in the area as it is in close proximity of the main road, where the floor space index (FSI) is also higher. The land parcels off the main Science City Road are priced at average Rs 1 lakh per square yard. “The buyer plans to develop a residential project on the land,” said a source privy to the development. This is the second major land deal in Ahmedabad over the past one month. Few weeks ago, a couple of city-based developers purchased a 5,000 square yard piece of land near the city’s posh Iskcon Circle on SG Highway for approximately Rs 150 crore. This land deal was reportedly done at Rs 3 lakh per square yard, which is the highest rate for land in city so far, said real estate sources. These land deals have been struck when the real estate, like several other sectors, is facing a tough time due to the Covid-19 induced slowdown. “This augurs well for the city’s real estate because such deals show that there is still an appetite for new development. Given the fact that land transactions have dried up since the outbreak of Covid-19, these deals also signal at the gradual improvement in market sentiment,” added a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/science-city-road-plot-sold-for-rs-100-crore/articleshow/79727393.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chennai||Actor Chitra suicide: Kin questioned||CHENNAI: Sriperumbudur revenue divisional officer (RDO) Divya conducted inquiries with the family members and parents of television actor Chitra who committed suicide at a hotel in Nazarethpet on December 9. The inquiry went on for more than three hours at the RDO’s office. The official has asked Chitra’s in-laws to appear for a formal inquiry on Tuesday. Hemanath, a businessman from Chennai, had got engaged to Chitra in August. The couple had registered their marriage two months ago. Chitra, who lived in Chennai, stayed back at a luxury hotel near the shooting spot in Nazrathpet to avoid travelling. She hanged herself to death at the hotel. After appearing for inquiry, the actor’s mother told reporters that her daughter last spoke to her around 8pm the day before the incident. Her brother Saravanan refused to comment saying the inquiry was pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/actor-chitra-suicide-kin-questioned/articleshow/79727422.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Wages paid in name of forester, retired SRP jawan||AHMEDABAD: Even as police and state administration have been investigating an MGNREGA scam in the Banaskantha district, another irregularity has cropped up in neighbouring Sabarkantha district. A forester, a cop and two brothers who have migrated to big cities in search of work, have had their names enrolled in the job guarantee scheme during different time periods in 2010 and 2020. According to sources in the Sabarkantha district administration, a forest officer from Muteti village in Idar taluka of Sabarkantha, who was serving in the forests of the district, was enrolled in the MGNREGA scheme in 2018 and was given wages for around a year. In the same village, an SRP jawan who retired in 2012 was given wages in 2010 for construction of roads in Muteti village, but the road was still to be constructed, said an officer of the district administration. Apart from these, two brothers from Mesan village in Idar taluka had to move out from the village around four years ago to earn their livelihood, as no MGNREGA work was being conducted in the village. They had to move to various cities like Ahmedabad and Surat where they worked in private sector. Their names were used on the list in 2018 and wages were paid out in that year in their name for for road construction, while the brothers were eking out their existence elsewhere. One of the aims of MGNREGA was to prevent migration towards cities from villages. Kiran Parmar, an activist working with independent MLA from Vadgam, Jignesh Mevani, said that there are widespread irregularities in Sabarkantha district too and the state agencies proving the scam in Banaskantha must extend their scope of investigation to other parts of the state. Earlier, a widespread scam of dummy job cards was exposed by TOI in various villages of Banaskantha district regarding which an investigation is on. It was found that job cards were issued in the name of dead persons, government servants and even school-going children in Banaskantha district. The government and police are yet to take any stern action in the scam of Banaskantha district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wages-paid-in-name-of-forester-retired-srp-jawan/articleshow/79727413.cms||Ashish Chauhan
December 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Trains not to arrive on platform one, two||VADODARA: Trains will not arrive and depart from platform number 1 and 2 of Vadodara railway station from Wednesday as track repair work of first and second line will be carried out.  All trains arriving and departing from these two platforms will use platform numbers 3,4,5 and 6 from tomorrow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/trains-not-to-arrive-on-platform-one-two/articleshow/79726505.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Ladowal toll plaza: Firm moves HC for security & compensation of loss caused by farmers’ agitation||Chandigarh: Claiming it has suffered financial loss on account of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, the concessionaire managing toll plazas on the Panipat-Jalandhar highway has moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking directions to ensure security at the Ladowal toll plaza in Punjab and to compensate the loss it has suffered. Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi asked the concessionaire firm to inform the high court about the position regarding other toll plazas run by the company. The matter has been fixed for January 6, 2021 for hearing. M/s Panipat-Jalandhar NH-1 Tollway Private Limited filed a petition in high court and claimed to have suffered the loss of around Rs 36.63 crore, excluding interest, on account of non-collection of toll fees at Ladowal Toll plaza from October 7 to November 24. The firm has exclusive right, licence and authority to construct, operate and maintain the six-laning of a part of National Highway No 1 from 96 km to 387 km (Around 291 km in total) from Panipat to Jalandhar for a period of 15 years with the right to collect toll from May 11, 2009. The firm’s counsel Sumeet Goel submitted that after the farmers’ agitation started in Punjab on September 25, the working and collection of toll at the Ladowal toll plaza was disrupted and the requisite toll could not be collected. Goel contended that non-collection of toll has resulted in disruption of the maintenance of the highway and also has had an adverse financial impact on the petitioner company. The firm in its petition informed the HC that it had requested the Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) as well as the police authorities to ensure the functioning of the toll plaza. On September 23, it sent a communication to the project director, National Highways Authority ofIndia (NHAI), requesting grant of police protection for safety of assets and staff so that the toll operations were not affected. However, despite all requests nothing was done by anyone, the firm’s counsel told the HC. The petitioner firm has sought directions to ensure collection of toll at Ladowal toll plaza, complete maintenance of law and order at the plaza and complete safety of its employees. The firm has also sought directions to make good the loss caused to it on account of non-collection of toll fees at the Ladowal toll plaza due to the farmers’ agitation and break down of the law and order, as per the provisions of its agreement with NHAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ladowal-toll-plaza-firm-moves-hc-for-security-compensation-of-loss-caused-by-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79728456.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS Nagpur welcomes first year MBBS students||Nagpur: The welcome ceremony and orientation programme for the 125 newly-joined MBBS entrants (2020 batch) was held on December 14 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur. The programme started with institutional anthem sung by a group of MBBS students from 2018 and 2019 batches, followed by ceremonial lamp lighting by director, AIIMS, Nagpur, major Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta, SM and Dean (Academics) Dr Mrunal Phatak. Students from 2018 Batch, Darshana Purohit and Tushar Bansal from 2019 MBBS Batch, enthusiastically welcomed new students and shared their experiences with them. Dean Dr Mrunal Phatak delivered a welcome note to the new batch and interacted with the students to make them feel homely and comfortable. She briefed all the students about the rules and regulations of the institute and instructed them to follow them religiously. She talked about the ragging-free campus and stressed upon mentor-mentee programme for students that gives them a platform to discuss their personal issues with faculty members. She also administered the oath of induction to the newly-joined students. It was followed by an inspiring address by the director Vibha Dutta, SM to the students, stressing on the importance of perseverance, diligence, tactfulness and teamwork, as the corner stones for success. She also mentioned about the first batch joining in 2018 at AIIMS Nagpur temporary campus at GMC, Nagpur that has shifted to its permanent campus at Mihan last year only and since then the campus is progressing with addition to state-of-the-art lecture halls, newly constructed academic block and administrative block, laboratories, library and hostels for undergraduate and postgraduates. She also briefed them about the curriculum, rules and regulations of the institute. The programme ended with the national anthem and the vote of thanks was proposed by Dr Tarnekar, professor and head, department of anatomy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-nagpur-welcomes-first-year-mbbs-students/articleshow/79744525.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Abandoned by son, woman attempts suicide||Vijayawada: An elderly woman attempted suicide in Pedana town on Monday after being abandoned by her son. The woman, Paidimarri Mahalakshmi, who jumped into a canal, was saved by two youngsters. According to sub-inspector of Pedana police station Murali, when locals noticed Mahalakshmi taking the extreme step, two youths risked their lives and managed to save her. Upon information, police reached the spot and inquired into the reason behind the suicide attempt and learnt that Mahalakshmi had allegedly been insulted by her son the night before after complaining he was not taking care of her. Both Mahalakshmi and her son were counselled at the police station. In another incident at Devineni Gandhipuram, a 27-year-old youth killed himself, leaving behind a suicide note, part of which read “life without parents is meaningless”. Suresh, the lone resident of a house in Devineni Gandhipuram, was suffering from depression on account of lack of financial success and no meaningful personal relationships. Police said Suresh had recently incurred losses in his business, which forced him to take his life. He left behind a message informing his friends of his decision, police said. A case of suspcious death was registered and further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/abandoned-by-son-woman-attempts-suicide/articleshow/79726508.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Tiger, boat safaris planned for Dudhwa Katarniaghat reserves||LUCKNOW: UP government is set to undertake a major project for the development of eco-tourism in the Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary and the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. Invest UP has been tasked with drawing up a plan and bringing in investments into the area that could include a night tiger safari, boat safari in Katarniaghat for the crocodiles, and eco-friendly resorts. Investment minister Siddharth Nath Singh, who is vice-chairperson of Invest UP, will be leading the project and is likely to hold the first meeting this week. “There is tremendous potential for development of eco-tourism in these two adjoining sanctuaries and with the right kind of effort and leadership, as is provided by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, they can be made as popular for tourists as, say the Jim Corbett Park in Uttarakhand,” Singh said, who had visited Katarniaghat recently. The CM has given a green signal for the project, the minister said. Among other projects under discussion, is the development of the Palia airstrip which is located near the Dudhwa National Park at Palia Kalan in Lakhimpur Kheri. As part of the larger project, this airstrip may be developed into a larger airport facility to make the parks more easily accessible from Lucknow and Delhi among the major cities. Sources said that a major promotion campaign will also be taken up, with the tiger as the likely mascot. Singh said that two parks probably have the largest number of endangered species of reptiles, mammals while Katarniaghat has a massive cane forest and any development will be keeping in mind that the ecology is not disturbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tiger-boat-safaris-planned-for-dudhwa-katarniaghat-reserves/articleshow/79729650.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Animal slaughter continues in Haridwar despite the district having no registered abattoir; HC issues contempt notice to DM||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday issued a contempt notice to the Haridwar district magistrate, giving him three weeks to respond on why illegal animal slaughter was taking place in the district despite a high court ban two years ago. The order came in response to a contempt petition filed in court, alleging that despite the ban, animal slaughter continues in the open at unregistered slaughterhouses. The petition said that there is not a single registered slaughterhouse in Haridwar and the administration has done little to check illegal animal slaughter. The notice was issued by the bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma. Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel appearing for petitioner, said, “We produced several pictures before the court to show that the slaughter of animals continues in Haridwar despite the court’s order. We informed the court that there is not a single licensed slaughterhouse in the district of Haridwar and that animals are being killed in the open as well as in illegal slaughterhouses.” As reported by TOI, Uttarakhand high court had banned animal slaughter in the state on streets, roads and other open places. The court had directed the state government to ensure “no slaughter house is permitted to run without complying with the Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulations, 2011”. The petitioner on Monday claimed that even though the then DM had assured that the court’s order was being followed in “letter and spirit”, “animals are being slaughtered in full public gaze in the district every day”. The petitioner contended that “the administration is in wilful and deliberate violation of the court’s order” and that contempt proceedings should be initiated against it. “The respondents are deliberately permitting the illegal slaughterhouses (to operate) as well as sale of illegally slaughtered meat,” read the petition. Notably, a contempt petition on the issue was filed last year as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/animal-slaughter-continues-in-haridwar-despite-the-district-having-no-registered-abattoir-hc-issues-contempt-notice-to-dm/articleshow/79726556.cms||Prashant Jha
December 15, 2020||Goa||Women take over the reins, win four unreserved seats||Panaji: Four women candidates successfully contested the ZP elections in the general category in Colvale, Sirsaim, Santa Cruz and Sanvordem, giving their male counterparts a run for their money. The youngest, all of 24 with no personal or family background in politics, won the Santa Cruz seat on a Congress ticket. Shiny Emilda de Oliveira defeated the sitting ZP member Savanna Maria Araujo, who won the 2015 election as an independent and contested this one on a BJP ticket. A fourth-year chemical engineering student, Oliveira won by a margin of 675 votes. She was also up against 2010 ZP winner Suresh Govind Palkar, who contested as an independent. “I represent the youth and I hope more youth will use this as an example and step out to make a change. It was a challenge for me as nobody in the constituency knew me. I have no background in politics and I’m happy they took a chance on me. I want to work for the people and solve their issues and give back to society,” she told TOI. “The younger generation is fed up of politicians because they don’t work for the people once they get voted. The electorate need new faces and outspoken candidates,” she added. In Colvale, Kavita Kandolkar won her first election, defeating candidates from both the national political parties and an independent. Wife of former BJP MLA and current GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar, she had lost the 2010 ZP election from Tivim by a margin of 1,458 votes to Diana Jhon Braganza. She won in the unreserved constituency on an independent ticket and said it was a big achievement winning against the candidate fielded by the ruling BJP party. “The BJP doesn’t take its karyakartas into confidence and the electorate has taught them a lesson in this election,” she said. In Sirsaim, sitting ZP member from BJP Diksha Dilip Kanolkar retained her seat in the unreserved constituency, defeating four male counterparts from Congress, AAP and two independents. In the last ZP election, the constituency was reserved for women (OBC). In Sanvordem, also an unreserved constituency, Suvarna Subod Tendulkar retained her ZP seat defeating male candidates from Congress, MGP, AAP and an independent. In 2015, the constituency was reserved for women. Four-time ZP member and former ZP chairperson from Colva, Nelly Rodrigues, said women who make up half the electorate should be represented at every level and not just at the panchayat and ZP level. “There should be at least 20% reservation in assembly and parliament for women otherwise it is next to impossible for women to fight the money and muscle power of men. Women come out in large numbers to vote and their voices must be heard too,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/women-take-over-the-reins-win-four-unreserved-seats/articleshow/79729682.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 15, 2020||Lucknow||UPPCL offers OTS for power consumers||LUCKNOW: The energy department on Monday announced the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for power consumers, including those in the commercial and industrial category. The scheme will start from Tuesday and continue till January 31. Earlier, the OTS scheme was applicable for urban and rural domestic consumers only. Power minister Shrikant Sharma said consumers of various categories, including commercial, private institutions and industrial, would get 100% waiver on surcharge on pending electricity bills up to November 30. In urban areas, consumers will have to apply online with the office of the executive engineer or sub-divisional officer concerned, while in rural areas applications will have to be filed at the Common Service Centre. Sharma said the facility has been extended to commercial and industrial category consumers to provide them relief in the wake of pandemic. The scheme will also cover consumers who were slapped with a fine after an anomaly was found during an electricity checking drive. Principal secretary, energy, Arvind Kumar said officials have been directed to ensure the benefit of the scheme is passed on to the intended consumers for which a campaign may be carried out. He said that the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited may also organise camps to facilitate the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uppcl-offers-ots-for-power-consumers/articleshow/79729655.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman alleges husband forced her into ‘swapping arrangement’||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old woman who lives near SG Road, lodged a complaint of domestic violence at the Women’s police station (west) on Sunday, alleging that her husband forces her to be part of ‘wife-swapping’ with his friend. She has also accused her father-in-law and mother-in-law of torturing as they want to drive her out of the house. The woman alleged that her husband is having an affair with another woman and wants a divorce from her. According to the FIR, the complainant got married in 2004. She stated that for about 14 years she was treated well by her husband but after she learned about his affair, he started to torment her and often abused and assaulted her. He also forced her to be part of a wife-swapping arrangement with his friend. Police sources said the complainant alleged that though her husband had earlier given her assurances in writing that he would treat her properly and end his affair, he continued to torment her and kept meeting the other woman. The complainant alleged that in February, her husband took away her 11-year-old son from school and kept him at his uncle’s house without informing her. The FIR states that when learned the whereabouts of her son, she went to the uncle’s house but he refused to give him to her without her husband’s permission. A senior police official said she also alleged that her in-laws did not allow her to enter the kitchen to make food for her son and drove away a maid she had hired for household work. The complainant alleged that in July, her in-laws evicted her from her room and locked it and she has since been living in her son’s room in the same house. A senior police official said they registered a complaint under Sections 498 (a), 323, 294(b) and 114 of the IPC and are verifying the complaint before they act against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-alleges-husband-forced-her-into-swapping-arrangement/articleshow/79727437.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Dehradun||Proposals for stricter enforcement of single-use plastic ban, redeveloping parks & repair of dispensaries tabled at DMC meet||DEHRADUN: At least 27 proposals were tabled during the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) board meeting held after a gap of nearly nine months on Monday. During the meeting, the board members gave their go ahead to several proposals, including stricter enforcement of the ban on single-use plastic, redeveloping public parks with the help of private partners, and repairing of dispensaries in selected wards to provide basic health care to the residents, among others. The ward councillors highlighted that during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the menace of single-use plastic increased in the city. To check the issue, the DMC will send a proposal to the government seeking stricter enforcement of the single-use plastic ban including refusal to pick up waste from establishments that continue to use single-use plastic. In addition, the councillors also raised the issue of ill-maintained public parks in the wards which they said have become the favourite spots for anti-social elements. Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama proposed redeveloping these parks with the help of private partners. The DMC decided to release an expression of interest (EOI) inviting private partners to revamp and maintain the parks. These private partners will be allowed to run a canteen in these parks to earn revenue. The mayor also pointed out that the dispensaries in some wards, which got closed down in the past, need repair. The proposal received support from the ward councillors who said that these dispensaries can offer primary health care to the residents of various wards. The project will be run with the help of social organisations. The issue of better management of traffic flow was also raised during the board meeting. The board members agreed to develop five major junctions of the city signal-free. A proposal will be sent to the state government and the police in this regard. In another significant development, the DMC also discussed the construction of a dedicated electric crematorium for stray animals. The incidents related to dog bite and stray animals moving in residential areas will also be looked into by veterinary officials from the DMC. The board members also agreed to the formation of a team of volunteers which will have the power to challan residents who are found dumping garbage in open spaces. The team will be headed by ward councillors. However, the mayor will have the power to take the final call in the matters of conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/proposals-for-stricter-enforcement-of-single-use-plastic-ban-redeveloping-parks-repair-of-dispensaries-tabled-at-dmc-meet/articleshow/79726549.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 15, 2020||India||C-secs top normal deliveries in private hospitals in 10 of 18 states||NEW DELHI: The normal delivery is no longer normal in private hospitals. In 10 of the 18 states (including the UT of J&K) for which the National Family Health Survey 2019-20 data has been released, C-sections accounted for a majority of deliveries in private facilities, and in three of them, for over 80%. The data shows that the trend has only worsened in almost every state in the four years between the earlier survey and this one. Despite West Bengal and J&K having the highest C-section rates in the private sector, 83% and 82% respectively, the overall share of C-sections in the two states was 32.6% and 41.7% as most deliveries happened in public facilities where the rates were much lower. The overall C-section rate in Telangana was over 60%, making C-section the new normal for deliveries in the state. Almost half of all institutional births in Telangana happened in the private sector, where the C-section rate was 81.5%. The state also had the highest C-section rate (45%) for public facilities. Barring a few states, the proportion of C-sections went up sharply in both private and public facilities since the last survey in 2015-16. The highest jump was in private facilities in Assam, where C-sections went from 53% to 71%. Gujarat has lowest caesarean rate of 31% in private hospitals However, in both Assam and West Bengal, private facilities accounted for only about a quarter of all births. Gujarat had the lowest caesarean rate of 31% in the private sector. Public facilities invariably have lower caesarean section rates than private facilities, but the rates have gone up even in the public sector across all states, except in Nagaland, Mizoram and Meghalaya. C-section rates below 10% are considered to show underuse. By that yardstick, the very low C-section rates in the public sector in Bihar, just 3.6%, a marginal improvement over 2.6% in 2015-16, ought to be a cause for worry. In the three north eastern sates too the C-section rate in public facilities is below 10%. The international healthcare community has considered the ideal caesarean rate to be 10-15% since 1985, said a World Health Organisation (WHO) statement. In Nordic countries, known to have the best healthcare, caesarean sections constitute about 17% of all deliveries. Every effort should be made to provide caesarean sections to women in need, rather than striving to achieve a specific rate, the statement said, adding that C-sections should ideally only be undertaken when medically necessary. Several studies have shown that C-sections can increase the chance of death and complications. The WHO observed in a 2015 statement that the lack of a reliable and internationally accepted classification system to produce standardised data to enable comparison has made it challenging to define an optimal caesarean section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/c-secs-top-normal-deliveries-in-private-hospitals-in-10-of-18-states/articleshow/79731063.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 15, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand Covid toll touches 1,000 as 27-year-old Garhwa woman dies at Rims||RANCHI: Exactly 259 days after the Covid outbreak started in Jharkhand on March 31, the state on Monday reached the grim milestone of 1,000 casualties with the lone death of the day reported from Garhwa district. The 27-year-old woman was admitted at Rims in Ranchi last week andsuffered from sickle cell anemia. She was on oxygen support. The first Covid death in Jharkhand was reported from Bokaro on April 8. The mortality rate through the pandemic remained pegged at 0.89%. Meanwhile, Jharkhand 212 fresh infections and 201 recoveries through the day. Of these, state capital Ranchi accounted for 98 while East Singhbhum, Bokaro and Dhanbad reported 23, 22, 21 new cases respectively. Of the 24 districts, 15 reported fresh infections in single digit on Monday while Giridih, Jamtara, Khunti, Pakur, Sahebganj and Saraikela reported none. As per government data, as many as 1,11,722 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,09,141 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.68%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14% against the national average of 0.26%. The doubling rate of the virus stood at 498.1 days against the national figure of 262.28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-cov-toll-touches-1k-as-27-yr-old-garhwa-woman-dies-at-rims/articleshow/79727470.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro sadar hospital found referring patients to illegal health centres||BOKARO: Three private hospitals were found operating without registration and proper doctors or trained staff in the heart of Bokaro town, a district inspection team has found. Moreover, the patients in these hospitals were referred from the government-run sadar hospital. After its inspections, the four-member team found Monu Hospital, Sundaram Hospital, both located at the City Centre and Mother Teresa Hospital on Dharamshala More in Chas were operating without registration under the Clinical Establishment Act. The team also found the hospitals have admitted patients for surgeries despite the shortcomings. District TB officer N P Singh, who led the team, said, “It was shocking that these hospitals were running without doctors as the patients’ note sheet did not have any doctors. When we questioned the nurses, they were reluctant even to reveal their own names.” The team members found one male patient, who suffered injuries in a road accident on Sunday, was referred to the Mother Teresa Hospital from the sadar hospital. Team member and district reproductive health and child officer, Dr Kanta Tirki, said, “It is a matter of investigation on how referrals were made to these hospitals.” District data manager, who is also part of the team, said, “Shockingly, no doctor had attended to the patient since he came to the hospital. The staff gave the patient, who suffered a leg fracture and was in acute pain, only first aid. We have shifted him to sadar hospital now.” At Monu Hospital, the team noticed that hysterectomy was performed on a 25-year-old female patient, which wasn’t required at all. Sundaram Hospital had two patients, including a woman who had undergone a caesarean section, but her baby was admitted in the sadar hospital. When contacted, civil surgeon, Dr A K Pathak, said, “Action will be taken against the three hospitals once the team members submit the inspection report to him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-sadar-hosp-found-referring-patients-to-illegal-health-centres/articleshow/79727384.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ranchi||BJP plans kisan sammelans to counter farm law protest in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Hundreds of farmers will take part in kisan sammelans across the state on Tuesday, opposition BJP said on Monday. The saffron party has decided to organise kisan sammelans in the five commissionaries to counter the ongoing stir against the new agrarian laws passed by the Centre. Talking to media persons at the party office here on Monday, BJP general secretary (organisation) Aditya Sahu said that all three former chief ministers from the party — Babulal Marandi, Raghubar Das and Arjun Munda — will lead from the front to dispel false notions associated with the farm laws. While Marandi will campaign in the Santhal Pargana, Das will be in South Chotanagpur and Munda in Kolhan. The decision of the state BJP to hold the rallies has come in the wake of the stir against the new farm laws by various farmer unions near the borders of the national capital and the December 8 Bharat Bandh called over the issue. The farmers’ stir in the national capital region has not been resolved despite several rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesters. While the Centre has assured that the new farm laws won’t end the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, farmer bodies want the new laws to be repealed completely. Sahu said, “The real farmers didn’t protest on the streets during the bandh in Jharkhand on December 8. Some political parties and the middlemen are upset that the new laws will put a stop to their illegal activities. But BJP has decided to expose all such corrupt entities by sensitising the farmers. In our sammelans, hundreds of real farmers will turn up.” He added that Congress and its allies were misleading the nation by orchestrating stirs. “Farmers across the country are largely happy with the new laws,” Sahu said, adding that the NDA government under Narendra Modi was to committed the welfare of farmers unlike the previous UPA regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-plans-kisan-sammelans-to-counter-farm-law-protest/articleshow/79727364.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jamshedpur picnic spots abuzz with visitors||JAMSHEDPUR: With the dip in mercury, Steel City residents are making a beeline for picnic spots, including some unconventional ones as the regular and popular locations are shut in view of the outbreak. On Sunday, many were seen making merry in Dimma Lake and the pandemic and the lack of enough number of proper spots is hardly going to deter people from going out, according to Sonari-based Sarbani Maity. She said, “Every year, we have a number of picnics at various locations in the city and it’ll be no different this year. Although the options in terms of the number of spots are limited this time , that is not going to stop us from letting our hair down.” She urged the government to open the parks and assured them that all safety protocols will be followed to the hilt. Tata Motors employee Amresh Singh, who organised a picnic along with his colleagues in Narwa on Sunday, said, “Every year, we have three to four picnics with our office staff and we plan to continue with that tradition this time as well. However, we will maintain all the safety norms.” Meanwhile, many were spotted without masks and violating social distancing norms at the picnic spots. Very few police personnel were present at the spots and hardly anyone from the district administration was there to ensure that Covid protocols were maintained. This comes after the district witnessed a spike in cases – 80 cases — in the past few days with around 77 cases being recorded in urban areas. On Sunday, deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar asked the incident commanders to conduct extensive drives for an hour every day in areas under their jurisdictions to enforce the safety guidelines. Police have also been asked to make videos of the people’s movement at public places to identify the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-picnic-spots-abuzz-with-visitors/articleshow/79727302.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 15, 2020||Ranchi||Interstate gang of vehicle lifters busted following murder probe||BOKARO: Giridih police on Monday busted an interstate gang of dacoits, who used to steal SUVs by hiring them and later murdering their drivers. The kingpin of the gang, which has about half-a-dozen members and was active in Jharkhand and Bihar, was arrested along with one of his gang members. Giridih SP Amit Renu said, “We have recovered a Scorpio and a Toyota Qualis from their possession. We are interrogating the kingpin, Mohammad Khurshid Ansari, and his associate Mohammad Sultan Ansari alias Tipu, following which raids are on to nab other members of the gang.” Ansari is a resident of Jamui in Bihar Sultan is from Jhariagadi of Giridih. Police are verifying their criminal antecedents from other police stations of neighbouring districts in Jharkhand and Bihar. Police zeroed in on to the duo while investigating the murder of a Scorpio driver whose body was found under a culvert at Patrodih bridge under Bengabad police station on December 8. Later, police identified the deceased as Ajay Ram, a resident of Lachhuwara village in Jamui and informed his family about his death. His family told police that Ram worked as a driver for a private taxi operator, Neeraj Kumar Singh, who is also a resident of Lachhuwara village. The gang members had hired the SUV on December 7 from Lachhuwara to travel to Chhotki Khargadiha area. On the way, they killed Ram and stole the Scorpio, which police recovered on December 13 following the arrest of Khurshid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/interstate-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-following-murder-probe/articleshow/79727289.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand Covid toll touches 1,000 as 27-year-old Garhwa woman dies at Rims||RANCHI: Exactly 259 days after the Covid outbreak started in Jharkhand on March 31, the state on Monday reached the grim milestone of 1,000 casualties with the lone death of the day reported from Garhwa district. The 27-year-old woman was admitted at Rims in Ranchi last week andsuffered from sickle cell anemia. She was on oxygen support. The first Covid death in Jharkhand was reported from Bokaro on April 8. The mortality rate through the pandemic remained pegged at 0.89%. Meanwhile, Jharkhand 212 fresh infections and 201 recoveries through the day. Of these, state capital Ranchi accounted for 98 while East Singhbhum, Bokaro and Dhanbad reported 23, 22, 21 new cases respectively. Of the 24 districts, 15 reported fresh infections in single digit on Monday while Giridih, Jamtara, Khunti, Pakur, Sahebganj and Saraikela reported none. As per government data, as many as 1,11,722 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,09,141 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.68%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14% against the national average of 0.26%. The doubling rate of the virus stood at 498.1 days against the national figure of 262.28 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-cov-toll-touches-1k-as-27-yr-old-garhwa-woman-dies-at-rims/articleshow/79733820.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Jamshedpur||BJP plans kisan sammelans to counter farm law protest in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Hundreds of farmers will take part in kisan sammelans across the state on Tuesday, opposition BJP said on Monday. The saffron party has decided to organise kisan sammelans in the five commissionaries to counter the ongoing stir against the new agrarian laws passed by the Centre. Talking to media persons at the party office here on Monday, BJP general secretary (organisation) Aditya Sahu said that all three former chief ministers from the party — Babulal Marandi, Raghubar Das and Arjun Munda — will lead from the front to dispel false notions associated with the farm laws. While Marandi will campaign in the Santhal Pargana, Das will be in South Chotanagpur and Munda in Kolhan. The decision of the state BJP to hold the rallies has come in the wake of the stir against the new farm laws by various farmer unions near the borders of the national capital and the December 8 Bharat Bandh called over the issue. The farmers’ stir in the national capital region has not been resolved despite several rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesters. While the Centre has assured that the new farm laws won’t end the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, farmer bodies want the new laws to be repealed completely. Sahu said, “The real farmers didn’t protest on the streets during the bandh in Jharkhand on December 8. Some political parties and the middlemen are upset that the new laws will put a stop to their illegal activities. But BJP has decided to expose all such corrupt entities by sensitising the farmers. In our sammelans, hundreds of real farmers will turn up.” He added that Congress and its allies were misleading the nation by orchestrating stirs. “Farmers across the country are largely happy with the new laws,” Sahu said, adding that the NDA government under Narendra Modi was to committed the welfare of farmers unlike the previous UPA regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bjp-plans-kisan-sammelans-to-counter-farm-law-protest/articleshow/79733844.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Left, RJD stage dharna near Raj Bhavan against farm laws||RANCHI: Left parties and the RJD on Monday held a dharna in front of the Raj Bhavan in Ranchi in support of the farmers’ agitation continuing on the outskirts of Delhi. Speaking at the function, CPI state secretary Bhuwaneshwar Mehta termed the new farm acts as black laws, adding that the agitation against them would continue in the future as well. He said that the protests were held in all 24 districts of the state on Sunday. He said, “The agitation is growing in magnitude and could be compared to the protests during the Independence movement. The government must withdraw the laws as various sections of society are supporting the protesting farmers.” He said the government is falsely alleging that extremists and separatists were behind the agitation. Later the leaders of Left parties, including Mehta, CPM’s G K Bakshi and CPI(M-L)’s Janardhan Prasad, met the Governor and handed over a memorandum in support of their demands. The memorandum demanded withdrawal of the farm laws, implementation of the Swaminathan committee recommendations, providing minimum support prices for all crops and immediate start of paddy procurement in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/left-rjd-stage-dharna-near-raj-bhavan-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79727568.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Ranchi||2 teenage girls gang raped in Garhwa, both culprits held||GARHWA: Two teenage cousin sisters belonging to Bhuihar SC community were gang-raped by two youths at Puregara village under Ranka police station area in Garhwa district on Sunday. Police arrested the rapists within three hours of the matter being reported by the girls' parents on Sunday night and sent them to jail on Monday. Police said the girls had gone to a field to collect chana saag (green gram) around 3 pm when the rapists identified as Mumtaz Ansari (20) and Aamir Hassan (19) came there and forcibly took them to a forest near Purgara village. They then raped the girls and held them hostage for six hours. When the girls reached their home, they narrated their ordeal to their parents who filed a police complaint at about 11 pm. Ranka police station officer-in-charge Pankaj Kumar Tiwari said, "Based on a written complaint filed by the survivors' parents, police swung into action and arrested both the accused from their homes on the same night. They have confessed their crime to us.” He added, "We filed a case against them under the Pocso Act and produced the accused to a local court which forwarded them to jail. The girls were sent to Garhwa sadar hospital for a medical examination." The incident happened five after a tribal woman was gang-raped by three persons at Durjan village under Ramkanda police station of Ranka sub-division. Police had also arrested the three culprits and forwarded them to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-teenage-girls-gang-raped-in-garhwa-both-culprits-held/articleshow/79727309.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mercury dips to 8.4° Celsius, wind gives air quality a boost||NEW DELHI: The minimum temperature in the national capital dropped to 8.4 degrees Celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature was 19.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. The humidity oscillated between 57% and 100%. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to Met officials, the minimum and maximum temperatures are predicted to remain around 8 degrees Celsius and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Tuesday. Shallow fog is likely for Tuesday. "The north-westerly winds are blowing from snow-capped western Himalayan region to Delhi and hence, the cold winds would cause further decrease in temperature. It is predicted that the minimum temperature may remain around 7° Celsius from December 16 to 18. However, due to strong winds, shallow fog or mist are likely till December 18." Strong winds have, meanwhile, helped in cleaning Delhi's air. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) in the city improved from 305 in 'very poor' category on Sunday to 160 in 'moderate' category on Monday. This was the first moderate air quality day of this month. The air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally and remain in 'moderate' to 'poor' category on Tuesday and Wednesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, "Though wind speed may reduce slightly on Tuesday, it may again pick up from Wednesday. Strong winds are likely to blow till December 18."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-mercury-dips-to-8-4-celsius-wind-gives-air-quality-a-boost/articleshow/79731093.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Business||Taj, hosted by Makaibari, opens resort in Darj||Kolkata: The iconic hospitality brand, Taj, owned by Indian Hotels Company (IHCL), announced the opening of Taj Chia Kutir Resort & Spa, in Darjeeling from December 14. Built in the historic Makaibari Tea Estate, the home to the world’s first tea factory and founded in 1859, the five-star deluxe brand is going to add a new chapter to the Hills tourism sector. The iconic Makaibari is known for fetching one of the highest prices in tea around the globe and would now mark the re-entry of a hospitality giant to the Queen of Hills, after Oberois had shut its heritage hotel property during stormy and violent days of Darjeeling agitation in the late 80s. Puneet Chhatwal, MD and CEO, IHCL, said, “IHCL with its pioneering spirit has put many destinations like Rajasthan, Goa and Kerala on the tourism map. We are delighted to step into another new destination in the east — Darjeeling. Taj Chia Kutir & Resort is a welcome addition to our existing hotels in the magnificent Himalayas.” Nestled amid sun-kissed tea gardens, Taj Chia Kutir Resort & Spa is spread over 22 acres. “The 72-room resort, often enveloped in mist, has views of the rolling hills. The design is inspired by the meandering tea terraces and blends with nature,” IHCL has stated. With the addition of this hotel, IHCL will have six properties in West Bengal, including the three under construction. The MD of Luxmi Tea, that owns Makaibari, Rudra Chatterjee, said, “We welcome Taj guests to witness what makes Makaibari the world’s most celebrated tea, to learn the sustainable and biodynamic practices of the estate and walk the majestic Himalayan trails.” The property was developed at an investment of Rs 150 crore by Ambuja Neotia group and it had entered into management contract with IHCL. When contacted, the chairman of Ambuja Neotia group, Harsh Neotia, said, “I am delighted that we at Ambuja Neotia have been able to partner with Taj group. I hope this will help in giving a fillip to tourism in North Bengal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/taj-hosted-by-makaibari-opens-resort-in-darj/articleshow/79728496.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Business||IIT award for Jain||Vinod Kumar Jain, founder and chairman of Shatiath Detergents that owns Safed brand, has been conferred with the “Distinguished Alumnus Award 2020” from IIT Kharagpur. The award conferment ceremony will take place during 66th annual convocation of the institute. Jain did chemical engineering from IIT Kharagpur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iit-award-for-jain/articleshow/79728540.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||Digital health mission: Govt OKs policy for data protection||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Monday approved the health data management policy of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) that sets out the minimum standard for an individual’s data privacy protection and will be followed across the board in order to ensure compliance with relevant and applicable laws, rules and regulations. The policy will act as a guidance document across the National Digital Health Ecosystem (NDHE). Data collected across the NDHE will be stored in at the central level, the state or Union Territory level and at the health facility level, by adopting the principle of minimality at each point, according to the document. “This policy is to be read along with, and not in contradiction to, any law, or any instrument having the effect of any law together with the blueprint, the information security policy, the data retention and archival policy and any other policy which may be issued for the implementation of the NDHM,” the government said “This policy is not to be interpreted as giving any entity or individual rights which are greater than those that such entity or individual would be entitled to under applicable laws,” the government added. The provisions of this policy will apply to the entities involved in the NDHM and those who are a part of the NDHE, that includes all entities and individuals who have been issued an ID under this policy, healthcare professionals, governing bodies of the health ministry, the NHA, relevant professional bodies and regulators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/digital-health-mission-govt-oks-policy-for-data-protection/articleshow/79731100.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Faridabad||Farm law protests find new rallying point outside Delhi, on Jaipur highway||REWARI: A contingent of around 100 farmers arrived from Gujarat. Another 200 or so came from Rajasthan to join others from Haryana already there. Jaisinghpur Khera on the Delhi-Jaipur highway emerged on Monday as the first major protest point away from Delhi’s borders in the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, growing in size and decibel as protesters began converging from other states. Barricades have been put up across the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of NH48 here, blocking any movement in the direction of Gurugram and Delhi and separating lines of protesters and police personnel. Diversions have hit traffic on the stretch, especially large trucks that have been queuing up since Sunday behind the protesters like an unbroken chain, many carrying perishables. Like their counterparts at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, the protesters at Jaisinghpur Khera have vowed not to call off the agitation till the laws are repealed. They decided to start a protest there since they were not allowed to proceed to Delhi. Dayabhai Jadhav, a farmer leader from Rajkot, said they had been detained along the way. “On December 10, we had announced a protest against the new farm laws, after which police detained around 40 of us. We were released on the condition that we will not protest in Gujarat. Once out of detention, we had to leave behind our tractors and about 100 of us boarded a bus till Udaipur. Using various means of transport, we finally reached this place on Monday afternoon. The so-called Gujarat model has not done any good for farmers. We will be soon joined by around 500 farmers who are on their way here from various districts of Gujarat,” Jadhav said. Protests at Jaisinghpur Khera are being led by Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav, who had himself been detained in Gurugram while trying to march to Delhi a few days ago. Shagan Lal Chaudhary, a farmer from Rajasthan, said more farmers from Churu, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Sri Ganagangar would arrive at the protest site soon. “Hundreds of farmers will join us here and we will not go back till our demands are met. December is an important month for farming, and yet, we have decided to join this nationwide protest because our future is at stake. We have the full support of our family members. They have told us tum morcha sambhalo, hum khet sambhalte hain (we will do the farming, you go join the protest).” Rampal Jat, a Kisan Mahapanchayat leader from Rajasthan, said they were receiving a lot of support from locals. “We are determined to reach Delhi but in a peaceful manner. We will not go back till our demands are met. We have adequate provisions to see us through this winter and the local residents are helping us,” he said. Yadav, who has been camping at Jaisinghpur Khera since Sunday, told TOI, “Several (farmers) are on their way but are finding it difficult to reach since cops have blocked all access routes.” Jaipur-Delhi traffic has, meanwhile, been diverted through Behror, Shahjahanpur and Neemrana. Truck drivers like Sanjay Yadav have been stuck in Behror since Sunday afternoon when the highway was closed. “I am coming from Palanpur (Gujarat) and have to deliver milk to a plant in Faridabad. I’m stuck here now and I don’t have enough money. The cops are asking me to take a diversion but I am afraid to take an unknown route. I am waiting for further instructions from the truck’s owner,” he said. Ajay Pal has a truck full of medicines, which he has to deliver to Faridabad. “I was going to Faridabad from Chittorgarh. The cops sometimes ask us to drive on and sometimes to stop and wait. There is no proper communication and I will wait for the highway to open,” he said. Apart from police personnel from Haryana and Rajasthan, the Rapid Action Force too has been deployed here along with riot control vehicles. “We have strict instructions from the government not to let the farmers move forward from here. This highway will remain blocked till the protestors are here,” said a senior police official at the site. With inputs from Shahnawaz Alam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/farm-law-protests-find-new-rallying-point-outside-delhi-on-jaipur-highway/articleshow/79731186.cms||Joel Joseph
December 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Farm law protests find new rallying point outside Delhi, on Jaipur highway||REWARI: A contingent of around 100 farmers arrived from Gujarat. Another 200 or so came from Rajasthan to join others from Haryana already there. Jaisinghpur Khera on the Delhi-Jaipur highway emerged on Monday as the first major protest point away from Delhi’s borders in the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, growing in size and decibel as protesters began converging from other states. Barricades have been put up across the Jaipur-Delhi carriageway of NH48 here, blocking any movement in the direction of Gurugram and Delhi and separating lines of protesters and police personnel. Diversions have hit traffic on the stretch, especially large trucks that have been queuing up since Sunday behind the protesters like an unbroken chain, many carrying perishables. Like their counterparts at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders, the protesters at Jaisinghpur Khera have vowed not to call off the agitation till the laws are repealed. They decided to start a protest there since they were not allowed to proceed to Delhi. Dayabhai Jadhav, a farmer leader from Rajkot, said they had been detained along the way. “On December 10, we had announced a protest against the new farm laws, after which police detained around 40 of us. We were released on the condition that we will not protest in Gujarat. Once out of detention, we had to leave behind our tractors and about 100 of us boarded a bus till Udaipur. Using various means of transport, we finally reached this place on Monday afternoon. The so-called Gujarat model has not done any good for farmers. We will be soon joined by around 500 farmers who are on their way here from various districts of Gujarat,” Jadhav said. Protests at Jaisinghpur Khera are being led by Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav, who had himself been detained in Gurugram while trying to march to Delhi a few days ago. Shagan Lal Chaudhary, a farmer from Rajasthan, said more farmers from Churu, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Sri Ganagangar would arrive at the protest site soon. “Hundreds of farmers will join us here and we will not go back till our demands are met. December is an important month for farming, and yet, we have decided to join this nationwide protest because our future is at stake. We have the full support of our family members. They have told us tum morcha sambhalo, hum khet sambhalte hain (we will do the farming, you go join the protest).” Rampal Jat, a Kisan Mahapanchayat leader from Rajasthan, said they were receiving a lot of support from locals. “We are determined to reach Delhi but in a peaceful manner. We will not go back till our demands are met. We have adequate provisions to see us through this winter and the local residents are helping us,” he said. Yadav, who has been camping at Jaisinghpur Khera since Sunday, told TOI, “Several (farmers) are on their way but are finding it difficult to reach since cops have blocked all access routes.” Jaipur-Delhi traffic has, meanwhile, been diverted through Behror, Shahjahanpur and Neemrana. Truck drivers like Sanjay Yadav have been stuck in Behror since Sunday afternoon when the highway was closed. “I am coming from Palanpur (Gujarat) and have to deliver milk to a plant in Faridabad. I’m stuck here now and I don’t have enough money. The cops are asking me to take a diversion but I am afraid to take an unknown route. I am waiting for further instructions from the truck’s owner,” he said. Ajay Pal has a truck full of medicines, which he has to deliver to Faridabad. “I was going to Faridabad from Chittorgarh. The cops sometimes ask us to drive on and sometimes to stop and wait. There is no proper communication and I will wait for the highway to open,” he said. Apart from police personnel from Haryana and Rajasthan, the Rapid Action Force too has been deployed here along with riot control vehicles. “We have strict instructions from the government not to let the farmers move forward from here. This highway will remain blocked till the protestors are here,” said a senior police official at the site. With inputs from Shahnawaz Alam||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farm-law-protests-find-new-rallying-point-outside-delhi-on-jaipur-highway/articleshow/79729799.cms||Joel Joseph
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 10,000 more join stir at Singhu, arteries clogged||NEW DELHI: More than 10,000 farmers arrived at Singhu to boost the gathering of protesters at the border on Monday, the nineteenth day of the face-off between the land tillers and the central government over the new agri laws. This naturally resulted in major traffic jams on the roads connected to the borders, with a spillover effect on the city arteries. The Delhi Traffic Police said that the entry points in the capital at Ghazipur, Singhu, Auchandi and some other places were closed for traffic as the farmers' agitation continued. A police tweet said, "Ghazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternative routes for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Chilla, Apsara and Bhopra borders." The cops suggested optional routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu school toll tax borders due to the closure of Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh border points while urging commuters to avoid using Outer Ring Road, GT Karnal Road and NH44. On Sunday, the protesting farmers had blocked the Jaipur-Delhi highway in Rewari while Haryana Police barricaded the stretch and diverted the traffic from Delhi via Kasola Chowk and restricted the movement of motorists towards Jaipur. After 2pm, however, the highway was partially opened. Since November 26, farmers, most from Punjab and Haryana, have been out on the streets, aiming to reach the capital to press for the repeal of Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. These laws were enacted by Parliament in September. The five rounds of talks between the leaders of farmer groups and Union ministers have failed to resolve the matter. The agitation leaders have now threatened to block trains in the coming days if the Centre didn't acquiesce and repeal the three Acts. "We get no pleasure in causing inconvenience to the people of Delhi, but this is all we can do to make our point," declared Kamaljeet Singh of Moga in Punjab. "We are all in this together and if our demands are met, we will not take two hours to clear this spot. I have personally been sitting in protest here since the very first day and plan to stay here till the end." For Suraj Singh, a resident of Mohali, the last one week has been an overwhelming one. "I am a lawyer and have taken indefinite leave from my office to be present here," he said. "We, from Punjab, eventually all hail from families of farmers. If we don't stand with them, nobody else will. I am volunteering my sewa and have invited my family members and friends to be here with me today." Meanwhile, traffic police officers claimed to be holding regular meetings and increasing police presence at the choke points. "Fortunately, the protesters have been protesting peacefully," said a relieved senior officer. "The personnel at Singhu and Tikri borders have been sensitised and the force managing the traffic has been visibly increased in view of the traffic situation worsening over the last three weeks."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-10000-more-join-stir-at-singhu-arteries-clogged/articleshow/79731122.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||More than half of all women in Andhra Pradesh suffer from anaemia, shows survey||VISAKHAPATNAM: Around 58% women (aged 15-49) have been found anaemic in Andhra Pradesh in the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5). Anaemia prevalence among girls aged 15-19 in the state is more than 60%. Anaemia affects nearly 16% men (aged 15-49) and 18.7% boys aged 15-19, according to NFHS-5. This is a significant improvement from NFHS-4 where anaemia prevalence was 27% among men (15-49) and 29% among the boys. Anaemia is a medical condition in which a person has a lower number of red blood cells, thereby reducing the ability of their blood to carry oxygen. People suffering from anaemia most commonly experience fatigue while performing even slightly physically strenuous tasks. Apart from health complications, the condition leads to reduced productivity, poor concentration and affects the overall quality of life. Dr V Satish, a general physician, said that the growth spurt — physical, cognitive and emotional — peaks in adolescence. “Due to the growth spurt, adolescents, particularly girls, need a healthy and balanced diet to meet nutritional needs. It is crucial to identify early stage anaemia to prevent associated problems. Eating healthy is more crucial for women compared to their male counterparts due to menstruation and other associated changes,” said Dr Satish. Dr Satish further said that prevention lies in a healthy diet rather than on iron supplements. “Patients should also seek medical intervention to identify any underlying absorption problems, parasitic infections or other medical conditions causing the anaemia,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-than-half-of-all-women-in-state-suffer-from-anaemia-shows-survey/articleshow/79726749.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 15, 2020||World||Biden clears 270-vote mark as electors affirm his victory||WASHINGTON: The Electoral College gave Joe Biden a majority of its votes Monday, confirming his victory in last month's election in state-by-state voting that took on added importance this year because of President Donald Trump's refusal to concede he lost. California's 55 electoral votes put Biden over the top, clearing the 270-vote mark that affirmed he will be the nation's next president. Heightened security was in place in some states as electors met on the day by federal law. Electors cast paper ballots in gatherings that took place in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, with masks, social distancing and other virus precautions the order of the day. The results will be sent to Washington and tallied in a January 6 joint session of Congress over which Vice President Mike Pence will preside. There was little suspense and no surprises as all the electoral votes allocated to Biden and Trump in last month's popular vote went to each man. In Arizona, Georgia, Michigan, Nevada, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin — the six battleground states that Biden won and Trump contested — electors gave Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris their votes Monday in low-key proceedings. Nevada's electors met via Zoom because of the coronavirus pandemic. When all the votes are in, Biden was expected to have 306 electoral votes to 232 for Trump. Hawaii was the only state that had yet to vote. Biden topped Trump by more than 7 million votes nationwide. “In this battle for the soul of America, democracy prevailed,” Biden said in remarks prepared for an evening speech. “We the people voted. Faith in our institutions held. The integrity of our elections remains intact. And so, now it is time to turn the page. To unite. To heal.” Biden renewed his campaign promise to be a president for all Americans, whether they voted for him or not, and said the country has hard work ahead on the virus and economy. Former Maryland state Sen. Gloria Lawlah, in a state Biden won easily, said the votes for the Democratic ticket were “a repudiation of hate, a repudiation of divisiveness." But not everyone was ready to say the election was over, even with the casting of electoral votes. Trump has refused to concede and continues to make unsupported allegations of fraud. There have been concerns about safety for the electors, virtually unheard of in previous years. In Michigan, lawmakers from both parties reported receiving threats, and legislative offices were closed over threats of violence. Biden won the state by 154,000 votes, or 2.8 percentage points, over Trump. Georgia state police were out in force at the state Capitol in Atlanta before Democratic electors pledged to Biden met. There were no protesters seen. Even with the Electoral College's confirmation of Biden's victory, some Republicans continued to refuse to acknowledge that reality. Yet their opposition to Biden had no practical effect on the electoral process, with the Democrat to be sworn in on January 20. Despite Biden's wins in Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, Republicans who would have been Trump electors met anyway. Pennsylvania Republicans said they cast a “procedural vote” for Trump and Pence in case courts that have repeatedly rejected challenges to Biden's victory were to somehow still determine that Trump had won. In North Carolina, Utah and other states across the country where Trump won, his electors turned out to duly cast their ballots for him. Electors in North Carolina had their temperatures checked before being allowed to enter the Capitol to vote. Utah Attorney General Sean Reyes withdrew as a Trump elector and was in quarantine because he was exposed to someone with COVID-19. Former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, whom Trump defeated four years ago, were among New York's 29 electors for Biden and Harris. In New Hampshire, before the state's four electors voted for Biden at the State House in Concord, 13-year-old Brayden Harrington led the group in the Pledge of Allegiance. He had delivered a moving speech at the Democratic National Convention in August about the struggle with stuttering he shares with Biden. Vermont's electors were the first in the nation to vote Monday and they chose Biden and Harris. Biden will address the nation Monday night, after the electors have voted. Trump, meanwhile, is clinging to his false claims that he won the election, and trying to undermine Biden's presidency before it begins. “No, I worry about the country having an illegitimate president, that's what I worry about. A president that lost and lost badly,” Trump said in a Fox News interview that was taped Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/biden-clears-270-vote-mark-as-electors-affirm-his-victory/articleshow/79731138.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP betters score in women empowerment parameters||VISAKHAPATNAM: Various parameters of the women empowerment indicator in Andhra Pradesh have improved between 3% and 17% in the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5, 2019-20) compared to NFHS-4 (2015-16). The empowerment indicator is based on various parameters such as women’s participation in household decision-making, owning a house or land, having a bank account, using their own mobile phones and using hygienic protection during menstrual cycle. Another related key indicator, that of gender-based violence has also come down compared to last survey, whereby spousal violence has reduced by 13%. In the women’s empowerment indicator, the survey found that 84.1% married women (aged 15-49 years) participate in household decisions, showing a 4% increase since the last survey. Women owning house/land either alone or jointly came to 47.8%, an increase of 3%. Women having a bank or savings account that they operate themselves is 81.8%, more than 14% increase since NFHS-4. The percentage of women having and using their own mobile phones was found to be 48.9%, an increase of 13%. The percentage young women aged 15-24 years who use hygienic protection methods during their menstruation cycles was 85.1%, a rise of 17.5%. However, women who worked in the last one year and were paid in cash remains unchanged at 42.1 %. In 50 % of these parameters, like participating in household decisions, working for cash, owning a house/land, rural women scored better than their urban counterparts. As for the other key indicator of gender-based violence, married women aged 18-49 years who have ever experienced spousal violence was high at 30 %, despite registering a decrease of 13.4 % since NFHS-4. Around 3.8 % women have experienced physical violence during pregnancy compared to 4.9 % in NFHS-4. The percentage of young women, aged 18-29 years who have experienced sexual violence by age 18 has reduced from 6.8 % in NFHS-4 to 3.7 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-betters-score-in-women-empowerment-parameters/articleshow/79726763.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||All districts in Andhra Pradesh report less than 50 Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 305 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,75,836. This is the lowest single-day case total in almost the last six months, since recording 351 infections on June 17. The toll jumped to 7,059 as two more people succumbed to the pandemic. This is also the lowest in the last six months. The two deceased on Monday are from Nellore district. As many as 541 patients were declared cured. There are currently 4,728 active cases with the 8,75,836 cumulative recoveries and 7,059 deaths. For the first time in months, all the 13 districts recorded less than 50 new cases on Monday. The active cases are less than 200 in six districts with Vizianagaram having only 75 active cases. East Godavari continued to lead the table with 1,23,016 cumulative infections. West Godavari took the distant second place with 93,397 cases. But both these Covid-19 hotspots (East Godavari and West Godavari) achieved 99 per cent recovery rate. Vizianagaram, which has the lowest caseload among all districts, also touched the 99 per cent recovery rate milestone. Andhra Pradesh tested 44,935 Covid-19 samples to detect the 305 new cases on Monday, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 1%. The positivity rate in Andhra Pradesh has significantly improved in the last two weeks. The state has so far conducted nearly 1.09 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of about 8%. The national average positivity rate stands at about 6%. The state’s fatality rate remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-districts-in-ap-report-less-than-50-covid-cases/articleshow/79726770.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy leaves for Delhi today, likely to discuss Polavaram||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to leave for New Delhi on Tuesday. The chief minister is scheduled to reach New Delhi around 4pm. He will meet Union home minister Amit Shah at 9pm. The chief minister is likely to discuss various issues including financial assistance for the Polavaram project. On Monday, the chief minister inspected the project and reviewed progress of works at the project site. The state government has been in touch with the Centre regarding approval of revised cost estimations for the Polavaram project. Although, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has promised to clear the revised estimations, the state government is apprehensive about getting it cleared by the finance ministry. The chief minister is expected to request the Union home minister to prevail upon finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to clear the revised estimations at the earliest as the home ministry is the nodal agency for resolution of issues and promises made under the AP Reorganisation Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-leaves-for-delhi-today-likely-to-discuss-polavaram/articleshow/79726798.cms||Samdani MN
December 15, 2020||Amaravati||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy leaves for Delhi today, likely to discuss Polavaram||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to leave for New Delhi on Tuesday. The chief minister is scheduled to reach New Delhi around 4pm. He will meet Union home minister Amit Shah at 9pm. The chief minister is likely to discuss various issues including financial assistance for the Polavaram project. On Monday, the chief minister inspected the project and reviewed progress of works at the project site. The state government has been in touch with the Centre regarding approval of revised cost estimations for the Polavaram project. Although, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has promised to clear the revised estimations, the state government is apprehensive about getting it cleared by the finance ministry. The chief minister is expected to request the Union home minister to prevail upon finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to clear the revised estimations at the earliest as the home ministry is the nodal agency for resolution of issues and promises made under the AP Reorganisation Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-leaves-for-delhi-today-likely-to-discuss-polavaram/articleshow/79732556.cms||Samdani MN
December 15, 2020||India||Kerala press body fighting for PFI in Hathras case: UP||NEW DELHI: The UP government on Monday turned the heat on Kerala Union of Working Journalists, which has sought release of Siddique Kappan arrested while going to Hathras on October 5 purportedly to cover the death of the alleged gangrape victim, by accusing it of indulging in proxy litigation on behalf of PFI with which Kappan has been linked by police. The UP government gave the Supreme Court details of how Kappan showed a fake identity card of Thejas newspaper, which was the mouthpiece of PFI and has been closed since 2018, and was planning to incite caste and class violence in the area as per the detailed plan of action of PFI. Kappan was arrested along with three others. The state government said, "considering the role of the persons in judicial custody on whose behalf this proxy petition is filed, it clearly appears that he (Kappan) does not wish to face examination of his role by the competent court and, therefore, attempting to get virtual regular bail on broad propositions of violations of fundamental rights." "KUWJ does not represent all journalists. There is a separate association of journalists which is the mainstream association. The present petition is, therefore, not maintainable and is a proxy litigation at the behest of organisations (PFI) on whose behalf the person in judicial custody is found to be working," it said. The state in its affidavit filed through advocate Garima Prashad said, "KUJW is itself facing vigilance inquiry in Kerala for embezzlement and misappropriation of government funds upon direction of the High Court of Kerala in a PIL pending against the KUJW Delhi Unit. Further, the Thrissur District Unit of KUWJ is facing charges of grabbing of Devaswom land of the famous Vadakkumnath Temple and a case in this regard is pending before Kerala HC." Appearing for KUWJ, senior advocate Kapil Sibal sought time from a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde to respond to the new allegations levelled against the association by the state. The Bench adjourned hearing in the KUWJ petition for release of Kappan to January. Refuting all charges of torture or ill-treatment to Kappan by providing judicial inquiry reports on these aspects, the UP government even accused KUWJ counsel Wills Mathews of concealing information from the Supreme Court and also making false representations before the highest court about Kappan. The government said, "During the period Kappan worked in Thejas, most of the editors there were executive members of PFI. Investigations revealed that Kappan is not only involved in hatching a design to commit cognizable offences to disrupt public order and peace by inciting caste and class violence, but is also a master mind having links with various unfortunate riots disturbing public tranquility nationwide." It said, "Thejas is an acclaimed mouthpiece of PFI and owned by Intermedia Publishing Limited, a public limited company based in calicut having its founder director as ParapurathuKoya, ex-office bearer of SIMI and present executive member of PFI." It said, "the views of the paper has been insulting religious sentiments and creating religious discord in Kerala. The views of the paper was so extreme that it called terrorist Osama bin Laden a 'martyr' in its front page cover story on October 31, 2011, and this was the time when Kappan was an active contributor to 'Thejas Gulf'." "As per the investigation done till now in the case against Kappan, most of the members of PFI, who are ex-office bearers of banned organisation SIMI, have been in close intimacy with Kappan... documents reveal crucial information about the very formation of PFI as a reincarnation of SIMI after it was banned, and also about the motive and ideology of both the organisation PFI and SIMI are corroborative in nature," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-press-body-fighting-for-pfi-in-hathras-case-up/articleshow/79731163.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Three-year-old killed in Delhi as roof collapses on her||NEW DELHI: A three-year-old girl died on Monday when a part of her house where construction work was going on collapsed in northeast Delhi's Khajoori Khas. Maanvi, who got trapped under the debris, was pulled out after an hour-long struggle, but could not be saved. She lived in the single-storey building in E Block with her parents and grand-father who owns the house. On Monday morning, some labourers were piling up material on the roof of the house for construction of the first floor. The roof also needed some repair, said a police officer. However, a portion of the roof, apparently due to the load of the construction material, collapsed around 11am and fell on the girl on the ground floor, he added. Police have written to East Delhi Municipal Corporation asking it to carry out a survey of the building and check if it was an authorised construction. "The girl was crushed under the debris. Her grandfather, who was supervising the work, rushed to pull her out along with other family members. Hearing the loud sound, neighbours also came for help and informed police," the officer said. Following a call from police, Delhi Fire Services also sent four fire tenders to the spot to help in the rescue operations. The girl was taken to Jag Parvesh Chandra Hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. "She had sustained multiple injuries on her head and back," said the officer. Her body was sent for postmortem. As her grandfather was carrying out the construction, police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence against him to probe the incident, said Devesh Kumar Mahala, additional DCP (northeast).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-year-old-killed-in-delhi-as-roof-collapses-on-her/articleshow/79731169.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||WhatsApp UPI licence case: SC seeks reply from payments body||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) to file an affidavit explaining how WhatsApp was granted licence to commence app-based UPI payment services after RBI informed the court that NPCI was the owner and operator of UPI system. Responding to a petition filed by CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam, the RBI in its affidavit said, "NPCI introduced multibank model under UPI on September 15, 2017, wherein a large merchant/technology player, referred to as Third Party App Provider (TPAP), having access to a large customer base, can connect to the UPI system operated by the NPCI through multiple Payment Service Provider banks." "The TPAPs provide the necessary customer interface, while the transactions are processed through the sponsor PSP banks. The decision to allow or otherwise an entity to operate on UPI is solely taken by NPCI as per the system rules / guidelines / procedures governing the UPI payment system, which have been framed by NPCI as an operator of UPI. NPCI has, accordingly, allowed Amazon under the single sponsor bank model of UPI, Google and WhatsApp under the multibank model to operate as TPAPs," it said. RBI said it does not give any approval/authorisation to TPAPs (as they do not operate a payment system) and thus they are not system providers as defined in Section 2(q) of the Payment and Settlement Systems Act, i.e. authorised payment system operators, and therefore they do not fall under the regulatory domain of RBI directly. "On the other hand, NPCI is the system provider of UPI and, therefore, comes under the regulatory radar of RBI. Since it was NPCI that allowed Amazon, Google and WhatsApp to operate under UPI, the responsibility to ensure that these entities comply with all the Rules, Regulations, Guidelines governing UPI lies with NPCI," the banking regulator said. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked NPCI counsel Nikhil Nayyar to file an affidavit responding to Viswam's petition. Appearing for Viswam, Krishnan Venugopal alleged that WhatsApp data can be recovered by using spyware pegasus. Venugopal also said that big data aggregators in Facebook, Amazon and Google are facing lawsuits from US antitrust authorities for breaching privacy code. He said that critical financial data of Indian users could be assessed by the parent company of WhatsApp in the absence of a data storage facility in India. The bench took serious note of pegasus retrieving WhatsApp data but counsel for the social media platform, Kapil Sibal said that the petitioner was making oral allegations without any pleading to this effect in his petition. However, TOI found that Viswam in his petition had alleged that WhatsApp has suffered or been accused of several privacy and security breaches. "The biggest breach among those was hacking of the devices and accounts of several Indians by software named 'Pegasus', developed by the Israeli organisation NSO. The spyware was activated on an individual's device by merely a missed call on the application, which highlights the vulnerability of WhatsApp's platform," he said. The bench posted the matter for further hearing in the fourth week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whatsapp-upi-licence-case-sc-seeks-reply-from-payments-body/articleshow/79731182.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS nurses go on strike, patients left unattended||NEW DELHI: Hundreds of critically ill patients admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) were left unattended for hours on Monday as the hospital's nurses went on an indefinite strike at around 3pm to press for their demand to rectify an anomaly in the implementation of the Sixth Pay Commission recommendation, among others. Till late evening, there was no breakthrough in the talks between the nurses' union and the hospital administration, leading to a crisis situation. AIIMS nurses say won’t back down until all demands metAIIMS has about 2,400 beds, of which, approximately 15% are in the ICU. Nearly all of them were occupied on Monday when the strike was called. "There is no one to attend to the patients, including the critically ill. Many may die if the stalemate continues," doctors said. The AIIMS Nurses’ Union has been in talks with the hospital for over a year demanding an increase in initial pay, Harish Kajla, who heads the union, told TOI. "Last year, the Union health ministry himself assured our demand will be met with. But, now they have turned it down all of a sudden, leaving us with no recourse except to go on strike," Kajla said. The AIIMS administration issued a contingency plan for patient management within hours of the strike. It talked about seeking assistance from Delhi Police for the safety of patients and nurses. "Any unruly member of the nurses’ union trying to force or incite willing workers (including the nurses) may be physically restrained and taken out of the hospital area," the order stated. It added that efforts will be made to deploy interns, finalyear MBBS students and finalyear BSc and MSc nursing students in various patient care areas besides utilising medical, technical and nursing staff from various research projects. AIIMS has 5,000 nurses. Their union claimed that most of them were participating in the strike and that it would not end until their demands were met. The nursing union’s demands also include no hiring of the critical workforce on a contract basis. "They have gone ahead with hiring on contract despite our protests," the union said. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria released a video message in which he appealed to the nurses to get back to work. "…a real nurse would never abandon his or her patients or those healthcare workers who are now admitted in our hospital and looking for care," Dr Guleria said. He added that the nurses’ union had put in 23 demands. "Almost all of the demands have been met by the AIIMS administration and by the government. There is one demand which they have insisted upon which is a perceived anomaly in the fixation of the initial pay as far as the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations is concerned. We are currently having the Seventh Pay Commission (sic) which is being implemented and multiple meetings have been held with the nurses’ union and their representatives not only by the AIIMS administration but also the economic adviser in the ministry of health and family welfare, by representatives of the department of expenditure and also by the person who drafted the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations. He was also present in the meeting and he explained to the nurses’ union that the interpretation is not correct and this is beyond the provision of the gazette notification. But because the nurses’ union were asking for a hike in their salary, it was said by the government that they would sympathetically look at it as a fresh demand and ask the department of expenditure to consider it," the director of AIIMS said. He added that at this time, when the country is going through a lot of hardships and people are having to accept pay cuts and loss of jobs, the nurses’ union’s demand for a hike was inappropriate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-aiims-nurses-go-on-strike-patients-left-unattended/articleshow/79731190.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||10L students back to school 3 weeks after Maharashtra allows partial reopening||MUMBAI: Three weeks after schools partially reopened in parts of the state, student attendance was up to 10 lakh on Monday. The number of schools that resumed physical classes for grades IX to XII is also up from 35% on November 23 to 70% on Monday. The state education department allowed schools to resume physical classes on alternate days for grades IX to XII from November 23. Most civic corporations, including Mumbai, Thane and Nashik, did not permit reopening, but schools opened in most other parts of the state. Teachers were required to undergo an RT-PCR test prior to joining. Of the nearly two lakh teaching and non-teaching staff who underwent the test, only 2,894 tested positive. On day one, 9,127 schools across the state reopened and 2.9 lakh students attended. This number swelled to 11,322 schools and 4.9 lakh students a week later and 11,410 schools and six lakh students the following week. On Monday, 16,620 schools had resumed in all but three districts – Thane, Mumbai and Nashik and 10.7 lakh students attended. In Jalgaon district, 100% schools have reopened, while Kolhapur logged the maximum student attendance of 64.3% on Monday. “The response has been great. None of the students have contracted Covid-19 since starting school. The teachers also have been instructed to isolate if they show any symptoms,” said Vikas Garad, deputy director, Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training. School education minister, Varsha Gaikwad, said local officials are constantly in touch with the school authorities and report to the state each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10l-students-back-to-school-3-weeks-after-maharashtra-allows-partial-reopening/articleshow/79731195.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
December 15, 2020||India||SC slams UP cops for shoddy probe in murder case of SP neta||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday came down heavily on UP police for shoddy investigation into the murder of Samajwadi Party member Ram Bihari Chaubey, set aside the final report closing the case against BJP MLA Sushil Singh and appointed an IPS officer to probe all angles of the case. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari took serious view of the lackadaisical approach of UP police in investigating Chaubey’s murder in December 2015, which the deceased’s son alleged to be a fallout of his father’s political rivalry with Sushil Singh. Four months after the SC entertained the appeal filed by Amar Nath Chaubey, UP police closed the probe on January 30, 2019. After perusing the chargesheets against Singh and the closure report, the bench said, “We are constrained to record that the investigation and the closure report are casual and perfunctory in nature. The supervision note of the senior superintendent of police leaves much to be desired. The investigation appears to be a sham.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-slams-up-cops-for-shoddy-probe-in-murder-case-of-sp-neta/articleshow/79731196.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 15, 2020||India||Facebook refused to classify Bajrang Dal as 'dangerous': WSJ report||NEW DELHI: Facebook India refused to classify Bajrang Dal as a “dangerous organisation” on the platform, saying it could spark "physical attacks" against the company’s staff and harm their business prospects, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal newspaper. Vishwa Hindu Parishad joint general secretary Surendra Jain told TOI that the organisation would initiate legal proceedings against the WSJ for "defaming it". "This is a conspiracy primarily to defame and insult India under the garb of attacking Bajrang Dal. We will not accept this insult and will take legal action against WSJ," said Jain, who has also been a senior office-bearer of the Bajrang Dal in the past. Both Bajrang Dal and VHP are part of the larger Sangh parivar. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi shared a video clip of a news channel which aired the WSJ report and wrote, "Further confirmation that BJP-RSS control Facebook in India." Facebook, however, denied any bias against or towards any political party. "We ban individuals or entities after following a careful, rigorous, and multi-disciplinary process. We enforce our Dangerous Organizations and Individuals policy globally without regard to political position or party affiliation," a Facebook spokesperson told TOI. WSJ quoted Facebook spokesman Andy Stone, who confirmed that the possibility that Bajrang Dal may endanger Facebook's interests and employees was “a subject for discussion as part of the standard process.” The issue was flagged after a Pentecostal church was attacked outside New Delhi in June, the WSJ report said. The attackers punched a pastor, claimed the church was built on a Hindu temple and installed an idol, the report said. “Members of Bajrang Dal claimed responsibility in a video describing the incursion that has been viewed almost 250,000 times on Facebook. The social-media company’s safety team earlier this year concluded that Bajrang Dal supported violence against minorities across India and likely qualified as a “dangerous organization” that should be banned from the platform, according to people familiar with the matter,” the report said. Facebook India, however, "balked" at the suggestion, citing reports by the company's internal security team, which warned that action against Bajrang Dal might endanger both the company’s business prospects and its staff in India. "Besides risking infuriating India’s ruling Hindu nationalist politicians, banning Bajrang Dal might precipitate physical attacks against Facebook personnel or facilities," according to the internal security team report, cited by the WSJ. The article added that the security team also issued warnings about risks from banishing two other right-wing Hindu nationalist groups active on the platform: Sanatan Sanstha and Sri Ram Sena. According to the WSJ report, Facebook’s human-rights staff has internally designated India a “Tier One” country. This means that India "is at the highest risk of societal violence and therefore requires heightened efforts by the company to protect vulnerable populations". This ranks it alongside Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Pakistan. Facebook did not respond to a TOI question about how the classification into these tiers takes place and on what parameters or whether India was classified as a tier 1 country. Facebook's dangerous individuals and organisations policy aims to prevent and disrupt real-world harm by banning people and entities from the platform, including those who are involved in "terrorist activity, organised hate, mass murder and human trafficking." On September 3, the social media giant had banned BJP politician T Raja Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/facebook-refused-to-classify-bajrang-dal-as-dangerous-wsj-report/articleshow/79731211.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||Hrithik Roshan wants ‘emails’ to Kangana Ranaut probed, case goes to crime intel||MUMBAI: An FIR lodged by actor Hrithik Roshan in 2016 against unknown persons for creating a fake email ID in his name and communicating with actor Kangana Ranaut has been transferred by Mumbai police to its crime intelligence unit (CIU) to speed up the probe. The FIR was registered in March 2016 but there has not been any progress since. Hrithik had complained of an alleged imposter sending emails in 2014 to his former co-actor Ranaut using a fake email id containing his name. Pursuant to the FIR, the cyber crime cell of Mumbai police had issued Ranaut summons to appear before them but she had challenged the action saying the summons was illegal. His sob story starts again, so many years since our break up and his divorce but he refuses to move on, refuses to… https://t.co/DontLmO4hY— Kangana Ranaut (@KanganaTeam) 1607958668000Sources said the case was transferred to the CIU after Roshan’s advocate Mahesh Jethmalani wrote to the Mumbai police commissioner this month stating that there was no progress in the investigations even after four years. The cyber police had registered an offence under Indian Penal Code section 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and section 66 of Information Technology (IT) Act. Hrithik and Kanagana had engaged in an ugly spat on social media in 2016. Jethmalani’s letter addressed to commissioner Param Bir Singh dated December 9 says Roshan wanted to assist the police in its probe. “It is pertinent to state that in spite of an order dated 30.11.2016, passed by the Magistrate, Esplanade Court, directing the return of our client's laptop and phone he has not collected the same as he wanted to assist the police reach the real culprits...’’ The letter also spoke about a subsequent complaint filed on April 7, 2017 with a cyber police station in which “the immense harassment and stalking caused to our client has been detailed at length. Our client handed over all the relevant documents… our client also met the top officials… and informed them about the trauma caused to him and his family. He also reiterated his request for a timely investigation. However till date there has been no progress...” In a tweet, Ranaut reacted to the news saying, “his sob story starts again, so many years since our break-up… he refuses to move on…he starts the same drama again.” Watch Hrithik Roshan's 2016 FIR against Kangana Ranaut transferred to CIU; actress says, how long is he going to cry over a small affair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hrithik-roshan-wants-emails-to-kangana-ranaut-probed-case-goes-to-crime-intel/articleshow/79731243.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 15, 2020||Business||Gmail, Drive, YouTube suffer global outage||For millions, the world stopped a little after 5pm on Monday. Several ‘essential’ services of the internet age — Gmail, YouTube, Google Drive, Maps and GPay — went down simultaneously for about an hour. The outage occurred across India, US, Canada, Europe, Central and South America. A user, Kshitij, shared an image of a group of cavemen making fire, to sum up the online mood. “An illustration of what life without Google feels like in 2020,” he wrote. Users said they were unable to access their emails, watch videos or access their documents stored on Google Cloud, owned by technology giant Alphabet Inc. Google Cloud later tweeted that the outage was caused “due to an internal storage quota issue” and that the problem had been “resolved”. According to real-time outage tracker downdetector.com, the disruption in all the services began around 5.30pm. At the peak of the disruption, YouTube was the worst impacted. On Twitter, Google was the top trend globally with over 1,518k tweets, followed by Gmail with over 298K tweets. In India, too, the outage caused a tsunami of tweets and memes on the microblogging site. #googledown, #YouTubeDown and gmail were the top three trends around 9pm, with 102k, 175k and 307k tweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gmail-drive-youtube-suffer-global-outage/articleshow/79731248.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Delhi||Lowest 1-day Covid-19 tally at 1,376 cases in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,376 fresh cases on Monday, the lowest in over three-and-a-half months, even as the death toll mounted to 10,074 with 60 fresh fatalities. The positivity rate, meanwhile, dropped to 2.15% from 2.74% on Sunday. The 1,376 fresh cases came out of the 63,944 tests conducted the previous day, which included 36,176 RT-PCR tests, according to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. This is the lowest daily cases count reported since August 31, when 1,358 cases were recorded. Active Covid cases in the city on Monday dropped to 15,247 from 16,785 the previous day. The government bulletin added that the total number of Covid-19 cases, meanwhile, climbed to 6,08,830. Health minister Satyendar Jain had on Sunday tweeted that the capital had the "least case fatality ratio", at 1.6, compared to Ahmedabad's 4, Mumbai's 3.8, Kolkata's 2 and Chennai's 1.8. "Because of improved health infrastructure and continued monitoring of home isolation cases, Delhi has been able to achieve 96% recovery rate," he had said in his tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lowest-1-day-covid-19-tally-at-1376-cases-in-delhi/articleshow/79731256.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||At 22,273, Monday’s fresh cases lowest since July 6; toll at 360||NEW DELHI: Daily Covid-19 cases in India dropped to a 161-day low, with just 22,273 fresh infections reported in the country on Monday. This was the lowest count of daily cases recorded since July 6 as the pandemic continued to gradually recede across most of India. The day’s death toll too remained below 400 for the third day running as 360 fatalities were recorded, as per data collated by TOI from states. In the week gone by (December 6-13), as many as 28 of the 35 states and UTs registered a fall in fresh cases. For the second week running, Delhi recorded the sharpest week-on-week drop in cases among all states. The capital reported a fall of 10,398 cases as compared to last week. In absolute terms, Kerala recorded most fresh cases during the week at 33,169, followed by Maharashtra (28,150), Bengal (18,955) and Delhi (15,204).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-22273-mondays-fresh-cases-lowest-since-july-6-toll-at-360/articleshow/79731262.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik sends breach of privilege notice on Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, under investigation by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), said on Monday he had sent a breach of privilege notice to the legislative assembly speaker Nana Patole against actor Kangana Ranaut and several media and social media outlets for claiming that Pakistani credit cards were found at his residence. “Ms Ranaut tweeted that Pakistani credit cards were found at my home during ED raids. This news was carried by media outlets and social media as well. This is totally untrue and defamatory. I have submitted the breach of privilege notice and I hope the Speaker agrees to allow it,” said Sarnaik. Sarnaik had earlier been critical of Ranaut’s statement comparing Mumbai with PoK. He had also initiated a breach of privilege motion against Republic TV founder Arnab Goswami for his remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers of the MVA government. The Sena has alleged that the ED raids were vendetta for this action. “My family and I are cooperating with the Enforcement Directorate. I have informed them we are ready to appear before them at any point. Yet Ms Ranaut claims they have found things in the raids of which the ED itself is unaware,” he said. “Her tweets are defamatory,” said Sarnaik. According to procedure, the speaker is required to examine the notice and decide whether to forward it to the privileges committee. The committee then examines it and makes recommendations. Ranaut already faces a breach of privilege motion in the state council for her comment comparing Mumbai to Po K. The motion was moved by Congress leader Ashok Jagtap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-sends-breach-of-privilege-notice-on-kangana-ranaut/articleshow/79731260.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 15, 2020||India||Farmers stir: ‘65,000 protesters present on Delhi borders’||BATHINDA/AMRITSAR: Nineteen days into the Delhi border protests against the three central agri laws, the number of farmers from Punjab heading for the national capital is continuing to rise, said a source in the state police. Data showed that 7,500-8,000 persons have been moving from Punjab to Delhi through Shambhu, Khanouri, Sardulgarh and Dabwali borders daily over the past two-three days, against 3,500-4,000 persons coming back, the source said. Some are even reaching Delhi for a “taste of adventure,” to join the stir as well as have a feel of the national capital and experience rides on the Metro and look for a chance to be seen on television news channels. On an average, every day, 5,000-5,500 persons headed for Delhi are crossing Shambhu border, whereas about 3,000 persons are crossing Khanouri or Dabwali borders, said the police source. More people are going from the Malwa region of Punjab, where mobilisation is stronger. The source added an estimate that showed that over 65,000 people from Punjab were on the Delhi borders. Rattan Singh Ajnala of the Border Area Sangharsh Committee told TOI on Monday that they did not have to “convince” farmers to join them at Delhi borders. In villages like Lahorimal and Hoshiarnagar, farmers’ committees constituted to collect funds and maintain accounts have surplus deposits of over Rs 1 lakh each for expenditure on sending jathas to Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-stir-65000-protesters-present-on-delhi-borders/articleshow/79731267.cms||Neel Kamal
December 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 in Karnataka: Over 10-day period, 10 districts test just 17% of contacts’ target||BENGALURU: Under scrutiny from the state’s Covid management team for poor testing, 10 districts, including Bengaluru Urban and Rural, are also under fire for not doing enough to identify those with influenza-like-illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection. Besides Bengaluru, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Udupi, Haveri, Ballari and Yadgir had a combined target of testing 2.9 lakh contacts between November 30 and December 9, but only 50,000 – or 17% – were tested. The districts were also set a target of testing 49,688 ILI, SARI and symptomatic cases, but only 11,232 people or 23% were tested. Authorities fear many infected people may have flown under the testing radar. Some of these districts have done well in terms of testing contacts, but their performance in tracing and testing symptomatic people is way below par. For example, Bidar has achieved 81% of its target in testing contacts, but has tested only 4% on symptomatic people count. The same is true of Yadgir (131% and 10%). In Bengaluru Urban, only 15% of contacts target was achieved, but it has tested 65% of symptomatic people. A recent Covid task force meeting focused on poor testing data from these districts, but officials say the task is not easy. “Not all contacts are willing to get tested,” said Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, Karnataka. Another official said some people are being treated by doctors known to them and are avoiding tests. However, Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of Covid technical advisory committee, said achieving 100 % contact tracing is impossible. “There are issues of manpower shortage and lack of training. Also, what is not reviewed will not get done. District-level reviews are not serious in some places,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-in-karnataka-over-10-day-period-10-districts-test-just-17-of-contacts-target/articleshow/79731273.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 15, 2020||India||Opposition parties trying to hijack farm protests: BJP||NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday attacked chief ministers of Punjab and Delhi for feuding over each other’s claim to be the champion of farmers’ cause, saying the partisan fight was a confirmation that opposition parties were seeking to hijack the farm protests. On a day when Congress’s Amarinder Singh and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Arvind Kejriwal, CMs of Punjab and Delhi respectively, attacked each other for not being sincere in their support for the protesters, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said, “The farmers’ protest has become a battle of political groups, not farmers. Look at AAP and Captain Amarinder Singh’s tweet war, they are fighting each other. What do you think they are fighting for... the interest of farmers? No, they are fighting to see who can sit on the throne without doing any work.” He added that the real reason for Kejriwal’s fast was his hunger for power. Patra also seized upon the party’s win in local body elections in Goa to claim that the latest success showed that the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP was intact among farmers and the poor. “The poor, rural regions and farmers form the spine of this country. These results would not have been possible without their support,” he said. Patra also stressed that the saffron success in Goa came on the back of the party’s performance in Bihar, polls to zila parishads in Congress-ruled Rajasthan as well as Bodoland Tribal Council, contrasting the BJP’s successes with Congress’s miserable score.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/opposition-parties-trying-to-hijack-farm-protests-bjp/articleshow/79731281.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Mumbai||‘55% women in Mumbai aged 15-49 have higher waist-to-hip ratio’||MUMBAI: In a measure of how unhealthy women in the childbearing age are in Mumbai, the latest National Family Health Survey of India found that more than half of them have a waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) that is linked to higher risk for noncommunicable diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. The NFHS-5 found 54.5% women in the 15-49 age group in Mumbai city and 58.3% in Mumbai suburban have a waist-to-hip ratio of over 0.85, which is the ideal ratio according to the World Health Organisation. In Maharashtra, 44.5% of the women and 40.7% of the men in the 15-49 age group have a higher ratio. A closer look at Maharashtra’s statistics, though, show that the ratio is worse in urban areas (51.5% women and 43.2% men) than in rural areas (38.6% women and 38.7% men). Jammu and Kashmir seemed to have the worst proportion (89.2% women and 66% men), followed by West Bengal (80.1% and 60.5%) and Kerala (70.1 and 57.2% men). While 51.1% of Goa’s women in the 15-19 age group had higher-thanideal ratio, only 34.2% of its men fell in the unhealthy category. These are the first phase of the NFHS-5 (conducted in 2019-20) released by the union health ministry last week, covering 22 states and union territories. Waist-to-hip ratio is important because it measures the fat around the abdomen and is an early indicator of a slew of chronic lifestyle diseases. Delhi-based endocrinologist Dr Anoop Misra said a waist-tohip ratio of over 0.8 for women and 0.9 for men is indicative of cardiometabolic problems. Cardiometabolic syndrome —now recognized as a disease by the World Health Organisation—is a combination of dysfunctions mainly characterized by insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and central adiposity. These dysfunctions lead to diabetes, hypertension and heart problems. Moreover, international studies have shown that certain ethnic groups such as Indians and African-Americans have high-risk waist-to-hip ratio. “We are known as thin-fat Indians as we have a tendency to deposit fat around the waist,” said endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi. “A person with proper BMI will still have a bad waist-tohip ratio that is indicative of abdominal fat,” he said. Dr Joshi blamed increased gadgetisation and westernation for the fact that half of the men and women in the productive age group had higher WHR. “We don’t cycle or walk as much because we now have bikes and cars. We prefer to surf on our phones or watch television. This leads to sedentery-ism, which, in turn, leads to deposition of fat around the abdomen and the start of noncommunicable diseases,” said Dr Joshi. While BMI is used as a measure of obesity, it is felt that the waist-to-hip ratio is more indicative of the risk of non-communicable diseases. Dr Misra said the abdominal fat deposit cannot be reduced with regular exercise and dieting. “It has been established that Indians need to do take extra measures to reduce abdominal fat,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/55-women-in-mumbai-aged-15-49-have-higher-waist-to-hip-ratio/articleshow/79731282.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 78.64% polling in 3rd phase, tight contest between fronts||KOZHIKODE/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The third and final phase of local body elections in four northern districts of the state on Monday witnessed a voter turnout of 78.64%, higher than 73.12% and 76.78% votes polled in the first two phases. Kozhikode recorded the highest turnout of 79%, followed by Malappuram 78.87%, Kannur 78.57% and Kasaragod 77.14%. The election to Kozhikode corporation saw 70.29% polling and Kannur corporation 71.65%. The high polling percentage led to claims from every political front but the outcome will decide the future of the controversial UDF-Welfare Party of India (WPI) ‘adjustments’. It will also throw more light on allegations of a secret understanding between the CPM and the SDPI, which has been denied by both the outfits. The third phase was marred by clashes and complaints of bogus voting. Police fired tear gas shells and resorted to lathicharge to disperse UDF workers who assembled near a polling booth at Cheeyoor in Nadapuram panchayat of Kozhikode. Six police personnel and several persons were injured while two police vehicles were damaged in the stone throwing. LDF and Welfare Party workers clashed at Kodiyathoor, resulting in injuries to three persons. A minor scuffle was reported between LDF and SDPI activists at Karuvampoyil higher secondary school. In Malappuram, skirmishes broke out between UDF and LDF activists over casting of an open vote at Kodathur in Perumbadappu grama panchayat. Clashes were also reported in Tanur municipality and Chenakkal in Vengara panchayat. An Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) activist from Panappuzha panchayat in Kannur was detained for allegedly attempting to vote in place of his brother who is abroad. Woman dies of heart attack after votingA voter in Muzhappilangad grama panchayat in Kannur complained that his vote was cast by another person. A 68- year-old woman voter died following a heart attack after casting her vote at Beypore in Kozhikode. The counting of votes will be held on Wednesday. The polling percentage in each district is as follows: Thiruvananthapuram 70.04%, Kollam 73.80%, Pathanamthitta 69.72%, Alappuzha 77.40%, Idukki 74.68%, Ernakulam 77.25%, Kottayam 73.95%, Thrissur 75.10%, Palakkad 78.14%, Wayanad 79.49%, Kozhikode 79%, Malappuram 78.87%, Kannur 78.57% and Kasaragod 77.14%. Wayanad had the highest turnout and Pathanamthitta the lowest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-78-64-polling-in-3rd-phase-tight-contest-between-fronts/articleshow/79731272.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: 78.64% polling in 3rd phase, tight contest between fronts||KOZHIKODE/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The third and final phase of local body elections in four northern districts of the state on Monday witnessed a voter turnout of 78.64%, higher than 73.12% and 76.78% votes polled in the first two phases. Kozhikode recorded the highest turnout of 79%, followed by Malappuram 78.87%, Kannur 78.57% and Kasaragod 77.14%. The election to Kozhikode corporation saw 70.29% polling and Kannur corporation 71.65%. The high polling percentage led to claims from every political front but the outcome will decide the future of the controversial UDF-Welfare Party of India (WPI) ‘adjustments’. It will also throw more light on allegations of a secret understanding between the CPM and the SDPI, which has been denied by both the outfits. The third phase was marred by clashes and complaints of bogus voting. Police fired tear gas shells and resorted to lathicharge to disperse UDF workers who assembled near a polling booth at Cheeyoor in Nadapuram panchayat of Kozhikode. Six police personnel and several persons were injured while two police vehicles were damaged in the stone throwing. LDF and Welfare Party workers clashed at Kodiyathoor, resulting in injuries to three persons. A minor scuffle was reported between LDF and SDPI activists at Karuvampoyil higher secondary school. In Malappuram, skirmishes broke out between UDF and LDF activists over casting of an open vote at Kodathur in Perumbadappu grama panchayat. Clashes were also reported in Tanur municipality and Chenakkal in Vengara panchayat. An Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) activist from Panappuzha panchayat in Kannur was detained for allegedly attempting to vote in place of his brother who is abroad. Woman dies of heart attack after votingA voter in Muzhappilangad grama panchayat in Kannur complained that his vote was cast by another person. A 68- year-old woman voter died following a heart attack after casting her vote at Beypore in Kozhikode. The counting of votes will be held on Wednesday. The polling percentage in each district is as follows: Thiruvananthapuram 70.04%, Kollam 73.80%, Pathanamthitta 69.72%, Alappuzha 77.40%, Idukki 74.68%, Ernakulam 77.25%, Kottayam 73.95%, Thrissur 75.10%, Palakkad 78.14%, Wayanad 79.49%, Kozhikode 79%, Malappuram 78.87%, Kannur 78.57% and Kasaragod 77.14%. Wayanad had the highest turnout and Pathanamthitta the lowest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kerala-78-64-polling-in-3rd-phase-tight-contest-between-fronts/articleshow/79731283.cms||---
December 15, 2020||India||In open letter, ex-envoys warn Canada against anti-India stand||NEW DELHI: Twenty-two former Indian ambassadors on Monday wrote an “open letter” to Canada warning against vote- bank politics. The ambassadors, many of whom have served in Canada, said that often bilateral political equations develop stress, due to the propensity of certain Canadian political parties and leaders to engage in vote-bank politics. “It is well known that the separatist and violent Khalistani elements carry out anti-India activities, from the safety of the Canadian soil. They are also radicalising the Canadian youth with far reaching consequences, which is being ignored at the altar of short-term political expediency,” they said in the letter. The envoys hit out at Canadian PM Justin Trudeau saying he had “gratuitously” waded into ongoing protests by Indian farmers. “Back home, encouraged by the Canadian support, the protestors have hardened their stance, adopting an ‘all or nothing’ approach. Such blatant interference in India’s internal affairs to appease a section of the Liberal Party’s voter base is completely unacceptable and cannot but cast a long shadow on bilateral relations,” said the letter. The envoys said Trudeau’s comments were uncalled for, disconnected with ground realities and served merely to fan the flames.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-open-letter-ex-envoys-warn-canada-against-anti-india-stand/articleshow/79731295.cms||---
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Asansol civic chief writes to minister on central grants||Asansol/Kolkata: Asansol Municipal Corporation administrator and Trinamool MLA Jitendra Tiwari has written to Bengal municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim blaming the state government for depriving Asansol residents of central funds to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore allotted for its development. Tiwari’s “confidential” letter to the party senior, leaked in the media on Monday, sent ripples through Trinamool headquarters, prompting the party brass to call the administrator to Kolkata on Tuesday. Hakim tried to get in touch with Tiwari twice over the phone on Monday but couldn’t get through. Tiwari’s allegation has become a political hot potato in Asansol with junior Union minister Babul Supriyo giving the “benefit of doubt” to the Asansol Trinamool leader, saying he had brought the “fact to light”. Tiwari wrote to Hakim on Sunday saying he was upset that Asansol had not got the Rs 2,000 crore grant from the Centre even after the city was selected under the Smart City Mission project. “We were not allowed to get the benefits of the project by the state government. It was instead promised that funds will be made available by the state government for the overall development of the city. But it was not done,” Tiwari wrote. He further pointed out that the city didn’t get Rs 1,500 crore under the Solid Waste Management Project sanctioned for cities by the Centre. “…I feel injustice has been made to the city of Asansol,” Tiwari wrote. Hakim didn’t take kindly to Tiwari’s letter. “Maybe, BJP is trying to mislead him (Tiwari), which is why he is writing against the state government,” the minister said. But Tiwari stuck to his letter and wondered how a “confidential” letter addressed to the minister got leaked. “My party will hold me responsible if civic amenities suffer in Asansol and the party loses in Asansol. How could the minister say I was being misled by BJP?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asansol-civic-chief-writes-to-minister-on-central-grants/articleshow/79729315.cms||Mohammad Asif
December 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kailash Vijayvargiya rides bulletproof car to Patharpratima meet||PATHARPRATIMA/GANGARAMPUR: BJP national secretary and its Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya travelled to South 24 Parganas on Monday, this time in a bulletproof car with an Uttar Pradesh number plate, with the visit coming four days after he was injured when BJP president JP Nadda’s convoy was attacked. The move came after the Centre upgraded Vijayvargiya’s security from Y+ to Z category. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy also went to the public meeting at Milan More in Patharpratima on Monday. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, on the other hand, addressed a rally at Dakshin Dinajpur’s Gangarampur, reassuring Hindu refugees from Bangladesh that the Narendra Modi government would grant them citizenship soon. Vijayvargiya hit out at the “Didi-bhaipo” government while addressing the Patharpratima gathering. “Throwing stones at others had never been a part of Bengal’s culture. You all saw what Trinamool did last Thursday, taking Bengal’s reputation to a low. We won’t tolerate those who threw stones on JP Nadda’s convoy. This government is on its exit,” the BJP leader said. “Mamata Banerjee had ferreted the Sonar Bangla dream when she came to power. The Modi government will make the dream come true,” he added. Roy questioned the Trinamool’s report card on employment generation and law and order. “You can’t name a single place in Bengal that has peace. I want to know how many jobs were created in the last 10 years,” Roy said at the meeting where more than 100 Trinamool activists and panchayat members joined BJP. BJP leaders Shamik Bhattacharya, Sisir Bajoria and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta also criticised the government’s report card. At Gangarampur, Ghosh said: “Each Hindu refugee from Bangladesh will get citizenship but not the Rohingya or Muslim infiltrators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vijayvargiya-rides-bulletproof-car-to-patharpratima-meet/articleshow/79729288.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
