December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Get set for an online youth festival that’s tailor-made for theatre lovers||Theatre lovers are in for a treat, as Mumbai-based theatre movement Thespo is organising its first international digital youth festival from December 16-21. The fest, titled Double The Dramagiri, will see participation from theatre enthusiasts from across the globe. "Right from the performances, planning, execution to everything related to the online festival, Double The Dramagiri celebrates youth theatre. We have innovative performances, play readings, workshops and more - all being performed and executed by theatre lovers under the age of 25 years," says Anoushka Zaveri, a member of Thespo. One of the highlights of the youth festival, she says, are the flagship performances. "All plays, panel discussions and workshops will be held live and none of these have been pre-recorded. These performances have been especially created for the online space. For instance, audiences can get a taste of rural Rajasthan by watching the Rajasthani-Hindi play Main Beedi Pikar Jhuth Ni Bolta, or join Atif Ally Dagman as he performs Miah-Boy Diaries. Nightmare is a Marathi play directed by Ritika Shrotri, whereas The Light Catcher is about a photographer," says Anoushka. The event, she adds, caters to not only to the youth or those who perform theatre, but also to people of all ages including those who are theatre lovers. "There is something for everyone here. For example, you have collaborative performances like The Ministry of Mundane Mysteries performed by emerging artistes from Delhi, Mumbai, Coimbatore or workshops curated for the digital medium or Chai Tapri, which is like a fun session where you can engage with like-minded people," she sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/get-set-for-an-online-youth-festival-thats-tailor-made-for-theatre-lovers/articleshow/79745723.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Anita Nair is UNHCR supporter, to focus on refugee crisis||BENGALURU: The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) on Tuesday announced the appointment of author Anita Nair as the organisation’s high-profile supporter to help create trust and awareness about the situation of refugees in India. Welcoming the city-based author, UNHCR chief Oscar Mundia said the agency looked forward to embarking on this exciting collaboration to further its mission in India to protect and serve refugees. Prior to her official appointment, Anita had been working with UNHCR for over a year to raise awareness about the forcibly displaced. In 2017, she adapted her acclaimed children’s book, Muezza and Baby Jaan, for refugee children around the world. She has also supported World Refugee Day, International Youth Day and UNHCR’s appeal for support during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I am honoured to be nominated as a high-profile supporter of UNHCR at this moment when raising one’s voice about the refugee crisis is more urgent than ever,” said Nair, adding, “One of the basic human rights is to be able to call a place home. When that is snatched away... it is a moral outrage in a world where technology has made so much possible.” t||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/anita-nair-is-unhcr-supporter-to-focus-on-refugee-crisis/articleshow/79746493.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Robbers who scared man with fake pistol nabbed||BENGALURU: Two men who allegedly robbed a cash management firm manager by pointing a pistol-shaped cigarette lighter at him in Kengeri have been arrested. Police have recovered the lighter and cash worth Rs 60,000 from the accused, Ravi Kumar and Raju S, who live in Chandra Layout. The duo had robbed Rahul Kumar of Rs 79,000 after snatching his bag near Poonam Mahal Road in Kengeri Satellite Town around 11.15am on December 2. They had waylaid Kumar after following him for some distance. Though he shouted for help, the duo managed to flee on their two-wheeler. “The accused knew Kumar collected cash and had followed him a couple of times before finalising their plan. On the day of the robbery, they threatened him with the cigarette lighter, which Kumar thought was a real pistol. An FIR was registered under the Arms Act,” Kengeri police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/robbers-who-scared-man-with-fake-pistol-nabbed/articleshow/79746501.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mysuru||Reinstate Sharat as Mysuru DC by Dec 22: CAT||MYSURU: The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Bengaluru, on Tuesday told the advocate general that IAS officer B Sharat must be reinstated as Mysuru deputy commissioner within a week, failing which it will be forced to pass an order, sources said. Sharat had moved CAT in September, challenging his premature transfer within a month of being posted as Mysuru DC. He was replaced by Rohini Sindhuri Dasari. He was posted to Mysuru after a stint as DC in Kalaburagi where he was lauded for the district’s Covid response in the initial days. Kalaburgi reported India’s first Covid death in March. Sharat had initiated various measures and ensured adequate high-flow nasal oxygen beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/reinstate-sharat-as-mysuru-dc-by-dec-22-cat/articleshow/79746504.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Chief’ cocaine supplier held after 2-month chase||BENGALURU: Sleuths from Central Crime Branch on Tuesday arrested a 38-year-old city-based Nigerian, identifying him as the main supplier of cocaine to drug peddlers in Bengaluru and other metros in India. The accused, Chidiebere Ambrose alias Chief, was picked up from his Banaswadi residence in east Bengaluru. Police are yet to comment on the quantity of cocaine and other materials seized from him. His passport and visa are yet to be recovered. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said they had come across the name Chief while interrogating many Nigerian drug peddlers arrested in the recent past. “Ambrose is the kingpin of cocaine supply. In previous cases of drug peddling cracked by Bengaluru police, most of the Nigerians confessed to having purchased cocaine from a peddler known to them as Chief,” he said.  “Soon after Senegalese national Loom Pepper Sambaand the others were arrested (in the Sandalwood case), Ambrose went into hiding. A special team was set up to nab him. It found Ambrose was frequently changing his hideouts in neighbouring states. Knowing police were after him, he avoided using his mobile regularly. After chasing him for nearly two months, we received concrete information that he had come to the city and finally traced him to his Banaswadi home,” police said. According to preliminary investigations, Ambrose has been living in Bengaluru for at least six years. “He extensively travels across the country and has a wide network. He regularly visits Goa, Hyderabad and some parts of Andhra Pradesh. We have seized his mobile phone, which contains information of many online monetary transactions. They have to be probed in detail,” an officer said. Asked about the quantity of cocaine sold by Ambrose till today, an investigating officer said: “It will be known once we have detailed information of his transactions. Tentatively, he has dealt with cocaine worth around Rs 10 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chief-cocaine-supplier-held-after-2-month-chase/articleshow/79746509.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Have members been told not to appear for accused, asks HC||BENGALURU: The high court on Tuesday directed Mysore District Bar Association to place on record if any resolution has been passed preventing its members from filing vakalath on behalf of Nalini Balakumar, against whom a sedition case was registered for holding a ‘Free Kashmir’ placard during an anti-CAA protest on January 8, 2020. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka ordered notice to Karnataka State Bar Council and Mysore District Bar Association in response to a PIL filed by L Ramesh Naik, a Tumakuru advocate. The CJ noted the recent Supreme court dictum forbids such conduct. The petitioner claimed that as per reports, two advocates have been suspended for flouting the said resolution but he couldn’t get any documents on the said development. According to him, the “right to practise” is a fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution and the decision of Mysore District Bar Association or anyone else, to restrict any of its advocate-members from filing vakalath on behalf of any accused without sufficient cause, offends the constitutional right. The next hearing on the petition has been scheduled for January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/have-members-been-told-not-to-appear-for-accused-asks-hc/articleshow/79746518.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||Roddam, pillar of aviation and space missions, was also a Sanskrit scholar||BENGALURU: His long trail of contributions to Indian science, lasting more than five decades, have helped several objects take flight and breach barriers but Professor Roddam Narasimha himself remained grounded. Whie his mind constantly decoded several historical developments his eyes were always firmly set on futuristic technologies and he worked relentlessly on programmes that would benefit generations after him. One of India’s foremost aerospace and fundamental science scientists, Roddam became the phenomenon he was because he never let his personal excellence consume him, as testimonies by multiple stalwarts of Indian science reiterate.  From India’s first major launch vehicle (SLV) to the human space programme in the space sector, and from missiles to light combat aircraft (LCA) and now the advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) in the defence aviation sector to supercomputers and artificial intelligence, there isn’t a national programme that Roddam didn’t leave a stamp on. For all his contributions — all key positions he had held are well documented — Roddam has been recognised with multiple awards, but the one that would be most dear to him most according to K Kasturirangan, a close associate and former Isro chief, is Prof Satish Dhawan’s tribute. “When someone asked Dhawan what he looked for while associating himself with young researchers and students, he had said he would be the happiest if they did better than him professionally and otherwise. And when asked if he saw anyone capable of such a thing, Dhawan named Roddam. What a great tribute from a great man. Roddam lived up to all of Dhawan’s expectations,” Kasturirangan said. Speaking of his wide-ranging contributions, VK Saraswat, member Niti Aayog and former DRDO chief said his scientific genius aside, Roddam will be remembered for his instrumental contributions in building institutions, like NAL, NIAS, JNCASR, among others, and national programmes like LCA, Regional transport aircraft programme etc. “Be it tens of Isro programmes or our missile programme, he was the man we went to. The founder of LCA’s design, he even finalised the design of AMCA 4.0 earlier this year. Roddam never stopped working,” Saraswat said, while Kota Harinarayan, former ADA director and the man who led the LCA programme, said his contributions to the aerospace and aviation sector in India has resulted in several futuristic technologies. Although Roddam started his career in the pre-digital era, his understanding of modern technologies and tools like robotics and artificial intelligence, was the reason he never lost relevance. “In fact, I remember him asking me to get a super computer with AI and within weeks we heard that MIT had been developing something similar, that’s how keyed in he was with the future,” he added. Isro chairman K Sivan, who was among Roddam’s students, said that Roddam’s contributions in conceiving, designing and implementing projects was seen right from the beginning of Isro to as recent as Gaganyaan. “He was on all of our review committees and his insights often guided us in the right direction,” Sivan said. Kasturirangan said this practice started when Dhawan was Isro chief and has continued till 2020 because of Roddam’s broad and deep-rooted knowledge that always remained ahead of the times. He has had a similar impact on DRDO, NAL, IISc and JNCASR among other institutions. Roddam was also a Sanskrit scholar and was very interested to rekindle interest in the origins of rocketry, especially Tipu Sultan’s contributions to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/roddam-pillar-of-aviation-and-space-missions-was-also-a-sanskrit-scholar/articleshow/79746521.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Shops encroaching pavements cleared at Whitefield: Special drive||BENGALURU: In a special drive against encroached pavements, traffic police and BBMP officials on Tuesday cleared 200 shops near Kadugodi railway station in Whitefield. The drive began from Kadugodi station to Sai Baba College and continued till Sai Layout and the railway underbridge, covering a 3.5km distance. These shops sold helmets, woodcrafts, dolls, vegetables, plastic materials and other household items. Heavy goods vehicles entering the main roads of Kadugodi and Whitefield during peak hours were fined Rs 500 each. Trucks carrying non-essential goods are restricted from entering the city between 8am and 11am and from 5pm to 8pm. On Monday, at least 30 shops encroaching a 1.5km stretch of Old Madras Road were cleared at KR Puram. Many of the traders were from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and operating the shops for almost 10 years. Then there were pushcarts selling snacks and light food, including coffee and tea, said a police officer who was part of the evacuation team. People would stop to buy or eat snacks and park vehicles on the roadside, disrupting traffic on Old Madras Road, Kadugodi Railway Station Road and Sadaramangala Road opposite Sai Layout. The evacuation drive was conducted after residents complained during Sanchar Sampark Divas, a public-police meeting on Saturday. Police commissioner Kamal Pant had heard the grievances at Whitefield traffic station and directed officials to initiate action against the encroachments. Though no spot fines were levied on the traders, FIRs were registered under IPC section 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and the traders were let off with a warning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/special-drive-shops-encroaching-pavements-cleared-at-whitefield/articleshow/79746523.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||3.9 lakh property owners get notice for giving wrong information||BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued notices to 3.9 lakh property owners in the city after it was found that they submitted wrong information while paying property tax under the Self-Assessment Scheme (SAS). The deception came to light recently when BBMP started physically verifying the self-declarations made by owners with regard to their property details such as land dimension and location. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said: “Since it is a self-assessment process, citizens can indicate the zone in which their property falls and compute the tax. But some taxpayers have given wrong information about their zones to reduce property tax. Fraud was also committed by our revenue officers while finalising property tax. They change the zones to favour some property owners and compute less tax.” The commissioner said such citizens have been directed to pay additional tax with penal interest. The civic agency is set to map all properties in its jurisdiction using a new software and collect tax based on the guidance value obtained from the department of stamps and registration. Mapping the information on BBMP GEPTIS system will enable the civic agency to understand the value of every property, while collecting tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-9l-property-owners-get-notice-for-giving-wrong-info/articleshow/79746525.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Medtech innovation centre opens||BENGALURU: Mazumdar Shaw Medical Foundation (MSMF) MedTech Innovation Centre — Bionest was launched here on Tuesday. It is said to be India’s first corporate hospital-based technology facility for entrepreneurs and startups in the healthcare domain. The centre that has come up on Narayana Health premises, in association with MSMF and Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), aims to help entrepreneurs looking to address affordability, access and innovation challenges in the healthcare ecosystem. Launching the facility, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, founder of MSMF and chairperson, Biocon said the centre will work towards identifying, mentoring and handholding entrepreneurs and innovators. It will provide health tech entrepreneurs a well-equipped incubation space and a collaborative ecosystem, she said. The vision was to fill the gap in healthcare innovation by creating a single platform for entrepreneurs to co-create solutions in conjunction with doctors, scientists and also technology enthusiasts, said Dr Devi Shetty, founder and chairman of Narayana Health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/medtech-innovation-centre-opens/articleshow/79746615.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Money laundering is a continuing offence: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the relevant date is not that of acquisition of unaccounted-for money but when such an amount is being processed and projected as untainted. The high court made this observation while disposing of a batch of petitions filed in 2016-17, challenging the action initiated under PML Act and saying it can’t be invoked retrospectively. Pointing out that money laundering is a continuing offence, the court noted that the offence under Section 3 of PML Act is a standalone in itself and one doesn’t need other schedule offences to proceed against a person. For constituting an offence under Section 3, connection of the transaction to proceeds of the crime is sufficient and not the crime, a division bench headed by Justice Aravind Kumar observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/money-laundering-is-a-continuing-offence-hc/articleshow/79746624.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||Consider aviation employees as essential workers for Covid vaccination: IATA||NEW DELHI: The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has asked governments globally to consider aviation sector employees as essential workers for Covid-19 vaccination, once health care workers and vulnerable groups have been protected. “We are not asking for aviation workers to be on top of the list, but we need governments to ensure that transportation workers are considered as essential when vaccine roll-out plans are developed. The transportation of the COVID-19 vaccines has already begun, and as calculations show, it will require the equivalent of 8,000 Boeing 747 freighter aircraft for global distribution. It is therefore essential that we have the qualified workforce in place to ensure a functioning logistics chain,” said IATA DG and CEO Alexandre de Juniac. “IATA’s call is aligned with the proposed Roadmap for Prioritizing Uses of COVID-19 Vaccines by the World Health Organization’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE). This recommends priority populations for vaccination based on the respective epidemiologic situation and vaccine supply scenarios. Within this framework, SAGE has included transportation workers alongside other essential sectors outside health and education sectors including police,” IATA said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/consider-aviation-employees-as-essential-workers-for-covid-vaccination-iata/articleshow/79747114.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 16, 2020||Amaravati||AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy meets Amit Shah, seeks relief for Nivar crop loss||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Earlier, the chief minister had met Shah on two consecutive days in the third week of September. The CM had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 6 in New Delhi. Tuesday’s meeting with Shah is linked to the chief minister seeking greater relief for the state in the aftermath of cyclone Nivar, which had devastated standing crops. State officials have made an initial estimate of crop loss at 30,290 hectares in Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa and Prakasam districts. 0The state government has paid Rs 500 to each of the flood-hit victims who were rehabilitated in various relief camps, besides paying compensation to those who were killed. There has been considerable crop damage and the chief minister had announced that the state government would extend input subsidy for farmers in the Rabi season. The chief minister had also promised farmers that the government would pay the compensation for the crop loss in the cyclone in January. He requested Shah to release cyclone relief funds to the state at the earliest.The chief minister has submitted a report on the damage and sought early release of funds. Sources said the chief minister also presented a latest status report on the Polavaram project and sought the Union home minister’s intervention for the release of funds. The chief minister told Shah about the progress of the project and requested advance payment to the state, besides clearing dues. The chief minister briefed Shah on the state government’s initiatives in containing Covid-19 and its preparedness for the vaccine. Official sources indicated that the chief minister had given a representation to Shah on the bifurcation benefits which are due to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/jagan-meets-shah-seeks-relief-for-nivar-crop-loss/articleshow/79750352.cms||Gopi Dara
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy meets Amit Shah, seeks relief for Nivar crop loss||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Earlier, the chief minister had met Shah on two consecutive days in the third week of September. The CM had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 6 in New Delhi. Tuesday’s meeting with Shah is linked to the chief minister seeking greater relief for the state in the aftermath of cyclone Nivar, which had devastated standing crops. State officials have made an initial estimate of crop loss at 30,290 hectares in Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa and Prakasam districts. 0The state government has paid Rs 500 to each of the flood-hit victims who were rehabilitated in various relief camps, besides paying compensation to those who were killed. There has been considerable crop damage and the chief minister had announced that the state government would extend input subsidy for farmers in the Rabi season. The chief minister had also promised farmers that the government would pay the compensation for the crop loss in the cyclone in January. He requested Shah to release cyclone relief funds to the state at the earliest.The chief minister has submitted a report on the damage and sought early release of funds. Sources said the chief minister also presented a latest status report on the Polavaram project and sought the Union home minister’s intervention for the release of funds. The chief minister told Shah about the progress of the project and requested advance payment to the state, besides clearing dues. The chief minister briefed Shah on the state government’s initiatives in containing Covid-19 and its preparedness for the vaccine. Official sources indicated that the chief minister had given a representation to Shah on the bifurcation benefits which are due to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-meets-shah-seeks-relief-for-nivar-crop-loss/articleshow/79750353.cms||Gopi Dara
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP CM Jagan Mohan Reddy meets Amit Shah, seeks relief for Nivar crop loss||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Earlier, the chief minister had met Shah on two consecutive days in the third week of September. The CM had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 6 in New Delhi. Tuesday’s meeting with Shah is linked to the chief minister seeking greater relief for the state in the aftermath of cyclone Nivar, which had devastated standing crops. State officials have made an initial estimate of crop loss at 30,290 hectares in Chittoor, Nellore, Kadapa and Prakasam districts. 0The state government has paid Rs 500 to each of the flood-hit victims who were rehabilitated in various relief camps, besides paying compensation to those who were killed. There has been considerable crop damage and the chief minister had announced that the state government would extend input subsidy for farmers in the Rabi season. The chief minister had also promised farmers that the government would pay the compensation for the crop loss in the cyclone in January. He requested Shah to release cyclone relief funds to the state at the earliest.The chief minister has submitted a report on the damage and sought early release of funds. Sources said the chief minister also presented a latest status report on the Polavaram project and sought the Union home minister’s intervention for the release of funds. The chief minister told Shah about the progress of the project and requested advance payment to the state, besides clearing dues. The chief minister briefed Shah on the state government’s initiatives in containing Covid-19 and its preparedness for the vaccine. Official sources indicated that the chief minister had given a representation to Shah on the bifurcation benefits which are due to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jagan-meets-shah-seeks-relief-for-nivar-crop-loss/articleshow/79747473.cms||Gopi Dara
December 16, 2020||India||Vaccine: India projects need for 5.2 million to 11 million cold chain equipment||BENGALURU: India would need to augment its cold chain equipment of different types required to handle vaccines by 5.2 million to 11 million, the latest short and medium-term projections made by the ministry of health and family welfare under the universal immunisation programme shows. “... The requirement was prepared on the basis of target population and demand submitted by States/UTs in 2018-19. Requirement of these equipment may vary keeping in view of store specific cold chain space requirement as per vaccine availability, phase out of equipment, gradual expansion of new cold chain points, and replacement of beyond economic repair equipment and ageing equipment,” the document from August 21, 2020 reads. National Health Mission officials from more than one state TOI spoke with said that the ministry makes periodical projections based on projections from the state. “The UIP infrastructure is what will be used for Covid immunisation too, but the projections are for the overall programme,” one of them said. Depending on the life of the vaccine, Covid-19 inoculation may need multiple drives stretching more than a year, another official said. As per the new projections, the demand is highest for ice packs and vaccine carriers, while states have also estimated needs for ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs), deep freezers, walk-in coolers (WIC) and walk-in freezers (WIF) among other things (see graphic). According to union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, India at present has 85,634 cold chain equipment spread across 28,947 cold chain points. As per the ministry, the vaccine delivery network in India operates through four government medical store depots (GMSDs), 53 state vaccine stores (SVS), 110 regional vaccine stores (RVS), 666 district vaccine stores (DVS) and 25,555 sub-district stores. Veteran virologist T Jacob John, who has worked closely with India’s immunisation programme said that with the right planning, India should be able to manage Covid-19 inoculation, which is pegged to be one of the largest adult immunisation activities in the world. “If the majority of the shots are going to be any vaccine other than Pfizer’s, the existing cold chain can manage the delivery with detailed planning. India can also leverage private infrastructure by, if necessary, temporarily commissioning freezers from commercial enterprises. It can be managed, but we cannot have the usual attitude that leaves out the details for later and scramble at the end,” he said. 28k equipment added in 4 yearsWhile these projections are for what India needs, the government has been continuously augmenting cold chain equipment availability across states and UTs. The Centre has provided financial assistance of more than Rs 21,00 crore to states in the past four years (2016-17 to 2019-20). Separate documents from the ministry shows that in the said four years more than 28,000 cold chain equipment have been supplied to various states — 85% of these were supplied in 2017-18. Aside from this, the Centre has also provided 388 solar powered refrigerators and coolers to various states to tackle power disruptions and maintain the quality of vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-needs-5-2m-11m-cold-chain-equipment-to-handle-vaccine-govt-projects/articleshow/79748757.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 16, 2020||India||Govt cites Covid-19, nixes winter session; opposition cries foul||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday said the winter session of Parliament will not be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic, drawing criticism from opposition parties which claimed they were not consulted with Congress calling it “decimation of parliamentary democracy”. In a December 14 letter to leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said that he had "informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties" and that “they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session”. Chowdhury had earlier sought convening of the winter session to discuss farmers’ protests and find a way to end the impasse among other important issues. “Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi,” Joshi said. “The government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest. It would be appropriate to have the Budget session in January, 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” the minister wrote. After Ghulam Nabi Azad conveyed to his colleagues that he was not consulted by the government, Jairam Ramesh, Congress’ chief whip in the House, tweeted: “The Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha was NOT consulted. Mr. Pralhad Joshi is as usual departing from the truth.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor wondered why the session could not be held virtually. "Now give me one good reason why it is not possible to have a ‘Parliament from home’? Are we so backward in IT that we can't connect 543 MPs?” he tweeted. Hitting out at the government, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the “Decimation of Parliamentary Democracy is complete” with this decision. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said, "As per GoI, Elections can happen, election rallies can happen, schools can reopen, colleges can conduct exams, hotels and restaurants can be opened, fitness centres too…The only place considered most dangerous by GoI is its Parliament, hence no session." Watch No winter session of Parliament due to COVID||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-cites-covid-19-nixes-winter-session-opposition-cries-foul/articleshow/79748918.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||Small personal loans up 4.5 times in 2 years||MUMBAI: Small-ticket personal loans (STPL), which were the scourge of the crisis in the same segment a decade ago, are back. This time, they are being driven by software deployed by finance companies and fintechs to approve and disburse low-value loans based on analytics. The share of small-ticket loans in personal loans disbursed during the last two years has jumped almost five times. During 2017-18, these loans were only 12.9% of the personal loan disbursed, which shot up close to 60% by March 2020. Although there has been some moderation since then, with other personal loans growing faster, small-ticket loans still account for half of the fresh disbursements. ‘Retail loans not a problem yet’Within the personal loan segment, credit of below Rs 50,000 is considered a small-ticket personal loan (STPL) and it is this segment that has been driving volumes with growth as high as 162% during 2019-20 in terms of the number of loans disbursed. The overall size of the STPL loan business is estimated at around Rs 12,000 crore, after clocking a 77% rise in value terms during the last financial year as several app-based lenders entered the market. Incidentally, small-ticket loans have seen the maximum stress among borrowers, with 9.4% of the loans by value coming under stress.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); According to a report by credit bureau CRIF High Mark, finance companies and neo-age lenders are increasingly targeting young, low-income, digitally savvy customers, who have small-ticket and short-term credit needs but have either zero or limited credit history. But the high growth and dodgy recovery practices, exploiting personal data, adopted by some app-based lenders forced RBI to crack down on them in June, making it difficult for banks or NBFCs to lend through digital platform providers. One of the features of payday loans (repaid when salary is credited) is the extremely high rate of interest, hovering around 15% per month. This allows lenders to operate even when delinquencies are at around 10%. A senior executive with a large private bank said that their delinquencies in the STPL segment were in the low single digits. Although the bank used software to extend small-ticket loans, these were to their existing customers where a track record of cash flows is available. Unlike banks, loan apps run analytics on information scraped from statements sent by borrowers. “While there is growth in the portfolio, the average ticket size has reduced continuously over the last two years, declining by 18% year-on-year by March 2020. As of August 2020, the average size increased by 5% over March 2020,” said the CRIF High Mark report. Rating agencies say that there is no problem to lenders on account of retail loans yet. According to ICRA, collection efficiency (repayments) in the loans the rating agency tracks has remained steady in October 2020. However, the current collection efficiency continues to be below the pre-lockdown levels and is in the region of 81-95% across retail loans. Watch Small-ticket personal loans rise 4.5 times in 2 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/small-personal-loans-up-4-5-times-in-2-years/articleshow/79749012.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 16, 2020||India||Have 1 adverse event management centre in each block for vaccination drive: Centre||The Centre is looking forward to a “good decision” on the Covid-19 vaccine soon and has asked states to identify at least one adverse event management centre in each block to monitor the safety and efficacy aspects of the jabs. “When we undertake a universal immunisation programme, some adverse effects are seen in children and pregnant women after vaccination,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. “So, we can’t deny chances of an adverse event when Covid-19 vaccination begins. In countries where immunisation has already begun, especially in the UK, adverse events have taken place on the very first day. So, it is essential that states and UTs prepare for this too,” he said. Read AlsoVaccination: Order for 351mn more syringes soonBENGALURU: As part of its vaccine roll out plan, the Centre has initiated the process to procure an additional 351 million pieces of syringes from more than one firm, tender documents reviewed by TOI shows. As reported earlier the government has already placed orders for 230 million pieces andEvery vaccination session site will be linked to a designated Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) management centre to ensure all such events are tackled and reported efficiently, officials said. The health ministry has also issued guidelines for monitoring adverse events. The process of emergency use authorisation of Covid vaccines will not impact timelines for vaccine rollout since the government has already factored the scientific processes needed to ensure that the jabs approved are safe, aligned to global standards and are effective, said Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member and head of national expert group on vaccines administration. Read AlsoFake coronavirus vaccines flood darknet, sell for $250BENGALURU: With a vaccine now appearing the only way to beat the pandemic, the darknet has been flooded with hundreds of domains promising ‘vaccines’ at a price — in some cases for as much as $250. In its latest report, Check Point Research, a global cyber security firm, has found a stream of posts“We have factored in the time it will take. We are looking forward to a good decision soon,” Paul said. Underlining that the vaccination drive will involve a large beneficiary pool in a short period of time and is different from regular immunisation, the government stressed adverse event monitoring in cases of Covid-19 vaccine would also require extra efforts. Read Also600 million shots, 100 people per session: Details of India's mega vaccination driveWith at least three vaccine candidates under regulatory review for emergency use, India has started preparing for a mega vaccination drive to immunize crores of vulnerable people in the next six to eight months.“This is an adult vaccine whereas our existing AEFI is targeted to monitor children and women. Secondly, these Covid vaccines are developed on new platforms, even on multiple platforms, that makes it a complicated situation. We have to be very responsible. Vaccines are being examined on a scientific basis and regulators will look for more than reasonable satisfaction to give an approval,” Paul said. Click here to follow live updates on CoronavirusBhushan said states and Union Territories must prepare for adverse events as part of the vaccination programme. Currently, the drug regulator is examining three applications from Pfizer, Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for emergency use authorisation of their respective vaccines. The government has also issued detailed guidelines to the states to estimate the electrical and non-electrical cold chain requirements. In all 29,000 cold chain points, 240 walk-in coolers, 70 walk-in freezers, 45,000 ice-lined refrigerators, 41,000 deep freezers and 300 solar refrigerators are to be used, according to the health ministry. The government has also identified 23 ministries and departments at the Centre and state level and assigned roles for planning, implementation, social mobilisation and awareness generation for the vaccine rollout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-1-adverse-event-management-centre-in-each-block-for-vaccination-drive-centre/articleshow/79749154.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 16, 2020||India||Andhra, Telangana HC CJs shifted in major reshuffle||NEW DELHI: At a time when the Andhra Pradesh high court has ordered inquiries into vilification of the judiciary through social media posts and CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has written a letter to CJI S A Bobde for restoring neutrality of the HC, the Supreme Court collegium has decided to recommend transfer of AP Chief Justice J K Maheshwari to the Sikkim HC. The collegium headed by CJI Bobde on Tuesday recommended transfer of Justice Maheshwari, who was heading AP HC with a sanctioned strength of 37 judges, as CJ of Sikkim HC, which has a sanctioned strength of three judges. Sikkim HC CJ A K Goswami has been recommended to become the CJ of AP HC. The collegium also decided to transfer Telangana HC CJ R S Chauhan as CJ of Uttarakhand HC, where Justice Ravi Malimath is the acting CJ. Delhi HC’s Justice Hima Kohli has been recommended for appointment as chief justice of Telangana. Read AlsoSC dismisses pleas seeking action against Andhra CM Jagan Reddy for statements against judiciaryThe Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed a batch of PILs seeking action against Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy for his statements against a top court judge and the judiciary. ​​​​​​​​The apex court also said that prayer in a PIL filed by advocate G S Mani seeking direction for removalAfter an SC bench headed by Justice N V Ramana had passed an order for expediting trial in pending criminal cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs, the Andhra Pradesh police had registered an FIR against the daughters of Justice Ramana and the former advocate general in an alleged irregular land purchase case. However, the Andhra Pradesh HC had passed a gag order on reporting the FIR. This had led to Reddy writing a letter to the CJI followed by a press conference to attack the SC judge and the chief justice of Andhra Pradesh HC. Two dozen criminal cases are pending against Reddy in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Political sources in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were agog with the impending transfer of the incumbent CJs of the two states since Monday evening. The collegium also recommended the appointment of Justice S Muralidhar, who is a judge in Punjab and Haryana HC though his parent HC is Delhi, as the chief justice of Orissa HC. Orissa HC CJ Mohammad Rafiq has been transferred to Madhya Pradesh HC as CJ. The HC is at present headed by acting CJ Sanjay Yadav. Read AlsoCaught between Opposition and Centre, Jagan's govt declares partial bandh in support of farmersNEW DELHI: Andhra Pradesh chief minister and YSRCP chief Jaganmohan Reddy is not on the list of parties who have openly supported the bandh call for Tuesday given by the protesting farmers, but in a statement released on Monday evening the state’s agriculture minister has said that the stateThe collegium has also decided to recommend the appointment of Justice Sanjib Banerjee as the chief justice of Madras HC. Madras HC CJ Amreshwar Pratap Sahi is scheduled to retire on December 31. The collegium’s decision to transfer the Andhra Pradesh CJ has raised eyebrows in legal circles. The Andhra Pradesh police had registered an FIR against Justice Ramana’s daughters for purchasing land in Amaravati in June 2015, immediately after a bench headed by him took up a PIL seeking to expedite snail-paced trials in criminal cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Justice Ramana is in line to become the next CJI. The CM sent a complaint to the CJI soon after the Justice Ramana-led bench sought an action plan from high courts for completion of trials against politicians within a year. Advocates’ associations across the country had passed resolutions condemning the Andhra Pradesh CM’s letter and termed it a tactic to pressurise and malign the judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/andhra-telangana-hc-cjs-shifted-in-major-reshuffle/articleshow/79749225.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 16, 2020||India||New laws give farmers more choices, but govt open to dialogue to improve them: Gadkari||Nitin Gadkari has said the Centre is open to dialogue with protesting farm unions to improve the new agri laws. The minister for highways, road transport and MSMEs, however, defended the provisions on contract farming, saying they increased farmers’ choices in getting higher incomes. The farmers had the right to choose where they wanted to sell their produce and at what price, he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-laws-give-farmers-more-choices-but-govt-open-to-dialogue-to-improve-them-gadkari/articleshow/79749269.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||Higher percentage of men drink in ‘dry’ Bihar than Maharashtra: Govt survey||You might associate Goa with booze and partying, but a higher proportion of people in Telangana consume alcohol than in the former. And a larger percentage of men drink in Bihar, a state under prohibition, than in Maharashtra. When it comes to tobacco consumption, the northeast is the region that tops the charts, according to data from the National Family Health Survey 2019-20. Gujarat and Jammu & Kashmir, in that order, have the least consumption of alcohol among men. There is no way of knowing if there has been any change in the consumption of alcohol or tobacco since the last survey as the two data sets are not comparable. In the 2015-16 survey, the data pertained to the age group 15-49 years whereas in the latest survey it is for all above 15 years. When it comes to women’s consumption of alcohol, Sikkim and Assam, with 16.2% and 7.3%, respectively, top the charts. But here, too, Telangana comes next, topping Goa. Barring Telangana and Goa, most of the states at the top are in the northeast. The consumption among rural women is significantly higher than in urban areas in most states, which could also be due to less hesitation in admitting to alcohol consumption compared to urban women. This difference in prevalence of alcohol consumption exists between rural and urban men too, but the difference is not as high as among women.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); In all states, consumption of tobacco, which includes chewing tobacco and smoking, is much higher in all states than consumption of alcohol. Despite the established connection between smoking tobacco and lung cancer, and chewing tobacco and oral cancers, the use remains widely prevalent. In India, earlier studies had shown a higher prevalence of tobacco chewing than smoking. The highest consumption of tobacco is in Mizoram, where 77.8% of men and almost 62% of women consume it. Tobacco use is highest among men and women in the north-eastern states, including Assam. It is lowest in Kerala (17%) and Goa (18%) in the case of men, though Himachal has the lowest consumption of tobacco among women, just 1.7% Tracking of alcohol and tobacco consumption was started from the last survey with growing recognition of the burden of non-communicable diseases in India and the role that the consumption of these plays in causing them. Watch ‘Dry’ Bihar has higher percentage of men who drink than Maharashtra: Govt survey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/higher-of-men-drink-in-dry-bihar-than-maharashtra-govt-survey/articleshow/79749278.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 16, 2020||India||Pranab’s kids spar over his memoirs||NEW DELHI: Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s offspring quarrelled over the publication of their father’s memoirs, The Presidential Years, on Twitter on Tuesday. His son, Abhijit, tagged the publishers asking for the book’s publication to be stopped. Daughter Sharmistha, however, asked him not to create any hurdles in its publication. “I, the Son (sic) of the author of the Memoir ‘The Presidential Memoirs’ request you to kindly stop the publication of the memoir as well as motivated excerpts which is already floating in certain media platforms without my written consent,” Abhijit, tweeted around 1.30pm in a three-part tweet thread. Abhijit, a former Congress MP, subsequently asked the publisher that he be given the final copy of the book for vetting before its publication. “...Had my father been alive today, he too would have done the same,” he wrote, adding that the publication should be stopped “till I go through its contents”. He also tweeted that he had sent a “detailed letter in this regard” to the publishers. Soon after Abhijit’s tweets, Mukherjee’s daughter, Sharmistha, countered his claims, asking him to “not to create any unnecessary hurdles” in its publication. “He (Pranab Mukherjee) completed the manuscript before he fell sick. The final draft contains my dads’ (sic) handwritten notes & comments that have been strictly adhered to. The views expressed by him are his own & no one should try to stop it from being published for any cheap publicity. That would be the greatest disservice to our departed father,” she tweeted around 3.30pm. Sharmistha, also national spokesperson AICC, further quipped, “Btw bro, the title of the book is ‘The Presidential Years’, not ‘The Presidential Memoirs’.” The book, published by Rupa, is slated for release in January. So far, the publishers have released three excerpts from the book, one of which talks about Congress’s “drubbing” in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Another excerpt, released online, compares former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and current PM Narendra Modi’s style of governance. Pranab Mukherjee had passed away on August 31 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pranabs-kids-spar-over-his-memoirs/articleshow/79749302.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 16, 2020||India||Government to launch helpline for elderly on January 26||NEW DELHI: The Centre is set to launch a pan-India toll-free helpline—Elder Line— to reach out to the abandoned elderly or those reporting abuse besides providing emotional support and information on old age homes and schemes. Likely to be launched on January 26, the helpline—14567— is set to take off in various states and Union Territories by March. Older persons seeking legal advice related to the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act (MWPSC) will also be assisted. The call centres will be called “connect centres” and they will steer interventions through field staff. The teams will work closely with government agencies responsible for senior citizens. It is also proposed to link the helpline to tribunals handling maintenance-related cases and also provide updates on cases being handled by each tribunal. Currently, there is no consolidated database on maintenance-related cases and the ministry of social justice and empowerment (MSJ&E) now hopes to bridge this gap. Times ViewIndia has an estimated 106 million elderly citizens. Many need help in various forms, ranging from healthcare information to protection from abuse and neglect. Starting a national helpline is a good step forward; but as always the success of the effort will be determined by how effectively it is implemented.Speaking to TOI on the roadmap, MSJ&E Secretary R Subrahmanyam said this is a step towards moving away from an institutional approach to a community-based approach to address the concerns of the elderly. “On the lines of Childline - 1098-, we want to build ‘Elder Line’ to create that space where senior citizens can reach out any time and seek redressal for their grievances. The idea to link tribunals dealing with maintenance cases is an attempt to step up monitoring of the implementation of the MWPSC Act which has been tardy,” he said. The national helpline draws upon the “Elder Spring” (14567) helpline model in Telangana. The helpline was set up in pilot mode by Vijayavahini Charitable Foundation and TATA Trusts in partnership with the state government in April last year. The national helpline will replicate and build on the Telangana model. An implementing agency will be appointed in each state and UT and a national implementation agency steered by the ministry will monitor the operation of the helpline. A dashboard will be eventually set-up for ‘Elder Line’ to provide updates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-to-launch-helpline-for-elderly-on-january-26/articleshow/79749318.cms||Ambika Pandit
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||To usher in Yuletide spirit at home, Kolkata goes Xmas tree shopping||Like every year, Shabbir Ahmed has set up his temporary stall to sell Christmas trees and everything one needs to decorate it, but this time it’s not at his usual spot inside Hogg Market. To avoid crowding in the market, all the 20-odd vendors have been asked to put up stalls at the courtyard outside. Shabbir, however, has no reason to complain. The open area is helping him and his fellow vendors get better visibility and attract more customers. The pandemic, which has caused many shops and business establishments to shut down, is proving to be kind on the likes of Shabbir, whose sale has gone up since last week. With less than 10 days to go for Christmas, popular shopping hubs like New Market and Gariahat are seeing a steady flow of customers coming to buy trees and other decorative items. The rise in sale of Christmas trees indicates that more and more people in the city are gearing up to usher in the Yuletide spirit at home, giving parties, church visits and carnivals a miss in this pandemic year. Staying indoors Sanjana Arora, a student from south Kolkata who recently went to New Market with her elder sister and home baker Jyotsna, has bought her first Christmas tree ever. “Every year, my sister and I go to New Market to buy decor items like bells and stars for Jyotsna’s clients. But this year, we got a Christmas tree for ourselves because neither are we going to attend any parties nor are we going to roam around the city on Christmas Eve. So, we need something special to remind ourselves that it’s Christmas,” she told us. Similarly, Ishika and Shima Shaw went on their first Christmas shopping spree this week. They usually spend the day with their friends, visiting churches and attending house parties. Decorating the house on Christmas has never been a part of their celebrations. “But this year, we are staying indoors to avoid the festive crowd. The Covid situation might be improving, but we can’t let our guard down,” said Shima. Ohendrila Chatterjee bought a tree from Gariahat market to prepare for Xmas at home. “Since I’m not going to either Park Street or Eco Park this year, I thought of bringing the spirit of Christmas home. It’s going to be equally beautiful,” she said. Sale is better than usual With Christmas celebrations shifting home for so many people, the sale of Xmas trees in the city is higher than usual. Anticipating the brisk demand, Bittu Adhikari, a vendor at Gariahat for 12 years, procured more stocks than usual. “But seeing the current demand, it seems even this is not enough. The sale is pretty good this time,” he said, adding that Christmas trees are available for anything between `100 and `5,000. Most vendors are selling 10 to 20 trees per day and those figures are set to go up. “The demand intensifies in the last week and we are hopeful that our sale will be even higher that time,” said Sanjay Das, a stall owner at New Market. Along with Christmas trees, decorative items like stars, bells and Santa dolls are also much in demand. Shopping for Xmas at New Market? Check out the courtyard The authorities of Hogg Market have barred vendors from setting up temporary cake and decoration stalls at the centre of the market to avoid crowding. The vendors have been given space at the courtyard of Hogg Market instead. According to Shubhankar Koyal, the superintendent of Hogg Market, “Hogg Market is an enclosed area and we should do everything possible to avoid large gatherings. This is why none of the vendors has been given permission to set up stalls within the market and if they do, the KMC will take appropriate action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/to-usher-in-yuletide-spirit-at-home-kolkata-goes-xmas-tree-shopping/articleshow/79741680.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
December 16, 2020||India||In throes of flux, Congress likely to hold party chief election in April||NEW DELHI: Congress is mulling holding its organisational elections for party president in the month of April, a process insiders hope will settle the flux that has roiled the opposition player since its decimation in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Congress is, however, still to decide on whether to hold the elections to the apex working committee. The top decision-making platform was reconstituted in August as part of an AICC overhaul but dissidents -- the G 23 who wrote to Sonia Gandhi calling for a "full time" leader -- have made a strong pitch for elections to the CWC. Sources said the leadership is considering various options on organisational elections. But, crucially, Rahul Gandhi has still not indicated to party leaders whether he will contest for the presidentship, a post from which he resigned after the Lok Sabha defeat, following which Sonia Gandhi became the interim president. Among the possibilities is that if Rahul Gandhi is still reluctant, then sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would be the next probable, a close aide said. As a senior leader outside the Gandhi family can always throw a hat in the ring, it may result in challengers emerging in the internal elections. This, some in the party feel, could be counter-productive. “The only viable option for Congress to start stabilising and then look forward to some sort of rebuilding is for a Gandhi family member to take charge,” an AICC office-bearer and close Rahul aide said. The likelihood is that polls for the presidentship will be held after the coming batch of elections in key states of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam. Congress is the main player in Assam challenging the ruling BJP while it is in opposition alliance with DMK in the Dravidian state. It may join hands with the Left in West Bengal where ruling TMC and a resurgent BJP are likely to be the main contenders. Though those in the know argue that the possible option of holding internal elections after the coming assembly contests is because of the pandemic situation and also the organisational focus on state polls, the move may also be politically prudent since Congress prospects in the elections are uncertain. The recent defeat in Bihar led to renewed internal rumblings. In such a situation, a new president will be able to avoid a backlash. Meanwhile, the central election authority headed by Madhusudan Mistry is finalising the nitty-gritty of the internal polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-throes-of-flux-congress-likely-to-hold-party-chief-election-in-april/articleshow/79749323.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 16, 2020||India||Surrendered Maoists rebuild school they razed in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: Surrendered Maoists have rebuilt a school they had demolished twice in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada. The school lay abandoned after being razed by rebels in 2008 and 2015, but is now ready to welcome students, freshly painted yellow, pink and green. The guilt-ridden Maoists, who built it brick by brick, had made this their first mission as part of being accepted back in the mainstream. The next step is to rebuild roads, they say. Times ViewThe students are the real losers in the bitter, violent conflict between security forces and Maoists. The rebuilding of a school by ex-Maoists is a rare heartwarming move. Those involved in the initiative must be felicitated.The primary school is in a forest patch in Masapara, about 10km from Dantewada. In a district where literacy is a dismal 42% (2011 Census), having a school is a matter of pride for villages, but not something Maoists like. Just as they dig up roads and blow up culverts, the Masapara school was also reduced to rubble. Talking to TOI over the phone, Santu Kunjam, one of the surrendered Maoists, said, “After giving up arms, we saw the damage we had done.” They got support from the district administration and toiled three months to rebuild the school. “We will send our children to this school now,” Kunjam said. Dantewada SP Abhishek Pallava said a group of 18 rebels, including some women had surrendered on July 1 under the Lon Varratu (return home) campaign. The group used to destroy railway tracks, damage roads and blow up school buildings and bridges. Now, they have vowed to rebuild them. “They said they realise the need to educate their children,” said the SP. Dantewada collector Dipak Soni said he sanctioned the project within three days. Kunjam said: “We felt there is a dire need for roads here. Children need education, and youths need jobs. Steadily, we will help build all these things”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/surrendered-maoists-rebuild-school-they-razed-in-chhattisgarh/articleshow/79749414.cms||Rashmi Drolia
December 16, 2020||India||MP now mulls cow cess on fuel & LPG||BHOPAL: At a time when fuel prices are on fire, the Madhya Pradesh government is mulling cow cess on petrol, diesel, and cooking gas. The government hopes to earn at least Rs 200 crore that it will funnel into cow welfare. If implemented, it would be the first major step to ensure funds for cows since the cow cabinet was formed on November 20. Times ViewThe cow is a revered animal for many. But the MP government seems hell bent on milking the cow dry. After constituting a cow cabinet, it is now going in for a cow cess. True, several other states have also opted for the same method, but putting the cow at the centre of so many state-driven initiatives is baffling.The animal husbandry department has placed this proposal, citing that Punjab, Rajasthan, UP and Haryana already charge cow cess, say sources. According to sources, the department has proposed cow cess of 15 paise per litre on petrol and diesel — which is expected to fetch Rs 120 crore annually — and Rs 10 per cooking gas cylinder, aimed at mopping up Rs 83 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-now-mulls-cow-cess-on-fuel-lpg/articleshow/79749449.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Thieves steal silencers of three vans in Pune's Bhosari||PUNE: The silencers of three Maruti Suzuki Eeco vans were stolen from the Bhosari area over the last five days. The cases were reported to the police between December 10 and 14. Two offences have been registered with the Bhosari police station while one has been registered with the Bhosari MIDC police station. Jayashree Modhave (36), a resident of New Vegetable Market in Bhosari, said that she had parked her van near her house. On Monday morning, when she started the van, she heard a different sound from the exhaust of the engine. “When we checked the van, we found that the van’s silencer was missing,” Modhave said. She added that the value of the stolen silencer was about Rs10,000. “I do not know why someone would steal the silencer,” Modhave said. On Saturday, a similar theft took place at Indrayaninagar in Bhosari. The suspect(s) stole the silencer of the Eeco van belonging to the complainant Damini Surwadkar and damaged the van’s sensors as well. On the same day, the silencer of another van of the same make was stolen from Rajwada area in Indrayaninagar, Bhosari. Pravin Pingle (26) has lodged a first information report (FIR) with the Bhosari MIDC police station in this regard. An officer from the Bhosari police station said, “We suspect this could be the handiwork of some petty thieves, who stole the silencers and sold it off to some scrap vendor. We are also working on the possibility of some small garage owners stealing the vehicle parts. We are collecting details about nearby scrap vendors and garage owners.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-steal-silencers-of-three-vansin-bhosari/articleshow/79746529.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Patna: Rajendra Nagar Terminal to get a facelift||PATNA: As part of its station redevelopment plan, the East Central Railway (ECR) will give the Rajendra Nagar Terminal a facelift. Altogether 123 stations, including Muzaffarpur, Gaya, Begusarai and Singrauli, will also be redeveloped at a cost of Rs 50,000 crore under this ambitious plan of the railways. The bidding process for the project, which is being executed by the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), will begin in March, 2021. According to RLDA vice-chairman Ved Prakash, several foreign and Indian firms have already shown interest in the station redevelopment plan. Danapur senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Adhar Raj told this newspaper on Tuesday that the biggest advantage of the Rajendra Nagar Terminal was that it had a vast open space on its front that “can be used to construct a mall, cinema hall, food court and walkway”. “The Rajendra Nagar Terminal, an ‘A’ category railway station, will have direct connectivity to the metro line in future,” Adhar added. The railways has already installed escalators, ATMs, medical kiosks and introduced several amenities at the Rajendra Nagar Terminal to cater to the needs of the passengers. The station also has well-equipped washing pits and rake maintenance plants. “It is perhaps the only terminal where the highest number of passenger trains originate from or terminate under the Danapur division,” Adhar said. Talking about the redevelopment of the stations, a Railway Board official claimed that the project would be carried out in public-private partnership mode. “The railways will develop restaurants, shopping zones, food courts and spacious parking lots at the stations to earn revenue. All platforms will have escalators and ATMs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajendra-nagar-terminal-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/79745972.cms||Kumod Verma
December 16, 2020||Business||M&M subsidiary Ssangyong defaults on loan repayment||Chennai: Mahindra & Mahindra’s South Korean subsidiary Ssangyong has defaulted on loan repayments worth Rs 408 crore to a consortium of lenders including JP Morgan, BNP Paribas and Bank of America (BoA). The payments were due on December 14. In a stock market notification, M&M said Ssangyong’s total default amount included around Rs 136 crore principal and Rs 0.13 crore interest to JP Morgan,, around Rs 68 crore principal and Rs 0.07 crore interest to BNP Paribas and around Rs 204 crore principal and Rs 0.19 crore interest to BoA. The loan default could potentially put a spanner in the ongoing discussions on M&M’s stake sale in Ssangyong. According to M&M’s stock exchange filing, Ssangyong has outstanding loans worth around Rs 680 crore including Rs 408 crore from JP Morgan, Rs 68 crore from BNP Paribas and Rs 204 crore from BoA. “Whilst the company (M&M) has made a commitment to cover the above-mentioned loans given by the banks, its final liability will be limited to the extent not recovered from SYMC,” M&M said. M&M spokesperson did not comment on the matter. However, Ssangyong officials have said, “We continue to discuss the matter with banks to extend the terms of the loans and we are still working on attracting new investment.” The defaults come when M&M is learnt to be in talks with American auto retailer HAAH Automotive for stake sale in Ssangyong. Although there has been no confirmation from the company, sources said the offer from HAAH — which is backed by Chinese company Chery — didn’t match expectations. Earlier this year, M&M announced it was freezing investments in Ssangyong and was looking to reduce stake. “Discussions are going on with potential investors but we are clear that we will not be investing any more in that business,” Pawan Goenka, MD & CEO, M&M had said. Ten years ago, M&M had paid $464 million for 70% stake in Ssangyong. It later increased its holding to 75%. Mahindra has over the years invested over $100 million in the company since takeover. Ssangyong was a bankruptcy protected asset and M&M was chosen as the preferred bidder from a host of offers. Ten years ago, M&M had paid $464 million for 70% stake in Ssangyong. It later increased its holding to 75%. Mahindra has over the years invested over $100 million in the company since takeover. Ssangyong was a bankruptcy protected asset and M&M was chosen as the preferred bidder from a host of offers. “We are hiring the best, ensuring that Cognizant is operating with a harmonious, high-performing team of deeply experienced, client-centric leaders who share my commitment to getting Cognizant back on a growth trajectory," Humphries said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mm-subsidiary-ssangyong-defaults-on-loan-repayment/articleshow/79747057.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||For a change, mathematics most popular subject in PU||PATNA: In a surprising development, Patna University (PU) has drawn the maximum rush of boys and girls seeking admission to mathematics course at the post-graduation level this year. As many as 956 candidates have applied for admission against 60 sanctioned seats in MSc course. Until recently, subjects like mathematics and statistics failed to attract the scholars and even the sanctioned seats were not filled. But, thanks to the increasing popularity of the subject, it has drawn the maximum rush of applicants. PU mathematics department’s former head Bal Gangadhar Prasad said in the faculty of science, mathematics was not considered to be a very popular subject as most students, especially the girls, shied away from this subject. Furthermore, the subject had less employment potentiality earlier. “But now, with the rapid globalisation and technological innovations, mathematics has been finding greater applications in different fields. Besides, youths desirous of becoming schoolteachers or starting some private coaching for various entrance tests and competitive examinations for jobs also study mathematics,” Prasad said. The last date of online submission of applications for admission to conventional PG courses in PU has already ended and at present the applications are being screened for preparing the merit lists, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha. Department-wise admission would start next week, he added. In the science faculty, zoology also appears to be equally popular as 937 applications have been received against 40 seats. Physics and chemistry have got 725 and 508 applications against 50 and 44 seats, respectively. In the faculty of social science, history continues to be the greatest crowd-puller as it has got 735 applications for 120 seats. This is followed by political science, economics, geography and sociology. In humanities, however, English and Hindi are the only subjects which have drawn the maximum number of applicants. They have got 603 and 269 applications respectively against 70 and 80 seats. Other language courses like Sanskrit, Bengali, Persian and Maithili have got applications much less than the sanctioned seats. Even philosophy has got only 65 applications against 80 seats. Even though Maithili has recently been included in the 8th Schedule of the Indian Constitution and it happens to be an optional subject in the civil services examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) and Bihar Public Service Commission, the subject fails to attract students at undergraduate and postgraduate (PG) levels. In recent years, several candidates, including some from outside the state, have reportedly qualified the UPSC civil services examination by offering Maithili as one of the optional subjects. “But students seeking admission to the postgraduate courses seldom opt for Maithili or other language courses simply because there is no job market for them,” said PU retired Sanskrit teacher Girish Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/for-a-change-mathematics-most-popular-subject-in-pu/articleshow/79746062.cms||B K Mishra
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||State takes Swasthya Sathi to doorsteps of physically disabled||Kolkata: A 74-year-old physically disabled resident of Haroa, Goutam Boral had heard about the state health cover scheme of Swasthya Sathi, but neither he nor his wife, Rama, who also suffers from a spine problem, could get enrolled after learning about the queues. On Tuesday, however, they were overjoyed after they learnt that the government officials would themselves come to their homes for the process. In its second phase, the outreach programme of Duare Sarkar will go to the doorsteps of physically disabled persons to make the enrollment easier. The opening day of the second phase saw the highest single-day footfall with 8.3 lakh attending the camp on Tuesday. Physically disabled persons across the state lauded the initiative. “If the government comes to our homes and helps us with the process, it will be helpful for disabled persons like us,” said Surajit Ghara, a national-level blind cricketer from Midnapore. According to data, more than 64 lakh people were registered under various schemes in the 11 days from December 1. The second phase kicked off from Tuesday and will continue till December 24. “In Phase I, at least 7,224 camps were set up across Bengal. Already, more than 60% of Bengal’s citizens have availed of the Swasthya Sathi scheme,” said an official. According to applicants and government officials TOI spoke to, Swasthya Sathi — a basic health coverage for secondary and tertiary care up to Rs 5 lakh per year per family which covers pre-existing diseases and can be availed at all government hospitals and empanelled private hospitals — has generated most queries and applications among the 11 welfare schemes offered by the state under Duare Sarkar. The state has also laun-ched ‘Manabik Prakalpo’ where Rs 1,000 will be awarded to physically disabled persons across Bengal as pension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-takes-swasthya-sathi-to-doorsteps-of-physically-disabled/articleshow/79746531.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Education minister likely to visit B D College on Dec 20||PATNA: State education minister Ashok Choudhary has reacted positively to a news item published in this newspaper on Sunday in connection with B D College seeking the government’s approval to start postgraduate (PG) teaching in 14 subjects. He has also discussed the matter with the principal secretary of the higher education department, Sanjay Kumar. Principal Pravin Kumar called on the minister on Monday and told him about the delay on the part of the state higher education department. He told this newspaper on Tuesday, “B D College, which is preparing for the second cycle of NAAC accreditation, will have an added advantage if the state government approves its proposal to start PG teaching in 14 subjects.” Pravin added, “The education minister is likely to visit the college on December 20 to take stock of the ongoing academic activities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/education-minister-likely-to-visit-b-d-college-on-dec-20/articleshow/79746082.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||Indian cos will do better with mix of MNC, non-MNC talent||By Ronesh PuriThere are over 40,000 MNCs with more than 2.5 lakh overseas affiliates. The top 300 MNCs control over 25% of the world economy. Thus, they are a talent powerhouse and have a large role in the global economy. In India, we have had a long history of dealing with MNCs. Our tryst with them began in 1600 with East India Company being the first to hit our shores, followed by Dutch East India Company in 1602. India Inc owes a lot to MNCs as they have had a large role in professionalisation of Indian management ethos and have brought the best international management practices to India. So, we just cannot ignore MNC talent. MNC talent has helped India Inc compete with the best in the world. They helped Indian promoters look at the big picture and compete with the biggest MNC in their backyard. Decades ago, most really talented professionals were from MNCs as they not only attracted the best but also invested a lot in developing and shaping talent. However, there is no doubt that MNC talent today has lost some of its sheen. The gap that was prevalent in the past does not exist today as non-MNCs have really upped their game for both — attracting and developing talent. In fact, they have taken the best practices from MNCs and customised them to suit the Indian mindset. Like candidates from any ecosystem, MNC ones are generally good at some things and not so good at some others. They are not an answer to all problems as decades of working in an MNC does tend to shape an individual’s thinking in both positive as well as negative ways. However, depending on what stage of evolution a company is in, there is no doubt than MNC talent can be very beneficial, especially if a company wants to globalise. In any organisation, the ideal is a mix of MNC as well as non-MNC talent as there are huge gains for having diversity of talent. This has become even more important today as every company needs to reinvent and challenge old paradigms. Some organisations look down on MNC talent as their experience of hiring such candidates was bad. This is not fair, but there is a tendency to either be a fan of MNC talent or be very sceptical about it. Strangely, some MNCs today want to only look at non-MNC talent for diversity. In fact, one of my large MNC clients specifically asked for talent predominantly from professionally run Indian corporates as his prior experience of hiring from professional family owned business was great. He felt they were more hungry, nimble footed and understood Indian consumer psyche better. Trust the world has moved a full circle and perceptions/misperceptions about a candidate from MNC/non-MNC exist far more than some of us realise. Some just don’t want to touch MNC talent because of a bad experience and tend to label all MNC talent to be arrogant, too structured, too slow on decision-making or unable to work in ambiguity or simply roll up their sleeves. This could be true for some, whether from an MNC or a non-MNC, as everyone’s DNA is different. But thinking all MNC candidates have these traits is just not correct. There is no doubt that the mindset of a predominantly MNC candidate is different as the demands from an organisational standpoint also differ. It is also true that some great candidates from an MNC with a commendable track record have totally bombed in an Indian company with heart burning and loss of face on both sides. There are several exceptions, of great success as well, so nothing is universally true. However, it may be beneficial while hiring to dig deep on the DNA side of a candidate as well as validate a few other things that are most important, but commonly ignored as they don’t get flagged on a psychometric assessment. It may be beneficial, therefore, to reflect on what to expect from an MNC talent and where the strengths can be leveraged… * High process-orientation: MNC candidates generally score well on this point as everything is well laid-out and all employees have to follow it, as otherwise there will be avoidable repercussions. Tolerance to breaking rules or cutting corners is minimal in an MNC as everything works on a template. To survive and move up, you need to be system-oriented. A candidate from a non-MNC moving to an MNC must know that high process-orientation is imperative and, if it is not part of his/her DNA, then it’s best to think hard before moving to an MNC. However, a candidate from an MNC moving to a family-owned business must understand that he/she should not expect a well laid-out process orientation of the same magnitude. I have noticed several candidates from MNCs getting frustrated and quitting in a hurry when faced with this scenario. Therefore, if you want to work in a highly structured environment only, validate this aspect about your prospective employer. Fortunately, today a few non-MNCs are also very system-oriented, but it is not universal. * Presentation skills: These in a candidate from an MNC are generally good as they need to present to different stakeholders on a fairly regular basis. These skills get more sharpened as presentations may be to different geographies and some demanding stakeholders. Interestingly, 25-30% of the time in an MNC is spent on meetings, discussions and presentations. It may surprise some, but several candidates want to move from an MNC because some of them dislike the huge quantum of time that gets invested in aligning various stakeholders at different time zones and having to make multiple presentations, sometimes at odd times. Yes, not everyone enjoys this. So, do reflect on this and understand if your DNA is compatible. * Higher bandwidth: Generally, MNCs have talent that is intellectually bright as most of them hire candidates from the best B-Schools/educational institutions. As a result, they get used to operating in this ecosystem as well as get quite dependent on working with bright individuals/subordinates. Some MNC candidates struggle when they transition to working with peers and subordinates not as intelligent, but having other skills and competencies of a superior nature. Unfortunately, high intellect can often breed arrogance or a superiority complex. A few MNC candidates fail in a non-MNC because of this trait and most are also oblivious of this side of their own personality. In a family owned business, you just cannot win hearts of your team or gain respect of the owners unless you are humble and down to earth. MNC candidates must validate this aspect of their personality when changing jobs. * Better execution skills: Candidates from an MNC are generally good at execution as the implementation of policies, systems and strategy is relatively better monitored as they emanate from the HQ. They have no choice but to implement what is given to them by the system/bosses. However, MNC candidates are not the best at creation as a fair bit of thinking about what to do is handed to them by their bosses/HQ. They sometimes get fairly dependent on someone else thinking, and therefore creating something from scratch may not be their core strengths. MNC talent also is used to relatively slower decision-making as they are conditioned to an environment of alignment of multiple stakeholders, which takes time. * Straight speaking: MNC candidates are also used to speaking their mind and being intellectually honest. They don’t mind challenging their bosses. This is conducive to better decision-making as the quality of discussions is good. In a culture of ‘boss is always right’, MNC talent sometimes struggles. Some owner-driven organisations having a subservient culture have struggled with retaining MNC talent for this reason. Owners hiring from an MNC must therefore realise that they need to be prepared for open discussions and the employee disagreeing with them. The evolved owners who realise this are better able to attract and retain talent . Hiring MNC talent can be very beneficial, as mentioned earlier. But it is prudent to also understand that MNC talent may struggle with ambiguity, and an unstructured & unplanned business strategy. They need a good back-end and high quality of subordinates to deliver. Expectations also must be well laid-out as they get uncomfortable with fuzzy and moving targets. As their values are good, they often get frustrated when they are expected to cut corners or when structures within an organisation are not well laid-out or articulated. In my opinion, companies will do better if they have a mix of MNC as well as non-MNC talent as then you get best of both the worlds. Organisations need both to survive and grow. So, having different mindsets may be an advantage. However, having preconceived notions about the merits or demerits about MNC talent is also not fair as not all talent is the same. But while hiring MNC talent in a non-MNC, validate their adaptability, humility, ability to roll up their sleeves, as well as working in ambiguity and a relatively unstructured environment. If the boxes are ticked, the chances of good hire are good. If you wish to globalise or bring more structure and process to your organisation, hire an MNC candidate with right DNA. The writer is MD, Executive Access India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-cos-will-do-better-with-mix-of-mnc-non-mnc-talent/articleshow/79749149.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||No proposal for cabinet expansion from BJP yet: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Expansion of the month-old cabinet in Bihar is not on the cards as of now. Bihar CM and JDU chief Nitish Kumar on Tuesday made it clear there is no such proposal from ally BJP. “When BJP will feel the need for cabinet expansion, then we will hold a mutual talk over it. So far, no proposal has been received (from the BJP),” Nitish said, responding to a media query on the issue of cabinet expansion, outside the Patna airport. The CM had gone to the airport to inspect the ongoing airport expansion project. At present, the state cabinet has 14 ministers, less than half of its statutory strength of 36. As per constitutional provisions, the Bihar cabinet can have a maximum of 36 ministers (including the CM), which is 15% of the total strength of members in the state assembly. When Nitish was sworn-in as the CM for a record seventh time on November 16 this year, governor Phagu Chauhan administered the oath of office to 14 ministers also. But later, education minister Mewalal Choudhary had to resign three days after taking the oath. Thus, the number of ministers in the state cabinet reduced to 14, including the CM. Earlier, cabinet expansion was expected after the end of the first five-day session of the 17th state assembly that concluded on November 27. JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary had said cabinet expansion would be done soon after the assembly’s first session. But it could not happen. Nitish’s statement came amid intense speculation about an alleged tussle between his JD(U) and ally BJP over the sharing of berths in the cabinet. Sources in the NDA said while JD(U) wants 50% of the berth in the cabinet, BJP wants its share proportionate to the number of MLAs in the assembly. With 74 MLAs, BJP is the biggest ally in the four-party NDA in Bihar. JD(U) has 43 MLAs, while VIP and HAM(S) have four MLAs each. VIP and HAM(S) have already been given one berth each in the state cabinet. Some leaders of the saffron party are said to be of the view that BJP deserves a greater share in the cabinet as it has the biggest tally in the assembly among the NDA allies. But JD(U) leadership believes it suffered in the recently-concluded assembly election mainly because of LJP’s alleged ‘vote-katwa’ politics. Hence, JD(U) should be given cabinet share based on the 50:50 formula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-proposal-for-cabinet-expansion-from-bjp-yet-nitish/articleshow/79745926.cms||Madan Kumar
December 16, 2020||Surat||Surat: Auto dealer jumps off 11th floor||SURAT: A 33-year-old man allegedly took his own life by jumping off eleven floors of an under construction building at Pal on Tuesday morning. Before committing suicide, deceased Paras Khanna, 33, a resident of Kalapi residency in Adajan and an automobile dealer, circulated his photograph among friends on social media with ‘Om Shanti, Rest in Peace’ caption. Police said that post-lockdown business in the second-hand car market was zilch and the deceased was allegedly under tremendous financial stress. On the other hand, cops also said that Khanna had shared a strained relationship with his wife over personal issues, which too may have prompted him to jump off the under-construction high-rise residential apartment located opposed the RTO office at Pal. The deceased had gone missing from his house after a verbal spat with his wife late on Monday night, police said. Sources said that family members contacted a few of his friends after he left the house in a huff on Monday night as his mobile phone was out of network coverage. His friends searched the entire Adajan area even amid the night curfew but could not locate him. Early on Tuesday morning, his body was found from the under-construction site. “A case of suicide has been registered and we are properly investigating the crime scene at the under-construction building where the body was found. Investigations are on,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/auto-dealer-jumps-off-11th-floor/articleshow/79744956.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vadodara||Fake marksheet racket busted in Gujarat's Anand||VADODARA/ ANAND: Acting on a tip-off, the Anand special operation group (SOG) busted a racket of making and selling marksheets and certificates and arrested three persons. One of them is from Anand and two from Vadodara. As the trio is linked with a visa consultancy firm, cops suspect that the arrest could lead to a bigger fake visa racket as well. SOG sleuths had got specific information that one Kanu Rabari, a resident of Atithi Apartment in Anand’s Mangalpura area, was running a visa consultancy firm through which foreign aspirants were sold fake marksheets and degree certificates of several educational institutes. When the cops raided his house, they found huge stacks of files containing fake marksheets and certificates of a number of educational institutes including Sardar Patel University, Gujarat University, Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) apart from colleges. As many as 106 fake marksheets and certificates, 16 original ones, 30 passports, mobile and cash worth Rs 22.50 lakh were seized from Rabari’s house. Rabari revealed that he was in touch with Vadodara resident Aditya Patel, who through another accused resident Hiren alias Sonu Satham, provided bogus documents to those seeking jobs abroad. “The trio have confessed that they have forged hundreds of such marksheets and certificates. We are seeking remand for a longer period to find out more details,” said Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian. “The trio used their knowledge of visa consultancy to execute the fraud. They were aware of the companies and countries where chances of marksheets and certificates getting cross-verified is low,” said Rajian. They have also seized 52 other fake marksheets and certificates, 57 rubber stamps, sophisticated printers and dye-making items among others from Satham. “We are also writing to passport offices to verify the authenticity of passports,” said Rajian. Satham already has a case against him filed at Vallabh Vidyanagar police station in January this year in connection to supplying fake marksheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-marksheet-racket-busted-in-anand/articleshow/79744725.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||572 more test positive for Covid in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 cases continue to surge in the state with 572 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally has jumped to 2,44,244. Active cases in the state, however, stood at 4,919 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, according to the daily Covid bulletin issued by the health department, four deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Apart from the health department’s bulletin, four deaths were also reported by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Tuesday. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna, one patient died due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The deceased was a 45-year-old woman from Siwan. She was admitted to NMCH on December 13. Meanwhile, altogether 624 people have recovered from the infection in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally for cured persons to 2,37,996. Ten more people were discharged from AIIMS-P after they recovered from the virus. Also, 18 fresh Covid-19 patients were admitted to AIIMS-P in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate has now touched 97.44%, 2.64% higher than the national average of 94.8%. Meanwhile, as many as 1,23,183 new samples were tested at various health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the number of total samples tested so far to 1,65,07,066. The positive rate of the state, on the other hand, stands at a meagre 1.5%. Of the 572 fresh Covid cases reported on Tuesday, Patna accounted for 162. With this, the district’s tally has risen to 45,373. Other districts which reported higher number of Covid 19 cases included Nalanda (41), Muzaffarpur (39), Saran (23) and Gaya, Bhagalpur and Saharsa (18 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/572-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-bihar/articleshow/79746005.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Rain likely in south Bihar today, chilly days ahead||PATNA: The state capital and several other places, mostly in south Bihar, turned partly cloudy on Tuesday afternoon with a forecast for light rain at one or two places in southern parts of the state on Wednesday. Fog or mist in the morning and mainly clear sky later in the day has been forecast for Patna as well. Concerning temperature, the local meteorological centre has forecast that night temperature may drop by three to four notches near the weekend. “The cloud cover is expected to clear in the next two days, which will pave the way for a plunge in minimum temperature by six to seven notches over the next few days due to cold winds likely to blow in the region,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, an official at the Patna meteorological centre. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dense fog at isolated pockets in Bihar on the night or morning of Wednesday. A bulletin issued by the Patna meteorological centre stated that shallow to moderate fog is likely to be witnessed at one or two places in the state over the next two days. Foggy conditions are declared if the visibility is less than 1,000 metres and humidity is higher than 90%. The bulletin issued by Patna meteorological centre on Tuesday stated that fog was observed at one or two places in the last 24 hours as well but dry weather prevailed across the state. “No large change in night temperature is expected during the next two days and fall in night temperature by three to four notches is expected in the next two to three days thereafter,” said Shatrughan Kumar Mandal, an officer at the Patna meteorological centre. On Tuesday, the lowest minimum temperature of 12 degrees C was recorded at Forbesganj. “Minimum temperature remained two to four notches higher than the corresponding normal in the state, except Bhagalpur on Tuesday. It was due to cloud cover during the night,” Mandal said. He added that the day temperature remained around the corresponding normal at Patna, Gaya and Bhagalpur but seven notches lower than the normal at Purnia due to dense fog and lack of sunlight during day time. “Places close to the foothill of the Himalayas in north Bihar are likely to witness denser fogs than southern parts of the state in the next 24 hours,” Mandal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rain-likely-in-s-bihar-today-chilly-days-ahead/articleshow/79745289.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Pashan residents’ tryst with foggy morning, for first time this winter||PUNE: Pashan reported fog for the first time this winter on Tuesday morning, as the visibility dropped to less than a kilometre there and its nearby locations, including Aundh. Vetal Tekdi also reported foggy conditions early in the morning on Tuesday, IMD told TOI. Shivajinagar and Lohegaon witnessed haze and mist, respectively. Fog is a phenomenon of small water droplets suspended in air, reducing the visibility to less than a kilometre. Haze is traditionally an atmospheric phenomenon where dust, smoke and other dry particles obscure the clarity of the sky, but the visibility remains more than 1km. Like fog, mist is also the result of the suspension of water droplets, but simply at a lower density with visibility over or equal to a kilometre. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “There was considerable moisture in the air in Pune on Monday as could be seen by the light rainfall activity in the city. The difference between the minimum and the maximum temperature also reduced significantly, as the day temperature dropped to 23.6°C in Shivajinagar and 24.2°C in Lohegaon, while in Pashan it dropped to as low as 22.5°C on Monday afternoon. The minimum temperature in all the locations was close to 17°C on Tuesday early morning.” Kashyapi said fog was a type of low strata cloud and the air near the ground surface was close to saturation because of the moisture availability for the last two-three days. He said the relative humidity in Pune air was quite high on Monday — at 85% during the day, and over 90% during the evening and the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pashan-residents-tryst-with-foggy-morning-for-first-time-this-winter/articleshow/79746514.cms||Neha Madaan
December 16, 2020||Agra||Factory making fake spices using donkey dung, acid raided in UP's Hathras, sealed||AGRA: Acting on a tip-off, Hathras police on Monday night raided a spice manufacturing unit making spurious and counterfeit spices of local brands using donkey dung and acid in the district’s Navipur area. Police arrested its owner Anoop Varshney who is the ‘Mandal Sah Prabhari’ of Hindu Yuva Vahini, a youth organistaion founded in 2002 by Yogi Adityanath. Talking to TOI, joint magistrate Prem Prakash Meena said, “We have seized over 300 kg of fake spices being packed in names of some local brands.” He added that during the raid, several spurious ingredients used to prepare the fake spices were found, including donkey dung, hay (bhusa), inedible colours and drums full of acids. The recovered adulterated spices included coriander powder, red chilli powder, turmeric and spice mix (garam masala). Around 27 samples have been sent for tests and an FIR will be registered under the Food Safety & Standards Act, 2006 once the lab report comes, he said. Varshney has been remanded to judicial custody under section 151 of the CrPC (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences). Meena told TOI that Varshney was unable to provide a licence for operating the spice factory at the location where it was being run. “He also could not produce the licence of the brands, which were being packed,” he said, adding that it is also being checked if the ingredients, prepared in the unit for making spurious spices, were supplied to other units in the city too. According to food department officials, the adulterants might prove to be a health hazard, especially if consumed over a long period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/factory-making-fake-spices-using-donkey-dung-acid-raided-in-hathras-sealed/articleshow/79744536.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 16, 2020||Patna||US award for bros who made students innovators||PATNA: Two brothers from Patna – Mirza Rizwan and Mirza Faizan – have been selected for prestigious national award of the US, ‘The George Washington Honour Medal’, by the Freedoms Foundation. They have been selected for the award in recognition to their efforts to inculcate innovative skills in school students through their innovation programme, christened DiscoverSTEM. The Mirza brothers said they have mentored around 200 students from the USA, Australia, Canada, the UK, Malaysia, India, China, Mexico and Middle-East among other countries at the DiscoverSTEM Innovation Lab at Dallas, Texas, which has been co-founded by the duo. Rizwan, who is presently in Bengaluru, has developed few course modules, which are delivered to students in the US by his brother Faizan through DiscoverSTEM. Under this module, children are trained in a step-by-step manner to think like scientists and innovators. The Freedoms Foundation, in its letter to the Mirza brothers regarding the award, has stated that their efforts to turn students into innovators and to establish a school to help students succeed exemplify the essence of the award. The letter further reads, “Freedoms Foundation’s National Awards Programme has honoured exceptional work of committed individuals and organisations from throughout the United States...As a 2020 recipient of the ‘George Washington Honor Medal’, your name is added to the list of a historically prestigious group of citizens, whose work and dedication advance the American ideal.” The award would be conferred to the Mirza brothers in a ceremony at Dallas next year. The Mirza brothers hail from Samanpura locality in Patna. Rizwan is a management academic and consultant with research interest in innovation. He is pursuing PhD in ‘Innovation and corporate sustainability’ and currently working with a technology MNC as chief innovation officer, leading and managing innovation teams and activities for the company worldwide. He evaluates patentability and commercialization potential of innovations made by students at DiscoverSTEM. “We are greatly honoured by this award for educational development and would like to thank everyone who were a part of the decision to acknowledge our work on innovation, education and social contribution,” Rizwan said. Faizan, the younger brother to Rizwan, is an aerospace scientist and the inventor of Ground Reality Information Processing System (GRIPS), an innovation to prevent runway incursion and detect foreign object on runways in real time. He currently lives in Texas. “More than 200 of our students aged between 10 to 18 years have filed for patents for their innovations after undergoing our innovation modules. We have plans to provide even greater research and innovation opportunities to our students as we have tied up with some leading research labs in the US for joint research partnership,” Faizan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/us-award-for-bros-who-made-students-innovators/articleshow/79746073.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Poultry trader among 3 more killed in Bihar||PATNA: Three people, including a poultry trader, were killed in separate incidents in Gopalganj, Jamui and Bhagalpur districts even as traders of Kochas Bazar in Rohtas district observed bandh on Tuesday to protest the murder of Rahul Kumar (26), son of a fuel station owner. A 38-year-old poultry trader, Afzal Ansari, was killed and his body dumped on Bhore-Barhara road in Gopalganj district late on Monday night. The incident occurred when Ansari was returning home at Koteya from Bhore after closing his shop. Locals blocked the Bhore-Barhara road and disrupted traffic to protest the murder. Police said an FIR was lodged on the statement of Ansari’s wife Kamroon Nisha. In another incident, a cloth trader, Vijay Manjhi, received bullet injuries when criminals opened fire outside a marketing complex under Bishambharpur police station in Gopalganj district. The injured was rushed to the primary health centre at Kuchaikote for treatment from where he was later referred to the sadar hospital in Gopalganj. Sources said a local criminal had demanded Rs 20 lakh as extortion from the owner of the Lalan Kushwaha marketing complex. The criminals had also opened fire about six months ago to intimidate the local businessmen, who refused to pay extortion money. In Jamui, a 23-year-old youth, Pravin Mahto, was shot dead allegedly by one Ranjeet Yadav at Bichhwe village under the Sikandara police station area on Monday night. The victim’s father, Dasarath Mahto, told the police that Yadav had earlier demanded Rs 1 lakh as extortion money from Pravin. SHO of Sikandara police station Druv Kumar Ranjeet, the husband of a woman constable, was evading arrest after the incident. In Naugachhia, a youth, Krishna Kumar Bharti, was shot dead by criminals at Sadhua Chaparhat village under Rangra police outpost on Monday night. The assailants pumped four bullets into his body, killing him on the spot. Transfer Rohtas SP, says BJP MP: BJP MP Chhedi Paswan has demanded immediate transfer of Rohtas SP Satyaveer Singh for his failure to contain crime in the district. “I will write to the home department to initiate action against the SP for his utter failure to curb the incidents of crime,” Paswan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poultry-trader-among-3-more-killed-in-bihar/articleshow/79745397.cms||Ramashankar
December 16, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur ‘Bird Festival’ showcases winged guests||BHAGALPUR: The historic ‘Silk City’ of Bhagalpur hosted a three-day ‘Bird Festival’ from December 11 to 13, which showcased hundreds of species of migratory birds that make the riverine diaras their temporary home during the winters. The festival was jointly organised by the state forest department, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), a wildlife research organization promoting the cause of nature conservation across the country, and the Mandar Nature Club, a Bhagalpur-based conservation organization. TNN The organisers said that the bird festival focussed on extensive study of birds and birdlife, their natural habitat and taking steps for their conservation. The focus was also on exploring the potential of the region as a destination for bird tourism. Arvind Mishra, environmentalist and founder of Mandar Nature Club told this newspaper on Monday that awareness was created among common people about the identification of different species of birds, including migratory birds, their rescue, conservation of their natural habitat, biodiversity and ecology. Hundreds of Garud Saviors, NCC cadets, Ganga Prahrees, college students and ornithologists and social activists pledged to act as watch guard in saving the migratory birds and other species. “Bird watching was organized at Jagatpur Lake, Ganga river course in the Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary (VGDS), Kadwa Kosi diara, Sundervan (forest spot in Bhagalpur) and Jaiprakash Udyan,” Mishra said. He added: “We also tried to draw the attention of the state government to promote bird tourism as Bhagalpur and adjoining districts are becoming ideal habitat for several migratory birds due to vast water-bodies, green vegetation and clean environment of the Gangetic diara and Kosi areas.” Participants of the bird festival included regional chief conservator of forest Abhay Kumar, Bhagalpur divisional forest oficer S Sudhakar, wildlife medical officer Dr Sanjit Kumar, Bhagalpur DM Pranav Kumar, BNHS scientist Subrata Devtaa, Brigadier (retired) Mrigendra, Colonel (retired) Somendra Paney, bird water, environmentalist and bird saviour Deepak Kumar Jhunnu besides several ornithologists and researchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-bird-festival-showcases-winged-guests/articleshow/79746009.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Housing societies struggle with shrinking coffers||Pune: Many housing societies are struggling to meet increased expenses, with limited funds at their disposal. “There are many members who have not paid society charges since March. They have rented out their properties while living in other cities. We tried to get in touch with them, but in vain. There has been added expenses of purchasing sanitising materials, getting the entire premises santised, but there has been no extra inflow. Our funds are running frightfully low over the course of eight months,” said a member of a multi-wing housing society in NIBM. “Efficient and intelligent management of funds is key for all housing societies,” said Suhas Patwardhan, chairman, Pune District Cooperative Housing Federation. “We want to increase the maintenance fee but to get members to agree to it is a major problem. People are budgeting with pay cuts and money flow is low in every household. They don’t want extra expenses. As such, many societies are cutting corners when it comes to proper sanitisation,” said a management committee member of a single-building housing society in Kondhwa. A member of another housing society in Salunke Vihar, said, “Residents are helping out by making a conscious effort to paying their maintenance fees. But we had to fire one-fourth of our staff since we could not afford salaries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-struggle-with-shrinking-coffers/articleshow/79746503.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||Zenoti 9th co to hit $1bn valuation amid pandemic||Bengaluru: Zenoti, which makes software for large spas and salon chains, has become a unicorn (a privately held firm valued at $1 billion or more). The company has raised $160 million in new funding from US private equity major Advent International at a valuation of over $1 billion, the ninth startup to achieve that milestone this year. The others that became unicorns this year are Pine Labs, FirstCry, Nykaa, Zerodha, Postman, Unacademy, Razorpay and Cars24. Based out of Hyderabad and Seattle, Zenoti’s valuation has nearly tripled after the latest fund-raise compared to when it last got capital from Tiger Global and Steadview in quick succession last year. Tiger Global and Steadview have also participated in this round and the firm has now raised $250 million in total. Zenoti is the second startup in the software-as-a-service (SaaS) space to hit the milestone this year after Postman, which raised $150 million at a valuation of $2 billion. Firms offering enterprise software solutions have seen aggressive funding this year. Pune and San Francisco -based Mindtickle got the backing of SoftBank last month with its valuation estimated at around $500 million. Zenoti, founded by Sudheer Koneru in 2010, will use the new capital for expansion and acquisitions as it eyes another year of 100% annual growth. Zenoti also plans to increase the firm’s team size by around 50%. Zenoti’s software solution helps companies in customer management, retention via online bookings, appointment scheduling, self check-ins, payments and marketing automation. “Salons wanted to reopen with the touchless experience, where people don’t need to come to the desk, touch devices. That helped us a lot. People were willing to adopt these technologies much faster and our platform was mature enough to on-board big brands quickly. During Covid-19, one of the largest brands with 700 salons in the US was on-boarded in 40 days,” said Koneru. Before the pandemic, for a large brand with about 450 stores, it took about nine months for Zenoti to integrate fully. Koneru now plans to expand into new segments like online group yoga and fitness as well as pet spas. It has on-boarded two large brands in both these verticals. Over the long term, it plans to enter more such verticals. Its acquisition plans are focused on companies in its existing verticals. “At this point, we are growing at a pace that the capital can be deployed in an efficient way,” Koneru said, adding that Advent’s investment is also an indicator of a potential IPO over the next few years. “This company has accelerated much faster during Covid-19. In fact, this quarter and the previous quarter have been their two biggest quarters in its history. So, the customers were having difficulty in the business but they themselves have decided to go live with them (Zenoti) because they are bullish on their own business, once Covid-19 is under control,” said Shekhar Kirani, partner at Accel, one of Zenoti’s early investors. Zenoti has about 12,000 business customers across 50 countries with the US being its largest market, contributing around 60% of its top line. Another 20% comes from the UK, and the rest from Australia, New Zealand, Middle East, India and Southeast Asia. It is said to be managing around 50 million bookings. It has a total of 550 employees across the globe with around 400 in India, where it is looking to add another 300. “The wellness industry is ripe for disruption, particularly as Covid-19 has made it more important than ever to eliminate unnecessary face-to-face interactions wherever possible,” said Eric Wei, managing director of Advent’s technology team in Palo Alto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zenoti-9th-co-to-hit-1bn-valuation-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79749020.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 16, 2020||Business||Flipkart’s marketplace losses up 19%||Bengaluru: Flipkart’s marketplace arm, which runs the e-commerce platform, has seen its losses going up by over 19% to Rs 1,937 crore for the financial year ended March 2020, according to regulatory documents sourced from business intelligence platform Tofler. Flipkart Internet, which runs the online shopping platform, saw its revenue, which comes from marketplace fees, logistics services and other fees, jump by 32% to Rs 6,318 crore for the same period. Total expenses rose by over 28% to Rs 8,254 crore. Marketplace fees, which is a combination of fees it charges from sellers for providing the platform, contributed 39% of its revenue, while it generated 14% revenue from payment gateway services, and another 27% from offering shipping services. The rest came from other services. Flipkart’s parent company is registered in Singapore and it operates in India through a number of units. Its core online retail business is under Flipkart Internet, and Flipkart India, which is the wholesale unit that has been used to source exclusive merchandise. It has other units for payments, logistics and had set up an entity to enter food retail. Earlier this month, regulatory filings showed Flipkart India cut its losses by 18% to Rs 3,150 crore, while revenue grew by around 12% to Rs 34,610 crore for the year ended March 2020. Flipkart’s rival Amazon also has a marketplace arm and a wholesale arm in India. The financials of these are yet to be filed with the registrar of companies (RoC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkarts-marketplace-losses-up-19/articleshow/79749063.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 16, 2020||Business||IDBI Bank may raise up to Rs 2k cr||TNN Mumbai: IDBI Bank has said that it plans to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore through a qualified institutional placement (QIP) of its shares. The placement will increase the free float of shares, which is currently less than 3% following the bank’s acquisition by Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). IDBI Bank in a statement to the exchanges said that it would sell Rs 1,000 crore worth shares with an option to retain over-subscription of another Rs 1,000 crore. The pricing of the shares would be decided by the board on December 18. The relevant date for the purpose of the issue, in terms of Sebi guidelines, is December 15, 2020 and accordingly the floor price is Rs 40.63 per share based on the formula provided by the regulator. The QIP is aimed at improving the capital adequacy of the bank. It comes ahead of government plans to divest stake in the bank through a strategic sale, which is likely to involve the LIC also offloading its shares in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idbi-bank-may-raise-up-to-rs-2k-cr/articleshow/79747552.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||6 hurt as two groups clash in Dakshineswar||Kolkata: At least six people were injured and shots allegedly fired during a clash between two groups in Dakshineswar on Monday night. No one has been arrested yet. According to local sources, the incident took place around 12.45am after a birthday party of local Trinamool worker Surojit Ghosh alias Rintu at Ariadaha’s Nimtala Kheya Ghat. “A former minister, among others, attended the party. After he left, some of the invitees on their way home were attacked by a rival group,” a local said. He claimed that armed goons fired several rounds in the air. Police, however, are yet to confirm whether any shot was fired. “Criminals led by Mousam Chatterjee attacked our supporters,” said Ghosh. Chatterjee, also a Trinamool supporter, said, “ Ghosh’s friends attacked us.” Gopal Saha, chief administrator of Kamarhati Municipality, said, “Whoever was involved in the firing should be punished. But there is no factionalism within Trinamool.” “A picket was posted after the clash,” a senior officer of the Barrackpore Commissionerate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/6-hurt-as-two-groups-clash-in-dakshineswar/articleshow/79747144.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Meerut||UP excise teams seize 17,510 litres of illicit liquor in one week||PILIBHIT: The enforcement teams of the state excise department in UP seized 17,510 litres of illicit liquor and raided several illegal distillation units across UP in a span of one week till December 13. Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary of excise, said the excise teams registered as many as 596 cases in this regard, arrested 147 people and seized five vehicles being used for transporting the illicit liquor. Apart from this, 230 boxes of English liquor, to be sold only in Haryana, were seized from a truck during a special vehicle-checking drive in Badaun district. One man was arrested on the spot and the vehicle was impounded during this period, Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-excise-teams-seize-17510-litres-of-illicit-liquor-in-one-week/articleshow/79745635.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Skeleton case: Cops reconstruct crime in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Five days after a 47-year-old mother and her younger son were arrested for allegedly killing her elder son and attempting to burn his body at their Salt Lake home with ghee, camphor and spices before dumping the skeleton on the terrace and fleeing, Bidhannagar police and a forensic team took the accused to the AJ Block house on Tuesday and reconstructed the crime scene over one-and-a-half hours in the afternoon. A team from Bidhannagar East police station and the detective department reached AJ 226 at 2.10pm with the duo — both of whom had their faces covered in shawls — and took the accused from one floor to another till 3.40pm. “Since their arrest, the accused have stuck to their statement that they had burnt the body but didn’t kill the 25-year-old Arjun Mahensaria. They have been claiming that he had died of illness and, in panic and confusion, they tried to burn the body at home. However, we are not buying that as there are clear marks of injury on the skeleton. We took the accused to the crime scene to explain their version and cross questioned them. There are still loopholes in their story and they have been constantly changing their statements,” said an officer. Geeta Mahensaria and her son Vidur were arrested on Thursday night following a complaint from Geeta’a husband Anil. An officer said, the woman made a startling revelation while allegedly admitting to having roasted the body in portions over several hours on low heat and applying a lot of camphor and ghee to cut down the odour of burning flesh. Forensic officials undertook heat mapping of different walls of the first floor and collected evidence on Monday. The police custody of the accused will be over on Wednesday when they will be produced in a Salt Lake court again. While the defence personnel said he would seek bail as the cops still haven’t been able to prove motive, sleuths said they would seek extension of custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/skeleton-case-cops-reconstruct-crime/articleshow/79746451.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 16, 2020||Goa||SC to take up Goa's mining matter from February 4||PANAJI: The Supreme Court has listed Goa’s mining matter in February for final disposal, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. Also, the court will hear the review petition on January 21. A special leave petition was filed by mining companies for resumption of mining in Goa 15 months ago. The apex court held a virtual hearing and discussed about conducting the hearing in the matter, Pandam told TOI. The matter is likely to be taken up for hearing from February 4 till it is disposed, Pangam said. “It would be a continuous hearing,” he added. Twenty-six village panchayats have approached the apex court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the apex court had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire industry to a halt in the state. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed a SLP in the apex court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants (mining companies) were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. Twenty-six village panchayats have approached the apex court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-to-take-up-mining-matter-from-feb-4/articleshow/79748903.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Large airport Patna’s necessity: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said all necessary steps would be taken for expansion of Jayaprakash Narayan International (JPNI) airport here in order to ensure operation of large number of flights. Nitish made the statement while inspecting the progress of work on expansion of the terminal building at the city airport. Airport director Bhupendra Singh Negi informed the CM in details about the master plan of the airport’s expansion scheme. The CM said he had come to the airport to seek information about the ongoing works under the expansion plan. “I had visited the airport and inspected expansion work earlier also. When a proposal came for inspection on Monday night, I decided to come here again,” Nitish told reporters after completing his inspection. The expansion work at Patna airport had commenced last year and it is targeted to be completed by March 2023. The new terminal building, to be spread over 7,00,000sq feet, is being developed by Airports Authority of India with an estimated expenditure of Rs 1,216.90 crore. The new terminal building will have separate departure (upper) and arrival (lower) levels. The parking would be connected with the departure level of the new terminal building through a link bridge for pedestrian movement. It is also proposed to have six aerobridges as per the original design for expansion of the terminal building. According to sources, more than 50% work on several auxiliary buildings, including cargo complex, technical block, fire station, air traffic control tower and multi-level car parking has been completed. Also, work on extension of terminal building is also in the final stages. The areas in the terminal building where extension work is in final stage include the structure on eastern side of the portico. Sources said the passenger-handling capacity of the terminal building would increase by 2.5 lakh per annum after the additional stricture is ready. The extended area will be used for check-in as well as security check-in purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/large-airport-patnas-necessity-cm/articleshow/79745709.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand STF arrests wanted criminal carrying Rs 2,500 reward||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s Special Task Force (STF) with the support of Haridwar police arrested a wanted robber in connection with over two-year-old dacoity case that took place in Haridwar’s Kankhal police station area. The accused, identified as Azad, was nabbed from Islamnagar in Bhojpur police station area of UP’s Moradabad district. The wanted accused was absconding for more than two years. According to the STF, Azad along with seven other accomplices broke into the house of one Vikas Kumar, resident of Kankhal in Haridwar, and committed a robbery in September 2018. The robbers looted jewellery and cash at gunpoint before decamping. Following the robbery, Haridwar police announced a reward of Rs 2,500 each on the arrest of robbers, a police official said. "During the investigation, names of eight persons surfaced, out of which, three had already been arrested. Our teams were tracking the locations of the other absconding criminals. On the basis of intelligence, the STF arrested Azad from Uttar Pradesh," said a STF official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-stf-arrests-wanted-criminal-carrying-rs-2500-reward/articleshow/79745640.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||State says it can conduct KMC polls after mid-March||KOLKATA: The state government has written to the state election commission (SEC) on Tuesday informing them that it can conduct the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) election after mid-March. The letter has left SEC in a bind since the Election Commission expected to issue the Bengal poll notification in early March if the Assembly polls are to be completed by May. The state is also likely to inform this to the Supreme Court on Thursday. The state indicated it has not decided on conducting elections in 110 municipalities and corporations at the same time. “The state has written to us saying it can conduct the KMC polls after mid-March. The final voters’ list will be adopted on January 15 and, after that, the state needs another month to conduct the election based on the new list. Once it is over, then the state has asked for another four to six weeks to make the necessary preparations for the election,” a senior election commission official said. “Civic polls are conducted by the SEC. The Assembly polls will be conducted by the EC. The end-March date may clash with the Assembly poll preparation. The Assembly polls will always get preference. We will wait for the apex court’s directions,” the official added. Senior state government officials are of opinion that in this pandemic situation, the state is not in a position to conduct polls in more than 22,000 booths spread over 110 municipalities. The SEC has already asked for Rs 185 crore for conducting the polls, which is more than double as far as the last municipal polls are concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-says-it-can-conduct-kmc-polls-after-mid-march/articleshow/79746513.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 16, 2020||Patna||BJP brainstorms to dissect Bihar poll results||PATNA: Slightly over a month after the assembly election, the BJP’s central and state leaderships went into a two-day huddle at Vaishaligarh, around 35 km away from Patna on Monday, to get a reality check on the ground situation of the party in the state and also devise a strategy to strengthen the organisation. According to observers, BJP felt the need for the brainstorming because it had expected that the NDA would win around 150 seats in the assembly election that concluded last month but had to settle for 125. Besides, BJP has to combat the aggressive information campaign that the farmers’ groups have launched against the three controversial farm laws and for the guaranteed purchase of agricultural produce of the farmers at MSP rates. Further, neither BJP nor JD(U) could emerge as the single largest party, as the credit went to RJD with 75 seats, followed by BJP with 74 and JD(U) 43.While the NDA comprising BJP, JD(U), VIP and HAM(S) could form the government led by Nitish Kuma the combine was on its toes during Speaker's election as the opposition fielding its candidate breaking the convention of having a unanimously elected Speaker. “The NDA has formed the government in the state. BJP’s central and state leaders held their two-day conclave to discuss organisational matters and also decide to have coordination between the party and the government,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. He added that the stress was on devising a strategy and programme to work on to strengthen and expand the party. “We had expected to win around 135-150 assembly seats. That could not happen. Despite that, we have a good majority and were able to form the NDA government in the state,” Patel said, adding a special responsibility has devolved on those in the state BJP and ministers in the government to maintain proper coordination between the government and the party. Among those who participated in the two-day conclave were the BJP national general secretary (organization) B L Santosh and his co-incharge Saudan Singh, as well as national general secretary incharge of Bihar Bhupender Yadav his co-incharge Hari Dwivedi, state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, state general secretary (organization) Nagendra and other functionaries, including Ratnakar and Shivnarayan.Bhupender Yadav said conferences of active workers would be held soon and details would be disclosed soon. Patna: Slightly over a month after the assembly elections this year, the BJP’s central and state leaderships went into a two-day huddle at Vaishaligarh, around 35 km away from Patna, beginning Monday, to have reality check on the actually existing condition of the party and also devise a strategy to strengthen the organization in the future. According to observers, the BJP felt it necessary to go for the reality check on the party, because it had earlier expected that the NDA would win around 150 assembly seats in the assembly elections that concluded last month, but had to settle with only 125 wins. Besides, the BJP has to combat the aggressive information campaign that the farmers’ groups have launched against the three controversial farm laws and for the guaranteed purchase of the agriculture produce of the farmers at the MSP rates. Further, neither the BJP nor the JD(U) could emerge as the largest individual party, as the credit went to the RJD with 75 wins, followed by the BJP with 74 wins and the JD(U) 43. In the situation, even as the NDA comprising the BJP, JD(U), VIP and HAM(S) could form its government led by CM Nitish Kumar, the combine had to be on its toes during the election of the state assembly Speaker, as the opposition forced the election for the post by fielding its own candidate, giving a goodbye to the convention of having unanimously elected Speaker. “The NDA has formed the government in the state. The BJP’s central and state leaders held their two-day conclave to discuss organisatinal matters and also decide to have coordination between the party and the government,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said, adding that the stress was on devising the strategy and programmes to work on so as to strengthen and expand the organisation. “We had expected to win around 135-150 assembly seats. That could not happen. Despite that, we had good majority and were able to form the NDA government in the state,” Patel also said, adding that a special responsibility has devolved on those in the state BJP and ministers in the government to maintain proper coordination between the government and the party. Among those who participated in the two-day conclave were the BJP national general secretary (organization) B L Santosh and his co-incharge Saudan Singh, as well as national general secretary incharge of Bihar Bhupender Yadav his co-incharge Hari Dwivedi, state president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, state general secretary (organization) Nagendra and other functionaries, including Ratnakar and Shivnarayan. As said by Bhupender Yadav, the conferences of the active workers would be held in the near, and the details would be disclosed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-brainstorms-to-dissect-poll-results/articleshow/79745966.cms||Abhay Singh
December 16, 2020||Business||WhatsApp in talks with banks to scale up payments||BENGALURU: WhatsApp global head Will Cathcart said the messaging platform was in talks with banks and financial institutions for a broader rollout of its payments services in India. Last month, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) finally gave its nod to the Facebook-owned company to roll out payments services gradually to 20 million users here. It was stuck in beta mode for two-and-a-half years and restricted to just 1 million users on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). WhatsApp has 400 million monthly active users in India. “We are partnering with banks and financial institutions so people can get help and services without entering a local branch. Even as WhatsApp has become a way for hundreds of millions of people in India to communicate, we feel we are just getting started,” Cathcart said in a virtual event. WhatsApp Pay currently enables peer-to-peer payments only. It is expected to launch peer-to-merchant payments too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-in-talks-with-banks-to-scale-up-payments/articleshow/79749111.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||SBI seeks more foreign funds for infra||TNN Mumbai: The chairman of the country’s largest bank, SBI, has called for allowing more foreign investment to meet the Rs 100-lakh-crore projected requirement for India’s infrastructure sector. “For an economy like India, if you look at the allocation of resources in 2019-20, around 40% has come from banking and 60% from others, which included domestic investors (22%) and foreign resources (38%),” said Dinesh Khara, speaking at the CII Partnership Summit. He pointed out that the Rs 100-lakh-crore projected requirement for investment in infrastructure would be possible only if capital markets were opened up and more foreign participation was encouraged. “We have to look in terms of what is required for inviting and encouraging foreign participation,” said Khara. He added that given that the economy is at a crossroads, there has to be an acceleration and broad-basing in the pace of reporting and governance. Khara said that even if a development finance institution were to be set up, the source of finance would have to be “international in colour” as against the traditional DFIs, which received funding from the government. “The kind of money that is required to be dispense requires international flows. All this while domestic markets and household savings have been a major source of funding. But with that kind of savings, the growth trajectory that we have charted for ourselves will not be possible,” said Khara. Speaking on the development of the debt markets, Khara said that it requires broader participation in terms of issuance and buyers, without which a sustainable yield curve becomes a challenge. “We did see some activity post-Covid, after the government and the RBI provided liquidity, many corporate issuances went up substantially. That was a beginning and perhaps with encouragement we will get to see better traction,” said Khara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-seeks-more-foreign-funds-for-infra/articleshow/79747797.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Ward 115 trash collection model shows the way to a greener future||Kolkata: Twenty people collect dry and wet waste from 6,000 households at Purba Putiary in Ward 115, bring them to Material Recovery Facility (MRF) and recover recyclable material. The wet waste (mainly kitchen waste and food residue) goes for composting to produce manure with high-grade nutrients and biogas. Each person works from 6am to 12pm, gets Rs 4,000 per month and is covered by mediclaim and PF. It is commercially sustainable even though the number of households is small compared to those of a ward. However, the city’s failure to adopt solid waste management rules, 2016, became the focus of the 10th international conference on sustainable waste management towards circular economy, 2020, at Jadavpur University. About 700 delegates from 44 countries participated in the event. The decentralized waste collection and disposal in Ward 115, which generates both jobs and resources, is also a move towards zero dumping at landfill sites like Dhapa. “The pilot run of the Purba Putiary MRF is to show how we are letting go of a huge possibility of generating jobs, formalizing kabariwalas and generating revenue and sustaining decentralized waste collection and disposal. The biggest takeaway is the almost no waste or a very little waste generated for landfills,” said professor Sadhan Ghosh, an SWM expert and chairman of the conference. He is also the president of International Society of Waste Management (air and water). The model is replicable and the civic body only needs to allocate a small space for the MRF. The workforce can be engaged according to the number of households and generation of waste. Even the smallest ward can sustain as many as 50 such full-time workers with all social security instruments. The manure, which gets Rs 1,500 per tonne subsidy from the Centre and a good price at the market, can largely replace the harmful chemical fertilizers, Ghosh said. The cleanliness in the 6,000-household area at Purba Putiary is remarkable even at first glance. The compactor, which squeezes the unsegregated waste into a solid block, may give a sense of cleanliness but is actually counter-productive. The resource recovery and energy recovery from the waste is not possible. Effective implementation of a circular economy can provide benefits if the government encourages and pushes for it, Ghosh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ward-115-trash-collection-model-shows-the-way-to-a-greener-future/articleshow/79746480.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 16, 2020||Patna||Sheohar police earn Centre’s praise for people-friendly steps||PATNA: The Sheohar police have acquired the distinction of being the first in the state to bring the police closer to the people and maintain transparency in the functioning of the department by developing a mobile application. Sheohar SP Santosh Kumar, a 2014 batch IPS officer, used his engineering skills to develop a mobile application, ‘SheoharPoliceApp’, which works as an online appointment register for the people to meet the SP for redressal of their grievances. The users can seek an appointment with the SP through this app. The confirmation of the appointment is sent through the app and also text messages. The app did wonders in a short span. The efforts of Kumar, an engineering graduate from Netaji Subhash Institute of Technology (NSIT), Delhi, won accolades from Centre. Kumar was invited to make a presentation before PM Narendra Modi and other senior officials of Union home ministry earlier this month on the people-friendly policing initiative with the use of IT skills. The event was organised to mark the 54th all India conference of directors general and inspectors general-2020 from December 2 to 5. “It was a proud moment for the Bihar police as well as the Sheohar police. The people-friendly policing initiative got its recognisation at the national level,” Kumar said. The Sheohar police had launched its website, sheoharpolice.bih.gov.in, and the app in June this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sheohar-police-earn-centres-praise-for-people-friendly-steps/articleshow/79745385.cms||Ramashankar
December 16, 2020||Business||Steadview picks up stake in Delhivery||Steadview Capital has picked up a stake in logistics major Delhivery through a secondary share sale of $25 million. Delhivery did not disclose the investor that has sold its shares to Steadview Capital. The latter is an investor in large Indian startups like Unacademy, Policybazaar, Dream11, and Nykaa. In a secondary transaction, the new investor buys shares from an existing investor and the money does not go to the company's coffers. “Steadview is a long-term investor and we see them playing a key role as Delhivery heads towards the public markets in the next 12-15 months,” said Sahil Barua, co-founder and CEO, Delhivery. TOI reported in October the company is considering both India and overseas markets for a public offer. One of its top officials told TOI it is on track to close the current financial year with Rs 3,700-4,000 crore in revenue, compared to Rs 2,800 crore last year. The growth comes despite the washout months in April and May due to the lockdown. “The company’s tech-centric approach has been a key enabler in ensuring faster delivery speeds, decreasing logistics costs, and increasing e-commerce adoption in the country over the last decade. We believe Delhivery is well-positioned to become the largest logistics company in India and is poised for a strong growth trajectory in the years to come,” said Ravi Mehta, founder and CIO, Steadview Capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/steadview-picks-up-stake-in-delhivery/articleshow/79749142.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||BSRTB authorised to take control of Vishnupad temple||GAYA: The management of Vishnupad temple will now be in the hands of Bihar State Religious Trust Board (BSRTB). A local court in Gaya has authorised BSRTB to manage the affairs of the heritage temple through a judgment pronounced on Monday in a 27-year-old case. So far, Vishnupad Temple Management Committee (VTMC) had been handling the management of the temple, where lakhs of Hindu devotees perform ‘pinddaan’ rituals throughout the year in general and during fortnight-long Pitrapaksha Mela in particular. Meanwhile, members of the Gayapal Panda Samaj are now planning to file an appeal in the Patna high court against the judgment. BSRTB counsel Gaya Rajan Prasad said, “Previously the Vishnupad temple was under the control of the Gayapal pandas. In 1968, some people complained about mismanagement in the temple. Taking cognizance of the complaints, BSRTB had issued showcause notice to the Gayapal Panda Samaj members. Not satisfied with their reply, the BSRTB constituted a public trust headed by collector of Gaya and including other officials such as SP, SDO, ADM and others. Thereafter, Gayapal pandas brought a miscellaneous case (28/77) in the court of district and sessions judge in which it has been declared that Vishnupad is a public temple. Against this, the Gayapal pandas filed a miscellaneous appeal at Patna high court. During hearing of the appeal, the Gayapal pandas also instituted a title suit for declaration of Vishnupad temple as a private temple of Gayapal pandas. The court, however, dismissed the case in 1982 for want of maintainability. Then the Gayapal pandas filed an appeal in which ADJ Gaya remanded back in 1986 with certain specific instructions. Later, challenging the ex-party decree in favour of the Gayapal pandas in 1992, BSRTB filed a title appeal in which hearing was made on day-to-day basis in the court of ADJ- 1 Gaya. Accordingly, the court pronounced its judgement on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bsrtb-authorised-to-take-control-of-vishnupad-temple/articleshow/79745358.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||Tech co Majesco to pay 19,480% dividend||TNN Mumbai: Majesco, which provides software services to insurers globally, on Tuesday said it would pay an interim dividend of Rs 974 per share, a record 19,480% on its face value of Rs 5. In July, the company had announced that it was selling off its US arm, the Indian company’s biggest revenue generator, to a private equity firm and would look for ways to return money to its shareholders.  Earlier, it had also announced a buyback for 25% of its equity at Rs 845 per share. The stock has been on the rise since the company said it would return money to its investors after disposing the US arm. As of Tuesday, total cash available with the company was Rs 3,280 crore, the company said in an investor presentation. On Tuesday, the stock closed at Rs 982, up 1%, on the BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tech-co-majesco-to-pay-19480-dividend/articleshow/79747416.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Goa govt likely to hold 4-day assembly session from Jan 25||PANAJI: A day after BJP swept the ZP polls in the state, the chief minister Pramod Sawant-led government is likely to propose calling a four-day assembly session from January 25. The Opposition has been demanding with the governor to summon a full-flagged assembly session to discuss various issues for some time now. Sources said that after winning the ZP polls, the government is now comfortable in defending the controversial decisions on which people had taken to the streets in the last couple of months. The BJP under Sawant’s leadership swept the ZP election amid statewide agitation against coal handling, railway double tracking railway, widening of the national highway and the Tamnar power project. The Opposition will try to corner the government by raising various issues in the winter session, including economic slowdown, unemployment, environmental issues, collapse of law and order, failure of the government in handling the pandemic and providing proper healthcare services, among other issues. Last month, leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat wrote to Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and urged him to convene a full-fledged assembly session in either November or December. He also reiterated the demand last week saying that the government decided on holding the ZP polls, but had not agreed to hold the assembly session under the pretext of the Covid-19 pandemic In his letter, Kamat had said that considerable time has passed since a proper assembly session was held and issues pertaining to the state were discussed. “It is the right of every elected representative, especially from the opposition, to raise issues concerning the common man,” Kamat had stated. MGP MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar had requested the governor to call a five-day assembly session to discuss important issues, including the 2020-21 state budget. The BJP-led state government curtailed the monsoon assembly session, which was originally scheduled as a 12-day session, to a single day because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Opposition were upset over the government for curtailing the assembly session and hurriedly passing the full budget without discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-likely-to-hold-4-day-assembly-session-from-jan-25/articleshow/79747887.cms||Murari Shetye
December 16, 2020||Patna||Lalu Prasad Yadav doesn’t require urgent dialysis: Aide||PATNA: Incarcerated RJD president Lalu Prasad, currently undergoing treatment at Ranchi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) for kidney, diabetes and other related ailments, might not immediately require dialysis as his urinary system is functioning, RJD functionary and former MLA Bhola Yadav said. Yadav, who is in Ranchi to keep watch on Lalu’s health conditions, told this newspaper over phone that dialysis is required when the urine system becomes dysfunctional and urine stops coming. “Laluji’s urinary tract is functioning well. His condition is serious, but under control,” he said. On December 12, there were reports about sudden deterioration in health conditions of Lalu. As per the last medical bulletin released on Lalu’s health status by Dr Umesh Prasad on December 12, his kidneys were functioning “only at 25-26%” and that there could be “a medical emergency” any moment. The medical bulletin on Lalu’s health is released every Friday and the next update will be available on December 18. “Doctors are keeping watch on Lalu’s heath conditions. Nephrologists and heart specialists are also examining him,” Yadav, a close aide of the RJD chief, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-doesnt-require-urgent-dialysis-aide/articleshow/79745361.cms||Abhay Singh
December 16, 2020||Patna||Buddha museum, stupa to be ready by 2021: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Tuesday inspected construction works at the Buddha Samyak Darshan museum and the Buddha Memorial Stupa near Vaishali, about 60km north of here. The CM asked the officials concerned to expedite the construction works which was delayed because of the Covid-induced lockdown. After the inspection, Nitish said the officials assured him that the construction works would be completed by the end of 2021. The museum and memorial stupa are being built with an expenditure of Rs 315 crore over an area of 72 acres. The state government has already acquired 72 acres of land in Vaishali for the purpose. “The construction work was badly hampered due to Covid-19 pandemic. It has resumed now. I have come here to take stock of the ongoing work. After the availability of Covid vaccine, tourists will once again start visiting tourist places. Vaishali has its own historical and religious importance. The place is directly related to Lord Buddha and Lord Mahavira. Vaishali has its own history,” Nitish told reporters in Vaishali. Nitish said once the museum is ready by the end of 2021, large number of tourists and followers of Budhha would start visiting the place. “Followers of Buddhism from other countries visit Bodh Gaya and Rajgir. Once the museum in Vaishali is ready, they all will prefer to visit the place after Bodh Gaya and Rajgir,” Nitish said. He said the state government was getting necessary support from the Centre for linking Vaishali with the Budhha circuit. “Once the memorial stupa is ready, the foreign visitors will come to Vaishali after their Bodh Gaya trip,” the CM said.Earlier in February last year, the CM had launched the construction work for Rs 315 crore Buddha Samyak Darshan Museum and the memorial stupa. The memorial stupa will house one of the authentic mortal remains of Lord Buddha. “After ‘Mahaparinirvana’ of Lord Buddha, his mortal remains were distributed into eight parts. One of the eighth parts was kept at a mud stupa in Vaishali by the then Lichchhavi king of Vaishali republic. The mortal remains were later recovered during an archaeological excavation between 1958 and 1960. They are now kept safely at Patna Museum, while the mud stupa has now been protected as an archaeological site,” a state government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buddha-museum-stupa-to-be-ready-by-21-cm/articleshow/79745322.cms||Madan Kumar
December 16, 2020||Pune||ST buses may soon drop passengers at Pune border||PUNE: The state transport buses coming from different parts of Maharashtra may not enter the city in the near future, but instead, drop passengers at the border, wherefrom they will have to take PMPML buses. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), in a recent meeting of Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority, floated a proposal for transporting commuters coming to the city on its buses. “The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) officials have evinced interest in the proposal and senior officials of PUMTA have asked both the transport bodies to check and assess the feasibility of the plan,” a PMPML official told TOI. However, passengers intending to board MSRTC buses to travel out of Pune may do so from city bus stops. “The idea is to make PMPML an option for these passengers to enter the city. This will take care of crowding on MSRTC buses,” the official said. Ramakant Gaikwad, divisional controller, Pune division, MSRTC, said that the decision on the same cannot be taken by them. “Such plans require permission and approval from the state government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/st-buses-may-soon-drop-passengers-at-city-border/articleshow/79746550.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur, Agra Metro trains to have 3 coaches||LUCKNOW: Unlike Lucknow Metro, which is operating trains of four coaches with the option of adding two more on rise in ridership, the Kanpur and Agra Metros will have rakes of three coaches and can add one more if required. UPMRC officials said a ‘cross arm’ pier cap was installed at IIT Kanpur station on Monday for the first time. The cross arm pier cap will be helpful in extending the length of Metro station if required. The Metro stations in Kanpur and Agra will be 80 metres long, and can be increased if required. By installing cross arm pier cap, UPMRC engineers have made arrangements to increase the length of stations by 60 metres, so that stations can extended from 80 metres to 140 metres to handle rake of six coaches,” said UPMRC PRO Panchanan Mishra. “With 80 metre long platform, Kanpur can run four-coach rake, but will operate those with three coaches,” he added. In Kanpur, nine stations between IIT and Motijheel on the 9km priority corridor have to be completed by November 2021 to start operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kanpur-agra-metro-trains-to-have-3-coaches/articleshow/79748899.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Uruli Devachi push to exit PMC limits||Pune: A group of residents from Uruli Devachi has approached the state government seeking exclusion from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits owing to a number of pending civic works. The residents claimed that the merger in 2017 was not beneficial to them as a host of issues, including property tax, reservation of land and civic infrastructure projects, had been pending since the inclusion. The residents’ group submitted a memorandum to this effect to the urban development and public works minister, Eaknath Shinde. “We want the civic administration to look into the matter of property tax. After the merger of the villages in the PMC, the property tax has gone up drastically. A group of citizens have demanded that the property tax should be charged at the same rate as in the gram panchayat,” said Ulhas Shewale, former sarpanch of the village. The proposal to merge 34 the villages was approved by the PMC in 2013-14, but the merger did not take place. A committee of villagers then approached Bombay high court, following which the PMC merged 11 villages in its jurisdiction in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/uruli-devachi-push-to-exit-pmc-limits/articleshow/79746556.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Meerut||Satellite records 4,600 crop residue burning cases in UP till Nov 30||BIJNOR: Agriculture and cane department officials are now keeping a hawk eye on the crop residue burning incidents in the state to improve the air quality index. Since harvesting began this season, UP has recorded 4,600 crop burning incidents. Earlier on November 30, the cane commissioner had issued notices to district cane officers of eight districts, including Meerut, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar, to check stubble burning. Every year, with the onset of winter, air quality deteriorates to “poor” and “severe” in Delhi and NCR due to burning of garbage and crop residue post harvesting. According to data provided by the agriculture department, satellite monitoring Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh has recorded a total of 79,693 instances of crop residue and garbage burning in Punjab alone till November 30. Haryana accounted for 5,678 instances and UP, 4,659 cases of crop residue burning. Last year, 50,335 burnings were detected in Punjab, 6;364 in Haryana and 4,230 in UP during the same period. At the same time, the satellite recording also showed that burning cases in Haryana and UP are now declining. In UP, paddy has been harvested. But cane farmers continue to burn dry leaves of sugarcane stalks before ploughing their fields for the next crop. Taking serious note of this, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, cane commissioner, has directed cane officials to sensitize farmers about this serious impact on both air and soil. He has d served notices to eight district cane officers -- in Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Meerut, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Kushinagar and Maharajganj -- asking them why they have shown a reluctance in checking crop residue burning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/satellite-records-4600-crop-residue-burning-cases-in-up-till-nov-30/articleshow/79745648.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||‘Budhi Diwali’ festivities start in Uttarakhand’s Jaunsar Bawar region||DEHRADUN: A month after the rest of the country celebrated Diwali, the people of Jaunsar Bawar region in Uttarakhand began the celebration of Budhi Diwali, a variant of the festival of lights, on Monday. The five-day-long festival is celebrated one month after Diwali as it is believed that the news of Lord Ram’s homecoming to Ayodhya reached the hills late. Thus, the festivities of Budhi Diwali start on the first 'amavasya' (or new moon) after the regular Diwali. Unlike Diwali, no firecrackers are burst during the celebration of Budhi Diwali. According to the tradition of the festival, people dance in long chains around a bonfire on folk tunes. They also make small bundles of the twigs of Deodar trees and light it from the bonfire. “Locals celebrate the festival with great fervour every year. Wood from pine trees is set on fire and people prepare fritters (pakoras) from pulses and rice flakes to distribute it among neighbours, friends, and relatives,” said Birender Rawat, a resident of Banglo-Ki-Kandi village, located around 13 kilometres from Mussoorie. In a similar vein, Gopal Rawat, a resident of Sahiya village in Chakrata Tehsil, said, “Locals living in other states come back to their native villages for Budhi Diwali. In several rural areas, women and men present their folk culture through group dance performances.” In several hilly areas of the state like Chakrata, Kalsi, Damta, Jaunpur, Dharasu, Barkot, and some parts of Uttarkashi, Budhi Diwali is known as ‘Diyai’. The festival is also celebrated in the adjoining state of Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhands-very-own-5-day-long-budhi-diwali-celebrations-begin-in-jaunsar-bawar-region/articleshow/79745655.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
December 16, 2020||India||OCI students eligible for state quota, says K’taka HC||BENGALURU: Students holding Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards must be treated as Indian citizens for the purpose of admission to professional courses and they are entitled to admission under the state quota, the Karnataka high court ruled. The court observation came while disposing of a batch of petitions by students and a writ appeal by the state government. A division bench comprising Justices BV Nagarathna and NS Sanjay Gowda pointed out that when the issue pertains to citizenship, the state law must yield to the Citizenship Act, the central legislation enacted by Parliament. The HC said the petitioners were minors at the time of filing of petitions and had the benefit of a dual citizenship being conferred on account of their birth in a foreign country and also citizenship of India as per the Act, a right particularly conferred on minors so as to safeguard and protect their interests until they attain majority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/oci-students-eligible-for-state-quota-says-ktaka-hc/articleshow/79749454.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
December 16, 2020||Agra||95% of 9,899 Covid patients recover in Agra district||AGRA: Out of the 9,899 Covid –19 cases reported in Agra district till date, 95.18% of patients have been declared cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. The number of active Covid cases has decreased from 323 on Monday to 308 on Tuesday. As many as 43 Covid patients were discharged on Tuesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.51%. So far, 9,422 people have been cured of the infection. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly practice social distancing”. Meanwhile, 18 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district’s tally to 9,899. Among the patients were two staffers of the district hospital. Three of the patients were diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome and two of severe acute respiratory infection. Three patients had influenza-like symptoms, two were suffering from coronary artery infection and one was a kidney patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/95-of-9899-covid-patients-recover-in-agra-district/articleshow/79745661.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Isro chairman to address AKTU||Lucknow: Chairman of Indian Space Research Organization Kailasavadivoo Sivan will address students of Dr APJ Kalam Technical University during its 18thconvocation on January 16. Over 55,000 students will be awarded degrees and 65 will receive medals from Governor Anandiben Patel. “The convocation will be in online mode. Only medal winners will be invited to the hall,” said AKTU spokesperson Asheesh Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/isro-chairman-to-address-aktu/articleshow/79748907.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Winter session likely to start on stormy note as Cong to raise issues of inflation, farm laws, Covid-19||DEHRADUN: With the Congress all set to target the ruling BJP over the issues of inflation, farmer laws, jobs and “failure to handle Covid-19,” the upcoming three-day-long assembly session is likely to start on a stormy note. Besides, NSUI, the youth wing of Congress, has announced to stage a gherao of the assembly building on the first day of the session on December 21. Congress state chief and Chakrata MLA Pritam Singh said, “The BJP government of Uttarakhand did not apply its sense in tackling Covid-19 and simply followed guidelines from the Centre. The testing remains low and more testing centres have also not been raised. Till date, the state should have tested at least 50 lakh people for the virus.” Singh did not fail to mention that rather than focusing on Covid-19, the state government “was more interested in opening liquor stores and other shops. Those who have recovered from Covid-19 are sharing their experiences of poor medical care and facilities.” He maintained that the issues related to the common man of Uttarakhand would be “strongly” raised in the House and a debate would be called on them. He further added that a big turnout is expected for the protest called by the NSUI on the first day of the winter session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/winter-session-likely-to-start-on-stormy-note-as-cong-to-raise-issues-of-inflation-farm-laws-covid-19/articleshow/79745663.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 snuffs out 5 lives, leaves 70 infected in dist||Ludhiana: Five residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 70 tested positive on Tuesday.According to the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 40-year-old woman of Guru Nanak Nagar, Khanna, who had diabetes, hypertension and bronchial asthma; a 76-year-old man of Sidhwan Bet; a 63-year-old man of Rajguru Nagar, who had diabetes and chronic kidney and artery disease; a 49-year-old woman of Dugri with bronchial asthma and hypertension; and a 60-year-old man of Cheema Chowk.The day also saw five outsiders succumbing to the disease and 18 testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally was 939 and that of outsiders 417.To date, 5,01,013 persons have been tested.Of the 70 new cases, 28 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), nine positive cases’ contacts, 17 from OPD, 11 through tracing process, four severe acute respiratory infection cases and one healthcare worker.The local health department officials said the district case count was 24,077 and that of outsiders 3,512.So far, 22,495 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.42% of the total cases.The district has 640 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,484.On Tuesday, 157 persons were quarantined and 2,294 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Sixteen patients are on ventilators. Of them, six are from Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-snuffs-out-5-lives-leaves-70-infected-in-dist/articleshow/79745675.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||LDCA Twenty-20: Eight teams register, matches from Dec 18||Ludhiana: In a boost to the newly-formed managing committee of the Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA), eight teams have enrolled for its Twenty-20 league, which is being organised from December 18 to 27. Several cricket stars, including Yuvraj Singh and some IPL players, will participate in this tournament, which will be held at two cricket grounds: Hara Cricket Ground and GRD Institute Ground. This is the first-ever major tournament being organised in Ludhiana and has been approved by the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA). LDCA president Satish Mangal said, “We are overwhelmed with the response this tournament has received. Eight teams have registered with us and they have been categorised in two groups. The teams in group A include Punjab Reds, Patiala Colts HRCF, Jalandhar XI and Malwa Heroes. Group B has Punjab Blues, Ludhiana XI, Mohali Legends and Amandeep CC Amritsar. The tournament will start on December 18 and all the matches will be between 11am and 2pm. The duration of each match is 85 minutes. Each of the eight teams will play three matches, all of which will be officiated by state panel umpires and scorers.”Bhupinder Singh Senior, member of the organising committee of LDCA, said, “This tournament is already a success as we are getting tremendous response from noted cricketers to play in it. Till now, Yuvraj Singh, national-level players, Mandeep Singh, Gurkirat Mann and Sandeep Sharma, and Indian Premier League (IPL) cricketers, Anmolpreet Singh, Prabhsimran Singh and others, have confirmed their participation. Many others are yet to confirm. Entire team of LDCA is working to make this tournament a big hit and bring Ludhiana on the cricketing map of the country. Best in class arrangements are being made and special focus is on the safety measures in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.”This tournament is a prize money league-cum-knock out invitational T-20 tournament, which is being sponsored by a Ludhiana-based textile conglomerate. It carries a cash prize of Rs 1.5 lakh for the winning team and Rs 75,000 for the runners-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ldca-twenty-20-eight-teams-register-matches-from-dec-18/articleshow/79745669.cms||Mohit Behl
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||ATM, cash catch fire as thieves try to rob it||tnnLudhiana: An automated teller machine (ATM) of Punjab & Sindh Bank on Ferozepur Road caught fire and Rs 5.23 lakh were gutted as thieves tried to break it open early on Tuesday morning.The matter came to light when a security guard of the bank reached there. He raised the alarm and called up the bank manager. Amar Kumar, manager of Punjab & Sindh Bank, Ferozepur Road, branch, said, “The ATM kiosk is near the bank. On Tuesday morning, when security guard Sunil Kumar reached there, he found the kiosk burnt.” Amar Kumar scanned the CCTV installed in the kiosk. “The CCTV had captured a man, who entered the kiosk with a gas cutter. The man first sprayed something on the camera so that he could not be captured. He then tried to break open the ATM with the gas cutter. But it caught fire. The flames destroyed the machine, Rs 5.23 lakh kept in it and an AC installed in the kiosk.” Amar Kumar then lodged a police complaint.Sarabha Nagar police station ASI Davinder Kumar said, “The kiosk was closed. The accused first broke open its shutter and then the glass door to gain entry around 4.20am. One of the accused was captured on the CCTV. Cameras installed near the spot are being scanned. It seems more people were involved in it.” A case has been registered under sections 457 (trespassing), 380 (theft in dwelling house etc), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 511 (attempt to commit an offence), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/atm-cash-catch-fire-as-thieves-try-to-rob-it/articleshow/79745670.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Bail denied to accused in ASI attack case in Ponda||PONDA: The additional district and sessions court at Ponda on Monday rejected the bail plea of Shubham Sawant and Krishna Khadka in a case of assault on an on-duty Ponda police officer. Khadka, 30, and Sawant, 28, had assaulted an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jitendra Gaude when the latter had gone to apprehend Sawant in a house break-in case. The ASI was attacked with a broken glass bottle on October 20 and he received 52 stitches on his head and neck as a result. Sawant was wanted in a house break-in theft and police were tipped off that the resident of Panditwada-Ponda, was seen at a bar in Haveli, on outskirts of Ponda. Soon after their arrest in the case, the duo had applied for bail. On Monday, additional district judge Bela Naik rejected the bail plea. They are in judicial custody at Colvale Central Jail, public prosecutor Satyawan Raut Dessai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-denied-to-accused-in-asi-attack-case-in-ponda/articleshow/79748911.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Yogi Adityanath asks BJP leaders to help people sort out grievances||PRAYAGRAJ: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) public representatives and office-bearers to take up local residents’ grievances with government officials and try to get them sorted out. The CM interacted with party leaders and workers at Circuit House in Prayagraj on Wednesday. Yogi’s direction came after public representatives claimed that officials of various government departments particularly power and irrigation, the municipal corporation and, police were showing laxity in doing their duty and were not taking public issues seriously. “If any official is not taking public grievances sincerely, public representatives and organisational office-bearers should first examine the issue along with officials concerned. If the grievance is still not sorted out, then bring the issue to me,” said the CM. He cautioned that the public representatives and office-bearers should first examine the issue themselves before bringing it before him. Talking about the voters’ review campaign, the CM said that public representatives and BJP office-bearers should work jointly and coordinate with the local administration to rectify errors in the voters’ lists. “Efforts should be made to include more young voters particularly those who have completed 18 years of age recently,” Yogi added. BJP media in charge Rajesh Kesharwani said, “CM Yogi Adityanath talked to party leaders and workers at length. He directed party members and representatives of government to sit together once a month to find out problems or grievances of the public and then get them resolved with the help of the officials concerned.” “If officials concerned are not taking up the issues promptly, the grievance should be brought to his notice. However, before taking the issue to the CM, public representatives and organisational office-bearers should examine the issue themselves to determine its authenticity,” he added. Kesharwani also said that the chief minister has asked BJP office-bearers and public representatives to coordinate and work together to take the government’s welfare policies to the masses. Meanwhile, the chief minister also dedicated a public address system, body-worn cameras and surveillance vehicles to the people of Prayagraj at Reserve Police Lines. He also said that the state government is committed to provide high-class facilities to the people. A senior police official said, “A public address system has been installed at 206 locations across the city which are being controlled through the ICCC. Around 300 policemen have been given body-worn cameras. Besides, a mobile surveillance system has also been installed at 36 112 vehicles and seven prison vans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cm-asks-bjp-leaders-to-help-people-sort-out-grievances/articleshow/79766229.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kochi||Cases under legal metrology act on rise in Ernakulam||KOCHI: With more shops and other establishments opening after a lull period due to pandemic and related lockdowns, cases of violations pertaining to Legal Metrology Act (LMA) 2009 have also started rising in Ernakulam. As many as 165 cases were registered in November as against 48 in August, 83 in September and 93 in October in Ernakulam. The cases were related to underweight and measurement of the produce, imposing excess price and violation in package commodities where details on ingredients and manufacture is missing. The cases are registered by the flying squad and inspectors in eight taluks. Officials expect that cases will rise further as the elections are over. Currently, the flying squad is conducting inspection based on complaints from consumers as Covid restrictions are preventing officers to enter shops and inspect commodities. “More shops have started functioning by November and it is reflected in the cases registered. We had carried out inspections in shops soon after the restrictions were lifted. But cases were less as many shops remained closed. The cases will increase further once all shop and establishments open,” said a legal metrology officer. Though people selling homemade products on roadsides often violate rules related to packaged commodities, officials prefer to turn their back to the issue as many of those are finding it hard to make both the ends meet during the pandemic times. “Those who open shops after taking loan with the support of industries department are aware of the rules of running a shop and what they should follow while selling a product. The industries department gives them awareness on all the rules and Legal Metrology Act. But others do not have that opportunity to learn things. This invariably result in violation of package commodities and other rules under the act,” said D Shamon, deputy controller of flying squad of the legal metrology department in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cases-under-legal-metrology-act-on-rise/articleshow/79745685.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Panthera study identifies more reliable metrics to save tigers||Nagpur: Challenging long-standing metrics used to monitor and conserve endangered tigers across Asia, a new 13-year study from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and Panthera, the global wildcat conservation organization, has identified more reliable and robust metrics to qualify recovery of tiger populations and success of conservation initiatives. Conducted from 2004-2017 in northern India’s Rajaji National Park, the study, whose findings were recently published in the journal Biological Conservation, cautions against relying on solely tiger population increases and densities at local and national scales, metrics which have served as the traditional standard of success across tiger range for decades. Instead, the study finds that both the survival rate of tigers and how long female tigers remain in habitat and have litters at individual sites are more reliable benchmarks for certifying long-term population recovery and success. Panthera chief scientist and tiger programme senior director Dr John Goodrich stated, “This study identifies critical metrics, right under our nose, that can help improve how we monitor tigers and ultimately implement conservation initiatives carried out on the species’ behalf across Asia.” Goodrich continued, “What is also telling about the study’s findings is the incredible resilience of the tiger. Given the right circumstances, including abundant prey, threats kept in check and connections to other tiger populations, the species can and will return from the brink.” The study monitored three different habitats in Rajaji National Park to identify conditions facilitating tiger population recovery. Connected to a large source population of tigers in the Corbett Tiger Reserve, the first region was absent of people and livestock, leading to an increase in prey like spotted deer. The tiger population density tripled to 7 tigers/100 sq km, similar to estimates known from other well-protected sources sites across the range. But more importantly, female tigers maintained their ranges in the habitat for an average of 4 years, during which they produced 13 litters. In the second habitat, connected to the first protected region, which is still home to families with livestock, tiger density increased, but the survival rate was lower. Females remained for an average of only one year, with just one female producing a litter. Finally, in the third area, unconnected to the first two regions, only two female tigers remained, making its population functionally extinct. Panthera assistant tiger program director and lead author Dr Abishek Harihar stated, “Our findings highlight how critical site-based long-term monitoring is for evaluating the effectiveness of conservation actions for recovering tigers. Moving forward, Panthera will more rigorously measure tiger survival and female land tenure, and include these metrics in assessments and conservation plans of core tiger areas.” Tiger populations have plummeted in the last century from 1,00,000 to about 3,900. In recent years, the illegal poaching of wild tigers has significantly increased to meet the demands of a $20 billion a year illegal wildlife market. Through the Tigers Forever Program, Panthera is working to increase wild tiger populations by 50% over ten years. The program is training and outfitting local law enforcement and scientists to monitor tigers and secure tiger habitats from poachers, including stopping poaching before it happens using PoacherCams — the world’s first camera that can distinguish between people and animals and alert law enforcement about poachers in real time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panthera-study-identifies-more-reliable-metrics-to-save-tigers/articleshow/79765784.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 16, 2020||Kochi||No interference inappointment of IT team: Kerala HC||KOCHI: The high court on Tuesday said there was no interference from any quarters in the appointment of five IT professionals on temporary basis to the court. Recent news articles had alleged that IAS officer M Sivasankar had exerted influence in the appointments, similar to the alleged appointment of Swapna Suresh to Space Park project. It was also reported by some media organizations that the present chief justice has ordered an enquiry into the appointments, which was the outcome of a decision made in a meeting chaired in February 2018 by then chief justice. Further, the reports had said the state government had informed the HC that National Informatics Centre (NIC) was incapable to provide IT support to the HC. A press release issued by HC registrar general Sophy Thomas said the appointments were made by a panel headed by judges and with the approval of the chief justice. Through the press release, the HC said, “It was with the approval of the then hon’ble chief justice that the interview was conducted, chaired by a judge of this court, and later appointments were made. The selection procedure was carried out by the HC and there was no interference from any quarters. There is no enquiry ordered by the present chief justice against the said recruitment. The government had at no time expressed any incapacity on the part of NIC and there is no move to avoid NIC from the development of IT infrastructure of the HC. As per the specific proposal of the HC, sanctioned by the government, the technical team appointed has to work alongside the NIC.” While the initial discussion was to create a permanent IT cadre at the HC, a decision to appoint personnel on contract basis was taken in a February 2018 meeting, chaired by then chief justice, on the suggestion of the state government that it is better in view of the fast-changing scenario in IT. Secretary of IT department, representing the state government and as state informatics officer of NIC, had attended the meeting chaired by the then chief justice. It was reported by media that Sivasankar was the IT secretary in February 2018 and that two government officials were included in the interview board as technical experts on his suggestion. HC’s press note said a list of seven government officials was forwarded by the IT secretary, as directed by a three-judges committee, from which two officials were selected as technical experts to be included in the interview board headed by a HC judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-no-interference-inappointment-of-it-team/articleshow/79745680.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 3 working groups to iron out property registration issues||HYDERABAD: Three more working groups will be formed to resolve issues related to the new property registration system. Revealing details of their meeting with realtors on the issue, roads and buildings minister and cabinet sub-committee head Vemula Prashanth Reddy on Tuesday said two groups would be assigned tasks of resolving legal and technical issues, while another group would carry out field visits to know problems. Assuring that the government would resolve all problems in the next one week, he said that sub-registrar offices would also be divided into ones with heavy demand and those with less demand. The staff from less demand offices would be shifted to those with high demand. Development agreements-cum-general power of attorney (DGPA) provision would be made available from Wednesday, while GPA, SPA mortgage would be available soon. “On December 17, a workshop will be held with all stakeholders,” he said. Property tax identification number (PTIN), a unique number, was brought in to make sure there were no wrong registrations. He also asked the bankers not to have any apprehensions on the registration system. Within three months, registration backlog would be cleared. “We will try to clarify the apprehensions on sale deeds also,” he said. “Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asked us to give unique identity number to each property. A system is put in place in tune with that,” he added. Meanwhile, protests took took place at sub-registrar offices across the state. Document writers’ association protested before the Uppal sub-registrar office. In Karimnagar, only six slots were booked. Document writers participated in a dharna in front of the Sangareddy registration office, claiming they were losing their livelihood because of the new registration system. In Khammam district’s Kusumanchi sub-registrar office, realtors protested. They wanted LRS and BRS to be scrapped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-working-groups-to-iron-out-property-registration-issues/articleshow/79746586.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, Andhra Pradesh high court CJs shifted out in major reshuffle||NEW DELHI: At a time when the Andhra Pradesh high court has ordered probes into vilification of the judiciary through social media posts and CM Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has written a letter to CJI S A Bobde for restoring neutrality of the HC, the Supreme Court collegium has decided to recommend transfer of AP Chief Justice J K Maheshwari to the Sikkim HC. The collegium headed by CJI Bobde on Tuesday recommended transfer of Justice Maheshwari, who was heading AP HC with a sanctioned strength of 37 judges, as CJ of Sikkim HC, which has a sanctioned strength of three judges. Sikkim HC CJ A K Goswami has been recommended as CJ of AP HC. The collegium decided to transfer Telangana HC CJ R S Chauhan as CJ of Uttarakhand HC, where Justice Ravi Malimath is acting CJ. Delhi HC’s Justice Hima Kohli has been recommended to be CJ of Telangana. After an SC bench headed by Justice N V Ramana passed an order for expediting trial in pending criminal cases against politicos, the AP police had registered an FIR against daughters of Justice Ramana and ex-advocate general in an alleged irregular land purchase case. However, the Andhra Pradesh HC had passed a gag order on reporting the FIR. This had led to Reddy writing a letter to the CJI followed by a press conference to attack the SC judge and the chief justice of Andhra Pradesh HC. Two dozen criminal cases are pending against Reddy in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Political sources in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were agog with the impending transfer of the incumbent CJs of the two states since Monday evening. The collegium also recommended appointment of Justice S Muralidhar, who is a judge in Punjab and Haryana HC though his parent HC is Delhi, as the chief justice of Orissa HC. Orissa HC CJ Mohammad Rafiq has been transferred to Madhya Pradesh HC as CJ. The HC is at present headed by acting CJ Sanjay Yadav. The collegium has also decided to recommend the appointment of Justice Sanjib Banerjee as the chief justice of Madras HC. Madras HC CJ Amreshwar Pratap Sahi is scheduled to retire on December 31. The collegium’s decision to transfer the Andhra Pradesh CJ has raised eyebrows in legal circles. The Andhra Pradesh police had registered an FIR against Justice Ramana’s daughters for purchasing land in Amaravati in June 2015, immediately after a bench headed by him took up a PIL seeking to expedite snail-paced trials in criminal cases against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. Justice Ramana is in line to become the next CJI. The CM sent a complaint to the CJI soon after the Justice Ramana-led bench sought an action plan from high courts for completion of trials against politicians within a year. Advocates’ associations across the country had passed resolutions condemning the Andhra Pradesh CM’s letter and termed it a tactic to pressurise and malign the judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-ap-high-court-cjs-shifted-out-in-major-reshuffle/articleshow/79749294.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Appoint TSPSC members soon: Talangana CM||HYDERABAD: At a time when Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has announced a large-scale recruitment drive to fill 50,000 posts across departments, the retirement of three members of the Telangana State Public Service Commission (TSPSC) — apart from its chairman — has left some wondering how the CM will fulfill his promise. TSPSC chairman, Ghanta Chakrapani, along with members C Vittal, Chandravati and Mateenuddin Quadri are set to demit office on Thursday, six years after the commission was formed. Their retirement will leave the commission with only two members. “It is very important that the government appoints a chairman and members at the earliest,” said Manavatha Roy, chairman, Telangana Students and Unemployed Joint Action Committee.  “When the apex body that deals with issuance of job notification itself runs without members and a head, how does the government expect us to believe the chief minister’s promise to hold a large-scale recruitment drive?” said Roy. While there isn’t any confirmation yet, sources indicate that the chief minister is keen on appointing a civil servant as head of TSPSC for a year or two. Among the front-runners, they add, are retired IPS officer Naveen Chand and outgoing member, C Vittal. Job aspirants, however, feel that the Telangana State Public Service Commission chairman’s post must go to an academician and not a bureaucrat. “I had appeared for the TSPSC Hindi language teacher exam in February 2018 and till date I have not received any appointment letter. If a bureaucrat is appointed, he/she will not understand the problem we face. Many may not even entertain us in their office. It’s best that they appoint someone from the field of education who understands our concerns better,” said Thayyab Mohammed, an aspirant who has been waiting for an appointment letter from TSPSC for the last two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/appoint-tspsc-members-soon/articleshow/79746590.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: MC kicks up a stink about mandi board waste management||LUDHIANA: Over two years after the municipal corporation served notices on bulk waste generators for settlement of garbage at their level, a row has erupted between it and the mandi board officials. The MC claimed that two years have passed since they started asking the mandi board to arrange for its waste, but it has not paid any heed to it. The civic body had served notices on 31 institutions. All but the mandi board have made arrangements to tackle the waste. The bulk waste generators include hospitals, schools, universities, hotels and colleges that produce more than 100kg garbage. They were told to manage solid waste by composting. Officials said the vegetable market daily produces at least 10 metric tonne of garbage and in the absence of a proper system, it remains in a mess. Under the Solid Waste Management Rules of 2016, establishments producing waste more than 100 kg in a day should segregate it and also install a compost plant. There is a provision of imposing a penalty of Rs 10,000 on defaulters. As per MC officials, the city is gradually turning into a big garbage dump as 1,100 tonne of trash is produced daily. The officials are expecting to reduce total garbage production of the city by 30%. Medical officer Vipul Malhotra said, “We were continuously asking the bulk waste generators to make arrangements. The mandi board officials are yet to act despite the fact that the vegetable market produces garbage in bulk.” Market committee secretary Vinod Kumar said, “We are in the process of getting a system installed and final inspections are complete. We are expecting a response from the state government in 10 days. Earlier, A2Z waste management company was lifting garbage from the premises, but now they have stopped doing it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-kicks-up-a-stink-about-mandi-board-waste-mgmt/articleshow/79745691.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
December 16, 2020||Agra||Man beats wife to death for dowry in Sungarhi||PILIBHIT: A 29-year-old woman died after allegedly being beaten up by her husband for dowry in Roopur Kamalu village under Sungarhi on Monday night. The woman has been identified as Saraswati Devi. A written complaint has been filed by the deceased’s father, Heera Lal. He alleged that his son-in-law, Surendra Pal of village Chandupur under Madhotanda police station, and his parent had begun torturing his daughter for dowry soon after her marriage. The SHO of Sungarhi police station, Atar Singh said that the police were waiting for the autopsy report before lodging an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-beats-wife-to-death-for-dowry/articleshow/79745703.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||TS Eamcet 2021 exam may be postponed by a month; parents & teachers against holding JEE in Feb||HYDERABAD: The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) might be held from February 2021, but the Telangana Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET), which is generally held in May, will likely be postponed by at least a month. The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) officials said that depending on inter board examinations, the Telenagana EAMCET examination date will be decided after taking suggestions of Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education officials. “It is too early to say anything about the EAMCET. Once the intermediate board announces inter examination syllabus and dates, we will decide on EAMCET. The exam will most likely be postponed at least by four weeks,” told T Papi Reddy, chairman, TSCHE to TOI. Meanwhile, the decision of National Testing Agency’s (NTA) to conduct JEE four times in 2021 has not gone down well with lecturers and parents. Calling the move completely unnecessary, they said that conducting JEE as early as in February will create tremendous pressure on students, especially because the syllabus is not completed in most of the colleges. “Conducting competitive exams continuously for fourths months is not advisable and can have adverse impact on board examinations as well,” said Ashok Kumar, IIT Coordinator, Narayana Group of Institutions. Few, however, opined that students might prefer appearing for JEE in February or May as those dates are not going to coincide with board examinations. “NTA is giving more options to students. They don’t have to appear for all four exams if they are confident about their performance in one of the exams. However, this is not necessary. It’s like conducting four Olympics at the same time and giving golds medals to four different people,” said M Uma Sankar, All India Coordinator, Sri Chaitanya Group, adding that average students, however, can take advantage of these exams and secure a good score. Registrations for JEE-February had begun on Tuesday i.e December 15. Second, third, and final exam will be conducted in March, April, and May, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eamcet-exam-may-be-postponed-by-a-month-parents-teachers-against-holding-jee-in-feb/articleshow/79754715.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Pet thefts unabated with cops taking little interest||Nagpur: Animal lovers of the city are crying foul over the recent spike in theft of pets. Illegal breeders have become active in the city, and cops, overburdened with other cases, are not taking interest in animal-related complaints, making the problem worse. Vishakha Sahu and her family, whose 18-month-old male pup was stolen from their home at Katol Bypass on December 12, have been searching for their pet in the lanes of the adjoining slums themselves even after registering a FIR for the theft at Gittikhadan police station. The cops, even after nabbing the alleged thief, had set him free after keeping him in custody overnight, as they were unable to recover the puppy. The thief admitted stealing it, but said he had let it go and was unaware of its whereabouts. Activist Smita Mire said police must invoke animal related laws and other stringent provisions against those who steal pets for illegal breeding, which is a big business with earning in thousands of rupees. Sahu, despite repeated visits to Gittikhadan police station, was unable to get an FIR registered until Zonal DCP Vinita, herself a pet lover, intervened. She had ensured an FIR was registered at Sadar police station against a person who had allegedly created ruckus at her Sadar-based bungalow trying to claim her pet as his own, and tried to take it away from the police guard. Senior inspector Sunil Chavan of Gittikhadan police station said cops were probing the theft of Sahu’s pet. “There had been an earlier occasion when Sahu’s pet was stolen but it was found. We are trying to trace it,” he said. Aparna Jha, a resident of Swami Colony, too was left saddened after her pup was stolen from the lane in front of her house. “It has been almost a week now and we have lost all hope of seeing it again,” said Jha, who did not approach the police. According to another source, a cross-breed female puppy was stolen from the clinic of a doctor at Central Avenue, where it had been brought just a couple of days ago. In another case, a pet owner approached Wadi police station after she managed to trace the thief who stole her dog from the lane in front of her house at Kachimet. The cops forced the thief to return the dog, and restored it to the owner, but did not take any further legal action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pet-thefts-unabated-with-cops-taking-little-interest/articleshow/79746692.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 23,000 get seats, cut-offs in big colleges at high 90s||PUNE: As many as 23,120 students in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad were allotted seats in the first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI) third merit list announced by the centralised admissions process (CAP) committee on Tuesday. Over 8,929 of the total applicants were given colleges based on their first preference. The cut-off in many popular colleges in the city continued to remain in the 90s and the highest cut-off was 96.4 for science stream in Fergusson College. In charge of the CAP committee, Meena Shendkar, said, “There were a total of 46,794 applications for FYJC in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Accordingly, nearly 50% of these applicants have been allotted seats in the third round. There are enough seats vacant so students whose names have not figured in the third list need not worry as we will have a special round when they can try for a better chance.” The highest number of seats were allocated in science stream with over 10,000 applicants getting an allotment. There are a total of 304 colleges in Pune region for FYJC seats with an intake of 1.07 lakh. The seats for inhouse and management quota are being filled at college level. Students allotted the colleges can go to their online form application and click on 'proceed' button to confirm their seat. They have time till December 18 for confirming their seats, Shendkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-23k-get-seats-cut-offs-in-big-colleges-at-high-90s/articleshow/79746724.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||This New Year, residents move celebrations uphill||NIGHT CURFEW Ludhiana: Disappointed over the night curfew on New Year’s Eve, city’s party animals have decided to head to other cities, especially hill stations, to celebrate. Most hotels in the hill states have put a condition of a minimum two-night stay for the New Year, besides they are charging high rates and some are already overbooked. Gurpreet Singh Chawla, president of the micro and small travel agents’ association, Ludhiana, said, “We are receiving a large number of inquiries for hotel bookings for the New Year’s eve at Dharamsala, Shimla, Mussoorie and even Udaipur and Kota. Most of the queries are from groups who want to celebrate, but are unable to because of night curfew in Punjab till January 1. There is a night curfew in Himachal Pradesh too, but hotels are organising parties and activities for in-house guests. However, majority of the hotels are offering a minimum two nights’ package and it’s not possible for some to extend the holiday as all three days, December 30, 31 and January 1, are week days.” According to Susheel Sharma, manager of a travel agency, “There has been an increase in queries for New Year packages for hill stations. But there are problems as most of the good properties are already booked and premium charges are being quoted by hotels. So all queries may not translate into final bookings.” Navjot Singh, a realtor from BRS Nagar, said, “We are a group of eight couples and every year we organise a party. But due to night curfew till January 1, we have decided to book a hotel in Kausali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-new-year-residents-move-celebrations-uphill/articleshow/79745708.cms||Mohit Behl
December 16, 2020||Pune||Admissions under RTE up to Dec 21||Pune: The last date for admissions for seats reserved under Right to Education Act 2009 has been extended till December 21. Till now, 84,000 students have been admitted under various schools registered in the state. Under the RTE Act, 25% seats in all entry-level classes in unaided private schools are reserved for students from socially and economically backward families. This year, a total of 9,331 schools were registered in the state with a vacancy of 1,15,477. Of these, till December 15, 2,91,368 applications for admission were submitted of which 1,36,257 were selected and 84,523 confirmed their admissions. An official at the primary education department said, “An SMS is sent to the registered cellphone number of the parent whenever there is a vacancy and their ward is allotted that seat. However, the parent needs to keep checking the status of their ward’s admission using their login id and password.” In Pune, 972 schools have registered in which there are 16,950 seats available of which 11,141 seats have already been claimed by the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admissions-under-rte-up-to-dec-21/articleshow/79746688.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Non-teaching staff association plans to move court against contract rule||PUNE: The recent government notification stating that there will be no recruitment of class IV posts, mostly peons, in aided schools, has drawn flak from schools. Some officials said the grant-in-aid proposed needs to be revised as the amount is meagre. The non-teaching staff associations have decided to move court against the decision. Peons and other class IV staff perform several duties. They distribute the rice to parents in lieu of midday meals, take temperatures and check oxygen saturation levels now that schools have reopened, monitor cleanliness and ensure that outsiders do not enter the school premises. Education expert Vasant Kalpande, member-secretary of the Chiplunkar Committee had recommended increased staffing patterns for non-teaching staff in the 1980s. It was implemented in the 1990s. He said there is nothing off the mark with the new resolution, but the honorarium/grant needs to be revised. “ As the member-secretary of the workload committee for non-teaching staff, we carried out a survey in various schools and recommended how there was a need for more non-teaching staff and based it on the number of students or the number of classes and their divisions as the case may be. But, that was a different time and the functions were different. In this day and age, the rule can be implemented. But, the quantum of honorarium paid needs to be revised,” Kalpande said. Satish Nadgauda, president of Maharashtra Non-teaching Staff Association, said while contractual workers may work in other sectors, the same cannot be applied to the education sector. “There is a relationship of trust between the mama-mausi (peons and aayas) working in the school. Checking the background of the contractual employee who is cleaning the washrooms used by your wards is difficult. Teachers rely a lot on peons and peons too tend to keep a check on students and report to teachers if they see anything unusual. This will not be possible in the future,” he added. The Chiplinkar Committee, set up after an agitation in 1975, made some recommendations. NCP chief Sharad Pawar was the president of the association. In 1994, when he was in the state government, the recommendations were finally implemented, Nadgauda said. “How can the same government (NCP is a part of the current government) decide to abolish this post once the currently employed people retire?” he said. He has been going to court against previous decisions by the government against non-teaching staff and he will appeal in the court against this decision too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/non-teaching-staff-association-plans-to-move-court-against-contract-rule/articleshow/79746686.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Cash-for-vote: Charges framed on accused in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In a significant development, the ACB special court in Hyderabad on Tuesday framed the charges against the accused in the cash-for-vote case. TDP legislators and leaders were arrested for trying to bribe independent MLA Elvis Stephenson to lure him into voting for a TDP nominee in 2015 MLC elections. MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah and MP A Revanth Reddy (who is with Congress now) will have to face the trial in the case. The ACB court issued non-bailable warrant for accused Rudra Udaya Simha who failed to appear before the court on Tuesday. The case was adjourned to December 22 for further hearing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cash-for-vote-charges-framed-on-accused/articleshow/79746663.cms||Nikhil J Nair
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Educators tell pupils of professional courses to begin rigorous self-study||PUNE: First-year students of engineering and other professional courses must start studying from Day 1 if they want to finish the syllabus well before the term-end examinations, teachers said. Neither has the directorate of technical education nor Savitribai Phule Pune University announced any syllabus cut for professional colleges. A S Marathe, dean of academics at Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said every engineering student must have a a daily study plan, this year. “With hardly any physical classes and less time, piling up everything for the preparatory leave would be a bad decision. Students must have a timetable, dedicate at least 6-9 hours a week for his studies and they must keep a log of it. Engineering is different from std XII and they must be prepared to cope with the diversity and depth of the syllabus,” he said. Sukrut Deo of Bharati Vidyapeeth New Law College said a new law student should focus on self-study this year. “We never recommend that law students use readymade notes. We suggest books and to make their own notes. This year, they should also study at home for at least three hours a day, beyond online lectures. The previous year’s question papers can be studied, but the latest updates and changes should also be checked. Law students must take guidance from their teachers for quick notes on case laws and judgments. They must use official websites like SCC Online, Manupatra, LexisNexis, CLA Online for cases from the high courts and Supreme Court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/educators-tell-pupils-of-professional-courses-to-begin-rigorous-self-study/articleshow/79746763.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 16, 2020||World||‘UK views India as key partner post Brexit'||LONDON: UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s acceptance of PM Narendra Modi’s invitation to be guest of honour at India’s Republic Day is a significant move demonstrating that Britain views India as a key strategic partner in a post-Brexit post-pandemic world. The trip will be the UK PM’s first major bilateral visit since taking office, the first since the UK’s departure from the EU on January 31 and the first since the end of the transition period on December 31. Johnson will become the second British leader to attend the Republic Day parade, after ex-PM John Major in 1993. Johnson said, “I am absolutely delighted to be visiting India next year at the start of an exciting year for Global Britain and look forward to delivering the quantum leap in our bilateral relationship that Prime Minister Modi and I have pledged to achieve. As a key player in the Indo-Pacific region, India is an increasingly indispensable partner for the UK as we work to boost jobs and growth, confront shared threats to our security and protect our planet.” As to why Johnson chose India for his first major bilateral visit, a Downing Street spokesperson told TOI, “India is an important strategic partner in the region and an increasingly indispensable partner for the UK as we work to boost jobs and growth, confront shared threats to our security and protect our planet." Aaditya Dave, research analyst at RUSI, a defence and security studies think tank, said, “With the UK initiating an Indo-Pacific tilt in its foreign policy, India is likely to be viewed as a crucial strategic partner. The economic and people-to-people foundations of the relationship are being added to by a growing alignment between New Delhi and London in their outlook towards China as well as deepening cooperation on Covid response and climate change measures.” In 2021, the UK will host the G7 Leaders’ Meeting and the COP26 Summit. Johnson has invited Modi to attend the G7 Summit as one of three guest nations alongside South Korea and Australia. Kevin McCole, managing director of the UK India Business Council, said, “It’s striking and absolutely appropriate that this will be Johnson’s first bilateral visit since Brexit and since he became PM. He’s the third UK PM in a row to make India their first destination, reinforcing just how important India is to the UK. As we exit a tough 2020, this visit will start 2021 in a hugely positive way.” Kapil Dudakia, a UK-based political analyst, said, “The PM’s visit to India sends a powerful message globally. India is emerging as a global giant, and the UK is now in post-Brexit mode, these two nations with so much history between them stand on the cusp of redefining a relationship that can be of mutual benefit and fit for the 21st century.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-views-india-as-key-partner-post-brexit/articleshow/79749512.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 16, 2020||India||‘UK views India as key partner post Brexit'||LONDON: UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s acceptance of PM Narendra Modi’s invitation to be guest of honour at India’s Republic Day is a significant move demonstrating that Britain views India as a key strategic partner in a post-Brexit post-pandemic world. The trip will be the UK PM’s first major bilateral visit since taking office, the first since the UK’s departure from the EU on January 31 and the first since the end of the transition period on December 31. Johnson will become the second British leader to attend the Republic Day parade, after ex-PM John Major in 1993. Johnson said, “I am absolutely delighted to be visiting India next year at the start of an exciting year for Global Britain and look forward to delivering the quantum leap in our bilateral relationship that Prime Minister Modi and I have pledged to achieve. As a key player in the Indo-Pacific region, India is an increasingly indispensable partner for the UK as we work to boost jobs and growth, confront shared threats to our security and protect our planet.” As to why Johnson chose India for his first major bilateral visit, a Downing Street spokesperson told TOI, “India is an important strategic partner in the region and an increasingly indispensable partner for the UK as we work to boost jobs and growth, confront shared threats to our security and protect our planet." Aaditya Dave, research analyst at RUSI, a defence and security studies think tank, said, “With the UK initiating an Indo-Pacific tilt in its foreign policy, India is likely to be viewed as a crucial strategic partner. The economic and people-to-people foundations of the relationship are being added to by a growing alignment between New Delhi and London in their outlook towards China as well as deepening cooperation on Covid response and climate change measures.” In 2021, the UK will host the G7 Leaders’ Meeting and the COP26 Summit. Johnson has invited Modi to attend the G7 Summit as one of three guest nations alongside South Korea and Australia. Kevin McCole, managing director of the UK India Business Council, said, “It’s striking and absolutely appropriate that this will be Johnson’s first bilateral visit since Brexit and since he became PM. He’s the third UK PM in a row to make India their first destination, reinforcing just how important India is to the UK. As we exit a tough 2020, this visit will start 2021 in a hugely positive way.” Kapil Dudakia, a UK-based political analyst, said, “The PM’s visit to India sends a powerful message globally. India is emerging as a global giant, and the UK is now in post-Brexit mode, these two nations with so much history between them stand on the cusp of redefining a relationship that can be of mutual benefit and fit for the 21st century.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uk-views-india-as-key-partner-post-brexit/articleshow/79749490.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: PMC urges police to return three rented-out properties||PUNE: The civic body has written a letter to joint CP Ravindra Shisve seeking return of three properties, including the one from where the Mundhwa police station is functioning. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had in 2018 temporarily rented out the Sakharam Kodre civic hospital premises to the Mundhwa police. It had also rented out a portion of the Annasaheb Magar dispensary for the construction of the Hadapsar police station and a plot in Ghorpadi for setting up the Ghorpadi police chowkey. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar, in his letter to Shisve, said the owners of the Kodre hospital land “have threatened legal action for gift deed condition breach that the land will be used for hospital purpose”. Businessman Sandip Kodre said, “We had donated two acre land by way of a gift deed to the PMC for running the hospital. The civic body temporarily allowed the Mundhwa police to operate from the hospital premises. The aim was to help them construct a new police station. The construction has not started till date. We wrote to the PMC in September to adhere to the gift deed terms.”  PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal told TOI, “The three properties are not meant for the police. We will soon hold a meeting with Pune police additional commissioner of police (Addl CP) Jalindar Supekar, for discussing the issues faced by them.” Supekar said, “A proposal to build a new police station building on the old Mundhwa chowkey land is pending with the Maharashtra State Police Housing Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited.” DCP (Zone V) Namrata Patil said,“We will relocate the Ghorpadi chowkey and old Hadapsar police station to a new place. It will take some time.” Anil Patrudkar, former senior inspector of the Mundhwa police, said, “Shifting of the police station is difficult because it is spread across 12,500 sq ft area on the hospital premises and is an ISO-certified facility. The PMC should take over possession of 5,500 sq ft land reserved fora three-storey police station at a cost ofRs85 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-urges-police-to-return-three-rented-out-properties/articleshow/79746843.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Contractors of GHMC may stop civic works||HYDERABAD: The GHMC contractors’ union on Tuesday said that they will stop the civic works from December 20 if their pending bills are not cleared. The contractors accused the civic body of ignoring them and said that bills amounting to Rs 300 crore were not approved. They alleged that funds were being released to private agencies undertaking works under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP) and Strategic Road development Plan (SRDP). “We have to run around data entry operators to clear our bills, if our dues are not paid, we will stop the works from December 20,” said Hanumanth Sagar, general secretary, GHMC contractors’ association. Members of the association are contractors who take up civic works including box drains and internal cement concrete roads. Meanwhile, GHMC officials said the payment was delayed due to elections. “We paid them till August, due to elections the payment was delayed,” said Jai Raj Kendy, GHMC additional commissioner, finance wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contractors-of-ghmc-may-stop-civic-works/articleshow/79746697.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Meerut||Man beats wife to death for dowry in Uttar Pradesh||PILIBHIT: A 29-year-old woman died after allegedly being beaten up by her husband for dowry in Roopur Kamalu village under Sungarhi on Monday night. The woman has been identified as Saraswati Devi. A written complaint has been filed by the deceased’s father, Heera Lal. He alleged that his son-in-law, Surendra Pal of village Chandupur under Madhotanda police station, and his parent had begun torturing his daughter for dowry soon after her marriage. The SHO of Sungarhi police station, Atar Singh said that the police were waiting for the autopsy report before lodging an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-beats-wife-to-death-for-dowry/articleshow/79745742.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: What went wrong on IIT Madras campus||CHENNAI: Covid-19 case tally at IIT Madras went up to 183 with 79 more people testing positive on Tuesday. Public health officials have identified crowding at the mess and sharing of toilets as the main reasons for the cluster. According to Covid-19 registry, IIT-M reported two cases on December 1, and in the next 15 days the rate of transmission increased pushing the positivity rate to 19%. “It (cluster) has happened before in jewellery shops and meat markets. All the time it was a violation of epidemic protocols,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In March, when the state announced a lockdown, 335 students continued to stay in the hostels. When public transport resumed, the institute sent some students back to their homes and the strength in the hostel came down to 180. “This is not the first time the institute is reporting a case,” said a student. Read AlsoIIT-Madras turns into 'Covid-19 cluster', 71 test positive; departments, labs, library shutIIT-Madras has temporarily shut down its academic zone, including departments, labs and library, and quarantined hostelites and staff after nearly 71 people, including 66 students, tested positive for Covid-19 infection since December 1. This is the first big cluster seen by the city after campuses“Monthsago, when students tested positive, the institute sanitized the hostel and quarantined all students. There were no clusters. But this time, no sanitization of buildings or quarantine was done,” the student said. One of the main reasons for the spread was overcrowding at the mess. The institute operated one mess for 180 students during the lockdown. But when the campus reopened and the strength increased to 774, the management still operated just the Himalaya mess. “It is the only place where students from all hostels meet. All mess employees have tested positive. What else could be the source?” said a senior faculty member. Read AlsoIIT-Madras Covid cluster: Tamil Nadu to test hostel students in all collegesThe Tamil Nadu government will test all hostel students residing in colleges and universities following the emergence of a Covid-19 cluster at IIT-Madras. Further, the higher education department directed all educational institutions to permit takeaways for hostel students if they have only one messWhen students started showing signs of the viral infection, they were sent for tests but weren’t isolated. “Students with symptoms were allowed to use the same toilet, collect water from the same source and visit the same mess. None of the secondary contacts were taken for tests,” a postgraduate student said. On December 9, when many students showed symptoms of flu, the institute opened Vindhya mess. Some students said management tweaked its quarantine policy in November, when there was a decline in cases in the city and state. Until November, students returning to campus were allowed to enter hostels only after two weeks of quarantine at Taramani guest house. “The quarantine was stringent. Alarms will go off if students keep their doors open for more than ten minutes,” a faculty member said. After Diwali, students were asked to quarantine themselves in hostel rooms after one week of quarantine at the guest house. “There was no strict monitoring. These students met their friends to collect things they need for daily use,” said a research scholar. On Tuesday, higher education department secretary Apoorva issued orders directing colleges to permit takeaways for students where there is one mess or when the space is inadequate to maintain social distancing, and screen all students residing in hostels. “We will no longer beg institutions to follow standard operating procedures. If rules are violated we will be initiating action against under the Epidemic Diseases Act and TN Public Health Act. Both individuals and institutions will be fined,” health secretary said. By the evening, 152 patients admitted to the National Institute of Ageing on Kings Institute campus. “All patients have mild forms of infection mainly symptoms of cold, headache and cough. They are responding well to treatment,” said hospital director Dr K Narayanasamy. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash said all students were screened at IIT. “We are doing a saturated screening to ensure everyone is tested. This test will be repeated after 10 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/what-went-wrong-on-iit-campus/articleshow/79746890.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Works to rejuvenate lakes begin in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Works to rejuvenate the Ramanthapur and Uppal lakes under the Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP) began on Tuesday. The vents of the lakes were cleaned, encroachments were identified and boundaries were marked around the water bodies. The GHMC also identified 40 areas in the city where houses were inundated during the floods in October. As per the GHMC records, the 40 locations were flooded due to nala encroachments and absence of outlets to discharge water into Musi river. “Under the SNDP, we are studying the existing storm water drainage system, identifying critical narrow points, encroachments on nalas, trunk mains and feeder nalas,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/works-to-rejuvenate-lakes-begin/articleshow/79746729.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Nalgonda: High court stays trial in Pranay murder case||HYDERABAD: The trial in Pranay honour killing case suffered a setback on Tuesday with the high court staying till the end of this month proceedings before the trial court in Nalgonda. Justice P Keshava Rao passed this interim order after hearing the fourth accused, Mohammed Abdul Bhari, who contended that the trial in the case was being unduly hastened to the detriment of the rights of the accused. Bhari’s counsel T Pradyumna Kumar Reddy told the court that the trial court in Nalgonda dismissed his discharge plea on December 3 and went on to frame charges without giving them time to challenge the decision in the high court. Pranay was killed allegedly at the behest of his father-in-law T Maruthi Rao, a trader from Miryalaguda in the district. Abdul Bhari was facing allegations that he conspired with Maruthi Rao to physically annihilate Pranay. He was part of the Rs one crore deal allegedly entered into by Maruthi Rao with some hired assassins. Bhari was part of this conspiracy and was arrested for it. Bhari’s counsel argued that there was no direct evidence to link him to the murder except the statement given by a co-accused to police. This statement has no evidentiary value before law, he said. The judge sought counters from the authorities and Pranay’s father Balaswamy and posted the case to December 31 and stayed the trial before the lower court till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-stays-trial-in-pranay-murder-case/articleshow/79746776.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||SPPU signs MoU to help startups||Pimpri Chinchwad: A start-up incubation centre under the Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Limited on Tuesday signed an MoU with the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) Centre for Innovation, Incubation, and Enterprise to support new industries. “The MoU will facilitate necessary support, guidance and space for the establishment of new industries/businesses for the budding entrepreneurs through the incubation centre,” an official from the start-up incubation centre said. “Every year, thousands of young people in Pimpri Chinchwad explore the possibility of starting their own businesses. The start-up incubation centre will guide them,” the official said. The official stated that SPPU’s innovation centre will identify emerging entrepreneurs, formulate policies for them, provide counselling and technical help, and assist them in contacting potential investors. The Pimpri Chinchwad start-up incubation centre was established on December 25 last year, a special purpose vehicle under the Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Limited. The SPPU’s CIIE will now assist it for programme planning, procedures, skill development and capacity building. The official added that they held various events in the past to guide the budding entrepreneurs, including pitch festival, hackathons and conferences, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-signs-mou-to-help-startups/articleshow/79746876.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Tehsil tops state in MHA’s list of best police stations||Nagpur: The outcome of annual survey by Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to identify best police stations in the country has brought some cheers for the city cops. Though no police station from Maharashtra made it to the Top 10 in the country, city’s Tehsil police station has been adjudged best in the state. Only three police stations from the state — Tehsil, Dhule city and Bembli in Osmanabad — had been nominated for the MHA survey. The Tehsil police station, having a strength of 11 officers and 147 staffers, is considered one of the greenest and cleanest in city. The beautification of the police station, especially the interior work giving it a sleek and modern look, had started under the then CP K Venkatesham and former DCP Rahul Maknikar. The police station, having separate rest rooms for women staffers and each room properly identified, has nearly 5 lakh population under its jurisdiction in the densely populated Central Nagpur. The police station can also boast of being a well-ventilated premises. The MHA’s nationwide survey is conducted every year following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for Smart Policing, the idea he shared during a conference of state DGPs at Kutch in Gujarat in 2015. Around 16,671 police stations across the country were nominated this year based on broad parameters of assessing in dealing with crime against women, property offences and crime against weaker sections. Three additional parameters — efforts put behind tracing missing persons, unidentifed persons found and unidentified dead bodies — were included this year. Around 75 police stations, including three from Maharashtra — Tehsil (Nagpur), Dhule city (Dhule) and Bembli (Osmanabad) — had made it to the final round. City police chief Amitesh Kumar extolled the efforts of Team Tehsil under senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar, saying it is a commendable feat. Bhandarkar said the survey at his police station had taken place in the first week of October on a short notice. “Every day, two constables are spared during roll call to water the plants and every personnel have been told to keep his or her room and cabin clean,” he said. “We even have a play area for children,” said Bhandarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tehsil-tops-state-in-mhas-list-of-best-police-stations/articleshow/79746918.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 16, 2020||Pune||Award for Khadki & Pune cantt hospitals||Pune: General hospitals of Pune and Khadki cantonment boards have been selected for the Raksha Mantri’s awards for excellent performance in “public health: challenge of covid” category. The award would be presented by the Director General Defence Estateson December 16. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer, Pune Cantonment Board, said, “It’s a big reward for us. This award goes to each staffer at the hospital.” VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Cantonment Board General Hospital, said, “We have treated around 2,800 Covid-19 patients since the outbreak.” Pramod Kumar Singh, CEO, KCB, said, “This award means a lot as all our hospital staffers worked very hard.” The general hospital of Deolali Cantonment Board Nashik also won the award. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/award-for-khadki-pune-cantt-hospitals/articleshow/79746900.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC confirms auction of 2 AgriGold buildings||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday confirmed the auction sale of two buildings of the scam-hit company AgriGold situated at the busy Punjagutta area in Hyderabad. One of the buildings is the corporate headquarters of the company. The two buildings were sold for Rs 14.71 crore and Rs 2.71 crore after their price was reduced twice in the recent past. The earlier price fixed at Rs 28 crore did not fetch any buyers. The bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud confirmed the auction sale and directed the state to register the assets in the name of the auction purchaser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-confirms-auction-of-2-agrigold-bldgs/articleshow/79746897.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra to pay Rs 50,000 damages for illegal detention||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed the government to pay Rs 50,000 each as compensation to a farmer in Beed and a serving army personnel for their illegal detention between January 31, 2013 and February 5, 2013 in a preventive action case under Section 107 of the CrPC. A division bench of justices T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar in a recent judgment said, “…circumstances show that there were malafides and intention of the police was to see that the petitioners are arrested and they are kept behind bars for a few days. The record and circumstances show that the executive magistrate acted as per such desire of police and he did not apply his mind.” The bench ruled, “Initially, the state government has to pay this (compensation) amount and it is to be done within 45 days from today, failing to which the amount will carry interest at the rate of 8% per annum. It is open to the state to fasten responsibility on police officer and the then executive magistrate concerned and recover the amount.” The state home department, the then superintendent of police, the then district collector of Beed, the then officer-in-charge of Beed Gramin police station and Beed tehsildar were named respondents in the writ petitions filed by the two men. The Beed Gramin police on January 30, 2013 had arrested Arun Tagad and his cousin, Shailendra Tagad, who is an army man from village Khunmshi in Beed district, in a case of assault and criminal intimidation (lodged on January 28, 2013) by a woman following a quarrel between two families. The same day they were produced before a judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) who ordered their release on bail. Soon, after the JMFC’s bail order, the police took the duo into custody and produced them before an executive magistrate for a preventive action under Section 107 CrPC. The executive magistrate directed them to give an interim bond and two solvent sureties of Rs 25, 000 each. However, Arun and Shailendra cited difficulty in getting solvent sureties and requested for release against cash surety, but the executive magistrate turned down the same. After a fresh written request on January 31, 2013, the executive magistrate granted them time and gave release order. However, the duo was kept behind bars till February 5, 2013. After their release, the two men filed a writ petition through their lawyer N P Thorat demanding Rs5 lakh compensation each for illegal detention. The HC observed, “The offence for which crime was registered is bailable and so they could have been released on bail in the police station itself.” The bench ruled, “The order of the executive magistrate asking the present petitioners to execute interim bonds of aforesaid nature is illegal. The bond was involving onerous condition, two sureties having solvency certificates of Rs.25, 000 each for each opponent.” It added, “It needs to be made known to the executive magistrate that he has passed an illegal order and he had no jurisdiction to pass such order. Only because he was expected to discharge the duty given under chapter VIII of the CrPC, he may not be directed to pay compensation. However, the state needs to obtain the explanation and fix some kind of responsibility in such cases. It is a serious mistake committed by the executive magistrate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-orders-state-to-pay-rs-50k-damages-for-illegal-detention/articleshow/79744690.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Avadi corporation to procure robotic sewer cleaner||Chennai: A robotic machine will clean underground sewers and stormwater drains in the western suburbs. Avadi Corporation has floated tenders to procure a machine for the underground sewerage system at the cost of Rs 40 lakh. Such robotic machines ensure that humans are not sent inside sewers. One machine, known as Bandicoot, is being used in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Virudhunagar and Tirupur. Arun George, one of the co-founders of the company supplying the machine, said they were in talks with Greater Chennai Corporation and Metrowater to supply machines. The machine is fitted with water proof IP68 night vision cameras and relays live footage from the drains. Its robotic arms can scrape sludge. The machine was tested a year ago by Chennai corporation for cleaning storm water drains. However, senior officials said the civic body was yet take a decision on procurement. “We found that the machine was very expensive and it required additional manpower. The pace of work was also slow,” said a corporation official. The corporation and Metrowater use a vehicle mounted machine that can de-silt drains and sewer lines. The machine has a grab-and-bucket arrangement designed to clear silt and waste from manholes and other chambers up to a depth of 20 feet. “This costs only around Rs 4 lakhs and also helps in quicker desilting and sludge removal,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/avadi-corporation-to-procure-robotic-sewer-cleaner/articleshow/79746951.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt gears up for waste management in city||HYDERABAD: Gearing up for comprehensive waste management policy and decentralised waste management in the city, the government is developing 17 transfer stations, pressing into service additional 650 swachh auto tippers, identifying compact transportation points (CTPs), expanding the capacity of effluent treatment plant located in Patancheru, making 10,000 public washrooms operational and building pre-fabricated basti dawakhanas (neighbourhood clinics) “Seven transfer stations have already been developed, each zone will get 25 autos with 4.5 tonnes capacity which will be deployed in commercial stretches,” said mayor Bonthu Rammohan after a review meeting on sanitation held at GHMC head office. The plant to recycle industrial liquid waste in Patancheru, being set up in collaboration with Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC), would be operational within six months. “The zero liquid discharge common effluent treatment plant, which can treat 480 kilo litres per day (KLD) of industrial waste, is being expanded to a million litres per day,” Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited said. As per GHMC records, 15 CTPs have been set up within two months and an additional 35 CTPs would dot the city. Civic officials also said the debris recycling plant would be operational by February. The CTPs would be collection points where the garbage collected from the city is dumped into compactors, from CTPs the garbage is transported to Jawaharnagar dump yard. “The plan is to initially set up 50 CTPs in the city and within two months Fathullaguda debris recycling plant (500 metric tonnes of waste per day capacity) will also be operational,” GHMC solid waste management superintending engineer Koteswara Rao said. The civic body has also decided to build another 25 basti dawakhanas. Unlike the regular neighbourhood clinics, these would be pre-fabricated ones. “When we wanted to set up clinics in some localities, locals objected to it, so we are building pre-fabricated clinics. They can be dismantled and moved to a new location if needed,” a GHMC official said. To further improve sanitation standards, Pattana Pragati Puraskaram (sanitation awards) would be given for urban local bodies (ULBs) in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-govt-gears-up-for-waste-mgmt-in-city/articleshow/79746914.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Father, sons booked for targeting kin over property dispute||NAGPUR: Dismantling of a cement pole between two plots at Ghogali near Besa led to an ugly dispute over property among kin following which a man and his two sons were booked for alleged criminal trespass, threatening, mischief and other charges. Police are also likely to take preventive action in the case. A FIR, now in possession of TOI, was registered at Hudkeshwar police station against Manoj Jaiswal and his two sons, Sachin and Nakul, after the complaint was lodged against them by their kin Jayashree Jaiswal. In the complaint, Jayashree had claimed that her brother-in-law Manoj and his two sons had manhandled 67-year-old Gopal Oglekar who worked as a caretaker at their farmland apart from removing the cement poll between two plots. She had also claimed her family members have tried to encroach on her plot as well after dismantling the pole. Apart from a written complaint, Jayashree is also learnt to have furnished a video clipping of Manoj in which he can be seen thrashing the elderly farm caretaker and also using abusive language. The woman has also claimed that Manoj also targeted her with indecent language. Senior inspector PV Bhosle of Hudkeshwar police station said police are probing the incident after registering the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/father-sons-booked-for-targeting-kin-over-property-dispute/articleshow/79746938.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Court grants bail to youth; says rape victim changed stand thrice||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has granted bail to a 20-year-old man, who has been in jail since his arrest on November 6, 2019, for a sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl at Pathardi in Ahmednagar. “The possibility of consensual sexual relation cannot be ruled out considering the different stands taken by the victim on three different occasions,” the bench of Justice V K Jadhav said on December 8. “It appears that the victim has changed her stand on three occasions and given three different statements, including her statement before the magistrate recorded under section 164 of the CrPC. Even though the DNA report is positive, however, considering the different stands taken by the victim on three different occasions, possibility of consensual sexual relations cannot be ruled out,” the bench said. “The (bail) applicant is a young person, 20 years of age, having no criminal history. In view of the same, by imposing certain conditions as not to enter in the village till the conclusion of the trial to avoid possibility of tampering with the prosecution evidence, I am inclined to release the applicant on bail,” said Justice Jadhav. The girl had become pregnant for three months following which her mother had lodged a complaint against the accused with the Pathardi police on October 15, 2019. He was arrested on November 6, 2019, for offences under the IPC as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. A DNA test of the aborted fetus confirmed the parenthood of the accused. The accused moved the HC through lawyer Joydeep Chatterji after a special Pocso court in Ahmednagar rejected his bail plea. The HC also observed that apart from a bonafide certificate, there was nothing to indicate that the victim was less than 18 years age as the investigating officer had not collected her birth or school-leaving certificate. A clinical and radiological test indicated the victim was between 17 and 18 years, the court noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/court-grants-bail-to-youth-says-rape-victim-changed-stand-thrice/articleshow/79744717.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||HC panel says YMCA property a nazul land, confirms violations||Nagpur: A three-member committee appointed by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has confirmed that the property in possession of Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA), in front of DCP Traffic office in Civil Lines, belongs to the state government and is a nazul land leased out to the association. The committee has revealed the land was leased out to YMCA for sports and cultural purposes, and noted that the association rented it out for lawns and restaurants. The committee comprising amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar, chartered accountant Suren Durugkar and circle officer from collector office Rajesh Dethe verified documents related to some nazul leasehold lands, conducted hearing of leaseholders, and submitted a report to HC and collector Ravindra Thakre some days ago. In the YMCA case, the committee said, “Association’s aim was promotion of sports and cultural activities. But the association has been involved in sub-letting land for commercial activities such as marriage receptions and restaurants. Association has earned rent of Rs2,23,70,174 between 2012 and 2017 by conducting these illicit commercial activities.” It also said, “YMCA has inducted various alien persons by tendering them sub-leases and also granted sub-tenancies, which is evidently against the stipulated original lease deed. Further, due to these regular commercial activities conducted by the association, a lot of traffic congestion stands invited which is resulting in serious law and order situation. There is an immediate need to put an end to these illegal activities carried out at the behest of the association.” The committee also said no permission has been taken by YMCA from the government to rent out or use nazul land for commercial purposes. YMCA secretary Niraj Singh said, “The land is purely owned by YMCA and not a nazul leasehold one. I personally appeared before the committee and informed about it in detail.” Activist Anil Wadpalliwar, on whose letter Bhandarkar pleaded before HC for inquiry into nazul lands, said, “YMCA also allowed its tenant to construct permanent structures like G+2 floor banquet hall, rooms for staying and restaurants without building plan sanction from NMC. Inquiry by the committee also revealed YMCA did not pay a single penny to the government despite earning Rs44.6 lakh per year from rent.” Wadpalliwar alleged YMCA has been violating norms for over 70 years in nexus with officials of collector office. “Sprawling land of around 2 acres under YMCA’s possession is situated hardly 200 meter from collector office. But no action was taken on YMCA. Collector should take possession of land and bring it into public use immediately,” he said. Singh ruled out violations by YMCA, saying entire property is owned by the association. YMCA runs a badminton hall in small area of the sprawling land. Rest of the land is used for lawns, banquet hall and restaurants. As per HC order, collector has to take appropriate action within six weeks of receiving the committee’s report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-panel-says-ymca-property-a-nazul-land-confirms-violations/articleshow/79747002.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Farmers in Andhra Pradesh stage protest, seek end to jumbo menace||VISAKHAPATNAM: Man-animal conflicts, always a concern for the forest departments for Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, have once again come to the forefront as farmers of these districts are demanding better compensation for crop damage by elephants. Farmers and activists in Komarada mandal of Vizianagaram district staged a protest on Tuesday demanding official action to end the menace caused by wild elephants in parts of the district. Farmers said they will intensify their agitation and meet ministers to find a solution for the problem. Herds of elephants living in these districts have been causing severe damage to standing crops over the last few years. Elephants from this herds have been reported to be straying into farmlands and destroying field and plantations. Paddy, sugarcane and horticulture farmers in the districts of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam are facing the brunt of these wild elephants straying from their habitats. K Samba Murthy, an activist based in Komarada, Srikakulam, says that the compensation awarded by the forest department is meagre and unscientific. “The department gives relief for just one tonne of crop if the farmer has lost over two tonnes grown on a one-acre plot. The relief should be hiked considering the actual loss incurred by farmers,” Murthy said. A herd of four elephants in moving around in Srikakulam district while herd another of six in Vizianagaram. Among the ten elephants, two are male. One of the jumbos is 13 years old while the over is five. Wild elephants have reportedly killed four people in Vizianagaram district so far. Speaking to TOI, M Murali Krishna, forest range officer, elephant monitoring cell (EMC), said that the government has fixed compensation for loss of life or injury to human beings as well as cattle killed, damage caused to houses and crops due to attack of wild animals in the state. “However, there has been no revision in compensation for the last six years. For instance, the Andhra Pradesh government has fixed compensation at Rs 6,000 for damage to paddy and sugarcane by the acre,” Murali Krishna said. In Vizianagaram district, the forest department has paid compensation of over Rs 1.93 crore in the last two years. The forest department has had to pay Rs 14 lakh compensation to some victims, Murali Krishna said while adding that when compared to the crop loss due the wild animals, the compensation may be less. “A proposal has been sent to the government to increase the compensation awarded for crop damage by wild animals,” the forest range officer informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/farmers-stage-protest-seek-end-to-jumbo-menace/articleshow/79745791.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 16, 2020||Goa||MMC to shift all roadside vendors under one roof||VASCO: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) has begun work of renovating its old municipal market complex, where it plans to house all the roadside vendors spread across the town area. Repair work is being taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 18 lakh. “I had proposed this market renovation work around one-and-a-half year ago under the 14th finance commission and it was approved. The work has begun now and will be complete within a month’s time,” said former councillor Krishna ‘Daji’ Salkar. Under the renovation works, the old market structure, located next to the beef centre, will get new roofing, proper ventilation and exhaust, new tiling, tubelights and fans, besides other structural and facility improvements. It will have all the necessary facilities and will bring relief to vendors, who are forced to sell by the roadside at present. “Except for vegetable and fruit market vendors, others are seen sitting by the road side, occupying roads and hindering vehicle movement. Now, all these vendors who sell local products like coconuts, oil, fruits and tender coconuts will be placed under one roof,” Salkar said. Around 25 years ago, this market complex housed fish vendors. When they were shifted to a new structure at Khariawada, the local sellers occupied the old market, but gradually they moved out and began selling their wares along the roadside at different locations across the town area. The old market complex in recent years was being used as a godown. When the pandemic struck, the issue of tackling rampant activity of roadside vendors emerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mmc-to-shift-all-roadside-vendors-under-one-roof/articleshow/79748992.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR to run festival special trains||HYDERABAD: The South Central Railway (SCR) will run has extended festival special trains between various destinations including Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Kacheguda divisions to clear the extra rush of passengers in view of Christmas, New Year and Sankranti. Secunderabad station used too see more than a lakh footfall every day before the pandemic and this nearly doubles during festival times. If 90,000 are outbound passengers daily, it is up to 1.50 lakh during festivals. All these festival special trains will be fully reserved services. All the trains will be run according to the COVID-19 protocol and the officials have been instructed to make adequate arrangements. They were also advised by the Railway Protection Force (PRF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) to maintain a strict vigil and monitor passenger movements and ensure COVId-19 precautions. On the other hand, despite extending the festival special trains that are heading towards Andhra Pradesh, there is a waiting list of 250 to 400 to some places between January 9 and 13, with chances of seat confirmation very bleak. However, tatkal tickets will be available a day before the travel. For AC coach tickets, the bookings will start at 10 am, while for sleeper classes it will be 11 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-to-run-festival-spl-trains/articleshow/79746935.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Fire destroys materials at switch box making unit||Trichy: Fire broke out at an electrical switch box manufacturing unit near Mariam theatre in Sangiliayandapuram in Trichy in the early hours of Tuesday. Materials worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed in the fire. The fire and rescue services control room at Trichy city received a call at 3.15 am about the fire accident in the unit run by Manikandan, Karthik and Murugesan. Two teams comprising of 13 fire fighters, led by station fire officer M Melchioraja, reached the spot and managed to put out the fire after one and a half hours. There was no casualty. The preliminary enquiry showed that an electrical short circuit, that occurred after the shop was closed the previous night, may have caused the fire. The Palakkarai police said that further investigation was on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fire-destroys-materials-at-switch-box-making-unit/articleshow/79748050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Chennai||3kg gold, documentsof 18 properties seized from babu’s residence||Chennai: Sleuths from the special unit of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) literally struck gold through Monday night and Tuesday morning. Searches at the Saligramam residence of S Pandian, superintendent in the department of environment, yielded 3.08kg gold worth Rs 1.22 crore, 3.34kg of silver worth Rs 1.51 lakh, and 10.52 carat diamonds worth Rs 5.4 lakh. Apart from this, the agency also found 18 property documents worth Rs 7 crore, fixed deposits to the tune of Rs 37 lakh, cash of Rs 1.37 crore, a Toyota sedan and three two-wheelers. This was apart from Rs 88,500 cash at his office in Panagal Maligai in Saidapet and a cash balance of Rs 38.66 lakh in his bank account. DVAC officials said they used multiple cash counting machines for a few hours to count the money. A disproportionate assets case will be booked against Pandian, officials said. “The investigations will focus on how he amassed this wealth and if he was a conduit for some other officials,” a DVAC source said. Sources said Pandian had been in his post for many years and was influential as he handled all important files pertaining to grant of environmental clearances for projects, including real estate and industries. A group of activists including former Madras high court judge Justice (retd) D Hariparanthaman wrote to DVAC congratulating them for the crackdown on Pandian and said he was responsible for disappearance of 15,000 acres of Ennore wetlands from the official coastal zone regulation maps. Responses to RTI applications showed that no formal approval for any modifications of the Coastal Zone Management Plan of the wetlands had been obtained from the Government of India. “Considering the scale and magnitude of investments and the extent of water and land converted into real estate, the use of illegal and unapproved maps to grant clearances must be investigated especially since it involves Pandian as a key player,” the letter said. Another DVAC searches at the Guduvancheri sub-registrar’s office and home also yielded unaccounted cash of Rs 11.55 lakh and 114 sovereigns of gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3kg-gold-documentsof-18-properties-seized-from-babus-residence/articleshow/79747008.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Newly-engaged couple loses over Rs 60k after call to ‘customer care’||Aurangabad: A newly-engaged couple fell victim to an online scam and lost over Rs 62,000 after they called the “customer care number” of an online wallet company to reverse the transaction charges. The 25-year-old woman, who works at a private firm, and her fiancé, an engineer serving in a Pune-based multinational company, had searched for the customer care number on the internet. “The woman thought that the number provided on a random website belonged to the customer care and after calling on the same number she got in touch with the suspect,” a police officer said. “The suspect asked the woman to download a QA mobile application on her mobile phone following which the money could be directly transferred to her account. However, after downloading the application, an amount of Rs 1,400 was debited from her account,” he added. Not realising that she has been cheated, the woman again called the same customer care number to inquire why the money was deducted from her bank account. “The suspect informed the woman that the money was deducted my mistake and asked for her account details to return the amount. After some time, the suspect informed the woman that due to some technical reasons the money cannot be transferred to her account and asked if anyone in her family used the same mobile wallet,” the officer said. “The woman then added her fiancé on the conference call with the suspect, who somehow managed to convince him to download the same QA application on his mobile phone. After the app was downloaded, the suspect transferred Rs 1,400 into the woman’s account, but more than Rs 62,000 was deducted from the man’s account,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/newly-engaged-couple-loses-over-rs-60k-after-call-to-customer-care/articleshow/79744740.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 16, 2020||Trichy||7 peafowls found dead, probe launched||Trichy: The forest department on Tuesday launched an investigation into the suspicious death of seven peafowls in a private land near Manapparai in Trichy. A boy grazing goats found five peacocks and a peahen dead in the private land at Molakulam near Vengaikurichi in Manapparai on Monday afternoon. He also found one more peacock struggling for the life but it could not survive for a long time. On getting the information, the forest range officials visited the spot and estimated the age of the peafowls around two years. They inquired with the locals to find out the cause of the death. Forest range officer of Manapparai range A Maheswaran said that a case was booked on Monday against unidentified people under the Section 9 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The probe is in preliminary stage. There were no suspects in the case so far. The investigation will bring to light the reason behind the deaths. In case anyone is found involved in the incident, they will be implicated in the case,” Maheswaran told TOI on Tuesday. Maheswaran said that their team launched an investigation to find out whether the peafowls were electrocuted in the illegal fence to protect the agriculture lands. The team also suspected if the birds were poisoned. Government veterinary doctors carried out the postmortem on the carcasses after which they were buried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/7-peafowls-found-dead-probe-launched/articleshow/79748099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur city to get 11 new traffic signals||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur city will soon get 11 new traffic signals to regulate the increased traffic flow, said district superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawade. At present, there are 34 traffic signals, mostly on the major roads. However, the volume of traffic is also increasing in the suburbs. Therefore, most of the new signals will come up in suburban areas. “The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) and the police department are working on regulating the city’s traffic effectively. Several measures will be adopted in the coming days and one of the measures is to increase the number of traffic signals. Moreover, we are launching a drive to remove the abandoned vehicles by next week. Senior officials of the KMC, police and transport department will meet soon to device a strategy.” Balkawade added that soon marks for odd-even day parking will be put up along the roads. The vehicles parked outside the marks will be towed away by the traffic department and the owners will be fined. The ‘Safe City’ project, under which cameras have been installed at 167 spots, will be effectively used to spot traffic violators. “Violators will also have cases registered against them. Violations such as signal jumping, rash driving and illegal parking will be strictly dealt with,” said Balkawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-city-to-get-11-new-traffic-signals/articleshow/79735594.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Chennai||TN to train govt school students to ace IIT-JEE||Chennai: The school education department will train students of government and government-aided schools to crack IIT-JEE entrance. The department has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Delhi-based Nextgen Vidhya Private Limited. The company will provide free online coaching to students through its mobile app Vidhya Education, founded by an IIT Delhi alumnus. Students will be trained in key subjects maths, physics and chemistry and can also clarify their doubts through the app. “Each student will be provided with a separate login id and password to access the coaching material,” a release from the state government said. Students from Classes XI and XII will be allowed to register for the coaching programme. Headmasters and district coordinators will be able to monitor the training being imparted. Students can register for the coaching from December 21 to 31 for batches beginning on January 4. “We believe in the fundamental right of free education... Vidhya Education team will be helping students to get equal opportunities to study and learn without any financial barriers,” said Gaurav Goyal, founder and CEO, Vidhya Education. The app also offers English speaking courses and coding courses, free of cost, to students, apart from a curriculum mapped video content for Classes XI and XII students. School education minister K A Sengottaiyan, secretary Dheeraj Kumar, school education director S Kannappan, Nextgen Vidhya Private Limited CEO Gaurav were present when the MoU was signed. The school education department is also offering online coaching to Neet aspirants from government and government-aided schools. The number of students who have registered for Neet coaching has increased to 16,000 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-train-govt-school-students-to-ace-iit-jee/articleshow/79745826.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Realty bites: Raw material price spikes in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Building your dream home has turned more pricier than a year ago as the cost of construction material has shot through the roof. The prices of various raw material recorded a spike of 15% from projected estimates. Except for M-sand, the cost of most raw material increased, with cement and steel seeing steep escalation. The sharp rise in price comes at a time when the real estate sector was slowly getting back on track after the impact of the pandemic. While price of 53 grade cement bag (50kg) is up by Rs 90, steel rates have shot up by Rs 22,000 per tonne in the past 18 months. There is also a spurt in the cost of electric cables and plumbing materials such as PVC pipes on an average by 12% and 14%, respectively. This apart, real estate developers in the city said most of them have effected a revision in wages for construction labourers by Rs 100 to Rs 150 per day. All these factors have pushed up the overall construction cost of building a house. Builders Association of India state treasurer S Ramaprabhu said that individuals building their homes will have to shell out 15% more, than initial estimates, as the cost of all raw material has invariably increased. “For instance, a person who had planned a house in 1,000 square feet with an estimated construction cost of Rs 20 lakh in March this year will have to pay an additional Rs 3 lakh presently,” he said. Builders Association of India national president Mu Mohan said steel prices have increased by Rs 13,000 per tonne in the past four months between September and December. “A regulatory authority to regulate the prices of cement and steel on the lines of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India is the need of the hour,” he said. S Sridharan , chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) (Tamil Nadu chapter) said substantial price hike of construction material will force developers to put brakes on their ongoing projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/realty-bites-raw-material-price-spikes/articleshow/79745837.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Rs 1.77 crore allotted to keep CJI’s Nagpur home safe||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government has made a provision of Rs1.77 crore towards additional safety measures at the Nagpur residence of Chief Justice of India Sharad Arvind Bobde. The provision has been made in the supplementary demands of the law and judiciary department tabled in the state legislature on Monday. No reason for the provision has been mentioned in the supplementary demands document. Nagpur is the hometown of CJI Bobde. In the demands of the state public works department, Rs5.75 crore has been earmarked for construction and related works at Raj Bhavan and another Rs6.16 crore for construction and related works at residential premises of judges. The state government has allocated Rs2,211 crore to provide relief to farmers hit by natural calamities and Rs22 crore for Covid-19 vaccine air conditioning facilities as it tabled Rs21,992.50 crore supplementary demands in the assembly on Monday. Supplementary demands are additional grants required to meet the expenditure of the government. The winter session of the legislature, traditionally held in Nagpur — the second capital of the state — is being held in Mumbai in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs1-77cr-allotted-to-keep-cjis-city-home-safe/articleshow/79747016.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar to give Covid vax to its natives for free: Nitish||PATNA: The Nitish Kumar government has decided to give free vaccination against Covid-19 virus to people in the state as and when the vaccines are available. The decision was taken at the second cabinet meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday since the swearing-in. Free Covid vaccine is a part of the government’s Seven Resolves-2 programme. NDA constituent BJP had also promised free Covid jabs for Bihar during the campaigning for the recently concluded assembly polls. The cabinet gave its approval in principle to the resolutions of the government which is broad-based and christened as Seven Resolves -2 to be executed over the next five years. The government also plans to create 20 lakh job opportunities in the state in the next five years as part of this programme. The state cabinet also mooted a plan to open three separate universities for medical, engineering and sports education in the state, besides establishing a separate skill development department to impart training in skill development, entrepreneurial activities and promote entrepreneurial culture in the state. The government’s resolutions envisage providing financial assistance to the trained entrepreneurs to establish new industries and trade activities for which the aspirants will be given subsidy at 50% of the project cost with a cap of Rs 5 lakh and a loan of Rs 5 lakh at 1% interest to male entrepreneurs. Similarly, the government will give subsidy in the same form, but Rs 5 lakh interest-free loan to women entrepreneurs to open new industries and trade activities. The government’s Seven Resolves – 2 envisages wide-ranging activities that address the concerns of youths and students getting an education at Industrial Training Institutes and polytechnics in tune with market demands. Besides, the new set of seven resolutions also address concerns in rural areas and town\city development. The overall aim is to create 20 lakh work opportunities in the state, including in the government and non-government sectors. The new resolves have been sub-divided into seven groups: Yuva Shakti (youth power), Sashakt Mahila (empowered woman), irrigation facility in every plot of land, Swachchha Gaon\ Samriddha Gaon (clean village\affluent village), clean town, Sulabh Samparkta (rural connectivity), and additional health facilities. The government has maintained that the earlier seven resolves programme would continue, but they would also get new teeth, like in the area of skill development for youths and students. It will cover the training of ITI and polytechnic students, quality of education at their institutes, and the areas of training curriculum and courses would be based on the market demands. In sync with the same, they would be given additional training at mega skill centres to be opened in every district and also at tool rooms having modern equipment at the divisional headquarters. Under the Sashakt Mahila programme, the inter-pass women students will be given financial assistance of Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 to graduate women students. Under the same head, trained women entrepreneurs will be given subsidy and loan to open new industries and start new trade activities. The government has also decided to arrange for the purchase of pulses from farmers at MSP rates, while a database would be created on the migrants going to other states for work. The government also decided that there would be gazette notification of the detailed programme of the Seven Resolves – 2 to be executed during 2020-25, and all departments will make their respective plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-give-covid-vax-to-its-natives-for-free-nitish/articleshow/79746198.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Criminal self-inflicts injuries to avoid arrest||Aurangabad: City police have registered a case of attempt to commit suicide against a history-sheeter after he injured himself in order to avoid being arrested. The suspect, identified as Shaikh Raees alias Bokya (31), has around two dozen cases registered against him. The suspect was arrested after he was caught stealing a two-wheeler on a CCTV camera. “The suspect first tried to commit suicide by banging his head against the police jeep as well as on cement blocks. He was soon overpowered and taken inside the police station and put in a lock up. Later, he hit his head on the iron bars of the lock up in order to avoid arrest,” a police officer said. “We rushed him to the the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for treatment and after being administering first aid, we arrested him. On Monday, he was produced before the court following which he has been remanded in police custody till December 16,” he added, Based on the complaint lodged by police sub-inspector Santosh Raut, the suspect has been slapped with a case under sections 309, 294 , 224, 511 and 186 of the Indian Penal Code. The suspect was detained on Sunday after his involvement in the vehicle theft came to the fore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/criminal-self-inflicts-injuries-to-avoid-arrest/articleshow/79735599.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bevco seeks vigilance probe into job fraud||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala state beverages corporation (Bevco) has requested the government to order a vigilance inquiry into the recent allegations of job fraud committed by conmen in the name of the corporation. The case in which solar scam accused Saritha Nair is involved, came out when a complainant approached the police citing that he was cheated by Saritha, who took money from him by offering the job of store assistant in the corporation. A forged appointment letter was also issued in the name of a senior official of the corporation. Bevco managing director G Sparjan Kumar had written to excise commissioner S Ananthakrishnan seeking a vigilance probe, which was then forwarded by the excise commissioner to the government. The file is pending before the vigilance department awaiting the approval from the chief minister, it is learnt. Sources said that the vigilance probe has been sought as the name of a senior official in Bevco is also involved in the allegations. Even though the official has denied any involvement in the matter, the vigilance probe is mandatory to examine whether the corporation’s officials have connived with the main accused, Saritha. Meanwhile, Neyyattinkara police are probing the complaint against Saritha on the basis of complaint from two Thiruvananthapuram native youths. Police have already confirmed that the money that was accepted from the complainant was transferred to the bank account in the name of Saritha. The police are probing whether Saritha has links with the top official of the Bevco, in whose name the forged order was created. Police are also dealing with another complaint against Saritha, wherein she had cheated the second youth by offering a job in Kerala tourism development corporation (KTDC) in exchange of money. However, the KTDC has not sought any probe in the matter. KTDC sources said that nothing has come to it for the involvement of its officials till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bevco-seeks-vigilance-probe-into-job-fraud/articleshow/79745846.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Elderly survivor of leopard attack loses her voice||Aurangabad: An elderly woman, who survived a leopard attack on November 29, has been discharged from the Ahmednagar-based hospital and has returned to her home in Jogeshwari Paragaon of Ashti tehsil. Shalan Bhose was one of the two people injured in the leopard attack that day. She had sustained deep injuries on her throat which have damaged her vocal cords. As a result, she has lost her voice. Bhose is a marginal farmer and owns 1 acre of land. Her 25-year-old son Vinod is a construction worker in Pune. Her husband Shahaji has been bedridden for the past couple of years due to paralysis. The woman was attacked while she was working on her farm. When the leopard pounced on her and caught hold of her neck, she was not even able to scream. Her nephew Vijay and some other family members spotted the leopard and rushed to her rescue. They pelted stones at the leopard, causing it to flee. Shalan Bhose woman was then rushed to the Ashti-based rural hospital. However, given her deteriorating condition, she was taken to a private hospital in Ahmednagar. Vijay said: “After spending 14 days in the hospital, she got discharge. But she is unable to speak.” Family members informed that the doctor has said that the woman’s vocal cords have been seriously damaged and she has lost her voice for ever. “The current situation is financially and mentally difficult to handle,” said her son Vinod. He sought the administration’s help in getting his elderly parents treated for their injuries and ailments. Solapur man-eater kills calf, injures cow Meanwhile, the man-eater leopard in Karmala tehsil of Solapur district reappeared after five days and attacked a cow and a calf at the Bhiwarwadi village early on Monday morning. While the calf was killed, the cow survived with injuries. Residents of Bhiwarwadi said they found the dead calf in a cattle shed after sunrise. A team of forest officials reached the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/elderly-survivor-of-leopard-attack-loses-her-voice/articleshow/79735576.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||NMC will work on more incentives for regular taxpayers: Civic chief||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Tuesday said the civic administration will soon offer additional incentives to those who pay property tax and water bill promptly and regularly. Addressing a joint press conference with deputy mayor Manisha Kothe and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, the civic chief announced another amnesty scheme for the nearly 6.35 lakh property owners in the city. The municipal commissioner clarified NMC already provided 4% rebate for those who paid property tax promptly and added that NMC will work to offer more incentives for regular taxpayers. The cash-strapped NMC’s main source of income is from property tax. Some 1.72 lakh property owners have already paid their tax amounting to Rs85 crore against the current year’s demand of Rs250 crore. The arrears from remaining have crossed Rs600 crore. Of the outstanding, the NMC could recover only Rs40 crore, said the civic chief. Currently, NMC’s outstanding demand from property tax is around Rs810 crore including arrears, he said. The major default was by open plot owners as NMC had no data of many of them. Of the outstanding, around Rs71 crore is stuck in legal disputes. According to deputy municipal commissioner (property tax department) Milind Meshram, as many 350 property owners had approached the courts and filed objection over property tax assessment. Radhakrishnan said such owners can also avail the amnesty scheme. “We appeal to them to withdraw their cases, the NMC will give them a rebate,” he said. NMC had twice announced amnesty schemes in 2016-17 and 2017-18. During first scheme, 31,083 property owners had availed the benefit and NMC had garnered Rs30.46 crore revenue. During second, NMC earned Rs34.50 crore from 34,333 property owners. With the third scheme introduced now, NMC is expecting to collect 80% of the property tax arrears of Rs600 crore. Last time NMC could collect only 20% of the arrears, admitted former deputy mayor Sandip Jadhav. Radhakrishnan said apart from two counters in each zone, property tax payment could also be made through smart kiosks at many Aapli Bus stops across the city. Payments can also be done online through NMC’s website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-will-work-on-more-incentives-for-regular-taxpayers-civic-chief/articleshow/79747022.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||My farmers’ protest remarks were misunderstood: Danve||Aurangabad: Union minister of state Raosaheb Danve, whose statement on the ongoing farmers’ protest outside Delhi has drawn flak, said his comments had been “misunderstood”. He said this while wrapping up a news conference in the city on Tuesday. Danve, who is the minister of state for consumer affairs, food and public distribution, while addressing a gathering in the Takli village in Jalna district on December 9, had said, “China and Pakistan are behind the farmers’ protest on Delhi border”. His statement had sparked a huge row with several political and non-political organisations, including the Shiv Sena, taking to roads and demanding an apology. Members of the Praja Janshakti Party (PJP) had held a protest in front of the minister’s bungalow in Aurangabad city and had climbed an overhead water tank. They got off the water tank only after 30 hours following the district guardian minister’s intervention. Other organisations across the state too protested and sought an apology from Danve. On being asked about the apology sought by different political and non-political organisations, Danve said, “Farming is in my genes. I will never make any anti-farmer statements.” Avoiding any further questions on this matter, Danve added: “The three laws enacted for the benefit of the farmers would prove to be beneficial. They are a step towards doubling their income.” He pointed out that there were no reactions to the new farm laws for almost a month after they were passed. The negative reactions only started recently, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/my-farmers-protest-remarks-were-misunderstood-danve/articleshow/79744775.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Chennai||I-T raids city-based group, detects Rs 700cr tax evasion||Chennai: The income tax department detected Rs 700 crore tax evasion by a Chennai-based group during searches on its premises on December 9. The department seized Rs 23 crore unaccounted money and found foreign assets to the tune of Rs 110 crore in the form of fixed deposits. The searches were conducted on 60 premises in Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore, various places in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Mumbai. The department did not name the group. The department said the group did not disclose the fixed deposits and this would attract action under the Black Money Act. Inflation of expenditure to take out cash and also to reduce profits, receipts not accounted fully, bogus claims of depreciation amounting to Rs 435 crore were also identified. There were indications of capitation fee receipts for medical admissions to postgraduate programmes, IT said. During the search, the department also found details of actual financial transaction between the group and another group for sale of three infrastructure facilities at various ports. Complex financial agreements creating bogus liabilities from their own concerns were seen to be made to reduce the capital gains arising from this transfer, the I-T department said. Capital gains amounting to approximately Rs 280 crore were arrived at, it said. Huge capital introduction through a web of bogus inter corporate transactions within the group were also under IT’s scanner, the department said. A large number of lockers belonging to the group were identified, which would be checked by the I-T department in due course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-t-raids-city-based-group-detects-rs-700cr-tax-evasion/articleshow/79747025.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Engineer, son found charred to death||Chennai: In what appeared to be a case of suicide, a 47-year-old man and his 10-year-old son were found charred to death in their house in Adambakkam on Monday. The deceased were identified as Paari of Balaji Nagar in Adambakkam, a civil engineer, and his son Bala Murugan, 10, a Class V student of a private school. Police said his wife Rajabalambika, 42, an engineer herself, was working in a private firm in Saidapet. The husband and wife were living separately since the last few months. Rajabalambika was staying in Adambakkam along with her son. On Monday morning Paari took Bala to his house promising to take him to the Marina beach. In the afternoon, neighbours noticed smoke billowing from Paari’s house and alerted police and fire services, who broke open the door and found the father and son lying dead. Police sent the bodies for postmortem. During inquiry, police found an envelope that Paari had given to his house-owner before his death, which had Rs 3,000 for their funeral expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/engineer-son-found-charred-to-death/articleshow/79745848.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Nashik||Citizens not segregating waste to pay fine in Nashik||NASHIK: The civic administration has formed flying squads in each of the six divisions to randomly accompany the garbage collection vans to check if residents are segregating the wet and dry waste. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav on Monday directed the civic officials concerned to impose a fine on residents, who are not segregating the dry and wet garbage. The fine of Rs 300 each is to be slapped in the erring residents and Rs 500 for repeat offenders. According to NMC officials, there are still a large number of residents who are not segregating waste at source. This is causing hurdles while disposing off the waste. The civic body is gearing up for the Swachh Survekshan 2021 conducted either in January or February. Hence, NMC administration has started preparations and appointed officials in all 31 wards. It involves preparations to maintain cleanliness — including reducing the black spots, stopping people from keeping garbage in the open, action against the single-use plastic. “There are marks for the segregation of the waste in Swachh Survekshan. NMC has been collecting garbage from households through over 250 vans and transporting it to the compost plant on the outskirts of the city at Pathardi,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/citizens-not-segregating-waste-to-pay-fine-in-nashik/articleshow/79735624.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Cops yet to conclude woman was injured in army firing range||Trichy: Three days after a 35-year-old woman was injured while crossing the shooting training range at Veeramalaipalayam near Manapparai, Trichy rural police are yet to arrive at a conclusion whether she actually sustained injuries in the mortar launcher firing of Indian Army. S Nallammal of Veeramalai foothills was initially admitted to a hospital in Manapparai and shifted to a private hospital in Trichy by the family later in the night on December 12. She had claimed that she was hit by a ‘bullet’ while attempting to step into the restricted shooting range around 7 pm where 193 army personnel attached to the Army’s 13th Garhwal Rifle Regiment (Bengaluru) were undergoing shooting training from December 3 to 20. As she suffered an injury on her right thigh, she was being treated at the hospital till Tuesday. DSP Manapparai division, R Brindha and inspector of police, Vaiyampatti Shanmugasundram have been probing the incident for the past few days. Brindha said the woman’s statement about being injured during the shooting training was not convincing. “She is contradicting her statement about her visit to the area at the particular time. She claimed she came to the spot in search of her missing cow. But we confirmed that the cow was at her house,” the DSP told TOI. Inspector Shanmugasundaram said her claim of being hit by a bullet may not be right. “The flesh in the thigh was damaged but the doctors also could not confirm if it was caused by the shells. If the shells from the mortar launcher had hit her, the consequences would have been more dangerous,” he said. With the case yet to be registered in this connection, the police officers were looking for a concrete clue to take the investigation forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-yet-to-conclude-woman-was-injured-in-army-firing-range/articleshow/79748172.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||BJP has kept its promise of tax rebate, says mayor||NAGPUR: Mayor Sandip Joshi, who is under treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital, on Tuesday told media persons that ruling BJP in the NMC has fulfilled its promise of giving rebate in property tax and water bills. Without naming state energy minister Nitin Raut, Joshi said the ruling party leaders in the state government had first announced to waive electricity bills of up to 300 units of power consumed during Covid-induced lockdown and then retracted. “Later, after promising to waive bills up to 100 units, the government cheated the citizens by rejecting that proposal too,” he said. “What standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke had promised in his NMC budget, the civic administration has fulfilled it. The citizens will benefit from this,” said the mayor. Joshi admitted that BJP had proposed to waive 50% of principal amount of property tax and water bills this financial year. However, it was rejected by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. He said this demand required nod from the state government, but the current schemes announced by the NMC can be implemented through municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B’s nod. He also thanked Radhakrishnan for implementing an amnesty and one-time settlement schemes for both property tax and water bills defaulters at a time when citizens are reeling under financial crisis due to the pandemic. The mayor urged the administration to take help of sanitary workers to reach out to every citizen informing them about the OTS and amnesty schemes and also appealed to corporators to help the NMC to recover outstanding property tax and water bills dues. “If the civic body improves tax collection, city’s development works could be carried out easily,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-has-kept-its-promise-of-tax-rebate-says-mayor/articleshow/79747032.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: OGH doctor booked for harassing NIMS doctor||HYDERABAD: An Osmania General Hospital (OGH) doctor was booked on the charges of stalking and harassing a 29-year-old doctor of Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences. According to Panjagutta SI D Nagaraju, the accused is a general physician. Based on a complaint from the woman doctor, a case was registered against the accused under IPC sections of stalking and criminal intimidation. He was also served with a notice under a CrPC section to appear before police for his statement. The complainant, a second year resident in one of the departments in NIMS, told police that the accused doctor was harassing her by making continuous phone calls and sending messages. “His sister also used to call and his family started pressurising me to marry him,” she alleged in her complaint. The SI said: “The complainant said the doctor has been stalking her for the last few weeks and loitering in and around the hospital. She felt threatened as he has been coming to her room regularly.” He further said: “She said that he barged into her NIMS hostel room on December 7 night and confined her to the room for one hour. In the early hours of Dec 8, he created a nuisance outside the hostel in drunken state.” The woman knew the accused through Facebook two years ago. “I have accepted his friend request since he is a doctor and we have common friends. He has been a good friend. When he came up with a marriage proposal, I rejected it and we continued to be friends,” she told cops. Recently, one of the woman doctor’s marriage proposals was getting finalised. The prospective groom started receiving inappropriate messages on his phone from unidentified persons levelling defamatory and false accusations against the woman. “When confronted, the OGH doctor initially denied having any knowledge of sending such messages. But, later agreed that he and his friend were behind those messages,” the complainant alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-doc-booked-for-harassing-nims-doc/articleshow/79747027.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TSSPDCL employee held for graft||HYDERABAD: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested a TSSPDCL employee for accepting Rs 8,000 bribe from a private contractor for an official favour. The accused is, M Tukaram, artisan grade - II, office of assistant engineer (operation), TSSPDCL, Jeedimetla, Medchal - Malkajgiri district. According to Anti Corruption Bureau officials, Tukaram demanded bribe from G Shiva Kumar, a private contractor from Vivakananda Nagar in Qutbullapur to process the bills for completed works of electric poles shifting and erection of electric metres. The bribe amount was recovered from Tukaram’s office table drawer. The accused will be produced before the Anti Corruption Bureau special court for judicial remand. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsspdcl-employee-held-for-graft/articleshow/79747037.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police plan crackdown after drink-drive crash||KOLKATA: The engineering graduate running over two persons—killing one of them, Ratan Sarkar—on Anwar Shah Road connector on Sunday night has come as a timely reminder for the Kolkata traffic police on the perils of drink-driving.  “This might be the Covid year, but that will not mean we will not be out on the roads. We have planned some specific interventions at specific points in the coming days to combat drink-driving,” said joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey. TimesViewThis may be an early omen for what we are up against during the year-end festive season. Increased police vigil during the holiday season can be a deterrent but, ultimately, citizens who take the wheel need to behave responsibly.A Lalbazar source said that according to the initial plan—that resembles a strategy followed the previous year—police will organize an intense 48-72 -hour vigil at night across all 25 traffic guards. The drive is likely to begin in phases, mostly from the coming weekend itself. “We plan to be present in at least 50 locations. But as last year’s experience has shown that there were more cases of drink-driving in north Kolkata (CR Avenue, Shyambazar and Jorabagan) than that on Park Street. Another major area of concern for us are EM Bypass and the three roads connecting it to the rest of the city,” said an officer. Last year, 264 prosecutions were carried out on the last weekend leading up to the New Year. The biggest challenge for police this year will be the non-use of breathalyzers, said sergeants manning roads. “Ever since the pandemic broke out in April, we have stopped using the breath analyzer. We are now relying on experience and taking drivers and riders to hospitals for doctors to confirm our suspicions of them being drunk at the wheel. But this process is not scientific, not all people react the same way to the same amount of alcohol that they have consumed. There is always the possibility that those on the borderline escape while we drag someone who has consumed within his limits wrongly to the hospital. Besides, the waiting time at nakas will definitely be longer,” claimed a sergeant from the south traffic guard that covers Park Street.  Police usually carry multiple pipes that are changed every time a person is tested, but as the number of tests goes up on weekends, the pipes are often washed for reuse. A new device was recently introduced that allows a person to blow from a distance of around 5cm instead of the pipe touching the mouth, traffic police said. “But we do not want to take chances. We have asked officers to use discretion in conducting the test,” a senior officer said. Another sergeant said that given the Covid situation, “it is not advisable for cops to try and smell the motorists’ odour coming near their mouth to detect alcohol”. Senior officers, however, said that the apprehension of those on the ground were unfounded. “The city police has added enough breathalyzers to their kitty, but we have started using them barely a couple of years ago. Before that, our success lay in our officers identifying drunk drivers through their conduct. We have experienced officers. We have been identifying drink-driving in this fashion even during the blockchain raids,” said an IPS officer. All those who are found driving drunk will be booked under Section 185 of Motor Vehicles Act. If found guilty, the person is fined Rs 2,000, and the amount goes up to Rs 3,000 for a repeat offender and a prison term of six months to two years. The intensity of naka checking will be increased over the next few weeks to make up for the lack of breathalyzer tests, conducted to check drink driving, sources at Lalbazar said. “This does not mean we are reducing traffic prosecutions. If someone is found driving in a reckless manner, but does not look drunk, he may not be subject to the test for drink driving, but could directly be prosecuted for dangerous driving,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-plan-crackdown-after-drink-drive-crash/articleshow/79747058.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 16, 2020||Bareilly||Was tortured at shelter, given injections at hospital after which I miscarried: UP woman||MORADABAD: Back home with her in-laws at Kanth in Moradabad after 10 days, the 22-year-old woman who was sent away to a shelter while police investigated her husband for “love jihad”, hospitalised with pregnancy-related complications and released on Monday night said she was tortured at the shelter. She added that she miscarried after she was administered injections and was discharged without her ultrasound report. While the hospital denied the insinuation that abortion was induced, it did say that there appears to be a “risk to the baby” because of the symptoms. “I was taken to the shelter at 2.30am on December 5. I was tortured there,” she said on Tuesday. "I had sudden abdominal pain and they took me to a hospital on December 11. The doctor there gave me injections, after which I started bleeding lightly." "Two days later, I was given four more injections. I started bleeding heavily. I miscarried. Since then, the bleeding has not stopped.” When she was discharged, she was not given her medical reports. On Tuesday, when she got sick again, she consulted a doctor at a private clinic but didn’t have the records. She got another ultrasound done at a private lab in Moradabad in the evening, her father-in-law said. The report is expected on Wednesday morning. At the district hospital where she had been admitted, acting chief medical superintendent and senior gynaecologist Dr Nirmala Pathak denied the allegation. “That’s a wrong allegation. When she had come in with pain in the abdomen and slight bleeding, we had administered Ethamsylate injection (an anti-haemorrhagic agent) to stop the bleeding and given her pain medication,” she told TOI. In the time that the woman was at the hospital, only ultrasound scans had been done on her. On Monday, she had said that a trans-vaginal scan would have to be done to see if the baby was alright: “She has to be tested. We will ask (for tests) from Meerut maybe.” The Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College had not got any word till Tuesday evening, when TOI checked. “No information about the case has been given to us so far,” Dr Yasmeen Usmani, head of the radiology department at the Meerut hospital, told TOI. Pathak later said the woman has been given a “referral slip” to the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College in Meerut to go get tested herself. Asked why the patient was not handed her own medical files during discharge, Pathak said, “We will provide a report to the police. How do we give the records to the patients? It is that kind of case, medico-legal. She can write to us and seek a copy if she wants.” As for the miscarriage itself, Pathak added, “Because she came in with pain in the abdomen and bleeding, there is a risk to the baby.” The shelter authorities, too, denied the torture allegations. “No one mistreated the woman. I deny this. There are 39 women at the shelter. No one has made any such complaint,” district probation officer Rajesh Gupta said. The woman, meanwhile, said she now hoped her husband would be back too. She told TOI, “My husband and in-laws are very supportive. Once he is back, we will build a future together. But I want protection from Bajrang Dal so we can go on with our lives.” (With inputs from Ishita Bhatia in Meerut)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/love-jihad-was-tortured-at-shelter-given-injections-at-hospital-after-which-i-miscarried-says-up-woman/articleshow/79744801.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF, UDF set eyes on prize; BJP looking to spoil party||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The local-body election, dubbed the semi-final ahead of likely assembly polls in April next year, is crucial for all the major political parties involved. If UDF is looking to prove that allegations it levelled against the Pinarayi Vijayan government have made an impact, LDF is focused on disproving the theory on anti-incumbency. BJP, however, is out to build wider acceptance in the state. With LDF and UDF claiming a clean sweep, the BJP is hoping to spring a few surprises. “The election was fought purely on political grounds. We are certain that all the allegations against the LDF government will have an impact,’’ said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. The high voter turnout in the Malabar region has the UDF betting on turning the tables here. If UDF had won just two corporations in 2015 (Ernakulam and Kannur), this time it is hoping to wrest control of Thrissur and Kozhikode corporations, as well. Last time the 14 district panchayats were shared equally by LDF and UDF. This time both fronts are aiming to increasing their tally. “UDF is in a pact with Hindu extremism and Islamic fundamentalism. It will result in the local-body poll favouring LDF,’’ said CPM state secretary A Vijayaraghavan. Instead of raising serious political or developmental issues, UDF was actively involved in spreading false allegations against the LDF government. The people have rejected this and it will become evident when the votes are counted on Wednesday, Vijayaraghavan said. BJP is confident of improving its numbers and Thiruvananthapuram corporation is a key focus. “We will wrest power of Thiruvananthapuram corporation and we also have high hopes for Thrissur corporation. This time the BJP will overcome the usual cross-voting strategies employed by both UDF and LDF. UDF can expect a drubbing from its traditional Hindu and Christian vote banks,’’ said K Surendran, BJP state president. Expect initial results by 11am: Election commission The state election commission said on Tuesday that all the results will be declared by Wednesday afternoon. “We are hopeful of publishing the first results by 11am,” said V Bhaskaran, state election commissioner. Malabar region recorded the highest voter turnout of 78.64%. It was followed by the central districts with 76.78% and 73.12% in southern region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-udf-set-eyes-on-prize-bjp-looking-to-spoil-party/articleshow/79745862.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Business||Indian Bank declares IFIN account as fraud||Chennai: State-owned Indian Bank declared its fully provided non-performing account IL&FS Financial Services Ltd (IFIN) with outstanding dues of Rs 408 crore as fraud on Tuesday. It also said it has reported the same to the RBI as per banking regulatory norms. For the year-ended March 30, 2020 (i.e) before its merger with Allahabad Bank, gross NPAs (bad loans) of Indian Bank stood at Rs 14,150 crore. Gross NPAs stood at Rs 36,197 crore at end of September, 2020. A crisis broke at IL&FS, when several group entities defaulted on repayments resulting from severe liquidity problems which began in September, 2018. Following this, the board was superseded by the government and since then, the company as well as related entities have come under the regulatory lens. A resolution process was proposed and the company reportedly submitted several progress reports and updates to the NCLT. Earlier in October, Punjab and Sind Bank had reported to the banking regulator the account of IFIN as fraud with outstanding dues of over Rs 561 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-bank-declares-ifin-account-as-fraud/articleshow/79747047.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 16, 2020||Pune||PMR recovery rate climbs to 95%, matches India average||PUNE: The Covid-19 recovery rate in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has climbed by 5% to 95% in the last two months, with Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits accounting for the highest 96.5% discharges, followed by the Pune civic areas (94.5%) and the rural parts (94.4%). This rate is in line with the national average of 95.12% and higher than the state average of 93.54%. Till Monday, more than 3.35 lakh patients were declared cured in PMR as against its 3.52 lakh caseload, which brings the recovery rate to 95.02%. The region’s recovery rate was 94% a month ago, while it was 90% around mid-October. According to the data released by the district health office, the rural areas in PMR have recorded maximum improvement in the recovery rate in the last couple of months. The discharge rate in the rural areas was around 82% in mid-October, which increased to 92% on November 14 and improved further to 94.4% on December 14 (Monday) — a jump of more than 12% in the last two months. Health officials attributed the rise in recoveries in the rural parts to elaborate steps initiated to detect symptomatic patients at early stage. “The drives were implemented aggressively in the areas with more cases,” a health official said. In the case of municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the recovery rate has stayed around 94%. A PMC health official said, “The recoveries are around 95% in the municipal limits for almost a month now. We are now concentrating on reducing the fatalities and bring down the number of critical patients or those on oxygen support.” A district health official said, “The daily recoveries have remained above new cases on most days in the last one month. People are requested to undergo testing in case of symptoms and maintain social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recovery-rate-climbs-to-95-matches-india-average/articleshow/79747054.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man sexually exploits minor, held||HYDERABAD: Malkajgiri police arrested a mason from AP for kidnapping and sexually exploiting a 13-year-old girl.  The accused is Ch Vamshi, 19, of Maddipadu, in Prakasham. On November 12, Vamshi took the girl who was alone at her hut in Malkajgiri to his native place and informed his parents that he married her.  His parents let the youngsters stay in a separate hut where he sexually exploited her. A few days later, Vamshi’s parents grew suspicious and asked the girl if she had really married Vamshi. The girl told them the truth. On November 19, they helped her escape. Based on victim’s statement, Malkajgiri cops filed a case against Vamshi under sections 366, 376 of IPC and the POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-sexually-exploits-minor-held/articleshow/79747049.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||NMC chief says not a penny for civic works: Tanaji Wanve||NAGPUR: On a day when mayor Sandip Joshi held a virtual press conference and informed the media about BJP fulfilling its property tax and water bill rebate promise, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B informed a delegation of Congress corporators that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has no funds to implement announcements made in the standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke’s Rs2,731 crore budget, claimed Congress leaders. Congress corporators, led by leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve and senior party corporator Praful Gudadhe, met Radhakrishnan on Tuesday to press for the demand to provide funds for urgent civic works like repair of sewerage lines and chambers. “Radhakrishnan clarified with the current financial position, the NMC cannot spend even a single penny on the works,” said Wanve while speaking to media persons. According to Wanve, the civic chief cited that NMC is yet to pay Rs400 crore outstanding dues to various contractors, who had carried out developmental works. “The municipal commissioner admitted that though the civic administration has implemented Zalke’s budget, but provision of funds will be made only after revision of the budget in February 2021.” Due to Covid-19 pandemic, Zalke had presented the NMC budget for the year 2020-21 almost after a delay of seven months. Presented in October, the civic chief has approved and implemented the budget from November. However, the civic administration is not providing funds to carry out even urgent works like repairs of damaged chambers and sewerage networks etc. Understanding the financial crisis being faced by the civic body, the Congress corporators urged the civic chief to at least release ward funds from which urgent works could be carried out. “But this suggestion too was turned down by the municipal commissioner. Radhakrishnan said all decisions related to making provision of funds could be done only after improvement in the NMC’s financial condition. Moreover, implementation of the seventh pay commission recommendations for NMC staffers has also created an additional burden of Rs200 crore on the civic body,” said Wanve, while disclosing what transpired during the corporators’ meeting with the civic chief. Radhakrishnan, however, assured to carry out developmental works once the NMC has sufficient funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-chief-says-not-a-penny-for-civic-works-wanve/articleshow/79747048.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Trucks flout ban rule, continue to enter Trichy during day||Trichy: Two weeks after the city police imposed a ban on heavy vehicles entering Trichy city during day time, trucks continue to flout the rules and enter the narrow roads during the peak hours. The ban was enforced to reduce traffic snarls. On November 29, police directed trucks and other heavy vehicles to access the city only between 9pm and 5am for loading and unloading. Police had also warned of a penalty on movement of heavy vehicles during peak hours. However, trucks continue to frequent during peak hours due to lapses in monitoring and enforcement at key entry points like Palpannai junction, Gandhi market vicinity and East Boulevard Road. Trucks belonging to parcel service agencies and those transporting wood and metal rods are spotted frequently. Traffic police sources claimed that trucks are periodically penalised between Rs 200 to Rs 2,000 per offence. “At times, when our personnel attend to emergency duty, truck drivers utilize the absence to gain entry into the city,” a senior police officer said. Even though parking of trucks is not allowed during the day, they continue to occupy a portion of the roads. “City police can consider installing CCTV cameras at the key entry points through which penalties can be levied,” M Sekaran, member, road safety council said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trucks-flout-ban-rule-continue-to-enter-trichy-during-day/articleshow/79748225.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CEO writes to ECI on voter detail leakage||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief electoral officer Shashank Goel on Tuesday said he has written to ECI on alleged leakage of phone numbers and email IDs of voters to political parties. Raising objections to the leakage, data security researcher Kodali Srinivas filed a complaint with police and CEO. Goel said, “We could not figure out as to how a political party contestant got hold of phone numbers of voters. The candidate himself has to reveal it.” “I have written to ECI seeking directions on whether we can provide these details. Depending on the ECI’s direction, we will take action,” he said. Srinivas had filed complaint with cybercrime police station of Cyberabad. He said that he had received an SMS from BJP MC N Ramchander Rao informing him about enrolment for MLC graduate electoral rolls of Mahbubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency. “Similar messages were sent to several voters registered for MLC graduate electoral rolls,” he said. Srinivas said, “I am not a registered member of BJP nor do I have any individual contract with MLC. I have not consented to receiving any messages from him.” He said data might have been breached from servers of CEO’s office. “Election infrastructure is a critical infrastructure and any breach of systems is a national security issue,” he explained. In the complaint, Srinivas said this could lead to micro-targeting of voters without consent by violating their privacy. “ ECI should protect voter privacy and launch a probe,” he added. Goel said that several political parties have asked them to provide addresses, and other details of voters so as to reach them during campaign for MLC graduates constituency elections||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ceo-writes-to-eci-on-voter-detail-leakage/articleshow/79747045.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 16, 2020||Pune||1.26 lakh health workers in district set to get first shots||Pune: Nearly 1.26 lakh health workers from the district will be part of the priority group for urgent Covid vaccination next year, health officials have said.The officials are responsible for uploading details of health staff on the Co-Win app, which has been developed by the Centre. Pune district has forwarded a total of 1,26,708 names. The entire division, which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Solapur, has put out a total of 2.28 lakh names.“We have readied a total of 2.28 lakh names of health workers from Pune division. We have uploaded the data of 93,000 workers on the Co-Win app. We expect to finish the data upload next week. Also, the number of ASHA workers may increase by 10%,” said deputy director of health services, Sanjay Deshmukh.He said almost all key cities of the state are expected to put out more names. National Health Mission Commissioner N Ramaswami said names of nearly 4 lakh health workers from the state have already been fed into the app. The final number could be at least 10 lakh. The Co-Win app has been developed to track vaccine supply and dosage.  Deshmukh said the state’s focus was now on finishing the data upload process on time. Officials said priority vaccination among health workers remains a voluntary process. Those who have registered can opt out later, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-26-lakh-health-workers-in-district-set-to-get-first-shots/articleshow/79747056.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Tablighi: Delhi court acquits 36 foreigners||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday acquitted 36 foreigners who faced trial for allegedly violating Covid-19 related guidelines by attending a Tablighi Jamaat event at Nizamuddin Markaz. Chief metropolitan magistrate Arun Kumar Garg acquitted the foreign nationals belonging to 14 countries of the charges they were being tried for. “Prosecution has failed to lead any cogent evidence to prove that any of the accused were a part of the gathering at Markaz. In the absence of such evidence, there is no question of violation of guidelines restricting the gathering to a maximum of 50 persons,” the court observed. On August 24, the court had framed charges against the accused under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and Section 3 (disobeying regulation) of Epidemic Act, 1897, defence counsel Ashima Mandla said. Charges were also framed under sections 51 and 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tablighi-court-acquits-36-foreigners/articleshow/79747079.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Number of visitors plunges at CPR’s post-Covid care centre||KOLHAPUR: The number of people turning up for post-Covid therapy has considerably come down at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital’s centre for such purpose due to the fall in the number of cases, doctors at the hospital have said. Currently, only one or two patients arrive every day for treatment or therapy for post-Covid complications at the CPR centre, as against four to six daily around a week ago. Moreover, the mortality rate due to post-Covid complications is almost zero, said the doctors. The doctors at the CPR hospital said that lesions were found on the lungs of some post-Covid patients after the high resolution CT scan, but it is not a matter of concern as they take time to heal. “We are carrying out scans on patients with breathing problems and finding lesions, which are marks that remain after treatment. The mortality rate is almost zero among post-Covid patients despite some cases being serious,” said Anita Saibennawar, pulmonologist at CPR hospital. “We usually patients who have recovered from the disease to do breathing exercises and follow a proper diet regimen, both of which are necessary for speedy recovery,” she said. The CPR Hospital has also been offering advice on mental health to patients after recovery. Those suffering from post-treatment anxiety are asked to go for special sessions being held at the centre. The district health administration has, meanwhile, advised people who have recovered from Covid-19 to go for regular check-ups or screening at the nearest Covid care centres. “The advice has been taken seriously and many people are turning up for screening, which involves checking of the body temperature and blood oxygen level,” said a senior health official. The official said that doctors at the screening centres have been asked to refer patients with serious complications to the post-Covid centre at the CPR hospital and Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-run centre at Shahu Smarak Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/number-of-visitors-plunges-atcprs-post-covid-care-centre/articleshow/79735674.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Man booked for giving triple talaq||AURANGABAD: A 32-year-old man has been booked by the city police for giving triple talaq after a complaint was filed against him by his wife. The woman, in her complaint to the Begampura police, has also levelled allegations of domestic violence against the suspect and his relatives. “The woman has said that her husband and in-laws had been asking her to bring Rs 2 lakh from her parents. The money was to be used to start a business. After she failed to bring the money, her in-laws allegedly started harassing her both physically and mentally,” an officer from the Begumpura police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-booked-for-giving-triple-talaq/articleshow/79744858.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Trichy||CII launches website for startups||Trichy: The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)-Young Indians (Yi), Trichy chapter, on Tuesday launched a website to identify and promote young entrepreneurs from the district. The website receiving business ideas from students and aspiring entrepreneurs will offer technical and financial aid to help potential startup ideas materialise. Young Indians Trichy chapter said the website www.yutry.in would help aspiring entrepreneurs connect with experts in various domains and industries to refine their business proposals. “The website will help young minds to get to know the preparedness required for transforming the raw startup ideas to proper business plans through mentoring, incubation and funding. Experts will proofread the ideas to evolve a right entrepreneurship model,” Karthikeyan Manoharan, chair, entrepreneurship vertical of CII-Yi Trichy said. The objective of the website is to generate employment and investments in Trichy by avoiding migration. CII said that aspiring entrepreneurs can start working on their business ideas and refine the model before submitting in the website. Six submissions will be selected in mid-2021 to receive guidance and financial support. D Senguttuvan, vice-chairman, CII Trichy zone, launched the website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cii-launches-website-for-startups/articleshow/79748249.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Kochi||ED sends 4th notice to CM Raveendran||KOCHI: On Tuesday, Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is probing a case registered under Prevention of Money Laundering Act in connection with the gold smuggling case, issued a fourth notice to CM Raveendran – additional private secretary of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan – to appear for interrogation on Thursday. During the previous three instances, Raveendran did not turn up after he tested positive for Covid-19 and sought treatment. He recovered from Covid-19 and completed his treatment last month. ED sources said the notice was served directly to Raveendran and the agency expects him to appear this time. “ED wants to record his statement based on statements given by accused persons in the case,” sources said. ED started a probe against Raveendran after his name surfaced in a statement given by key accused Swapna Suresh. ED suspects his involvement in several important projects like LIFE Mission and K-FON and has conducted a probe into his investments and financial dealings. ED questions Swapna and Sarith in prison ED team again questioned key accused Swapna and PS Sarith at Attakulangara Women’s Prison and Poojappura Central Prison respectively. Sources said ED sought more details about Raveendran from Swapna. The interrogation will continue on Wednesday too. ED had approached the court seeking permission to question the duo after both of them gave confession statements in customs case. The special court for PMLA cases, on Monday, granted permission to the agency to question the duo for three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-sends-4th-notice-to-cm-raveendran/articleshow/79745931.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||Govt plans Covid-19 cover to woo foreign tourists||NEW DELHI: With an eye on restarting international tourism in 2021, the government is all set to rollout insurance policies for foreign tourists visiting India — covers that will include treatment for Covid-19. The plan, in the final stages of being firmed up, will see the tourism ministry facilitate tie-ups between Indian and international insurance companies. They will also work out mechanisms to get Indian hospitals empanelled with international insurance companies so that inbound tourists can use their insurance covers for obtaining treatment in India. The government is also looking to offer attractively-priced insurance policies to foreign tourists, aside from focusing on giving a leg up to India’s medical tourism market. The plans to leverage India as a preferred destination for medical tourism cutting across the streams of allopathy, ayurveda, naturopathy and yoga was discussed at a meeting of the National Medical and Wellness Tourism Board on Monday, where Union Culture and tourism minister Prahlad Patel said more Indian hospitals should seek accreditation by the Joint Commission International (JCI), which is considered the global gold standard for hospitals in patient safety and service quality. The government is also in talks with the ministries of home and external affairs, respectively, to issue medical visas to applicants in as little as 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-plans-covid-19-cover-to-woo-foreign-tourists/articleshow/79749532.cms||Swati Mathur
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Under-5 Bengaluru kids face weight, growth issues||BENGALURU: There is something wrong in the way children in Bengaluru are being brought up. According to the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5), children below five years of age are showing signs of stunted growth, being overweight and underweight over the past four years. Compared with data of the previous survey (NFHS-4 in 2015-16), the findings on feeding practices and nutritional status of children in this age group show there has been a rise in children with stunted growth (height-for-age standard) from 28.1% (2015-16) to 31.3% (2019-20). HEALTH SURVEYSedentary lifestyle, junk food are major concerns, says docThe underweight (weight-for-age parameter) children category has seen a rise from 26.8% (2015-16) to 28.1% (2019-20). Equally baffling is that the overweight category (weight-for-height) has also increased from 3.5% to 4.3%. Paediatricians concur there’s a problem on both ends of the weight spectrum. According to Dr Lini Balakrishnan, pediatrician at Motherhood Hospital, the causes for being underweight and stunted growth is no more non-availability of food, but lack of nutrition. “Refined flour, bread, packaged cereal which may not be balanced in nutrients are hindering growth. Many parents depend on commercial products because of easy availability. They lack vegetables, fruits and fibre. Children lose interest in food over a period of time and eat less. It’s a vicious cycle,” she says. Dr Shivaprakash Sosale, joint secretary, Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Karnataka chapter, says many parents resort to bottle-feeding kids due to which children don’t feel hungry. “It’s easier to bottle-feed a child than making her eat. This leads to under- nutrition. Giving bottle-feeds of more than 700ml for infants can lead to iron deficiency. Excessive intake of cow’s milk reduces absorption of iron leading to anaemia,” he says. According to him, it’s a major problem in cities like Bengaluru. Dr Lini mentions that stunting is a problem is largely seem among children during 24-35 months growth. According to Dr Srinivas Kasi, malnutrition and stunted growth need to be tackled. “When malnutrition is prevalent for a short term, weight gets affected. When it is prevalent for a long time, growth in terms of height gets affected, leading to stunting. This is a big issue in India,” he says. Lack of activity and sedentary lifestyle are major concerns, according to Dr Kasi. “There is a tendency to be more involved in sedentary activities, especially because of the attraction to electronic media and smart screens. Accessibility to junk food which is more calories and less protein, minerals and micro nutrients compounds it. The other growing concern is lack of availability of space for outdoor activities and this leads to childhood obesity,” he adds. Paediatrics mention that increase in smart screen time is leading to excessive eating. “This should be avoided,” says Dr Lini. The cycle of eating more and lack of activity has worsened during the pandemic, says doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/under-5-city-kids-face-weight-growth-issues/articleshow/79749700.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 16, 2020||Nashik||‘Nashik farmers not against new agriculture laws’||NASHIK: Dindori MP Bharti Pawar has claimed that farmers in Nashik district are not against the three new agriculture laws and that anti-social elements were trying to hijack the farmers’ agitation. Pawar, the regional vice-president of the BJP, was speaking to reporters on Monday as a part of her party’s campaign against the ongoing agitation, mainly at the Delhi border. The MP said that she has been meeting farmers in her constituency and other areas for and did not come across anyone opposing the farm laws. “The farmers were confused by the claims made by the opposition asked, asked questions and were satisfied with the answers,” said Pawar. “The farmers will be getting the option to sell their produce to anybody offering the best price, which was not the case before. Why would they be unhappy then,” she asked. The MP said the new farm laws will actually provide protection to the already existing practice of contract farming, like what prevails in Nashik and Maharashtra. “In Nashik, we have several companies that are engaged in contract farming and the farmers linked to them are flourishing. Farmers and contract farming companies were bound by an agreement, but the new agricultural laws will give a recognition to the agreement and provide security to farmers, which is a win-win case,” she said. About apprehensions that APMCs would die soon and the farmers would be left alone, she said, “The APMCs would lose business only if they failed to give a better price for farm produce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-farmers-not-against-new-agriculture-laws/articleshow/79735686.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Govt must boost vaccine confidence in frontline medical staff: Specialists||Pune: Reducing vaccine hesitancy among healthcare workers (HCWs) through effective communication should be the government’s top priority before the Covid jab rollout, experts have said.Vaccine hesitancy has thwarted mass inoculations before. During the H1N1 pandemic of 2009-2010, only 26% of HCWs in the country were willing to get a vaccine. Many at the time believed the illness was less severe than thought while others said they were worried about possible side effects. The reluctance — even among doctors and nurses — led to the recall of thousands of H1N1 vaccine vials. “The most important concern among HCWs during Covid too is vaccine side effects. Many also feel the vaccine development process has not been transparent,” said senior epidemiologist and preventive medicine expert Amitav Banerjee. Reluctance among frontline health workers could also influence the public. “The government has to now boost HCW confidence in a vaccine. These attempts will be key if there is a second wave of infection,” Banerjee said. Hyderabad-based medical expert Leo Vaz, said, “Additionally, we still don’t know much about adverse reactions or duration of vaccine efficacy. Governments must use this time to address these concerns.”Sanjay Patil, vice-president of the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association, said many doctors and nurses in Maharashtra were still unwilling to get a Covid shot. He said, “Many believe they have immunity from past exposure. Others are looking for reassurance from IMA and the Association of Physicians of India (API).”Intensivist Mary Samuel said, “Data from trials have so far been very encouraging. Creating awareness on vaccine safety and efficacy is the need of the hour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-must-boost-vaccine-confidence-in-frontline-medical-staff-specialists/articleshow/79747059.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Never before blood crisis in Nagpur, thalassemia patients worst sufferers||NAGPUR: For Gajanan Jagnade, arranging blood for his two sons — Aditya (11) and Parth (4) had never been so difficult. “Me, my relatives, friends, and their friend — all have repeatedly donated blood in last eight months. Now, we are literally begging people we know to become replacement donors for us,” said Jagnade. Both his sons are thalassemia major patients and together they require 4 bags of blood per month. “We get blood for free, but arranging donor against the blood has become near impossible these days,” said Jagnade mentioning that the blood bank had never insisted so much for the donor against the blood earlier. He understands the crisis situation is due to low blood donation activity during Covid-19. “We never felt so helpless,” said Dr Harish Warbhe, director of Lifeline Blood Bank. “We used to have 500 to 700 bags of blood in stock. Today, I have less than 50 bags left. That is why, we are left with no option but to insist for donor against blood,” he said. Most of the times, the thalassemia patients arrange donors. Sometime, blood banks arrange replacement donors on their own. Eventually, every needy patient gets blood but, the process has become hectic due to never-before shortage. There used to be more than 50 blood donation camps every month during November, December and January. More than 100 bags of blood used to get collected from each camp. Now, number of camps has gone down to 6 or 7 and collection per camp has gone down to 20-25 bags only. As colleges are still closed, blood donation from young students is not happening. Even the blood banks in two GMCs in Nagpur are also facing acute crisis. Dr Hedgewar blood bank has its own list of 1 lakh-odd donors and they are arranging blood for needy by exploring this list. “We are calling our donors daily and somehow meeting day’s requirement. We have more than 70 patients of thalassemia registered with us. Till now, we have been providing blood to them for transfusion. But, the crisis is serious,” said Ashok Patki, secretary of this blood bank. Dr Vinky Rughwani, Director of thalassemia and Sickle Cell Centre, said that the situation was never so critical. “Many thalassemia patients require up to 4 bags of blood per month. Arranging so many donors is not possible for any individual. People should come forward and donate blood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/never-before-blood-crisis-in-city-thalassemia-patients-worst-sufferers/articleshow/79747062.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata tourists make a beeline for North Bengal forests after 8 months||JALPAIGURI: After a lull of almost eight months, the tourism industry in the Dooars is eyeing on a booming business in December and January. A rush for holiday in forest bungalows and guest houses has led to a huge spike in occupancy. The famous Hollong Bungalow in Jaldapara National Park has been booked to capacity throughout December while Jaldapara Tourist Lodge also has over 60% occupancy. “The number of trains running is much less these days. We expect more people to come once train services are fully restored,” said Niranjan Saha, manager of West Bengal Tourism Development Corporation-run Jaldapara Tourist Lodge. With a few train services, tourists are opting for road trips to reach the Dooars from Kolkata. Some tourists are even riding motorbikes in groups on the stretch. TOI spotted one such group from Kolkata’s Behala at Lataguri. “We have come riding 19 motorcycles from Behala. Our team comprises 23 members, including three women. We opted for a road trip as trains are very few now. The roads are clear with hardly any traffic during the pandemic,” said Sayan Sarkar, president of Bengal Tiger Heads. Tour operators in North Bengal said there has been a rush in bookings for December and January. “The business slump started winding down since the pujas that went off reasonably well for us. We are hoping to earn good revenues this winter and a good number of tourists started arriving here,” said Dibyendu Deb, secretary of Lataguri Resort Owners’ Association. There are some 110 private resorts around Gorumara National Park and Chapramari wildlife sanctuary. On an average, some 70,000 tourists visit Gorumara every year. Lataguri has about 50 resorts with a combined annual turnover of nearly Rs 70 lakh. The total turnover for 110 resorts is over Rs 3 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-tourists-make-a-beeline-for-n-bengal-forests-after-8-months/articleshow/79747063.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Young scientist award for 2 from city||Kolkata: Two scientists from Kolkata have been conferred with the young scientist platinum jubilee awards by the National Academy of Sciences in India in the field of chemical sciences. Uttam Kumar Ghorai, 34, is an assistant professor and head of the department of industrial and applied chemistry in Ramkrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur Math. Biplab Maji is an assistant professor of chemical sciences at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). “This reward is a big recognition for the work we have been doing in the field of industrial chemistry. I am thankful to everybody in Vidyamandira, including the monks, teachers, colleagues, non-teaching staff, family members and all my mentors and well-wishers,” said Ghorai, who completed his post-graduation and PhD from Jadavpur University after graduating from RKM Vidyamandira, Belur Math. He has received the award for converting a dying pigment into nanomaterials with multifunctional aspects. Another winner of the award who is also an alumni of Vidyamandira , Maji did his post-graduation from IIT Kanpur and completed his PhD in Germany. He was awarded for developing transition metal catalysts. “I am grateful to my teachers, colleagues and my family,” said Maji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/young-scientist-award-for-2-from-city/articleshow/79747074.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: RT-PCR test price drops to Rs 700 from nearly Rs 1,000||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday announced that the price of a Covid-19 RT-PCR test would be reduced from Rs 980 to Rs 700. The decision will have an impact on all three price slabs of the test. The cost of a test at a lab will be Rs 700. The price will be Rs 850 if a sample has to be collected from hospitals or quarantine centres. And if a sample has to be collected from home, a person will now have to pay Rs 980. The fresh revision in test cost comes just days after a central advisory asked all states to ensure more people are tested via RT-PCR than rapid antigen kits. Maharashtra currently maintains a 60:40 ratio — with most tests through the RT-PCR method. According to guidelines, RATs — or rapid antigen tests — should only be used to test early symptomatic individuals who are expected to have high viral loads. In other words, RATs can catch Covid when the person is most infectious. The guidelines said use of fast kits in patients five to seven days after symptom onset was not recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-test-price-drops-to-rs-700-from-nearly-rs-1000/articleshow/79747067.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Ore laden barge sinks, crew safe||Bicholim: A barge laden with iron ore sank in the Mhadei at Tixem Pali-Kothambi in Bicholim taluka on Monday night due to a crack in the vessel. Ten crew members on the barge managed to swim safely to the shore. According to an official, the barge named ‘Abhinav’, believed to be owned by a Vasco resident, began sinking gradually after it developed a crack from the centre of the vessel. “Now machinery has been brought to remove the ore and bring out the barge,” he said. When the workers noticed that the barge was sinking, they jumped into the water to save their lives. “The workers had a lucky escape. The work of removing the debris is going on and it will take another two days to salvage the remains,” a local said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ore-laden-barge-sinks-crew-safe/articleshow/79748349.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||JMC Heritage mayor visits Jaipur to check street lights||JAIPUR: Jaipur Municipal Corporation Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar visited Ward 71 on Tuesday evening to check the Walled City’s lighting system. Looking at the narrow streets, the mayor got down from her car, sat on a scooter and visited the nearby areas. During this time, the municipal corporation officers also arrived there on bikes. Seeing darkness in several streets, the mayor expressed her displeasure and instructed the officials from the spot that there should be no problem of lighting anywhere. Gurjar warned the officials that all problems should be rectified by the next day, as she will visit the area again tomorrow (Wednesday). She reviewed the lighting arrangements at places like Mishra Raja ji of Ward 71, the Aakdo ka raasta, Tiki Valo raasta, Andheri Darwaza, Khejdo ka raasta, Baba Harish Chandra Marg etc. During this visit, some shabby poles were seen and the mayor directed officials to get then changed immediately. Local councillor Arvind Methi was also with her during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-heritage-mayor-visits-walled-city-to-check-street-lights/articleshow/79747064.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Mega blood donation camp planned on Jan 10 to overcome shortage||NAGPUR: Worried over the acute shortage of blood bags and the plight of thalassaemia and sickle cell patients, a group of businessmen, entrepreneurs, professionals and students has joined hands to hold a mega blood donation camp on January 10 in city. Volunteers of the group working under two NGOs — Help for Good (HFG) and No Difference Foundation (NDF) — have been buoyed by the successful camps in their areas in the last couple of days. Lawyer Disha Khandelwal, a member of HFG, said when they discussed the idea with some known people, they encouraged them to go ahead. “We held a small camp at Jaripatka. As per the need, it is not enough so we are going for a bigger one,” she said. The groups has also been getting support for January 10 event from donors who volunteered in small camps. “They are now volunteering to mobilize more citizens for the New Year event. We are aiming to bring 1,500 donors during the drive and will decide the venue accordingly to follow Covid norms,” HFG founder Ashutosh Punyani (25) said. NDF’s Himanshu Armarker (20) said they were pained to know the difficulties parents and patients were facing and decided to launch the big event. “We read that blood was in short supply at both public and private banks. Small camp won’t be adequate,” he said. Being businessmen, Punyani and Armarker have reached out to trade associations and media houses. “We have asked for five volunteers each from all media houses, traders, insurance companies and agents. Our volunteers are also approaching people in their neighbourhood,” said Armarker. Punyani said safety will be prioritized and they would distribute safety kits. The group has decided to distribute the collected blood equally among public and private banks. BBA student Kunal Ahuja (18), who is leading the drive for NDF said, “I called up 20 people and they have shown willingness to donate blood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mega-blood-donation-camp-planned-on-jan-10-to-overcome-shortage/articleshow/79747069.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 16, 2020||Pune||Patient count under 9,000, 12 more succumb to nCoV||Pune: The active Covid-19 tally dropped below 9,000-mark to 8,879 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday, its least in over a month, over fewer daily cases and higher recoveries. The PMC recorded higher recoveries (707) than new cases (509) for the ninth consecutive day on Tuesday. Among the day’s discharges, the Pune municipal limits accounted for 306 recoveries, followed by the rural areas (255) and the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits (106). As for new cases, 243 were recorded in PMC limits, followed by the rural areas (159) and the PCMC limits (107). With this, the region’s recoveries have climbed above 3.35 lakh, while its caseload has increased above 3.53 lakh. Testing numbers swelled to 6,260 on Tuesday, including over 2,000 tests in the PMC and rural areas, while 1,980 tests in the PCMC limits. With this, the total testing in the PMC areas reached 8.68 lakh, while that of the PCMC limits rose to 5.16 lakh, followed by the rural areas (3.72 lakh). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 12 more patients succumbed to the infection on Tuesday. While the PMC areas recorded six deaths, five patients succumbed in the rural areas and one in the PCMC limits. Among the active cases, 2,720 patients were admitted in various hospitals in the region till Tuesday evening, while 6,159 were in home quarantine. Health officials said active cases have been on the decline since last few days. In PMC limits, active patients slipped below 5,000-mark on Tuesday, settling at 4,950. The PMC has been conducting over 2,000 tests every day. A report released by the PMC’s health department stated that as many as 810 patients in the municipal limits were on oxygen support, while 373 were at critical stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/patient-count-under-9000-12-more-succumb-to-ncov/articleshow/79747088.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 16, 2020||Kolhapur||No deaths reported in Kolhapur, Sangli districts||KOLHAPUR: A total of 12 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Monday. “The district has a total of 129 active patients, out of which 35 are home quarantined. Also, the number of patients being discharged from the hospital is also increasing. On Monday, 38 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the district and nobody died due to the infection,” a health official said. “The district has so far reported 49,298 cases, out of which 1,692 have succumbed to the infection and 47,477 have recovered. Kolhapur city also reported six fresh cases due to which the total cases went up to 15,001 — highest in the district. At 362, Kolhapur city also has the highest number of deaths reported in the district,” he added. As per data, in December, the district has reported 245 cases, while in November 833 cases were detected. The highest number of cases were reported in September (21,750). 19 cases in SangliSangli district reported 19 fresh cases and no deaths on Monday. “The district has 337 active cases. The district has reported 47,268 cases so far, out of which 1,722 have succumbed to the infection while 45,209 have been cured,” the health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-deaths-reported-in-kolhapur-sangli-districts/articleshow/79735716.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Gandhi market traders warned to follow rules or face music||Trichy: Weeks after the Gandhi market was reopened, commissioner of the Trichy Corporation S Sivasubramanian carried out a surprise inspection in the vicinity on Tuesday. The commissioner levied Rs 98,000 penalty on the shops for committing various offences including non-compliance of facemask, social distancing rules, and littering the market.The inspection was held jointly with the Ariyamangalam zone sanitary officials and city police personnel. As the market was reopened based on a temporary court order, the commissioner said that the traders were warned to follow Covid-19 preventive measures. “The traders were told that if violations continue, they have no other alternative than to shift to Samayapuram ground on the city outskirts,” the commissioner told TOI. The commissioner said that violations by traders may pave way for yet another closure, as the court had ordered for an inquiry by a committee to analyse the conditions. “There are some improvements in the functioning of the market as we have installed CCTVs and public address system. But, still, we are facing littering menace. Traders were told to follow proper waste management practices,” he said.Meanwhile, Ariyamangalam zone officials confiscated 1,177kg of banned plastic items in the market area. A total of 210 shops were inspected by a team of sanitary officials of which 45 were caught for possession of the banned items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gandhi-market-traders-warned-to-follow-rules-or-face-music/articleshow/79748338.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Municipal gardens to remain closed on New Year’s Eve for crowd control||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to keep civic gardens across the city closed on December 31. The decision has been taken to avoid crowding ahead of New Year’s Eve. “The decision has been taken to avoid spread of virus. People may come to gardens in large numbers to celebrate the New Year. As a precautionary measure, we have decided to keep the garden premises closed,” said a senior PMC official. The civic administration had opened gardens to the public on November 1. Gardens remained closed for so long even after the Unlock process was announce because many children and senior citizens, both in the high-risk category for Covid-19, were using them. Therefore, as a precautionary measure the decision was taken to keep the gardens closed in the third week of June. As per officials, the PMC had started gardens during the Unlock period but it led to crowding. Many citizens crowded on the jogging tracks and open gyms. If the gardens had remained open, there was a higher risk of the spread of coronavirus, so they were shut temporarily. Moreover, factors like the heavy rainfall were also considered while keeping the public gardens closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/municipal-gardens-to-remain-closed-on-new-years-eve-for-crowd-control/articleshow/79747071.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to scrap Annapurna milk scheme for school kids||JAIPUR: The state government has decided to shut down the Annapurna Milk Scheme for school children in the coming months because of execution problems and budget constraints. CM Ashok Gehlot had said during the assembly session that the government would review the scheme’s viability. Recently, the midday meal department reviewed the scheme and proposed to end it. Midday meal commissioner Bhanwar Lal said, “We have proposed to stop the scheme and are trying to work out an alternative plan, which can be a fruit or something else. However, it is yet to be approved by the government.” There have been many demands by the government teaching fraternity to shut down the scheme as it was time consuming for them. Usha Jain (name changed), a government teacher in Jaipur said, “In big schools with hundreds of children, we have to boil the milk, cool it down and then serve it. It consumes motre than an hour. The students would wash their utensils after the milk was served. It was time consuming and affecting studies.” This year, the total budget for Annapurna Milk scheme was Rs 745 crore. There is, however, no money provisions for sugar as it was considered to be lowering the nutrients of milk. A senior government official said, “There has been many complaints about the money for sugar to arranged. As it wasn’t mentioned in the scheme, it became difficult to sanction budget which ultimately became a burden on the teaching staff as without sugar children will not drink milk.” Moreover, there was little time difference between milk serving and lunch due to which many students complained of uneasiness. After considering many viewpoints, government is toying with the idea of cancelling the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-govt-to-scrap-annapurna-milk-scheme-for-school-kids/articleshow/79747070.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Days after teenage girl ends life, three men held for abetment||Kolhapur: The Pandharpur police in Solapur district have arrested three men in connection with the abetment of suicide of a minor girl. The suicide note said that she was ending her life because of constant harassment by three men. The girl took the extreme step on December 7 by hanging herself at her residence. Her family members found the suicide note in her college bag three days later, after which they approached the police. The girl had mentioned three names in the suicide note and explained why she was ending her life. The girl stated in the suicide note that for the past few months, the three men were harassing her whenever they spotted her going to college. She wrote that she was fed up with the harassment. The girl had scored well in her Class X exams and was planning to join the police. She also used to help her father, who runs a garage. One held under Pocso Satara police have arrested one person from Ahmednagar district for allegedly raping a minor girl. The suspect has been arrested under The Protection of Chidren from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso), 2012. Police said that the incident took place on Saturday night when the girl had gone to attend a nature call. The girl’s family is involved in cane cutting and the suspect works as a tractor driver. The girl’s family and the driver were camping in the same vicinity. The suspect allegedly threatened to kill the girl if she told anyone about what had happened to her. The girl told her mother about the abuse and a complaint against the suspect was lodged with the police. He was remanded in five-day police custody. — With inputs from Suryakant Asbe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/days-after-teenage-girl-ends-life-three-men-held-for-abetment/articleshow/79735737.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune, Mumbai & Thane have most active Covid-19 cases||PUNE: The highest numbers of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra are in Pune, Mumbai and Thane, records show. In fact, five districts, including Pune, currently hold almost 70% of all the active cases in Maharashtra, which as on December 15 had 71,356 patients undergoing treatment. The state overall has been seeing dips in the number of new infections. But experts urged citizens and authorities to keep up precautions and surveillance. The state task force in particular has warned that cases could rise by the end of December or early January. Members of the task force said citizens should continue to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. “Pune district continues to have the highest number of active cases. It’s followed by Mumbai and Thane. Testing for the virus has increased, but this number (active cases) has to drop,” said Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services for Pune division. Deshmukh said authorities will have to stick to the three Ts — tracing, tracking and testing — to reduce the number of cases. “Overall, the number of daily infections may have reduced. But we cannot let our guard down now,” he said. Subhash Salunke, technical advisor to the state on Covid-19, said current focus was on super-spreaders and increased testing. However, he asked the general population to stay cautious. “We are seeing a plateau in Pune district’s pandemic graph. But we must also bear in mind that we continue to get 500 to 600 cases every day,” he said. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said, “We think cases may pick up by the end of December or early January. We have directed authorities in all districts to stay alert.” Health experts have also urged citizens to avoid crowding during the winter months. In an interview earlier this month, state task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said crowded events — such as weddings and festival gatherings — were responsible for at least 80% of all new cases of Covid in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-mumbai-thane-have-most-active-cases/articleshow/79747096.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Home caretaker abuses child, held||KOLKATA: The caretaker of a children’s home at Haridevpur was arrested on Monday for allegedly abusing a 10-year-old boy physically at night. The victim, a Class-V student, who has been living in the home for the last five years, told his maternal uncle about the incident when the latter visited him. Her mother, a domestic help and a resident of Bansdroni, had to send her son to the home after she got separated from her husband. She lodged a complaint against the accused, Biwanath Sil (48), a resident of Diamond Harbour, with the Haridevpur police station. There are around 25 inmates at the home run privately. The accused has been slapped with stringent POCSO Act. “The accused has confessed. We will talk to other children to know whether he had committed more such crimes in the past,” said a police officer. The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has sought a report from cops in this regard. “The home in question is not registered in our government list. There is a possibility that they have already applied and their application is pending. In our letter to the police, we wanted to take note of the physical and mental conditions of the victim as well as of other children. We have asked them whether the children are getting proper counselling facilities at the home and for how long it has been operating,” said WBPCR chairperson, Ananya Chakraborty. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-caretaker-abuses-child-held/articleshow/79747101.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: 80:20 bed reservation policy to stay on till February 28||PUNE: The Maharashtra government on Tuesday extended the 80:20 Covid bed reservation policy till February 28. The rule states that private hospitals can admit non-Covid patients as long as they have enough beds (80% of their capacity) set aside to treat those sickened by the virus. State health officials said the policy was extended as part of preparedness measures during the winter months. “The state task force has warned of a second wave. So, we have to be prepared,” an official had said on Monday. An earlier proposal had sought extension of the policy till February 15. State task force members said that collectors will now be asked to carry out resource assessments to ensure non-Covid patients get care. Task force member Subhash Salunke said, “Emergency patients with other ailments should not be deprived of treatment while this policy is on. There are enough vacant beds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8020-bed-reservation-policy-to-stay-on-till-feb-28/articleshow/79747097.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Truck with 30 buffaloes seized||Aurangabad: The city police have seized a truck transporting 30 buffaloes, which is much more than the permissible limit. The seized buffaloes have been handed over to Cantonment-based animal enclosure, while a case has been registered against three people including the cattle trader, driver and cleaner of the truck. Satara area police inspector Surendra Malale said the 30 buffaloes were “stuffed” into the truck, which had covered 475km before reaching Aurangabad. The officer said a case has been registered under sections of Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act. In addition, sections of the Motor Vehicle Act have been slapped on the trio. Police found that not only were the animals cruelly loaded into the vehicle, the accused did not even have a permit to transport the animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/truck-with-30-buffaloes-seized/articleshow/79735757.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Four arrested for Rs 2-crore gold robbery in east Delhi||NEW DELHI: A week after armed criminals robbed a jeweller of gold ornaments worth over Rs two crore and stabbed him multiple times in East Delhi, Crime Branch has arrested four men and recovered a huge chunk of the robbed jewellery. According to additional commissioner (crime) Shibesh Singh, the criminals had made away with around 4kg of gold and the cops recovered a gold rod weighing 1.9kg, which was made after melting the ornaments. DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh said that the accused have been identified as Mukesh Sharma, Pradeep Bajaj, Prashanto Santra and Uttam Dague. “Sharma runs a hotel on lease in Paharganj. He has committed several robberies with jewellers,” Singh added. The incident had taken place at 6.45am on December 9 at Vikas Marg. A Karol Bagh-based jeweller was going to Anand Vihar in an auto with his staff when bike-borne men intercepted the auto and tried to snatch away the bag that the jeweller was holding. “When he resisted, the robbers attacked him with a knife and stabbed him several times on his thigh and robbed his jewellery bag,” Singh said. The local police filed an FIR at Shakarpur police station and the Crime Branch also formed a team to nab the accused. In a separate operation, north district police have solved the murder of a collection agent who was killed during a robbery bid in Gabi Bagh and arrested a 24-year-old man for the crime. According to DCP (north) Anto Alphonse, the accused has been identified as Harish Kumar, a resident of Ghonda in Delhi. Police have recovered a motorcycle and Rs 23,500 that was part of the robbed cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-arrested-for-rs-2cr-gold-robbery-in-e-delhi/articleshow/79747103.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Temperature check of bus passengers||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will check temperatures of passengers boarding buses from 10 stops. The transport body has allowed commuters to occupy all seats on its buses. PMPML officials said that one employee was being posted at each of the 10 stops to ensure that passengers stand in queue before boarding the buses and their temperatures are checked. “It is impossible to have this system at all bus stops,” an official told TOI. Among the bus stops which will have temperature checks include PMC- Manapa, Hadapsar, Swargate, Nigdi, Bhosari, Kothrud, Warje and Katraj, among others. “Passengers coming to these stops will have to stand in a queue and our officials will check their temperatures and ensure that they are wearing masks,” the official said.  “The conductors can be given devices to check temperatures of passengers,” PMP Pravasi Manch activist Sanjay Shitole, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temperature-check-of-bus-passengers/articleshow/79747100.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Vaccine programme won’t allow local polls in January-February: Andhra govt||VIJAYAWADA: The state government filed an additional affidavit in the high court with fresh objections on the proceedings issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) to conduct local body elections in February. The state government had already moved the high court challenging the SEC decision stating that the situation was not conducive for holding elections in view of the Covid-19 situation. Now, as the Union government has issued guidelines to all states to prepare for vaccination, the state government has filed a fresh affidavit stating that the entire state machinery will be engaged in the vaccination programme in January and February and hence holding elections may not be possible during the same time. The high court had earlier declined to stay the proceedings issued by the SEC for conducting elections as the various matters of law involved needed deeper examination. Arguing on behalf of the state government, C Suman told the high court that according to the guidelines of the Union government, a state-level steering committee, task force on vaccination and a control room have to be established. Similar task forces are also to be established in districts, urban local bodies, municipalities and municipal corporations, mandals and blocks. Suman said the Union government guidelines clearly stated that these task forces should be established on the lines of election task forces involving the employees of various departments. He said employees of panchayat raj, woman and child welfare, rural development, education and urban development departments will be fully engaged in the vaccination programme. The police department will be engaged in managing supply, storage and transportation of the vaccine, he said. Suman further argued that identification of people who need to be given vaccine in a phased manner also needs meticulous coordination between various departments keeping in view the constraints as only 100 people can be administered the vaccine in a batch. As frontline warriors, the elderly and people with comorbidities will be given priority, the number of people that will be involved in vaccination programme will run into lakhs, he said. As the vaccination programme is most likely to commence in January or February and it has to be given in two doses where the second dose will be given four weeks after the first dose, holding the elections in February may not be possible, Suman said. As the counsel for SEC, Aswani Kumar, sought time for filing counter affidavit, Justice D V S S Somayajulu posted the matter for further hearing on Friday. The government has filed a fresh affidavit stating that its machinery, involving employees across departments, will be engaged in the vaccination programme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vaccine-prog-wont-allow-local-polls-in-jan-feb-govt/articleshow/79745961.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 16, 2020||Goa||Kamat boycotts meet to decide L-Day events||Panaji: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat on Tuesday boycotted the sub-committee meeting of Goa Liberation Day celebrations which was called at the chief minister's official residence to decide on holding cultural programme at Campal parade grounds. He demanded cancellation of the tender invited for the appointment of event management agency for the programme. “Respecting the sentiments of Goans and freedom fighters, I will not be part of any decision which promotes extravaganza in the Liberation Day celebrations,” he said.  “What message does the government want to send by hosting this dinner when the common man is facing restrictions on weddings and family functions,” state Congress president, Girish Chodankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-boycotts-meet-to-decide-l-day-events/articleshow/79748416.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Kochi||Don’t reduce 1971 to historical footnote: Former naval vice chief||KOCHI: The 1971 war with Pakistan, that led to the liberation of Bangladesh, is one of the high points for the Indian armed forces, but this momentous event in our history is now not getting its due, says Vice Admiral R P Suthan (retd) , a former vice chief of the Indian Navy. In an exclusive interview to TOI, on the occasion of the launch of year-long celebrations on the 50th anniversary of the victory of 1971, the officer from Kochi, who fought the war as a navigating officer on board INS Kavaratti, says 1971 is being pushed into insignificance when compared to even smaller operations, such as the surgical strike of 2016. “The 1971 war is India’s greatest military victory but I don’t see the country celebrating it in that manner. Even the surgical strike, that happened merely 1km inside enemy territory, is now marked with greater fervour. Back then we split our enemy into two by waging a short war and even took 93,000 prisoners of war. It was a military operation like no other for the Indian armed forces, and it is unlikely to be bettered. I am surprised the victory is not celebrated now with the gusto it deserves. It should not come down to politics as it is a national achievement,” said Suthan. Less than a year of being commissioned, a young Suthan found himself on board the Petya-class warship, on the front lines. It was rare for a newly commissioned officer to experience war with all its trappings, he reminisces. “Because of the refugee problem on the eastern border there were reports of possible conflict much before the war officially broke out. On November 10, we sailed to East Pakistan from Calcutta to escort the mine boats of Mukthi Bahini (Bangladeshi forces) to lay mines at the mouth of Mongla harbour along Pasur River blocking the shipping lines and supplies of the enemy. It was the first time an Indian warship was in enemy waters for offensive operations,” Suthan said. On December 3, after war was officially declared, Kavaratti joined the Carrier Strike Group (CSG) of four ships escorting aircraft carrier INS Vikrant to impose a naval blockade in the Bay of Bengal and wage anti-air, anti-surface and anti-submarine operations backing up the Indian Army and Air Force till the war ended on December 16. “Those were exciting times and I remember Indian armed forces using All India Radio as a communication channel to pass messages to Mukti Bahini. Particular music was played at pre-scheduled intervals of time to pass messages,” he said. “It was the first opportunity for the Navy to showcase its capabilities and we did it perfectly. Today we have one of the best navies in the world. In the IOR (Indian Ocean Rim) we are still the most powerful, not the Chinese, whose capabilities are leapfrogging,” he said. Suthan says India must increase the pace of defence acquisition and modernization of assets. “The plan to build a second indigenous aircraft carrier was doing the rounds even when I was in the service and it still remains on paper. Technologies get outdated fast and we should not lag behind our enemies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dont-reduce-1971-to-historical-footnote-former-naval-vice-chief/articleshow/79746002.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 16, 2020||Pune||Details of vaccinators to be uploaded by Dec 25||Pune: Immunization officers of all states have been asked by the Centre to finish uploading details of vaccinators — onto the Co-Win app — by December 25. Vaccinators will be the ones administering the Covid-19 shots. The vaccination programme will be done in batches — starting with healthcare workers and followed by frontline workers. All recipients will have to be pre-registered. State officials said the training of vaccinators is almost complete. The deputy director of health services, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, said nearly 10,000 vaccinators would be needed for the priority vaccination phase which includes healthcare workers such as doctors, nurses and paramedical staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/details-of-vaccinators-to-be-uploaded-by-dec-25/articleshow/79747102.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||JDA will reclaim prime land from Khadi board||Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will receive its prime land from the Khadi Gram Udyog Board situated in Sanganer. After the dispute was cleared between both the agencies in a meeting chaired by chief secretary Niranjan Arya, the JDA would take possession of the land. The civic body in 2007 had allotted 11,993 square metre land to the board. However, the board only made partial payment of Rs 93 lakh, which was also withdrawn. An official said, “The Khadi board approached the court and did not give possession of the land. In the CS meeting, the matter was resolved and JDA can earn revenue after taking possession of the land.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-will-reclaim-prime-land-from-khadi-board/articleshow/79747112.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||State govt issues guidelines for depts to select banks||Jaipur: Keeping in view the series of bank failures, state finance department has issued guidelines for various government departments, agencies, state PSUs and organisations for conducting business through banks. The government order says it is important for these state government entities to verify the financial strength of the banks while opening bank accounts for fixed deposits, salary payments, transfer of funds for various social welfare schemes. It has recommended using the banking services of scheduled public sector banks like SBI, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, and scheduled private banks like HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and AU Small Finance Bank, Scheduled Regional Rural banks, Rajasthan State Co-operative Banks. While opening bank accounts, the government departments should check RBI mandated capital adequacy ratio and NPA coverage. It said that banks which have more than 100 branches in the state should be given priority. Similarly, the banks should be profitable for the past three years, while the net worth of the bank should at least be Rs 4,000 crore. The government has taken the decision that its deposits do not suffer as seen in cases of banks that have gone belly up in the recent past. A retired banker in Jaipur said, “The government has taken the right decision to preserve its money. Secondly, giving priority to banks that have bigger footprint in the state is also a good move. If some bank is working for the state, it should be rewarded rightfully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-issues-guidelines-for-depts-to-select-banks/articleshow/79747104.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Haveli taluka records highest deaths in Pune rural region||Pune: Haveli taluka has had the maximum Covid patients and deaths in Pune rural region, stated a report from the district health office, Pune. The Haveli taluka recorded 16,755 Covid-19 cases and 327 deaths till December 12, the Khed taluka recorded 5,930 cases and 128 deaths and Junnar taluka recorded 5,326 cases and 201 deaths. Experts said the peri-urban areas falling in the Haveli taluka jurisdiction, were the reasons why the region recorded the highest number of cases and deaths. Haveli has the most number of active Covid-19 cases as per the December 12 report, with the count going up to 266 cases.The report stated that Shirur (129 deaths), Ambegaon (117 deaths) Mulshi (115 deaths) and Maval (100 deaths) were other blocks that recorded significant Covid-19 casualties. Talukas such as Baramati, Purandar, Velhe, Bhor, Indapur and Daund recorded deaths in two digits.Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of Pune ZP, said the peri-urban areas of the Haveli taluka and the floating working population was one of the major reasons for the high number of cases and deaths in the taluka. Subhash Salunkhe, member of the state’s technical committee, said the behaviour of the population from Haveli was similar to the urban locality, which is why the number of infection was at the highest level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haveli-taluka-records-highest-deaths-in-pune-rural-region/articleshow/79747105.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Open defecation in 152 Trichy spots: Survey||Trichy: A study conducted by the arts and cultural cell of BJP in Trichy has claimed that open defecation is still practised in about 152 locations spread across 39 wards of the corporation. Absence of public toilets, poor maintenance and hesitation to pay and use community toilets were cited as the main causes of continuing open defecation. The BJP wing said it embarked on a survey for 32 days after the city corporation last month invited the public to share their opinion in declaring Trichy as open defecation free (ODF) city. Among the four zones, it found ward number 7, 39 and 40 with the most number of open defecation-prone sites. In Konakkarai, falling under K Abishekapuram zone, although a public toilet was constructed, the residents said they defecate in open as it remains closed. “Poor maintenance and lack of water supply were also cited as reasons among the locals in Ponmalai and Srirangam zones. The unutilised sanitary complexes after a period of time serve as a leisure spot for tipplers,” K Chandrasekar, district president, arts and culture cell, said. “Trichy is open defecation free city, we recently renovated around 100 public toilets. More toilets that need maintenance were identified and they will be overhauled,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/open-defecation-in-152-trichy-spots-survey/articleshow/79748415.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Masked man in woman’s clothes molests salon owner in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 33-year-old woman from South Bopal on Monday filed a complaint at Bopal police station, alleging that a person with a voice like was like a man’s but dressed in women’s clothes entered her beauty salon on Sunday after and allegedly grabbed her hand, tried to strangle her and molested her. The complainant stated that she opened her beauty salon in South Bopal at around 11am on Sunday and was accompanied by a staffer till the afternoon. Her staffer went home in the afternoon after which she was resting there and watching TV. “At around 3pm, a woman entered my salon and said: “Mera kaam kar do (Do my work)”. The person was wearing a woman’s top and bottom but the voice was like a male’s. I noticed hair indicating that the person was a man dressed as a woman,” she stated in the FIR. The complainant told the person to leave the shop but the person grabbed her right hand, tried to choke her and gagged her mouth while molesting her. She somehow got away from the person and ran out of the salon. The person then also left the salon and fled. She said that CCTV footage captured the person walking on the road, which she submitted to the police. Even though the woman provided evidence, Bopal police made all possible attempts to refuse to register an FIR. After the intervention of some local leaders, Bopal police registered an FIR for molestation against an unknown person but did not add charges for causing hurt and criminal trespassing. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/masked-man-in-womans-clothes-molests-salon-owner/articleshow/79747111.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Sikkim high court CJ to take reins of Andhra Pradesh HC||VIJAYAWADA: Justice Arup Kumar Goswami, presently chief justice of the Sikkim high court, is all set to become the second chief justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Though Justice C Praveen Kumar was appointed as in-charge chief justice of Andhra Pradesh high court post-bifurcation of the common high court for AP and Telangana, Justice J K Maheswari is the first to be appointed as chief justice of the Andhra Pradesh high court. A graduate in economics and law, Justice Goswami was born on March 11, 1961 at Jorhat in Assam. He enrolled as advocate with the bar council of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh in 1985. Before being elevated as additional judge of the Guwahati high court, Justice Goswami worked in many roles as standing counsel of Gauhati High Court, Karbi-Anglong Autonomous Council and North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council. He also worked as a senior standing counsel of the education department, the government of Assam. Justice Goswami became a permanent judge in 2012. After being elevated as permanent judge, he worked as executive chairman of legal services authority in Nagaland, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh at different intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sikkim-high-court-cj-to-take-reins-of-ap-hc/articleshow/79745982.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||New in-charge chairs Youth Congress meeting||New in-charge of state Youth Congress Palak Verma chaired a meeting of the state executive at the headquarters at Bani Park, Jaipur on Monday. It was decided that Youth Congress will soon appoint its 400 block presidents in which SC/ST/minorities and women will be given positions. For women, Youth Congress has decided to keep 33% seats reserved. Addressing the office bearers, Verma instructed them to remain united and organise the programmes of the organization on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-in-charge-chairs-youth-cong-meeting/articleshow/79747107.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Elusive Caracal still survives in Rajasthan ravines and forests: Study||JAIPUR: Rajasthan can boast to have the highest number of enigmatic Caracal, which is in line to become India’s second wild cat species to go extinct after Cheetah. In a recent study on the ‘Historic and current extent of occurrence for the Caracal in India’ it is mentioned that since 2001, the Caracal’s presence has been only reported the three states, including Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, and four biotic provinces with only two possible viable populations in the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan and Kutch in Gujarat. Though a report published in the ‘Journal of Threatened Taxa’, an international publication did not ascertain the current population in Rajasthan, it is highlighted that there has been a total of 24 Caracal reports since 2001, claimed to be highest in the country. Seventeen of these reports are backed by photographic evidence. Of which, 15 are from Ranthambore, along with a photograph taken from Sariska in 2004 and a camera trap picture from the Keoladeo Ghana National Park in Bharatpur in 2017. On the contrary, since 2001, there have been only nine photographic Caracal records from Kutch and no photographic records from Madhya Pradesh. The presence of medium-sized wild cat, which is shy, nocturnal, elusive and difficult to spot in the wild, continues to be recorded in Rajasthan’s forest. The report reads, “Between 2015 and April 2020, the Village Wildlife Volunteers obtained 176 camera trap pictures of Caracals from six locations in and around the Ranthambore reserve. Their camera trapping efforts conclusively established the Caracal’s presence in Dholpur. This is the largest repository of photographs for the Caracal in India and quite possibly its entire Asian range.” In Rajasthan, other than Ranthambore and contiguous areas including Dholpur, the elusive cat can be recorded in the region of Kumbhalgarh-Todgarh-Raoli in Udaipur and an isolated population in Chittorgarh-Pratapgarh. It is stated that this scrub-dwelling species might still be present in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and the eastern parts of India, but not being reported. Dharmendra Khandal, conservation biologist of Tiger Watch and author of the study, says, “Surveys on Caracal population size, reproduction, mortality, home range sizes and prey dynamics are the need of the hour. It is largely observed these elusive wild cats prefer dry deciduous forest with water bodies, having severely eroded riverbanks adjacent to ravine habitat. While both the Kutch desert and Ranthambore reserve exhibit dry habitats, they are found in the region.” A study conducted by retired Head of Forest Forces (HOFF), G V Reddy, and Ishan Dhar of Ranthambore-based NGO, Tiger Watch also highlighted, “Prior to 1947, the Caracal was reported from an area of 7,93,927sqkm. Between 1948 and 2000, the Caracal’s reported extent of occurrence in India decreased by 47.99%. From 2001 to 2020, the reported extent of occurrence further decreased by 95.95%, with current presence restricted to 16,709sqkm, less than 5% of the Caracal’s reported extent of occurrence in the 1948 to 2000 period and just 2.17% of the period before 1947.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/elusive-caracal-still-surviving-in-rajasthan/articleshow/79747106.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Camera trap reveals ST-14 gave birth to two cubs||JAIPUR: The forest administration at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR), which earlier believed that tigress ST-14 has given birth to one cub, was elated to spot another cub in a trap camera. Officials said according to the pictures captured in a trap camera around 2.11 am in Dabli village installed for monitoring, the tigress gave birth to two cubs. The six-year-old tigress gave birth to these cubs for the second time after she was born to tigress ST-2 at STR in 2014. ST-2 was the first tigress to join the reserve in Alwar district after she was flown by an Indian Air Force helicopter from Ranthambore on July 4, 2008. The forest administration, which was waiting for tiger population to grow at STR, were elated after learning that the tigress gave birth to two cubs. Field director of Sariska Tiger Reserve RN Meena said, “The trap camera installed for monitoring captured ST-14 tigress with two two-months old cubs on December 15. Earlier, the tigress was captured with one cub. The tigress with cubs is safely residing in Dabli region from where 10 families were shifted recently.” With the revelation the number of big cats has increased to 22 at STR. There are eight females, three males, five sub-adults and six cubs. STR, infamous for poaching, has finally scripted a remarkable success story in tiger conservation, as five cubs were born inside the park this year. In May 30, tigress ST-12 was spotted with triplets for the second time. Wildlife lovers said the news has come as a respite for STR after the death of a few tigers in the park in the past two years. “Birth of six cubs within a year will give a fresh lease of life to the reserve. Sariska has tremendous potential and this would help wildlife tourism to grow at STR, which equally helps in conservation,” said a wildlife enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/camera-trap-reveals-st-14-gave-birth-to-two-cubs/articleshow/79747109.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Defunct govt buildings in Rajasthan will be turned into child rehab centres||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) has decided to acquire defunct government buildings to keep rescued child labourers in order to rehabilitate them in a proper manner. The organisation during a meeting with police and labour department announced to launch a major child rescue mission from January in a bid to achieve the aim of ‘Child labour-free Rajasthan.’ The defunct buildings, mostly government schools, will be converted into childcare centres with facilities such as education, healthcare, nutritious food, legal remedy and skill training to those who are 12 years and above. “Along with the rescued children, these centres will provide shelter for their families for a limited period of time. The whole idea is rehabilitating children with their family members with a a sole aim to prevent them from engaging in any labour work,” said Sangeeta Beniwal, chairman of RSCPCR. Buildings have been identified in Jaipur while in the rest of the places it will be identified. Three to four such buildings have been identified in the city. During the meeting, the experts also discussed the loopholes in the existing laws and ways to make laws more effective. Commission member Shailendra Pandya highlighted the need for improving the condition of child care centres and the need for proper documentation for smooth rehabilitation. “The absence of the JJ Act, sections on the employer of child labour has often helped them in bypassing the severe punishment. Also, the need of an hour is to create new standard operating procedures for child care centres and provision to track rescued children for at least six months,” said Pandya. Addressing the delay in compensation to the rescued children, secretary of labour department Neeraj K Pawan directed the district collectors to provide a timely certificate of rescued child labourers. “The timely grant of compensation is key to fast rehabilitation. Also, manufacturing units are required to write ‘Child Labour Free’ on their products,” said Pawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/defunct-govt-buildings-to-be-turned-into-child-labour-rehab-centres/articleshow/79747113.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kozhikode||CBI re-enacts attack on Sarath Lal, Kripesh in Periya||KOZHIKODE: A CBI team has started probe in Periya murder case, in which Youth Congress workers Sarath Lal and Kripesh were killed in Kasaragod on February 17, 2019. The ten-member CBI team, led by SP Nandakumar Nair and TP Ananthakrishnan, reached the murder spot on Tuesday morning and talked to the victims’ relatives and the residents. Then they recreated the attack on the duo with the help of people selected for the purpose. The persons selected for the exercise were also given face masks. The eight-member team waited for the ‘victims’ on the side of the road and pounced on ‘Sarath Lal and Kripesh’ when they arrived on a motorbike. The gang attacked the duo with ‘swords and iron rods’. The next recreated scene was rushing Sarath Lal to hospital. Sarath Lal’s relative, who was passing in a jeep, found him lying on the road and took him to the hospital in his vehicle. The team also enacted how Kripesh ran away and finally fell dead around 500m from the attack site. Police had arrested CPM local committee member A Peethambaran and CJ Saji on the next day of the murder. Peethambaran was later ousted from the party. Till date, police have arrested 14 persons in the case. But, relatives and Congress leaders allege that the real culprits are still at large and those arrested are ‘dummy’ accused. They approached the high court for a CBI probe, which the court allowed. Relatives of the victims suspect that more CPM leaders were involved in the conspiracy behind the incident. The government had moved the division bench of the high court and later the Supreme Court against a CBI probe. The Supreme Court passed the order allowing a CBI probe on Dec 1. CBI is likely to open a camp office in Kasaragod or Kanhangad. Deputy SP Ananthakrishnan is the investigating officer in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cbi-re-enacts-attack-on-sarath-kripesh-in-periya/articleshow/79746048.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: MP wants law against interfaith marriages||AHMEDABAD: A letter to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani from the BJP MP from Bharuch, Mansukh Vasava, went viral on Tuesday. In it the MP demanded a law against inter-religious marriages between a Hindu woman and a Muslim man. In the letter dated December 3, Vasava also alleged that trafficking of tribal women is taking place in Gujarat. “There are certain areas of Gujarat where the sex ratio is skewed and in such areas poor tribal women are trafficked and sold,” Vasava wrote. Demanding a law against inter-religious marriages, Vasava said the UP government has “brought a law against Love-Jihad” which should be replicated in Gujarat too. “Many persons have represented this issue before me and I demand you (Rupani) introduce a law which has some special provisions to protect girls from scheduled tribes and scheduled castes. If the victim girl is a minor or if she belongs to SC or SC community, then there must be penal provisions of jail term from three years to ten years and a fine of Rs 50,000,” Vasava wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mp-wants-law-against-interfaith-marriages/articleshow/79747118.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Daily cases in Andhra Pradesh below 1,000 for 20th consecutive day||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 500 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,76,336. This is the 20th consecutive day the state has recorded less than 1,000 daily cases. The toll jumped to 7,064 as five more people succumbed to the virus. Of the five deceased, two are from Krishna and one each from Chittoor, Guntur and Nellore. As many as 563 patients were declared cured. There are currently 4,660 active cases with 8,64,612 cumulative recoveries and 7,064 fatalities. The active cases are less than 500 in nine districts with Vizianagaram having the lowest number of active cases (82). Chittoor reported 88 infections on Tuesday, followed by Krishna (77), West Godavari (63) and Guntur (55). The nine remaining districts posted less than 50 new cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/daily-cases-in-ap-below-1k-for-20th-consecutive-day/articleshow/79746015.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Mayor asks officials to resolve complaints on time||Jaipur: In a public hearing at Murlipura Zone, mayor Somya Gurjar has instructed the zone’s deputy commissioner to ban the empty plot owners from dumping garbage on their land. Officials have been asked to give notice to the owners of the plots where dirt and debris are lying. The mayor gave this instruction while conducting public hearing with councillors and officials in Murlipura zone on Tuesday. Gurjar said to the officials, “Whichever plot is vacant in the area, the owners should be issued a notice to get the boundary of the plot transfixed. Despite this, if garbage is found in an empty plot, then take action as per rules.” The mayor further instructed the officers to immediately address the problems of lights, sanitation, sewerage etc. received from the general public and councillors. She said that complaints should not be kept pending, and problems should be resolved on time to give relief to the common man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mayor-asks-officials-to-resolve-complaints-on-time/articleshow/79747132.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man gives wife herpes, hits her||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old woman from Vejalpur on Monday filed a complaint of domestic violence with police alleging that her husband hid the fact that he had herpes — a sexually transmitted disease (STD) — and infected her during the lockdown. When she found out from their doctor and questioned her husband and his parents, he beat her and deserted her. The woman stated that she married the man, a resident of Manekbaug, in May 2017. A month into their marriage, she learned that he was an alcoholic and had relationships with other women. When the lockdown was imposed in March, she and her husband stayed together for long periods of time. She found him taking some medicines and applying a powder to his body. She also saw sores on his body and asked him about it, but he evaded her question. After a while, she developed similar sores and her husband began giving her his medicine and powder. When she consulted a doctor in November, he told her she and her husband had herpes, which is sexually transmitted. When she raised this issue, her husband and in-laws beat her and left her at her parents’ place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-gives-wife-herpes-hits-her/articleshow/79747145.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Fee war: Rajasthan HC to continue hearing today||JAIPUR: If schools and parents are not satisfied with the fees as recommended by the state government, then get the school accounts audited by a chartered accountant by putting him in the fees committee. This was suggested by the state government on Tuesday during the hearing of the appeal of the government, parents and others against the single bench order of the high court allowing schools to charge 70 per cent fees. The hearing of the case will continue on Wednesday. State’s additional advocate general (AAG) Rajesh Maharshi said the state government had fixed the fees for private schools in compliance with the court’s order. “If the schools and parents are objecting to the fees as decided by our committee, they should get a CA or auditor to determine the fees,” Maharshi said in the court. Court was also informed that schools were completely closed during the corona period and they have not spent on infrastructure. “In such a situation, a CA or auditor may be included in the fees regulatory committee to audit the school expenses and determine the fees,” Maharshi added. On the other hand, Sunil Samdaria, counsel on behalf of parents, suggested that fees should not be more than 30 per cent during Covid period. After hearing all the arguments, the bench comprising Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Sharma decided to continue hearing at 10.30 am on Wednesday. It may be recalled that a single bench of Rajasthan High Court on September 7 had allowed private schools to charge 70 per cent tuition fees. Thereafter, parents and the state government appealed against this order. Hearing the appeal, the division bench had asked the state government to fix an interim fees. The state government thereafter fixed 70 per cent of tuition fees of students of CBSE classes 9th to 12th and 60 per cent of the tuition fees of these classes of Rajasthan board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fee-war-hc-to-continue-hearing-today/articleshow/79747116.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||Eye on hostels for SC students, government asks institutes for survey||MUMBAI: After quotas in admissions, there is a move to introduce quotas for living on campus too. The Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, under a financial assistance scheme, has proposed to carry out new construction and upkeep of hostels for Scheduled Caste students. The ministry has directed all the engineering colleges in India, the ones that figure in the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) rating, to carry out a “comprehensive” need assessment/demand survey, to calculate the number of hostels that would be required for SC candidates. Details have been sought on the number of operational hostels for SC candidates, the count of such students on their college rolls, and the gap in the availability of hostels for SC candidates, apart from land for constructing exclusive hostels for SC students. Institutes also need to indicate their willingness to manage day-to-day operations of such hostels. In the letter sent from the ministry, officials have noted that they proposed to focus on NIFR-ranked institutions in the implementation of the scheme “so that SC students are not deprived of the best education on account of a shortage of residential facilities.” The department would implement the scheme, Babu Jagjiwan Ram Chhatrawas Yojna, under which Central assistance would be provided to state and Central institutes to construct/expand hostels for SC students. The department has asked for the survey findings from all the IITs, NIT, as also universities like Anna University, Jadavpur University, Delhi Technological University, Institute of Chemical Technology, Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute, and private institutes like Thapar Institute of Technology, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, KJ Somaiya Institute of Engineering and Information Technology and 250-odd engineering colleges across India. Most colleges, however, feel students should not be segregated on campus based on their backgrounds. “When a student joins a residential campus like ours ... whether they are from the general category or the socially or economically backward strata of society, they are expected to come into this melting pot as students, only as those who have come to seek professional education,” said an IIT dean for student affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/eye-on-hostels-for-sc-students-government-asks-institutes-for-survey/articleshow/79749802.cms||Hemali Chhapia
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Aadhaar not valid to enrol for vaccine||AHMEDABAD: The state government has embarked on its exercise of registering people for the Covid-19 vaccine, but survey teams do not accept Aadhaar card as proof of identity. Satellite resident Lalita Patel was appalled to learn that the team surveying the area for senior citizens do not accept Aadhaar cards as valid proof. “Team members categorically told me that we should produce some other document like a PAN card or a voter ID card, but not an Aadhaar card,” Patel said. Another team visiting a society in Bopal said they have been instructed not to accept Aadhaar cards as proof of identity. “The survey form has a column for a photo identification card. A PAN card, driving licence, passport or even a stamped bank passbook with a photograph will be acceptable, but not Aadhaar card,” a member of the survey team said. District collector Sandip Sagale said, “The main purpose of the exercise is inclusion of everybody and so we are not insisting on Aadhaar card. If people do not have an Aadhaar card, any other authorised document for identification is valid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aadhaar-not-valid-to-enrol-for-vaccine/articleshow/79747151.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||DoE allows Jan 1 holiday to be retained||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) has extended the Christmas break by one day, up to January 1, 2021, following the requests from some minority school teachers. Earlier, the directorate had cut short Diwali break for the academic year 2020-21 by eight days and Christmas break by two days. This was done to make up for the academic time lost due to the pandemic. A group of teachers from the Catholic community, headed by Farell Furtado, met director Santosh Amonkar and requested that January 1 be declared a holiday. The director had assured the teachers that he had put forth the issue before chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant and said that CM had agreed to the teachers’ demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doe-allows-jan-1-holiday-to-be-retained/articleshow/79748486.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Former MLA held on murder bid charge after assault on couple||PUNE: The Chatushrungi police on Tuesday arrested former MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav (43) on the charge of attempt to murder and other serious offences after a 28-year-old IT consultant from Bopodi lodged an FIR accusing him and a woman of assaulting his parents over a road rage incident at Bremen chowk in Aundh around 7pm on Monday. “We are searching for the 37-year-old woman who was accompanying Jadhav,” a police officer said, adding that Jadhav will be produced before a local court on Wednesday to secure his custodial remand. Jadhav, who twice represented the Kannad assembly seat in Aurangabad before announcing his retirement from politics earlier this year, is the son-in-law of BJP’s Union minister Raosaheb Danve. However, Jadhav has separated from his wife. Jadhav has had several run-ins with the law-enforcing agencies in the past. In the instant case, complainant Aman Chaddha has stated in the FIR that Jadhav and the woman kept hitting his father, Ajay (55), in the chest and stomach despite the latter repeatedly telling them that he is a heart and BP patient. The two kept kicking and punching Ajay even after he fell to the ground and also dealt similar blows to his mother, Mamta (48), when she tried to stop them, the FIR stated. Later, some people who witnessed the attack caught hold of Jadhav and thrashed him, police said. Sub-inspector Rajendra Dahiphale of the Chatushrungi police, who is investigating the case, said, “We checked Ajay Chaddha’s medical history and then invoked the charge of attempt to murder.” Ex-MLA held on murder bid charge after assault on 2Both Jadhav and his woman associate have also been booked under sections 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 34 (common intention). TOI attempted to speak to Jadhav at the police station on Tuesday afternoon, but the police did not allow access to him on the grounds that he was under arrest. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of the Chatushrungi police told TOI, “Ajay Chaddha has been admitted to a private hospital at Vimannagar for treatment. His wife, Mamta, too has sustained internal injuries.” Sub-inspector Dahiphale said, “The Chaddha couple was heading towards Parihar chowk from Bremen chowk on their scooter. They were driving past Jadhav’s Honda Jazz car, which he had just parked. Jadhav suddenly opened the door without checking if any vehicle was coming from behind. The scooter crashed into the open door and the couple fell on the road. Mamta sustained injuries to her leg.” Citing the FIR, Dahiphale said, “The complainant’s father got up to confront Jadhav which led to a verbal altercation and assault. Aman and his brother Karan rushed to the site on learning about their parents being beaten up. They intervened and told Jadhav that their father was a heart patient. But despite listening to the complainant’s pleas, he again punched the father.” Dahiphale said, “Later, Aman and his brother took their parents to a nearby hospital. His father complained of severe chest pain. The family members took him another hospital located at Vimannagar.” In the meantime, some passersby and local residents slapped and punched Jadhav. The police came to the spot and rescued Jadhav. “When we were pacifying the crowd, the complainant came there and told us what had happened,” Dahiphale said. TOI on Tuesday repeatedly attempted to reach complainant Aman on his phone, but he did not answer calls. TOI also sent him a text message but he did not respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-mla-held-on-murder-bid-charge-after-assault-on-couple/articleshow/79747146.cms||Gitesh Shelke
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Ministerial groups to visit districts on Dec 19-20 as part of govt second anniversary||JAIPUR: A group of two ministers will tour the districts on December 19 and 20 to assess the progress of the flag ship programmes of the state government and Covid management in the respective districts. This is part of the two-year anniversary of the state government. Each group has been assigned three districts. They will visit their respective district in group and hold meetings with the district officials. They will also release he book let on the achievements of the government will also publicise it by holding press conferences. Power B D Kalla and school education minister Govid Singh Dotasra have been allocated Bikaner, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal and mines minister Pramod Jain Bhaya will tour Kota, Baran and Jhalawar, Industry minister Parsadilal Meena and minister of state for labour Tikaram Julie assigned Jaipur, Alwar and Dausa. Similarly, Agriculture minister Lalchand Kataria and Medcila and health minister Raghu Sharma will tour Ajmer, Bhilwara and Nagaur, Revenue minister Harish Chaudhary and minister of state for forest and environment Sukhram Vishnoi given Jaisalmer, Barmer and Jalore, Cooperatives minister Udailal Anjana and Transport minister Pratap Singh Kachariyawas allotted Udaipur, rajsmand and Chittorgarh, Minorty affiars minister Shale Mohammad and deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary has been assigned Jodhpur, Pali and Sirohi. Chief whip Mahesh Joshi and sports and minister of state for youth affairs Ashok Chandana has been allotted Tonk, Sawai Madhopur and Bundi. Women and child development minister Mamata Bhupesh and minister of state for home gaurds and civil defence Bhaganlal Jatav will visit Bharatpur, Dholpur and Karouli, minister of state for tribal development Arjun Singh Bamniya and minister of state for motor garage Rajendra Singh Yadav allotted Dungarpur , Banswara and Pratapgarh, while minister of state for higher education Bhanwar Singh Bhati and technical education minister Dr Subash Garg has been given Churu Sikar and Jhunjhunu. Jail ReviewChief minister holding a review meeting of Jail department on Tuesday directed to directed check on all kinds of criminal activities including the use of mobile and drug paddlers with a heavy hand. At the same time, he said it should be be ensured that prisoners get humane treatment according to norms, with proper food, basic hygienic facilities. He directed to fill up the vacancies of doctors and hold the meetings of jail development board for modernization and rehabilitation of prisoners. He appreciated the initiative of e- mulakath, due to Covid under which the prisoners could talk on the mobile phones of their relatives. The chief minister said along with educational, vocational programmes focus should be on reforming the inmates through new initiatives. The meeting, also discussed measures to contain Covid_19 in jails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ministerial-groups-to-visit-districts-on-dec-19-20-as-part-of-govt-second-anniversary/articleshow/79747148.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers sit-in at Rajasthan border enters 14th day||ALWAR/JAIPUR: The Jaipur-Delhi national highway in Rajasthan's Alwar district remained partially blocked on Tuesday as the farmers' protest against the Centre's new farm laws entered the third day. The farmers were led by Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav, CPI(M) legislator Balwan Poonia and former legislator Amra Ram. Farmers’ ‘mahapadav’ at Shahjahanpur in Alwar district bordering Haryana entered 14th day on Tuesday. Farmers alleged that due to the rigidity of the Modi government, they were forced to agitate in winter and live in tents braving extreme chill. Agitated farmers are getting support from various sections of society. A delegation of lawyers from Rewari district extended support to the agitation. The lawyers announced that if the government files a fake case against the farmers, they will help the farmers by fighting cases free of cost. Traffic on Delhi-Jaipur Highway is currently operational. In view of the agitation, the district administration has made a route-chart to divert vehicles on alternative route in case of highway jam. On Tuesday afternoon, there was tension after farmers put flags on the barricade put up by the Haryana police along the border. Paramilitary personnel and Haryana Police protested the planting of flags on barricades resulting in heated arguments. Later policemen removed the flags and deployed more forces. The agitating farmers protested by shouting slogans against police. Farmer leaders appealed to them to not to get entangled with policemen. After repeated intervention of farmer leaders, the matter calmed down, but the number of farmers flocking the agitation site is continuously increasing. Preparations are being made to completely block the highway. The farmers who have died in the agitation at various places in the country were remembered at the agitation site. Coming to join the movement, two farmers, Goldie and Labh Singh, died in an accident. A two-minute silence was observed in their memory. Due to winter, farmers lit bonfires and squated on one lane of the highway blocking traffic on the lane to Delhi. Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Rampal Jat is also present at the dharna site. Jat said winter, summer and rainy season is the same for farmers, but the central government is fretting over their rights and in protest, they were forced to spend the night on the road during the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-sit-in-at-raj-border-enters-14th-day/articleshow/79747150.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Tribal university to play key role in social change: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Terming the Govind Guru Tribal University in Banswara as a centre of social change in the tribal region, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that the university can play a vital role in creating harmony between tribal and non-tribal population. “The university has a big role to play in bringing a social change in the region. It has to mobilise people towards constructive work by educating them, creating employment and leaders,” said Gehlot, while virtually inaugurating the Maharishi Valmiki Bhawan in the university campus on Monday. This is the first state university in the heart of the tribal area covering three districts — Banswara, Dungarpur and Pratapgarh. It has 150 colleges affiliated with it with 1.50 lakh students enrolled in the three districts. Gehlot in his speech accused the former BJP government of ignoring the development of the tribal region. “BJP government had closed down several government projects including the railway line of Dungarpur-Banswara-Ratlan and the power projects,” said Gehlot, while adding that the role of university is also to keep an eye on development of the region. He also announced an IT library in Banswara engineering college and directed the state higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati to focus more on the tribal university for the overall development of the students. Recalling the closure of two universities — Harideo Joshi University of Journalism and Mass Communication and Dr BR Ambedkar Law University, Gehlot said, “I was told that never in history was a university opened by the state closed in the country.” “Our government is back with your blessings and we will make sure to fulfil all promises made by us for the region,” said Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tribal-university-to-play-key-role-in-social-change-cm/articleshow/79747143.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 166 nominations for 50 chairperson posts||JAIPUR: On the last day of filing nomination to chairperson of 50 municipal bodies (43 municipalities and seven municipal councils) in 12 districts, 143 candidates filed 166 nomination papers. The election is scheduled on December 20. Election commissioner P S Mehra said they received maximum nominations on the last day. The election commissioner informed that the scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on December 16, and the candidature could be withdrawn by 3pm on December 17. Allotment of election symbols will be done immediately after the withdrawal of nomination. Voting will be held from 10am to 2pm on December 20, while the counting of votes will take place immediately after the end of voting. He said the election for vice-chairperson’s post will be held on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/166-nominations-for-50-chairperson-posts/articleshow/79747152.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 166 nominations for 50 chairperson posts||JAIPUR: On the last day of filing nomination to chairperson of 50 municipal bodies (43 municipalities and seven municipal councils) in 12 districts, 143 candidates filed 166 nomination papers. The election is scheduled on December 20. Election commissioner P S Mehra said they received maximum nominations on the last day. The election commissioner informed that the scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on December 16, and the candidature could be withdrawn by 3pm on December 17. Allotment of election symbols will be done immediately after the withdrawal of nomination. Voting will be held from 10am to 2pm on December 20, while the counting of votes will take place immediately after the end of voting. He said the election for vice-chairperson’s post will be held on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/166-nominations-for-50-chairperson-posts/articleshow/79755965.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Traces of heavy metal found in drinking water in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration has swung into action after officials found traces of lead, nickel and other heavy metals in drinking water. Focusing on industrial estates, officials have directed local authorities to put in place measures to prevent industrial waste from entering water bodies. Officials have also been asked to prepare an action plan to control pollution in industrial areas at the earliest. At Jawahar Autonagar, the biggest industrial area in the state, problems with solid and liquid waste management are not new. Industrial effluent enter Guntathippa drain, which merges with Ryves Canal at Prasadampadu in Vijayawada. District collector A Md Imtiaz who recently inspected Jawahar Autonagar had expressed dissatisfaction over the sanitation in the area and lack of maintenance of drains clogged with plastic. Imtiaz directed officials to complete pending drain works and take up drain cleaning work immediately. He also asked officials to set up sewage treatment plants (STP) to remove toxic materials and harmful chemicals from drain water before it enters Ryves Canal. Imtiaz also directed officials to initiate measures for solid waste management. Further, damaged vehicle parts and trash from the estate are dumped on roadsides, adding to pollution. Locals complained that officials at the Industrial Area Local Authority (IALA) empty garbage on Guntathippa rain road instead of shifting it to the dumping yard. Meanwhile, residents of Murali Nagar, Prasadampadu, Ramavarappadu and Enikepadu alleged that groundwater is being polluted by industrial effluents, leading to severe health complications. They demanded AP Pollution Control Board (APPCB) check the quality of water in these areas and take remedial measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/traces-of-heavy-metal-found-in-drinking-water-in-krishna-dist/articleshow/79746098.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||SAAP training centre & stadium project delayed due to land issue||VISAKHAPATNAM: The construction of SAAP training centre and stadium at Kommadi has been delayed over some ownership dispute on the land allotted for the project. Around 27 acres was allotted for the project, of which there is dispute over eight acres. Some farmers are claiming that they own the land. The matter has reached the court, with the district administration too taking the legal route to settle the matter. The training centre was supposed to come up on 27 acres at Kommadi on the outskirts of the city and the foundation stone for the project was laid about a year ago. The AP government has decided to set up such training centres and stadiums in other cities of the state too. The proposed project, which was supposed to be completed by December 2020, will have facilities for archery, hockey, weightlifting, athletics, boxing, walking, basketball, volleyball and kabaddi. After the district administration allocated the land for the project, some Form D patta holders approached the court citing that around eight out of the 27 acres at Kommadi belonged to them and got a status quo on the land. “The land has been transferred to SAAP from government. We have also filed counter petitions in court,” said N Surya Rao of District Sports Authority. “The Union government had agreed to sanction Rs 7 crore for laying a synthetic athletic track. However, due to delay the amount is yet to be sanctioned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/saap-training-centre-stadium-project-delayed-due-to-land-issue/articleshow/79746087.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Covid claimed 100 lives in 7 days, cases lowest in 144 days||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest daily Covid count in 144 days as 1,045 persons were found infected with the virus on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 2,93,584. In the last seven days, 100 persons died of Covid across the state. On July 24, the state had reported 958 Covid cases followed by 1,120 cases the next day. For the first time since then the state reported daily new infections as low as 1,045. Over the period of the last three weeks, the pandemic situation has changed drastically. On November 24, the state had reported 3,314 new infections, which was an all-time high. Since then, the state has reported reduction in daily new infections. Even active cases have also gone down significantly. It had touched the peak on November 29 when state had 28,758 active cases. Over the last 16 days, active cases have been reduced to 15,510 from 28,758. “The cumulative daily growth rate has gone down to 0.44%. Over the last few days, cases have gone done in most of the parts of the state,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died, which took the fatality count to 2,568. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (357), Kota (97), Udaipur (87), Jodhpur (76), Ajmer (60), Nagaur (48), Pali (38), Alwar (38), Dungarpur (37), Bhilwara (32), Rajsamand (21), Bundi (16), Bikaner (14), Jaisalmer (12), Banswara (11), Jalore (10), Jhalawar (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Bharatpur (9), Sriganaganagar (9) Sawai Madhopur (8), Chittorgarh (8), Dholpur (8), Sikar (5), Pratapgarh (5), Sirohi (4), Tonk (4), Churu (4), Baran (4), Barmer (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 480, with two more deaths Jodhpur’s toll rose to 274, two persons died in Rajsamand taking its toll to 40, Kota 160th, Pali 103rd, Nagaur 88th, Barmer 46th, Sriganaganagar 41st, Banswara 29th and Pratapgarh reported its 19thCovid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-claimed-100-lives-in-7-days-cases-lowest-in-144-days/articleshow/79754140.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Kudimaramath: Plea seeks to upload details of works||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to upload all the details of kudimaramath works carried out in the waterbodies in the district administration websites. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by R M Anbunidhi, an advocate and resident of Madurai district. The petitioner stated that the state government had introduced the kudimaramath works in 2016 with an objective to desilt the waterbodies including tanks. He stated that the state government had allotted nearly Rs 928 crore for the kudimaramath works. Though the state received sufficient rainfall this year, water is not filled up in several waterbodies due to failure of proper maintenance of the supply channels and failure to remove the encroachments. He stated that ultimately the funds allotted by the government gets wasted and thereby the object of the scheme is defeated. He stated that if the details of the works carried out under the kudimaramath scheme is uploaded in the official websites of the district administration, then the public would be made aware and it would also prevent irregularities and malpractice involved in implementing this scheme. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kudimaramath-plea-seeks-to-upload-details-of-works/articleshow/79747155.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Plea to extend short-terminated train till Andipatti||Trichy: Rail users in delta districts have appealed to the railways to extend the Mayiladuthurai-Tirunelveli passenger train up to Andipatti in the wake of its decision to short-terminate it at Dindigul, saying it is one of the oldest trains to connect delta districts with the southern parts of the state. All passenger trains operating for more than 200 kilometres are now being converted to express and speeded up. Railways have done away with attachment and detachment of all slip coaches with other trains. The present special trains are operated with new timings on trial. Mayiaduthurai-Tirunelveli fast passenger (Train No.56821/56822) is one such passenger to be converted to express though the Erode-Tirunelvel fast passenger (Train No.56825/56826) is still operated up to Tirunelveli as express.Mayiaduthurai-Tirunelveli fast passenger was a convenient day train connecting delta with Madurai and other southern parts. The proposed short termination will hit many regular passengers, P K T Shanmugam, president of Thanjavur District Railway User's Association, said. Instead he suggested operating the proposed train up to Andipatti via Madurai. The broad gauge-converted Madurai-Bodinayakanur section will be ready soon with completion of works up to Andipatti. This will enable Sabarimala pilgrims to visit the shrine via Kumili apart from providing connectivity for commuters between Madurai and Bodinayakanur, he suggested. Rail users of Mayiladuthurai want the train to be extended either up to Mettupalayam or Shoranur via Pollachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-extend-short-terminated-train-till-andipatti/articleshow/79748485.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar to give Covid vaccine to its natives for free: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: The Nitish Kumar government has decided to give free vaccination against Covid-19 virus to people in the state as and when the vaccines are available. The decision was taken at the second cabinet meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday since the swearing-in. Free Covid vaccine is a part of the government’s Seven Resolves-2 programme. NDA constituent BJP had also promised free Covid jabs for Bihar during the campaigning for the recently concluded assembly polls. The cabinet gave its approval in principle to the resolutions of the government which is broad-based and christened as Seven Resolves -2 to be executed over the next five years. The government also plans to create 20 lakh job opportunities in the state in the next five years as part of this programme. The state cabinet also mooted a plan to open three separate universities for medical, engineering and sports education in the state, besides establishing a separate skill development department to impart training in skill development, entrepreneurial activities and promote entrepreneurial culture in the state. The government’s resolutions envisage providing financial assistance to the trained entrepreneurs to establish new industries and trade activities for which the aspirants will be given subsidy at 50% of the project cost with a cap of Rs 5 lakh and a loan of Rs 5 lakh at 1% interest to male entrepreneurs. Similarly, the government will give subsidy in the same form, but Rs 5 lakh interest-free loan to women entrepreneurs to open new industries and trade activities. The government’s Seven Resolves – 2 envisages wide-ranging activities that address the concerns of youths and students getting an education at Industrial Training Institutes and polytechnics in tune with market demands. Besides, the new set of seven resolutions also address concerns in rural areas and town\city development. The overall aim is to create 20 lakh work opportunities in the state, including in the government and non-government sectors. The new resolves have been sub-divided into seven groups: Yuva Shakti (youth power), Sashakt Mahila (empowered woman), irrigation facility in every plot of land, Swachchha Gaon\ Samriddha Gaon (clean village\affluent village), clean town, Sulabh Samparkta (rural connectivity), and additional health facilities. The government has maintained that the earlier seven resolves programme would continue, but they would also get new teeth, like in the area of skill development for youths and students. It will cover the training of ITI and polytechnic students, quality of education at their institutes, and the areas of training curriculum and courses would be based on the market demands. In sync with the same, they would be given additional training at mega skill centres to be opened in every district and also at tool rooms having modern equipment at the divisional headquarters. Under the Sashakt Mahila programme, the inter-pass women students will be given financial assistance of Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 to graduate women students. Under the same head, trained women entrepreneurs will be given subsidy and loan to open new industries and start new trade activities. The government has also decided to arrange for the purchase of pulses from farmers at MSP rates, while a database would be created on the migrants going to other states for work. The government also decided that there would be gazette notification of the detailed programme of the Seven Resolves – 2 to be executed during 2020-25, and all departments will make their respective plans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-to-give-covid-vaccine-to-its-natives-for-free-nitish/articleshow/79746303.cms||Abhay Singh
December 16, 2020||Surat||Gujarat govt didn’t oppose bail plea of ex-minister Kanti Gamit||SURAT: The Gujarat government did not oppose the bail plea of 19 accused including former minister Kanti Gamit and his son booked under section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and Epidemic Disease Act, for organizing a mass gathering on November 30 at Dosavada village of Songadh taluka in Tapi district. During the hearing of the bail plea of Gamit and others, special public prosecutor Nayan Sukhadwala submitted before the sessions judge that the investigating officer in the case had no objection to the bail pleas if the accused cooperated in the probe. “In this case, considering the provision of the punishment against the accused, if accused remain present during the trial, do not violate the bail conditions and cooperate with police investigation, complainant (police itself) has no objections to the conditional bail to accused,” Sukhadwala had stated in the court. Based on this argument, the court granted bail to the 19 accused on Monday. Earlier, the judicial magistrate had rejected the bail plea of the accused, following which they had filed an appeal in the sessions court. This stand of the prosecution and the investigating agency (police) not objecting to the bail pleas comes even after the Gujarat high court had pulled up the government and local police for turning a blind eye to the massive gathering despite restriction orders. The state government had also assured the HC that it had taken serious note of the incident and booked the accused under IPC section 308 and suspended concerned police officials. Gamit and others were arrested on December 2 by the Tapi police for organising the pre-wedding ceremony of Gamit’s granddaughter in Dosavada village. Appearing for Gamit, their lawyer JN Bhandari had argued that the event was not organised by his client or his son Jetu. Bhandari further contended that the gathering was for on the occasion of Tulsi Vivah where are common kitchen is organised every year. He claimed that it was a mere coincidence that the engagement ceremony Gamit’s granddaughter was on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/govt-didnt-oppose-bail-plea-of-ex-minister-gamit/articleshow/79744982.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AgriGold scam: CID begins second phase of compiling investor details||VIJAYAWADA: Crime investigation department (CID) officials have commenced the second phase of compiling details of AgriGold victims who had invested less than Rs 20,000 to sanction payments to them. According to CID officials, they would be completing the process by March 2021 as per the high court’s directives. The state government had asked CID to collect the details last month after the Telangana high court gave the green signal on November 9. Officials said would be coordinating with ward secretariats to gather details on war-footing and complete the compilation process by early March. “We would do our bit and verify the credentials of the depositors and then after the submission, the state government would take a call in issuing a GO for further action,” a CID official said. Back in 2019, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy was quick to earmark Rs 1,150 crore to compensate AgriGold victims. In the first phase, around Rs 264 crore was released and payments were made in October last year to depositors who had deposited less than Rs 10,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/agrigold-scam-cid-begins-second-phase-of-compiling-investor-details/articleshow/79746079.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Delhi||How Nirbhaya changed policing in Delhi||NEW DELHI: It has been eight years since the horrific gang-rape and murder of a physiotherapy student — who came to be known as Nirbhaya — in south Delhi. 2020 is significant, for the year brought an end to the legal battle between the state and the convicts, who were hanged on March 20. The Nirbhaya case, however, did not just result in the hanging of the rapist-murderers. It also changed the way Delhi Police dealt with crimes against women.  For one, registration of crime underwent a systemic change, leading to an increase in FIRs filed, from 706 in 2012 to a peak of 2,199 in 2015. This year was safer for women, with just 1,429 cases registered till October 31 against 1,884 last year in the same period. Police commissioner S N Shrivastava is learnt to have emphasised a zero-tolerance policy in crimes against women, and joint commissioner- and deputy commissioner-rank officers oversee the investigation in these cases, pushing for timely arrests and filing of chargesheets. Serving and retired police officers agree that the December 16, 2012 event was a turning point for law enforcement in the city. Delhi Police underwent an overhaul at the grass-roots level and took a slew of measures. “From dedicated anti-stalking cells to self-defence training for women and Himmat Plus app for easy access to police, Delhi Police gave top priority to women’s safety. No jurisdictional dispute is allowed to delay police response to a complaint,” an officer claimed. There is a change in the police attitude towards the complainant as well. “Cops are now conscious of the manner in which they talk to a survivor, record the complaint or elicit information,” the officer said. “And besides attending to emergencies, staff handling the 10 lines of 1091 helpline also provides counselling.” The case also led to the amendment of rape laws as recommended by the Justice JS Verma Commission set up after the Nirbhaya horror. After going through 80,000 submissions from the public, the commission accepted the need to punish rape, molestation and other sexual offences such as voyeurism with imprisonment up to seven years. Stalking or unwanted attempts to contact a person repeatedly was made punishable by a three-year jail sentence. The amended laws made police duty-bound to assist rape survivors, starting with the immediate registration of an FIR on receiving a complaint. Now, women can also file online complaints. A slew of cases has already been registered based on email received by police. Women can also seek legal help from the police crisis cells. The growing awareness about legal remedies has resulted in more women reporting gender crimes. As for stalking, cops said that all distress calls related to the crime are diverted to a special anti-stalking group. “The group follows up on the abusing number and deals with the aggressor in an effective manner. The cases are referred to the local police in real time,” the officer explained. Besides deploying all-women PCR vans, male and female cops in plainclothes are also posted outside school and colleges when classes begin and end. There is special patrolling of the risk-prone routes taken by women returning from entertainment hubs and malls, and the civic agencies are informed about poorly lit roads. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-nirbhaya-changed-policing-in-delhi/articleshow/79747169.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 166 nominations for 50 chairperson posts||JAIPUR: On the last day of filing nomination to chairperson of 50 municipal bodies (43 municipalities and seven municipal councils) in 12 districts, 143 candidates filed 166 nomination papers. The election is scheduled on December 20. Election commissioner P S Mehra said they received maximum nominations on the last day. The election commissioner informed that the scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on December 16, and the candidature could be withdrawn by 3pm on December 17. Allotment of election symbols will be done immediately after the withdrawal of nomination. Voting will be held from 10am to 2pm on December 20, while the counting of votes will take place immediately after the end of voting. He said the election for vice-chairperson’s post will be held on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/166-nominations-for-50-chairperson-posts/articleshow/79755962.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: All excise stations now under SEB’s control||VISAKHAPATNAM: After the state government extended the role of Special Enforcement Bureaus (SEB), all excise stations have now turned SEB stations. Meanwhile, the role of prohibition and excise department has now been confined to duties surrounding liquor depots and sale. A couple of weeks ago, the state government assigned the responsibilities of handling offences like gambling, gaming of all kinds including online betting, manufacture and sale of chewing tobacco as well as red sanders smuggling to the SEB. Now, the excise department is being reorganised and nearly 70% of its staff is being deputed to SEB. Vizag city has eight excise police stations while Visakhapatnam (rural) has nine. The Sabbavaram excise station has been shut. Excise department sources informed that an SEB station is likely to come up at Golukonda soon. The assistant enforcement superintendent (AES) office in Visakhapatnam rural has been split in two— one to come up at Anakapalli, another at Narsipatnam. Vizag (urban) SEB in-charge Ajita Vegendla said, “The city had seven excise stations which have been converted into SEB units. Rural will have 10 stations. As per government instructions, we will look into NDPL cases too along with others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-excise-stns-now-under-sebs-control/articleshow/79746054.cms||Siva G
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Work begins on Sea Harrier Museum in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has started work on revamping Rajiv Smruthi Bhavan, located on Beach Road, to accommodate the Sea Harrier. Rajiv Smruthi Bhavan will be converted into Sea Harrier Museum at a cost about Rs 7 crore. The VMRDA recently finalised tenders for the project. According to VMRDA officials, the Sea Harrier would be suspended from the ceiling inside the Rajiv Smurthi Bhavan, to replicate it being in flight, and encased in glass. Before converting it into a museum, the VMRDA started renovating Smurthi Bhavan to match the designs and elevations of nearby museums. The museum will also house artefacts related to the fighter jet. The Sea Harrier Museum is one of the components of the proposed Rs 40 crore Integrated Museum and Tourism Complex Project. The VMRDA has decided to adopt a piecemeal approach for the Integrated Museum project and will develop its different components before integrating them. The VMRDA is looking to complete work on the Sea Harrier Museum in the next three to four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/work-begins-on-sea-harrier-museum/articleshow/79746063.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Covid claimed 100 lives in 7 days, cases lowest in 144 days||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest daily Covid count in 144 days as 1,045 persons were found infected with the virus on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 2,93,584. In the last seven days, 100 persons died of Covid across the state. On July 24, the state had reported 958 Covid cases followed by 1,120 cases the next day. For the first time since then the state reported daily new infections as low as 1,045. Over the period of the last three weeks, the pandemic situation has changed drastically. On November 24, the state had reported 3,314 new infections, which was an all-time high. Since then, the state has reported reduction in daily new infections. Even active cases have also gone down significantly. It had touched the peak on November 29 when state had 28,758 active cases. Over the last 16 days, active cases have been reduced to 15,510 from 28,758. “The cumulative daily growth rate has gone down to 0.44%. Over the last few days, cases have gone done in most of the parts of the state,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died, which took the fatality count to 2,568. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (357), Kota (97), Udaipur (87), Jodhpur (76), Ajmer (60), Nagaur (48), Pali (38), Alwar (38), Dungarpur (37), Bhilwara (32), Rajsamand (21), Bundi (16), Bikaner (14), Jaisalmer (12), Banswara (11), Jalore (10), Jhalawar (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Bharatpur (9), Sriganaganagar (9) Sawai Madhopur (8), Chittorgarh (8), Dholpur (8), Sikar (5), Pratapgarh (5), Sirohi (4), Tonk (4), Churu (4), Baran (4), Barmer (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 480, with two more deaths Jodhpur’s toll rose to 274, two persons died in Rajsamand taking its toll to 40, Kota 160th, Pali 103rd, Nagaur 88th, Barmer 46th, Sriganaganagar 41st, Banswara 29th and Pratapgarh reported its 19thCovid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-claimed-100-lives-in-7-days-cases-lowest-in-144-days/articleshow/79754139.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Covid claimed 100 lives in 7 days, cases lowest in 144 days||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest daily Covid count in 144 days as 1,045 persons were found infected with the virus on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 2,93,584. In the last seven days, 100 persons died of Covid across the state. On July 24, the state had reported 958 Covid cases followed by 1,120 cases the next day. For the first time since then the state reported daily new infections as low as 1,045. Over the period of the last three weeks, the pandemic situation has changed drastically. On November 24, the state had reported 3,314 new infections, which was an all-time high. Since then, the state has reported reduction in daily new infections. Even active cases have also gone down significantly. It had touched the peak on November 29 when state had 28,758 active cases. Over the last 16 days, active cases have been reduced to 15,510 from 28,758. “The cumulative daily growth rate has gone down to 0.44%. Over the last few days, cases have gone done in most of the parts of the state,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died, which took the fatality count to 2,568. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (357), Kota (97), Udaipur (87), Jodhpur (76), Ajmer (60), Nagaur (48), Pali (38), Alwar (38), Dungarpur (37), Bhilwara (32), Rajsamand (21), Bundi (16), Bikaner (14), Jaisalmer (12), Banswara (11), Jalore (10), Jhalawar (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Bharatpur (9), Sriganaganagar (9) Sawai Madhopur (8), Chittorgarh (8), Dholpur (8), Sikar (5), Pratapgarh (5), Sirohi (4), Tonk (4), Churu (4), Baran (4), Barmer (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 480, with two more deaths Jodhpur’s toll rose to 274, two persons died in Rajsamand taking its toll to 40, Kota 160th, Pali 103rd, Nagaur 88th, Barmer 46th, Sriganaganagar 41st, Banswara 29th and Pratapgarh reported its 19thCovid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-claimed-100-lives-in-7-days-cases-lowest-in-144-days/articleshow/79754142.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid claimed 100 lives in 7 days, cases lowest in 144 days||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest daily Covid count in 144 days as 1,045 persons were found infected with the virus on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 2,93,584. In the last seven days, 100 persons died of Covid across the state. On July 24, the state had reported 958 Covid cases followed by 1,120 cases the next day. For the first time since then the state reported daily new infections as low as 1,045. Over the period of the last three weeks, the pandemic situation has changed drastically. On November 24, the state had reported 3,314 new infections, which was an all-time high. Since then, the state has reported reduction in daily new infections. Even active cases have also gone down significantly. It had touched the peak on November 29 when state had 28,758 active cases. Over the last 16 days, active cases have been reduced to 15,510 from 28,758. “The cumulative daily growth rate has gone down to 0.44%. Over the last few days, cases have gone done in most of the parts of the state,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, 13 persons died, which took the fatality count to 2,568. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (357), Kota (97), Udaipur (87), Jodhpur (76), Ajmer (60), Nagaur (48), Pali (38), Alwar (38), Dungarpur (37), Bhilwara (32), Rajsamand (21), Bundi (16), Bikaner (14), Jaisalmer (12), Banswara (11), Jalore (10), Jhalawar (10), Jhunjhunu (10), Bharatpur (9), Sriganaganagar (9) Sawai Madhopur (8), Chittorgarh (8), Dholpur (8), Sikar (5), Pratapgarh (5), Sirohi (4), Tonk (4), Churu (4), Baran (4), Barmer (2) and Hanumangarh (1). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 480, with two more deaths Jodhpur’s toll rose to 274, two persons died in Rajsamand taking its toll to 40, Kota 160th, Pali 103rd, Nagaur 88th, Barmer 46th, Sriganaganagar 41st, Banswara 29th and Pratapgarh reported its 19thCovid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-claimed-100-lives-in-7-days-cases-lowest-in-144-days/articleshow/79747156.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Central law for definition of death needed to promote organ donation’||AHMEDABAD: Brain stem death should be included as a form of death, opined Mahendrakumar Bajpai, an advocate in the Supreme Court of India, and director of the Institute of Medicine and Law (IML). Bajpai, who was speaking at an online event on Tuesday to discuss salient aspects of organ donation in the country, said that there should be a central law governing the uniform definition of death. “The socio-cultural preferences of Indian society should be considered while defining the order of surrogate decision makers. Additionally, to streamline the process a single authority for reporting, compliance and directions should be contemplated,” he said. The event, organized by IML, had panellists including Jay Narayan Vyas, Dr Manoj Gumber, Dr Vineet Mishra, Dr Sujata Rajapurkar, Aashka Chudasma and Dr Bhagwat Karad. Justice Sunil Ambwani, former chief justice of Rajasthan High Court, was the chief guest at the event. Dr Gumber, a city-based nephrologist, said that awareness is the key to improve organ donation – not only among the public but also among the medical fraternity. Fear among doctors about the legal implications also keep them away, he said. “The statutory processes and procedures should be simpler and easily implementable along with appropriate grief counselling,” said Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/central-law-for-definition-of-death-needed-to-promote-organ-donation/articleshow/79747161.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers intensify stir against Medigadda project, probe panel visit soon||NAGPUR: In the backdrop of the intensifying stir against the Medigadda-Kaleshwar project, the Divisional commissioner led probe committee would be visiting the site at Sironcha taluka in south Gadchiroli soon. The inquiry has been delayed by the outbreak of coronavirus. The committee is expected to finalize it’s report within a month. Even though the dam backwaters have completely receded from the farms earlier submerged due to closing of the barrage gates, the agitation seems to be gaining ground against the project. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said the measurements and data collection work from the site is going on at present. “The committee would start the probe once the measurement data is submitted. We are also planning a field visit and meeting the local population to understand their issues and grievances,” said Kumar. A joint venture of Telangana and Maharashtra, the project has caused great resentment among residents of Sironcha taluka, especially farmers. They claim to have suffered significant losses due to the non-fulfilment of promises. The local farmers’ associations and outfits, along with some residents, were supposed to stage an indefinite protest from Tuesday. It’s learnt the local senior police officers have asked the agitators to call off their protest, since they had already informed the collector regarding the grievances and are now waiting for a response. Activist farmer Madhusudan Arveli said the population wants water for domestic use and also irrigation purpose from the project. “There were five lift irrigation plans under the project at different places at Sironcha. The Telangana government now wants the Maharashtra state to share the cost for such lift irrigation work, following which the entire issue is deadlocked,” said Arveli. “The land acquisition plan too needs to be revised. The Telangana government is only keen to take the affected portions of the land while leaving the rest, which is of no use for us. It should consider taking the entire land instead of acquiring only parts,” he said. Arveli also said the Telangana government must allow fishing in the project as farmers have lost their farming land in the project. “The Telangana government has also locked the gate to stop commuters from travelling on the barrage bridge to visit Telangana for livelihood,” he said. Tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant said the barrage bridge is for maintenance and not transportation. “Apart from the possibility of the barrage bridge getting damaged, there is also a security threat in the sensitive region, for which access restriction is a must,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-intensify-stir-against-medigadda-project-probe-panel-visit-soon/articleshow/79747924.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1,000 average daily Covid recoveries in December||NAGPUR: Continuing with 10-12 days’ trend of encouraging news regarding Covid-19 spread in Vidarbha, total recoveries in the month of December surpassed 15k mark and reached 15,072 on Tuesday. This means, an average of more than 1,000 patients have recovered daily in December. Against this, 13,263 new patients have been reported in the month so far, which means less than 900 cases per day. 12 Covid-19 patients died on Tuesday, which is the lowest after November 14. On December 15, 883 new cases were reported from 11 districts of Vidarbha, while 821 patients recovered. Now, out of 2.4 lakh cases reported till date, 2.2 lakh have recovered. The recovery rate is 93.2%, which is inching closer to the state’s average of 93.5%, and the national average — which surpassed the 95% mark on Tuesday.  Out of 12 deaths reported on Tuesday, 9 were from Nagpur district alone. Out of 9 deceased reported in Nagpur, 4 were the outstation/other state patients who were referred to Nagpur on Tuesday in critical condition. Chandrapur, Akola, and Bhandara reported 1 death each, while remaining seven districts in the region — Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Washim reported no deaths. Number of deaths due to Covid-19 in Vidarbha region reached 6,329. Bhandara: The district reported 61 new cases, while 43 patients recovered. Total count of Covid-19 cases reached 11,654 while recoveries reached 10,814. The recovery rate is 92.8%. A patient died during treatment on Tuesday, which took death toll of the district to 277. Now, 563 patients are under treatment. Gondia: 42 new patients were detected, while 71 were reported Covid-19 free. Now, Gondia has 13,159 total cases, 12,687 recoveries and 174 deaths. No death due to Covid-19 was reported on Tuesday. The district now has 298 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: 40 new cases and 39 recoveries were recorded on Tuesday. No death was reported. With total 8,598 cases, and 8,138 of them recovered, Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 94.7%. Total 92 deaths have been reported till date. Case fatality rate of the district is 1% only. 368 patients are still under treatment. Akola: The district received 1,114 reports of RT-PCR tests and 101 Rapid Antigen Tests in the last 24 hours. Out of these, 40 tested positive. This took Akola’s Covid-19 caseload to 9,928. With 45 recovered on Tuesday, total 9,877 of them have recovered. A 75-year-old patient from Bhaurad in Akola died during treatment. This took the death toll to 305. Now, 646 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district received reports of 200 tests of Covid-19 and 45 of them tested positive on December 15. 25 patients recovered in a day. Now, Buldhana has total 11,898 cases of Covid-19, including 11,404 recoveries and 144 deaths. No death was reported on Tuesday. Now, 350 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 14 new patients detected and 8 recovered on Tuesday; total cases in Washim reached 6,461 and recoveries reached 6,045. No death was reported in the district on Tuesday. Washim has 148 Covid-19 deaths (including a suicide), and 267 patients are currently under treatment. Wardha: On Tuesday, 38 tested positive. The caseload of district reached 8,466. Meanwhile, 23 patients were discharged and 7,926 recoveries were registered. Yavatmal: Out of 309 test reports on Tuesday, 37 were positive. Currently, 288 positive patients are undergoing treatment in various Covid Care Centres across the district. Chandrapur: There were 102 positive cases with 74 getting discharged on Monday. One death was reported, taking the toll to 338. The total caseload in now 21,457 and recoveries 20,350. Amravati: For the second successive day on Tuesday, the death toll of the district remained constant at 390. Recoveries, too, outscored new cases as 69 went home cured as against 46 new cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1k-average-daily-covid-recoveries-in-december/articleshow/79747922.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 16, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 166 nominations for 50 chairperson posts||JAIPUR: On the last day of filing nomination to chairperson of 50 municipal bodies (43 municipalities and seven municipal councils) in 12 districts, 143 candidates filed 166 nomination papers. The election is scheduled on December 20. Election commissioner P S Mehra said they received maximum nominations on the last day. The election commissioner informed that the scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on December 16, and the candidature could be withdrawn by 3pm on December 17. Allotment of election symbols will be done immediately after the withdrawal of nomination. Voting will be held from 10am to 2pm on December 20, while the counting of votes will take place immediately after the end of voting. He said the election for vice-chairperson’s post will be held on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/166-nominations-for-50-chairperson-posts/articleshow/79755964.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vadodara||Woman robbed at knife-point at her home in Padra||VADODARA: Three robbers stole cash and jewellery worth Rs 88,500 from a house in Padra while holding a woman at knife-point on Monday evening. The complainant Hema Patel told police that while she was in the kitchen, a man with face covered in black mask, held her by her hair and dragged her to the living room. The robber threatened Patel to not shout or else he will tear off her clothes and kill her. Meanwhile, his two other accomplices searched for valuables in other rooms. The other two robbers’ faces were also covered with masks and they were dressed in black full sleeve t-shirts and denim pants. The robbers stole Rs 5,000 cash and gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 83,500. Before leaving they locked Patel in the house. They also told her in Hindi that she may call anyone she wants to inform about the robbery. Patel managed to break open the door and call her husband. Later she lodged a complaint at Padra police station. Police said that when the robbers struck, she was alone as her husband and father-in-law were out to sell milk, brother-in-law was at a temple and mother-in-law had gone to a nearby shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-robbed-at-knife-point-at-her-home-in-padra/articleshow/79744741.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag cops launch drive to curb illegal parking||VISAKHAPATNAM: City traffic police have launched a special drive against illegal parking to free up roads outside shopping malls and other busy locations. Police are also identifying commercial establishments that do not have cellar parking for vehicles. The drive has been launched ahead of the upcoming festive season with police anticipating crowds in front of shopping malls and business centres. Speaking to TOI, additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ch Adinarayana said that the drive against illegal parking is aimed at creating awareness among motorists and fines will not be collected from those who illegally park their vehicles. On average, over 300 motorists violate parking norms in the city every day. “During the drive, violators are being counselled and later we will impose a fine of Rs 1,000 in addition to charges required for towing their vehicles. Incorrect parking is one of the major issues at Daba Gardens, Jagadamba Junction, Siripuram, Maddilapalem, VIP Road, MVP Colony, Gajuwaka, Goapalapatnam and a few other places and is adding to traffic congestion,” Adinarayana added. Police observed that it the responsibility of commercial establishment to allot cellar parking space, a facility that a majority of commercial establishments in the city fail to provide. The GVMC has to act against the management of commercial establishments for not providing parking spaces, police added. Traffic police added that lack of space cannot be an excuse for illegal parking. At present, police are using CCTV footage linked to the city police commissionerate to identify illegal parking. “Roads are meant for commuting and not for parking. Motorists have no right to park vehicles on the roads and footpaths. Our aim is to decongest the roads for the free flow of traffic so we have started counselling initially and will later impose hefty fines against erring motorists,” traffic police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/city-cops-launch-drive-to-curb-illegal-parking/articleshow/79745969.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Post-Covid treatment clinics at ayurveda hospitals soon||JAIPUR: Though most patients recover from Covid, they need treatment for post-Covid complications. Many who complain of breathlessness and other complications will now have the option to receive treatment through ayurveda therapy. District Ayurveda hospitals across the state will start post Covid treatment of patients. The state government has given approval to start post-Covid clinics at the ayurveda hospitals at district level across the state. According to the state government’s post Covid treatment protocol prepared by Sawai Man Singh Medical College, approximatetely 10% of people experience prolonged illness even after three weeks of having suffered from Covid. Post-Covid syndrome can be acute or chronic: Acute post-Covid-19 syndrome extends beyond three weeks to 12 weeks and chronic post Covid-19 is labelled when symptoms extend beyond 12 weeks. Most of post-Covid syndrome ultimately recover. Apart from hospitals which are providing treatment for post-Covid complications, ayurveda minister Dr Raghu Sharma said post-Covid centres will be opened at all the district Ayurveda hospitals where experts will treat them through homoeopathic, ayurvedic and unani medical systems. The minister was addressing the department advisory committee of ayurveda, homoeopathy, unani, yoga and naturopathy departments at Swasthya Bhawan on Tuesday. At the post-Covid centres run by AYUSH department, the patients will get the treatment of their choice where yoga and naturopathy will also be available. The experts at the meeting pointed out that in post-Covid complications, they have treatment for breathlessness, fatigue, dyspnea, cough, headache, sorethroat and even for mental health. Officials attended the meeting said the post-Covid centres at district ayurveda hosptials will come up soon. Along with it, the AYUSH department is planning to set up yoga centres at different places. Health minister Sharma said looking at the huge potential of medico tourism in the state, 20 such places have been identified in Rajasthan where there is maximum movement of tourists. He said yoga centres with state-of-the-art-facilities will be opened at these places in PPP mode. Besides, directions have also been issued to draw a framework for developing medicinal plants gardens at 17 places across the state. It was instructed to develop these gardens with the help of farmers and by deploying dravyaguna science experts at these places on public-private-partnership (PPP) mode. Directions have been issued to plant 10 types of medicinal plants at each ayush hospital with emphasis on planting guggal, tulsi, giloy, ashwagandha, arjun and other plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-allows-ayurveda-hospitals-to-have-separate-clinics-for-treating-patients-with-post-covid-complications/articleshow/79747154.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mehsana professor is new ABVP president||AHMEDABAD: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Tuesday unanimously elected Professor Chhagan Patel from Gujarat as its new president. Patel, 55, who is from Mehsana district, holds a PhD in Pharmacy and is a professor at and the principal of Sarvajanik Pharmacy College in Mehsana. Patel founded the Faculty of Pharmacy of Gujarat Technical University. “Since 1996, he has served in technical education and as city vice president, city president and state vice president. He was president of ABVP Gujarat from 2013 to 2016 and national vice president from 2016 to 2019,” said a statement from the ABVP. The organization made the announcement on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Nidhi Tripathi of Delhi remains the national general secretary of the students’ wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. According to the statement issued by election officer Dr Uma Shrivastava, the tenure of both the posts will be one year and both representatives will assume office at the 66th National Session of December 25-26, in Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mehsana-professor-is-new-abvp-president/articleshow/79747170.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen face trouble in arranging old documents for assessment, want penalties fixed||Ludhiana: In pursuance of the directions of the government, businessmen are facing many problems in arranging the required documents like C-forms, VAT-20 forms and bank statements. They are up in arms against the assessments ordered by state taxation department for 2013-14. According to them, it is impossible for them to arrange all these things pertaining to six-year old period and in that case heavy penalties will be imposed on them. They are demanding that penalties be fixed according to the turnover of the businessmen, rather than imposing fines as per old provisions. Lashing out against the state taxation department, Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “We are clueless why did the state taxation department took the decision to open old cases, which were five to six years old. Regardless of our repeated reminders and requests, we have not been given any relief and the department officials are going ahead with assessments and sending us notices and reminders to complete these. But since the period for which they have sought these documents is very old, it is impossible to collect all required documents for everyone. In case one factory owner manages to trace the old C-forms, he is not able to get the VAT-20 forms. In case someone has got both these, then he has been unable to get bank statements for such old period.” Thukral added that, “This is nothing but harassment of businessmen and now in case we do not complete our assessments, we will be facing huge penalties ranging from several thousands to several lakhs. Where from we will be able to arrange money to pay for these penalties in such times when we are facing severe crisis. Therefore, if the state government and the taxation department do not want to defer the decision of assessments, at least they can come out with a system of lump sum penalty according to the turnover. Like, in case of a business entity whose turnover in 2013-14 was up to Rs 50 lakh , maximum penalty imposed on such units should be Rs 2,500 in case of non-compliance of assessment.” According to Dinesh Kalra , president of Ludhiana Business Forums, “All our requests for deferring the assessments or rolling out one-time settlement scheme for assessments have fallen on deaf ears and till date there has been no relief from the department. Now, in case we are unable to complete the assessments, huge penalties will be imposed on us and given our present financial circumstances, we will have to consider taking loans for paying these penalties. It is our request to the state taxation department to fix amount of penalties in ratio of the turnover, rather than going by old rules under which the amount of penalties levied is very huge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-face-trouble-in-arranging-old-documents-for-assessment-want-penalties-fixed/articleshow/79746064.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Kota’s JK Lon Hospital adds just 9 equipment to its inventory this year||JAIPUR: Kota’s JK Lon Hospital, which hogged the limelight in December last year for all the bad reasons, has managed to add nine more medical equipment in one year. In December 2019, the hospital had 533 medical equipment, which has now increased to 542. Of all the equipment, 425 are functioning against 213 last year. Realising that the situation hadn’t changed much, the state government removed the hospital’s medical superintendent like it did last year when over 100 children had died in December. The committee formed by the health minister to investigate into the matter has given suggestions to improve the condition in the hospital. The committee has pointed out lack of coordination at higher level which played as an obstacle in purchasing new equipment. The hospital is a hope for children from nearby districts, even children from Madhya Pradesh are brought to thew facility for treatment. Taking prompt action, the state government changed medical superintendent and head of the department (pediatrics) on Tuesday. Following nine deaths of children on December 10, medical superintendent Dr SC Dulara has been removed from the post. The post has been taken over by Dr Ashok Moondra, professor, department of forensic medicine. The issue of lack of coordination in the hospital staff and defunct medical equipment are issues pointed out by the committee formed by the state government, which has presented the report to the health minister. The hospital’s head of the department (pediatrics) Dr Amritlal Bairwa has also been removed from the post. Dr Amrita Mayangar will replace him. “We have all the equipment required for treatment of children functional,” said Dr Dulara, minutes before his orders of removal from the post. Dr Dulara had taken over the post of medical superintendent replacing Dr HL Meena last year in December. The hospital has not learnt the lessons from the deaths of children in December 2019. Medical education secretary Vaibhav Galriya said out of 542 equipment, 425 are fully functional and the remaining 117 are not working. Galriya had reviewed the situation on Friday following deaths of nine children in the hospital on December 10. However, he pointed out that all necessary equipment were functional including 86 infusion pumps, 8 nebulisers, 13 ventilators, 60 warmers and 36 pulse oximeters. Last year in December, a report on status of medical equipment in JK Lon hospital was submitted to the principal of Government Medical College, Kota, which stated that out of 533 equipment, 320 were not working. The report had added that of 111 infusion pumps, 81 were useless. There is also a long list of life-saving equipment which are non-functional. Out of the 71 warmers, 44 were not in work condition. Most of the nebulisers, which are required especially during winters, were lying defunct. Out of 28 nebulisers, 22 were defunct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kotas-jk-lon-hosp-manages-to-add-just-9-equipment-to-its-existing-machines-in-a-year/articleshow/79747162.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||MC starts sealing drive, keeps tab on I-T returns for collecting dues||Ludhiana: In order to meet the targets, the MC officials have started taking strict measures against the defaulters of property tax, water supply and sewage dues. The officials in various zones are adopting various tactics to keep an eye on taxpayers. In one zone a sealing drive going on, while in another zone officials are catching hold of those defaulters who did not pay their tax even once in the past so many years. However, the officials are also cross-checking the returns filed earlier to check whether people have filed these accurately. In zone B, the sealing of commercial establishments is going on at full pace and 85 establishments are on the radar, which were issued the notices earlier. The superintendent of zone B, Abdul Satar, said after they started sealing of properties, now people had started paying the tax. The officials in zone B sealed five commercial establishments on Tuesday and recovered Rs 1.90 lakh from the defaulters. Meanwhile, in zone C, the officials served the recovery notices totalling Rs 31 lakh to five major properties for which wrong returns had been filed by the tax payers. Now, the officials will recover the exact amounts from the defaulters. In zone C, the water supply and sewerage dues are also being recovered by disconnecting the connections. However, in zone D, the officials are going to serve the notices to defaulters who never came forward for the payment of taxes even once in these years. There are almost 1.18 lakh properties in this zone and as per officials, every year 70,000 returns are filed and rest do not come forward. The superintendent of zone D, Rajeev Bhardwaj, said, “Now we will catch those who never paid their taxes or filed their returns. Even if their tax is under exemption, they are supposed to file the return.” He said in zone D, maximum tax is collected from malls and commercial establishments, but this year due to the pandemic, malls were closed and mall owners had requested the government to give some exemption in tax amount. He said they would have to wait for the government directions. The superintendent (headquarter), Vivek Verma, said, “The last day to file the property tax without penalty is December 31 and from January 1, there will be 10% penalty.” He said this year, they had recovered Rs 59 crore against a target of Rs 130 crore, whereas last year, they had generated Rs 65 crore. Verma said from water supply and sewerage dues they had generated Rs 46.5 crore, which was Rs 28 crore more than last year. The civic body officials claimed that in zone C they were successful in collecting Rs 6.25 crore from one colony only as sharing charges for connecting the sewerage and water supply lines with MC lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-starts-sealing-drive-keeps-tab-on-i-t-returns-for-collecting-dues/articleshow/79746060.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Tourists to get fresh access to Padubidri Beach from tomorrow||UDUPI: The district administration has decided to re-permit entry of tourists – local and foreign to the Blue Flag certified Padubidri beach from Thursday. This beach along with Kasarkod in Uttara Kannada district had received the internationally coveted certification on October 11 with Arvind Nautiyal, national project director, Society for Integrated Coastal Management making this announcement on behalf of an international jury from FEE, Denmark. Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, said tourists may now visit the beach at Padubidri end point and enrich their tourism experience while experiencing the myriad activities along the shore. The district tourism development committee has taken all care in developing the beach and ensuring that parameters set down for Blue Flag certification are met, he added. Jagadeesha told TOI that the district administration had initially allowed tourists to visit the beach after the jury results were announced. However, with some residual work on bamboo cladding along the beach remaining, it was subsequently decided to stop their entry till the work was completed. This work has since been completed. Asked about the formal ‘Blue Flag Hoisting Ceremony’ that SICOM had planned for these certified beaches, Jagadeesha, also president of the committee, said no date has been finalised yet. “We want to invite the minister and secretary of the department of tourism and hold the flag hoisting event in a befitting manner,” he said. Padubidri was among the eight beaches in India to have received the certification from FEE, Denmark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tourists-to-get-fresh-access-to-padubidri-beach-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79744170.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Elephant who walked over 1,000 miles in spiked chains, finally freed||AGRA: A 50-year-old elephant, Jai, who was used for begging and forced to walk over 1,000 miles in spiked chains has been finally freed from a lifetime of hardship after the Rajasthan forest department took action against its owners and seized the animal. The elephant has been handed over to Wildlife SOS, an NGO, for long-term medical treatment and care as the spiked chains had become embedded inside his leg causing severe infection and endangering his life. The Elephant Hospital in Mathura will provide specialized medical treatment and care to the animal, said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and chief executive officer of Wildlife SOS. According to an official of the NGO, they were contacted by the Rajasthan forest department regarding the bull elephant that had been seized from his owner on the grounds of cruelty and neglect. It’s a shocking fact that the elephant, Jai, was forced to walk thousands of miles across Punjab, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and finally to Rajasthan. The elephant’s hind limbs were bound in spiked chains, causing chronic wounds and infection requiring immediate medical attention. His painfully infected wounds that have festered due to years of neglect, have severely affected his overall health condition. “Preliminary examination revealed that the elephant is partially blind in one eye. He is also suffering from osteoarthritis, causing immense pain and inflammation and his feet are in terrible condition,” said the NGO’s veterinary doctor. The chief wildlife wardens of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh issued written permissions to enable the elephant to be transported to the Elephant Hospital in Mathura following which, an elephant care team from Wildlife SOS travelled to Rajasthan in a specially designed elephant ambulance to help facilitate the animal’s medical care. The veterinary team carried medical equipment for providing immediate relief to the pachyderm and also assessed if he was physically fit to be transported. Once veterinary doctors found the elephant fit for transport, a specialized elephant ambulance was dispatched by the NGO to transport the animal, accompanied by a team of veterinarians and elephant caregivers. “Rajasthan forest department requested us to send this elephant for medical care to the Wildlife SOS Elephant Hospital, following which, permission was issued by UP forest department,” said Raghunath Mishra, Mathura divisional forest officer. Deputy conservator of forest, Jhalawar (Rajasthan), Hemant Singh said, “The elephant suffering from severe health complications needs immediate medical attention.” According to Wildlife SOS veterinary officer, Dr. Rahul Prasad, “The elephant is highly malnourished and suffering from osteoarthritis which has affected his gait. We have also observed overgrown, cracked toenails and severe wear and tear of the foot pads. He requires immediate veterinary intervention and our team has already started off with his treatment procedure.” The NGO officials said that the use of spiked chains is illegal. When pulled, the spikes tear at the flesh and create immense pain for the elephant and this is how they are controlled using pain and fear. The wounds often don’t heal and can become infected and gangrenous over time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/elephant-who-walked-over-1000-miles-in-spiked-chains-finally-freed/articleshow/79743463.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 16, 2020||Goa||Vijai Sardesai urges President not to visit Goa||MARGAO: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai has written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging him not to visit the state for the 60th anniversary of Goa’s liberation as, “the state intends to spend an exorbitant Rs 100 crore on the celebration at a time when people are struggling to make ends meet”. Sardesai, in the letter, has pointed to protests over the Mollem projects, including the railway track doubling issue and the Mhadei water diversion issue. “While Goa faces its social and economic challenges, our natural forests and its diverse living ecosystem stands in the face of destruction. Goans today are unified in their voice to save Mollem,” the letter added. Addressing reporters on Tuesday, Sardesai warned the government against using the zilla panchayat election result as a mandate “to destroy Goa” by going ahead with the three contentious projects. “The zilla panchayat election results is not a mandate to make Goa a coal hub or a coal corridor, or for double tracking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardesai-urges-president-not-to-visit-goa/articleshow/79748549.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ten universities to set up Kamdhenu Chairs||AHMEDABAD: Ten universities from across the country have announced that they will set up Kamdhenu Chairs in their respective institutions of higher learning. Over 500 vice-chancellors and officials of universities from across the country took part in an open house organized by Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) on Monday to promote the idea of setting up ‘Kamdhenu Chairs’ in universities. Among other objectives of setting up the chairs, RKA has proposed setting up of certificate and diploma courses on cow-based entrepreneurship and sensitizing students about the scientific, economic, environmental and spiritual importance and impact of cow. The universities which have announced that they will set up Kamdhenu Chairs are Allahbad University, Kamdhenu University, RAJUVAS University, Central University of Haryana, Saurashta University, RKDF University, Jyoti Vidyapeeth Women’s University, Guru Govind Singh University and ICFAI University. “Now the government has started to explore the potential of cows and panchgavya. There is need to promote the science related to indigenous cows and our education system should provide a platform as well as push in research on benefits of cows with modern scientific and process-oriented approach,” said RKA chairman Vallabh Kathiria. Union minister of state for education, Sanjay Dhotre, said, “I am sure that the few colleges and universities will start the Kamdhenu Chair then others will follow. Research and practical implementation in form of products needs to be showcased, established economically and presented with accurate scientific data in time-bound way,” he said. Apart from officials of over 500 universities, AICTE chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain, secretary-general of Association of Indian Universities (AIU), Pankaj Mittal, and other officials connected with higher education and research were present in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ten-universities-to-set-up-kamdhenu-chairs/articleshow/79747183.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Equity MF AUM grows by Rs 4,338 crore in November||AHMEDABAD: After remaining almost stagnant for two months, the assets under management (AUM) from across Gujarat, in equity-linked mutual funds (MFs) grew by Rs 4,338 crore in November. According to data by Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI), the AUM in equity MFs grew from Rs 82,978.47 crore in October 2020 to Rs 87,317.19 crore in November, up 5.2%. Financial analysts said that despite heavy outflows over profit booking, the AUM continued to grow, as the stock market indices soared, and the net asset value of prevalent investments went up. Mumukshu Desai, director of an Ahmedabad-based financial advisory firm, said, “The increase in AUM is visible because of the increase in the net asset value of prevailing investments, as equity markets had reached record-high levels amidst optimism over vaccine rollout globally. Pan-India, there were significant outflows from equity-linked mutual funds over profit booking, causing a slight decline in the AUM. However, in Gujarat, outflows were comparatively less and therefore, a significant growth was visible.” Desai said investors who withdrew their funds over profit booking have parked their funds in safer debt-linked instruments temporarily. “Investors are treading carefully as market may react in the run upto the Union Budget announcement in February,” he said. The total AUM in Gujarat also showed a significant 4% growth, remaining at Rs 2.02 lakh crore in November, growing from Rs 1.94 lakh crore. In fact, this is for the first time ever that the AUM grew past the Rs 2 lakh crore-mark. Explaining the investment trend, a city-based financial consultant Jayesh Vithalani, said, “While net asset value of existing investments has surely gone up, there are fresh inflows as well. The optimism linked to the announcement and rollout of vaccines has pushed stock market indices up and it has led many investors to enter the market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/equity-mf-aum-grows-by-rs-4338cr-in-nov/articleshow/79747178.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Teachers to share attendance of students with mentors||Ludhiana: In a new order all heads of schools have been instructed to share the details of the attendance of students. This report has to be shared with the block mentors, who have to collect attendance from their allotted schools daily and have to fill these in the Google sheets. According to sources in the education department, this is an initiative to encourage students to visit schools as pre-boards are approaching. Talking to the principal of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, Sanjeev Thaper, said, “On Tuesday, only 3% students of Class XII turned up at the school. However, 75% of students of Classes IX and X attended the school. The collection of data has been started from Tuesday by the education department. The students have been encouraged to come and proper precautions have been followed by the authorities.” While talking about the same to the principal of Government Senior Secondary School Girls, Hargobindpur, Gurmeet Kaur, said, “We have been keeping a proper record of the attendance and around 50% of the students attend the school on an average. With a total of 463 students enrolling for Classes IX-XII approximately 206 students attend the classes on an average. The attendance in school is improving due to offline exams. Teachers are motivating the students, especially those of board classes, to practice for exams as it’s been over 9 months that they have not been practising in written. For the students, we have been sanitising the school regularly and providing sanitisers at the gate and besides, masks are mandatory. No more than 25 students are allowed to sit in a class. “ DEO Rajinder Kaur said, “Not only the attendance, but also all schools will prepare the presentation of their school result based on PAS, September 2020, and PAS, November 2020, for presentation. The presentations will start from December 18.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/teachers-to-share-attendance-of-students-with-mentors/articleshow/79746069.cms||Mehak Jain
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Opposition misleading farmers, govt willing to address concerns: PM||DHORDO (KUTCH): Even as agitating farmers demanding repeal of new farm laws remain unrelenting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a stinging attack on the opposition for ‘misleading’ the farmers and said that the same political parties that have now united to ‘confuse’ the agriculturists were in favour of ushering in these reforms when they were in power. “There is a large conspiracy by the opposition parties to provoke and mislead the farmers near Delhi and try to scare them that the new farm laws will result in their land being usurped. I reiterate that our government is ready 24 hours to clear all their doubts and concerns,” Modi said after laying the foundation stone for three big-ticket projects in Kutch. These projects include the world's largest hybrid renewable energy park, a desalination plant and a milk processing plant. The PM said demand for agriculture reforms was being voiced for years and several farmer organizations had also been demanding that they get an option to sell their grains anywhere as per their choice. “The same parties who are instigating the farmers were in favour of changing the archaic agriculture laws. But they only gave false hopes to farmers then and could not usher in the reforms. But today the opposition has united to mislead the farmers,” the PM said. “Does the dairy owner contracting milk purchase from you, ever take away your cattle? Does the person selling vegetables or fruits usurp land or property of the seller?” Modi asked. Citing an example of the dairy industry's massive contribution to India's total agriculture produce, Modi said this had become possible because of the freedom that the cattle breeders have got in their business. “Dairy industry accounts for 25% of India's total agriculture sector produce in value terms and it is about Rs eight lakh crores. This much more than the contribution of cereals and pulses," he said. “Today, the country is asking why the small and marginal farmers cannot be given similar freedom,” he said. Stating that the new farm laws have been brought in with utmost honest intention, Modi exuded confidence that the farmers will defeat all those elements who are trying to mislead them and playing politics by using them as a tool. From the very first day in the office, farmers' interest has been the top priority of the government. We have been constantly striving to see how the cost of farming can be reduced, farmers get new alternatives, their incomes rise and all their difficulties are eased,” the PM said. Giving example of Gujarat, he said the farmers, cattle breeders and fishermen here are much well-off now as compared to several years ago, mainly due to minimum interference of the state government in their business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/oppn-misleading-farmers-govt-willing-to-address-concerns-pm/articleshow/79745083.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Shamed and shunned... For families of hanged convicts, it’s a lifelong sentence||NEW DELHI: Life hasn’t been easy for the families of Nirbhaya’s rapists and murderers, Vinay Sharma, Akshay Thakur, Pawan Gupta and Mukesh Singh, who were hanged in March. While Sharma’s father lost his job, his sister has been sick and the family is in dire financial straits. Singh’s parents had already left their house at Ravidas Camp in RK Puram in south Delhi in March, while Gupta’s parents have become reclusive. Neighbours said Thakur’s parents now live elsewhere in RK Puram, but no one has been in touch with them. At Ravidas Camp Sharma’s parents live in the house there, while his two sisters reside in a village in UP. The younger sister, Manju, 21, told TOI that things got bad during lockdown when her father lost his job. “Even though Vinay was in jail, it was fine for us. We were able to meet him and hoped things would improve. But after my father lost his job, things got worse for our family. There were days when we didn’t have anything to eat,” said Manju. Currently in Delhi, she said, “I have come to Delhi for medical treatment. I am diabetic and take insulin injections.” When asked if the family was in contact with Gupta’s parents, she said, “We have no interaction with them.” According to neighbours at Ravidas Camp, Gupta’s parents and sister do not interact much with people. Singh’s family, who once lived in the same locality, never returned, claimed the residents. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shamed-and-shunned-for-families-of-hanged-convicts-its-a-lifelong-sentence/articleshow/79747182.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Halwara airport: Foundation stone for boundary wall laid||Ludhiana: The long wait for city residents is finally over as the work on the construction of the boundary wall of Halwara international airport project started on Tuesday. The work of carpeting the approach road for the new Halwara international airport has already been started over a week back. Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh laid the foundation stone to construct the boundary wall of the airport. The foundation stone was laid in the presence of Ludhiana DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, additional chief administrator, Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) Bhupinder Singh and airport director S K Saran. The MP while expressing gratitude to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for ‘personally intervening’ in this project and taking it up with the central government to expedite the work of the airport. He also praised the DC for working day and night for this project despite his busy schedule. He added that the upcoming airport would bring investment, jobs and development to Halwara and Raikot. He said that the approach road and boundary wall were the first phase of the new airport as these were critical requirements for starting work on the new terminal building. He added that the 2,340m boundary wall of the airport was being built at a cost of Rs 3.01 crore and would be completed in six months. The DC said that the work was going on in full swing and the government was fully prepared to start flights as soon as the required infrastructure, including approach road, boundary wall and interim terminal building, got ready. Meanwhile, PWD officials said that the construction of the brick wall, having a height of 10 feet and 2 feet wire on that, might take around four months. Airport Authority of India (AAI) officials said that now that the work on boundary wall had been started, they expected that the work on the airport building having three terminals, including international, domestic and cargo terminals, could take place simultaneously and might be started in a month or two. They added that they might be able to shift operations from Sahnewal airport to Halwara in the second half of the next year and it would be good for those flying by air as the aircraft could land there even at a visibility of 300m as it has a long runway .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/halwara-airport-foundation-stone-for-boundary-wall-laid/articleshow/79746074.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 16, 2020||Delhi||My fight over, but the fight to help others isn’t: Nirbhaya’s mom||NEW DELHI: On Wednesday, when Nirbhaya’s family speaks in a virtual session to people involved in fighting crimes against women and those who need support, Asha Devi, the mother, is likely to repeat what she told TOI on Tuesday: “My fight is over, but the fight to help other women and young girls who are facing similar issues has just begun. The pain hasn’t lessened, but I am satisfied that the case reached its logical conclusion and the rapists were punished for their crime.” Devi expressed unhappiness at the situation and said women faced problems even during the lockdown. She maintained that her eight-year fight was not only for her daughter, but other women too. “It took time but I think the hanging of the culprits has sent a strong message to society. And now other victims also remain hopeful of eventually getting justice,” she said. Recalling the hanging of the four remaining convicts in March, Devi said, “Delhi showed solidarity for the cause of women. Even though some horrible incidents have happened in Delhi, I think things have changed for the better. But the situation is bad in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. We all need to collectively think and ponder over the time taken to deliver justice. In Nirbhaya’s case, everything was evident, but it still took us many years to reach the conclusion. The more time it takes to get justice, the more disappointing it is for people fighting for justice.” Devi suggested, “We must identify the flaws and improve the system. The accused should file pleas within a time-bound structure. If justice as in our case is dealt out in other cases too, then it will give a ray of hope to many others. I don’t know if we can stop crimes against women, but at least we can reduce them.” During the lockdown, Devi and women activists spoke over phone with many women who were facing gender related problems. She revealed that women from other states also call her for advice, as do some NGOs. “The fight for justice for other women in our country has only now begun,” she declared. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/my-fight-over-but-the-fight-to-help-others-isnt-nirbhayas-mom/articleshow/79747207.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers receive crop insurance in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy paid Rs 1,252 crore as crop insurance to 9.48 lakh farmers across the state. The chief minister launched the YSR free crop insurance scheme from his Tadepalli camp office on Tuesday. The amount was paid into the bank accounts of all beneficiary farmers. The government paid Rs 393 crore towards premium for crop insurance covering the 2019 season, of which Rs 468 crore is the farmers’ share and Rs 503 crore is the government share. However, as promised during the padayatra, Jagan Mohan Reddy waived the share of farmers and paid the total premium amount. Speaking to farmers on the occasion, the chief minister said the government would pay the crop insurance for the 2020 season in March/April 2021. He said the government has fulfilled the promise of giving crop insurance without the farmers having to pay the premium. The chief minister said earlier, farmers did not show much interest in availing the scheme as they had to pay their share in the premium. However, with the present government waiving farmers’ share and extending it to every farmer, the farming community would get the benefit directly delivered to their bank accounts, he said. The chief minister further said the previous government paid crop insurance to 20 lakh farmers on average during the last five years. He said his government is paying the insurance premium to benefit over 50 lakh farmers across the state. Farmers would get the crop insurance in March/April 2021, the chief minister said and added that insurance would cover a crop area of 1.14 crore hectares. The chief minister had asked farmers to register their names and crops at Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) established in the villages. The RBKs would register the crop size and category and extend the benefits to the farmers, the chief minister said. He said the RBKs would display the list of farmers and the crops cultivated in the area, including their extent. The government’s benefits would reach the farmers according to this information, he added. Crop insurance, too, would be transparent and the names of beneficiaries would be on display for farmers to check their names and get corrections made. He also said the Rythu Bharosa Kendras would help the farmers find markets for the agriculture produce after the harvest. The RBKs would also provide quality seeds and fertilizers at the door step of the farmers, the chief minister added. Minister for agriculture Kurasala Kannababu and other senior officials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-receive-crop-insurance/articleshow/79746076.cms||Gopi Dara
December 16, 2020||Trichy||6.9L acres of crops damaged in TN due to cyclone and rain||Trichy: Director of agriculture department, V Dakshinamoorthy, on Tuesday said that around 6.9 lakh acres of crops across the state are estimated to have suffered damage due to cyclone Nivar and the heavy rain triggered by cyclone Burevi. The report on extent of crop damage caused by will be submitted to the government within two days, he added. Dakshinamoorthy had inspected the affected crops in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts on Monday. On Tuesday he inspected the damaged fields in Thanjavur district and held discussion with Thanjavur district collector and officials from the agriculture and revenue department. "A total of 31,903 acres of crops have been affected by the cyclone Nivar in the state. Meanwhile, crops raised in 7.5 lakh acres were inundated due to the downpour triggered by cyclone Burevi, of which around 6.5 lakh acres of crops have suffered damages," Dakshinamoorthy said. Samba paddy raised on 28,985 acres have been affected by rains in Thanjavur district alone, he added.Dakshinamoorthy said that about 90 per cent of farmers in the delta districts have insured their crops. Steps will be taken to provide relief to the farmers those who suffered crop loss, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-9l-acres-of-crops-damaged-in-tn-due-to-cyclone-and-rain/articleshow/79748543.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||JU profs, students differ over demands||Kolkata: Jadavpur University Teachers Association (JUTA), known to take a favorable view of students’ demands, has objected to protests by a section of students. After a spate of agitations and demonstrations even during the pandemic, JUTA has decided that teachers will not join in any physical meeting . Students’ associations from various faculties staged protests over the last week and confined teachers and senior authorities to Aurobindo Bhavan. Registrar Snehamanju Basu was on Monday reportedly kept confined by the Arts Faculty Students Union (AFSU), over a separate set of demands, including extension of UG admissions. Also, trouble broke out in engineering faculty over allegations of error in evaluation for last-semester exams. After “anomalies” were observed in the results, which JUTA blamed on the inefficiency of the controller of exams section and the online Jadavpur University Management System, a restructuring committee was formed with members from all sections, including students. The first meeting was held on December 11, when a consensus was reached on corrective steps. The grievances were discussed, and the students’ demand for an overhaul of the current system accepted. “Still, some students, including some members of the committee, prevented others (teachers and officials), from leaving the meeting. They demanded immediate steps...” wrote JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Ray to VC Suranjan Das on Monday. “The dean of engineering and technology, and our two pro-VCs had been kept confined for several hours two days before the meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-profs-students-differ-over-demands/articleshow/79747196.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP’s ‘Smart Ahmedabad’ promises of 2015 unfulfilled||Gandhinagar: While the BJP once again prepares to woo the voters of Ahmedabad city ahead of the February municipal corporation election, it has failed to implement many of the tall promises made to the people before the 2015 municipal election, which it won by a huge majority.While Ahmedabad city BJP president Jagdish Panchal avoided responding to questions despite several attempts to contact him, the Congress said the BJP should make public a white paper listing the election promises it made and which of these it fulfilled. “The BJP makes tall promises to the people before every election but forgets them when it is voted to power. This time too, the BJP will attempt to misguide voters with tall promises so we will appeal to the people to ask the BJP for an account of the promises it made in 2015 to the people of Ahmedabad,” Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjps-smart-ahmedabad-promises-of-2015-unfulfilled/articleshow/79747205.cms||Kapil Dave
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||‘Energy park as big as Singapore’||Dhordo, Kutch: The hybrid renewable energy park with solar-wind power capacity of 30,000 MW will help reduce carbon dioxide emission by as much as five crore tonnes per annum, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said.“Besides savings on the power bills for people and industries and generating one lakh jobs, the biggest advantage of this park is the drastic reduction in pollution. The reduction in CO2 emission will be equivalent to planting nine crore trees,” he said. The park spread on 72,600 hectares is being set up near the Indo-Pak border, around 90 km from Khavda, to generate solar-wind power of 30 giga watts. The park is as big as Singapore or Bahrain and even bigger than some of the biggest cities of India, he said. “Moreover, the windmills will enhance border security,” the PM added. Stating that India is playing the torch bearer’s role in the global war against climate change, Modi also said that the country is the fourth biggest in the word in terms of renewable energy capacity and that the investment in solar power has increased 16 times in the last six years. “India also ranks among the top three countries among 104 in the clean investment energy ranking,” he informed. Talking about the desalination plant at Mandvi, which has a capacity to convert 10 crore litres sea water per day, Modi said the project will inspire other coastal states to tap similar new sources when water security is the need for the 21st century. “With the availability of desalinated water, Narmada water can be put to optimum use in towns like Bhachau, Anjar and Gandhidham. Referring to the automated milk processing plant at Sarhad Dairy near Anjar, Modi said two lakh litres of additional milk processing will immensely benefit the dairy farmers as well as those having small cattle holding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/energy-park-as-big-as-singapore/articleshow/79745123.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur civic body clears garbage from BR Stadium||GUNTUR: The Guntur Municipal Corporation has taken note of the garbage piled up in the compound of Bramhananda Reddy stadium following a TOI report and has deployed special teams to clear garbage from the stadium premises. GMC commissioner C Anuradha directed the municipal health officer, Dr Venkata Ramana, to take immediate measures to clear the place. The heaps of garbage welcoming players and fitness enthusiasts was highlighted in a report in these columns on December 14. The garbage has now been cleared from the stadium premises. The health officer has also asked the sanitary inspector not to allow any dumper bins to throw garbage near the stadium henceforth. Meanwhile, the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh, which is in charge of maintaining the stadium, has also acted on the TOI report and is believed to have readied an action plan to take up maintenance works of the facility. District collector Samuel Anand Kumar has also promised to grant Rs 10 lakh to repair tracks at the stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gmc-clears-garbage-from-br-stadium/articleshow/79746084.cms||Samdani MN
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Christian schools not to de-roster kids for now||KOLKATA: No child should be removed from online classes or the rolls just yet, even if their parents defaulted on paying fees. This is the conclusion arrived at the meeting conducted by over 60 heads of individual and groups of Christian schools at St Lawrence High School on Tuesday. The meeting was called by the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools to provide a platform to member schools to discuss their problems and decide on the action against defaulting parents. The meeting saw participation of both church run and non-church run individual Christian minority schools. The consensus was that no kid should be removed till schools re-open after the winter vacation. However, the schools were advised by the association to carry the tenets of the discussions to their individual founder bodies that will take a final call on the matter. Lawyer Sanjay Baid, who is representing the association in Calcutta High Court and Supreme Court, was present at the meeting to discuss the legalities involved. The association felt schools could vary in their degrees of benevolence in their decisions about defaulters, depending on the percentage of parents who have made the payment. “The consensus was if a large chunk has already paid up, defaulters can be given slightly more time. But schools that are distressed because many have defaulted can be slightly more stern if its founder body so feels,” said a member, stressing the problem varied from school to school. Many member Christian minority schools do not have online payment facilities. These schools will continue to appeal to parents to pay up till the schools close. Those with online modes will ask parents to clear the dues even during the vacations. “I will not de-roster children till the end of the winter break and then take a call. I will carry the discussions of the association to my founder body before taking a final call,” said Terence John, principal of Albany Hall, who was at the meeting. “The association cannot decide for schools but a meeting like this helps us bounce off ideas and arrive at conclusions.” “I have decided to allow parents to pay up till the end of the academic year. In my school, less than 10% parents are left to pay and I am happy with the way they have cooperated. Perhaps at the time of the final exams or report cards, we will take a call on the matter but that is towards the end of the academic session,” said Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus. He was not present at the meeting and awaited the decisions to reach him soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/christian-schools-not-to-de-roster-kids-for-now/articleshow/79747210.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Neo-BJP MLAs play pivotal role in saffron win in south hinterland||MARGAO: Despite being marred by dissidence and factionalism in a couple of constituencies, BJP posted a robust performance in the hinterland areas of South Goa which have traditionally been its stronghold. Barcem in Quepem taluka, Rivona in Sanguem, and Cola and Poinguinim in Canacona were the most watched-out constituencies as the assessment of political fortunes of the ruling party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections was closely linked to the outcome in these key constituencies. Dissidence was markedly visible in Barcem where former president of Quepem BJP mandal, Malu Velip, had contested as an independent and was pitted against BJP candidate Khushali Zorgo Velip, deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar’s Man Friday. Though Khushali won the election, the victory didn’t come easy as scales began tipping in favour of Malu in the initial rounds before Khushali managed to bridge the lead and score a decisive victory in a closely fought battle. Khushali’s victory also demonstrates Kavlekar’s seamless dominance over Barcem constituency despite his defection from the Congress camp to the BJP in 2019 along with nine other Congress MLAs. This is underscored by the fact that Khushali had won the last three ZP elections backed by Kavlekar who was then in the Congress party. Interestingly, brother of Sanguem independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar, Sandesh, had also contested from Barcem. Though Gaonkar had recently withdrawn his support to the BJP government, the poll outcome shows that the move hardly affected voter behaviour. Congress hadn’t contested from this constituency. In Rivona constituency, the party leadership had succeeded in quelling dissidence by prevailing upon the rebel candidate to withdraw his nomination, which led to a smooth victory for the BJP. Suresh Kepekar trounced Abhijit Dessai of the Congress by over 2300 votes. The victory is also seen as an endorsement by the voters of former Sanguem MLA Subhash Phal Dessai’s comeback attempts. Phal Dessai had slogged for Kepekar’s victory. With BJP winning both the Poinguinim and Cola ZP seats of Canacona, local BJP MLA Isidore Fernandes showed his continued dominance over his constituency, despite his party-hopping antics. The turncoat Congress MLA had defected to the BJP along with Kavlekar and eight others. BJP’s Shobhna Shabu Velip defeated Congress candidate Reshma Samir Velip in Poinguinim by over 2,900 votes. BJP’s victory in Poinguinim also means that the despite multiple power centres in Canacona — former BJP MLAs Ramesh Tawadkar and Vijay Pai Khot, besides Fernandes — the three factions worked in unison for the party’s victory. In Cola ZP constituency which comes under Kavlekar’s Quepem assembly segment, BJP’s win implies the deputy chief minister’s unbroken hold over his bastion even after his party switchover. BJP’s Shanu Velip defeated Congress candidate Rajesh Velip in Cola by over 1,300 votes. Voters of mining-hit Sanvordem, Xeldem and Dharbandora constituencies also reposed their faith in the ruling party with the BJP winning comfortably in these ZP segments. With the Congress failing to win a single seat from the hinterland constituencies of South Goa, the party’s image as a principal opposition party, as a political commentator put it, “has been blown to smithereens”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neo-bjp-mlas-play-pivotal-role-in-saffron-win-in-south-hinterland/articleshow/79748565.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
December 16, 2020||Madurai||133 new Covid cases in south TN, 81 in central||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases remained close to 130 in the southern districts on Tuesday while that in the central region was 81. With 133 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, the Covid-19 tally in south Tamil Nadu stands at 1,31,591 cases, including 1,155 active ones, 1,28,347 recoveries and 2,089 deaths. In the central districts, the regional tally of cases went up to 72,300 while the deaths remained at 907 with no toll reported. The most number of cases was the 26 reported in Kanyakumari, followed by Madurai (22) and Tirunelveli (21). All other districts in south TN reported less than 20 new cases. Madurai with 275 and Kanyakumari district with 198 have the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Dindigul (151) and Tirunelveli (135). Fresh cases in Madurai dipped to around 20-30 in the past two days and continue to remain the only district in the southern region to have more than 200 active cases. One death each was recorded in Madurai and Tirunelveli on Monday — an 82-year-old man at GRH and a 70-year-old man at a private hospital in Tirunelveli. Though fresh cases have been going up and down in the eight central districts in recent days, the number has not been going above 100. Of the eight, three districts – Ariyalur (2), Perambalur (2) and Pudukottai (7) — had fresh cases in single digit. The highest number of fresh cases of 22 was reported by Thanjavur district. Trichy came next with 15 while Karur and Tiruvarur recorded 10 cases each. The region has been witnessing a drop in the number of active cases also with 761 including the highest number of 159 in Trichy and 158 in Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/133-new-covid-cases-in-south-tn-81-in-central/articleshow/79748561.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Kutch an example of atmanirbharta: PM Modi||DHORDO, KUTCH: Stating that Kutch’s rise like a phoenix after the 2001 devastating earthquake had completely changed its perception in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the desert district has shown the way in ‘atma nirbharta (self-reliance) by utilizing its minimum resources to chart exemplary development. He called upon international development experts to ‘study’ the Kutch model as the development in the land whose major portion is a desert has come in just two decades. “Kutch has embraced new-age technology and new-age economy today with desalination park, renewable energy park and automated milk processing facility at Sarhad Dairy which is a member of Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) that markets brand Amul. These projects will help the district script another success story of progress with the biggest beneficiaries being farmers, cattle rearers and women,” he said. The development and water availability, he said, had also stopped migration of locals which was an annual phenomenon. “The halting of migration will have a positive effect on the national security. Once a haunted district, it is now a big attraction for domestic and international tourists,” the PM said, adding that despite coronavirus hit tourism but Rannotsav still continues to draw lakhs. Referring to the social change, Modi said he was enthralled to learn that children in the villages are fast learning English as their residences have been opened for tourists’ homestays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kutch-an-example-of-atmanirbharta/articleshow/79745148.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Jalna, Dhule, Washim witnessed more fatal road crashes in pandemic year than 2019||MUMBAI: Not everyone stayed indoors during the pandemic induced lockdown. Some parts of Maharashtra witnessed more fatal road crashes and casualties in January-October 2020 than during the same period in 2019. Jalna and Dhule witnessed a rise of 18% and 20% respectively in fatal crashes reported, while in Washim it was 12%. Jalgaon and rural Amravati also witnessed a marginal increase in fatal crashes and casualties. A key reason was more private vehicles setting out on roads once cities unlocked, and more traffic violations being committed due to the perception that enforcement officers were busy fighting Covid-19. Overall, Maharashtra reported 8,125 fatal crashes and 8,747 deaths in January-October this year, which was 16% lower than pre-Covid times in 2019. Mumbai did better with 38% fewer deaths as police had stepped up nakabandis during lockdown and the unlock period. Most road-related deaths this year (610) were in Nashik rural, while Ahmednagar and Pune (rural) each reported 520 deaths. “Our analysis of crashes in these regions has shown speeding, wrong-side driving and dangerous driving to be leading causes. We also noticed very low adherence to safety measures like wearing helmets and seat belts in these areas,” said B K Upadhyaya, additional director general of police (state traffic). A massive enforcement drive has been planned to curb deaths here. “Fatalities were reported even during total lockdown as migrant labourers were moving from one part of the country to another and essential vehicles were operational. On Mumbai-Pune Expressway, for instance, four fatalities involving trucks carrying essentials were reported. Police and health services were focussed on containing the spread of Covid and police were also battling infections within the force. So there was a perception among people that enforcement would be lax,” said Piyush Tewari, founder of the Save Life Foundation NGO that has worked on reducing Expressway crashes since 2016. Fatalities dropped from 66 in January-October last year to 48 this year on the Expressway, but speeding stays a major cause of concern. “In the last one month, 14,500 speed violations were recorded,” said Tewari. Police admit that surveillance cameras are too few to deter speedsters. By next year, drones are expected to hover over the Expressway to locate broken down or stalled vehicles and get them to move away to avoid rear-end collisions, the most common cause of crashes on the 94-km stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-more-nakabandis-38-fewer-deaths-due-to-crashes-in-mumbai/articleshow/79747122.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 16, 2020||India||2 yrs on, DNA report helps youth walk free in rape case||MUMBAI: Nearly two years after a 28-year-old man was convicted and sentenced to jail by a Pocso court for raping a six-year-old girl in 2014, the Bombay HC exonerated him on Monday as DNA of the semen recovered from her dress did not match with the blood sample taken from him. The HC said the child’s inconsistent testimony alone could not be used to convict the accused. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Makarand Karnik on Monday quashed and set aside the February 5, 2019 conviction saying the child’s inconsistent testimony alone could not be used to convict the accused. “We find it unsafe to convict the accused only on the basis of the testimony of the victim without there being further corroboration to her testimony showing the complicity of the accused,” wrote Justice Karnik for the bench. The child was sleeping on the pavement with her family on August 21, 2014, when she disappeared between 2am and 6 am. Her mother found her crying nearby and brutalised with a broom. The accused was arrested after the mother said he had ill-intention toward her and her daughter. The judges said the child’s testimony about the identity of the accused appeared inconsistent. She identified him as her father’s friend, but also deposed that she had not seen him prior to the incident. The judges then considered the forensic evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-yrs-on-dna-report-helps-youth-walk-free-in-rape-case/articleshow/79749808.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Pvt schools see good response for online half-yearly exams||Madurai: The online half-yearly exams for private and aided schools, which are currently under way in schools in Madurai have evoked good response from parents and students.“At my daughter’s school, tests are being given regularly. But, when it is a half-yearly exam, children tend to take it more seriously and focused to score well,” said S Meenakshi, a parent of a Class VIII student from a private matriculation school. Class X and XII students and their parents are also aware that the marks scored in these exams may be considered for the board exams in case they are not held this year due to Covid-19 pandemic, similar to last year.The schools are conducting the half-yearly exams mostly as a written test using pen and paper in the presence of parents or teachers and then making submissions online or offline. “Students were able to write the exam from their homes using pen and paper while being monitored by teachers on live video call. Later, they had to upload photos of the answer scripts online and parents can submit the hard copy of the answer scripts at the school directly in a drop box,” said R Arun, correspondent, Jothi Schools. He added that around 85% of attendance was recorded across all classes for the exams and 100% attendance was recorded for Classes X and XII.While for lower classes up to Class V or even Class VIII, schools are having only fewer questions with reduced time limit, for higher classes, standard three-hour exams are being given to ensure students get practice. E Samy, chairman, CEOA Schools, said that students and teachers have both adapted to the norm of online classes and tests. “We are also having online tests for higher classes with multiple choice questions (MCQs) by tying up with a company,” he added. Teachers said that while it is difficult to judge the students’ level of understanding through online classes and tests, they said the tests definitely help students to focus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pvt-schools-see-good-response-for-online-half-yearly-exams/articleshow/79748562.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 16, 2020||Madurai||73K litres of used oil collected in Madurai to check reuse||Madurai: As much as 73,000 litres of used cooking oil have been collected in the last one year from food business operators (FBO) like hotels, snack units and bakeries in Madurai district. The oil was sent to refineries under the repurpose used cooking oil (RUCO), an initiative of the Food Safety and Standards Authorities of India (FSSAI) to prevent used oil being used again and again.The collection of used oil started in November 2019. This year alone 60,835 litres was collected so far and sent to refineries despite Covid-19 related lockdown disrupted food businesses. Officials said that Madurai is showing the way for other districts in the state, as it is delivering consistent performance in this area.RUCO was initiated to prevent repeated use of used oil in the system as it can cause various health problems to consumers, including colon cancer. Some hotels either sold the used oils to middlemen or dumped them in drainages, causing environmental pollution. The used oil bought at a lower price was used by roadside shopkeepers.Designated officer for food safety Dr M Somasundaram told TOI that if the oil was not collected, it would have been used for some more time and eventually ended up in the drainage. All the 222 FBOs enrolled under the initiative are being monitored for the volume of oil they purchase. A godown to store the collected oil has been set up in Sikkandarchavady. An oil bank has also been established to directly collect used oils.“An agency has been set up to collect used oil, but those, want to hand over directly can visit the facility. Rs 25/litre has been fixed for used oil in order to incentivise FBOs. But we are ready to provide up to Rs 30/litre if the quality of oil is better in order to encourage lesser usage. Residents too can collect used oil at their house and hand it over to us,” he said.Officials said that the initiative is successful since the FBOs are paid better for the used oil compared to the open market. RUCO stickers are pasted on their premises, which indicates that comparatively better quality of oil is used there. Since the used oil is converted into biofuel, it will result in slowdown the exhaustion of fossil fuel, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/73k-litres-of-used-oil-collected-in-madurai-to-check-reuse/articleshow/79748564.cms||V Devanathan
December 16, 2020||Madurai||No Covid cases in Madurai colleges, say principals||Madurai: Heads of various higher educational institutions in Madurai district have assured that no Covid-19 cases have so far been reported on their campuses or hostels after the campuses reopened for final year students and research scholars. Only a few students remain in hostels as online semester exams are set to be held this week in most colleges. At Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU), where hostels are functioning with restrictions, university vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan said no one with symptoms of Covid-19 were reported since reopening. “W are definitely vigilant. However, now we are set to hold the semester exams online for students and all practical classes have been completed. All final year students have vacated the hostel too,” he said. The VC added that there should no threat of Covid-19 spread as only 21 research scholars are currently staying in the campus hostel. “Just to be careful, we have asked them to be screened for symptoms and tested if needed as well,” he said. In various arts and science colleges in the city as well, online semester exams are either under way or set to be held after practical classes were conducted at a stretch for final year students since reopening. “We did not have any instance of any student showing symptoms of Covid-19. Temperature screening was done every day. For those staying in the hostel, most students had taken Covid-19 tests barring a few. But even they were monitored closely,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science. The principal further said semester exams are to begin from Wednesday and that students will be writing the exams from their homes. If some students are unable to write from home for genuine reasons, they could come to the campus to give the exams and Covid-19 safety precautions would be followed. In engineering colleges as well, except for research scholars, students are taking their online semester exams. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-covid-cases-in-madurai-colleges-say-principals/articleshow/79748563.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Just a call away: Kamal Haasan on working with Rajinikanth||MADURAI: Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiyam president Kamal Haasan on Tuesday reiterated that he and Rajinikanth will work together for the good of the people if the policies of the two parties match. “My friendship with Rajanikanth is deep. We are just a phone call away, from connecting with each other. I do not know what the policies of his (Rajinikanth) party are. If the policies match and for the good of the people, we will let go our egos and work together,’’ Kamal said while responding to reporters' questions in Tuticorin on Rajinikanth's political plunge. "Both of us have the same reason for coming into politics. There is a need for a change. Our party has already made its policies clear and people know it. Let him also announce the policies of his party. We cannot go by just one word," Kamal said.. In February this year, Kamal Haasan had first hinted at joining hands with Rajinikanth if the "need arises". On the same day, Rajinikanth, on his return from Goa after receiving an award, towed Kamal's line. "While these things are better addressed closer to the elections, if the circumstances demand, I too will be willing to work together with Kamal (on the political front)," Rajinikanth told reporters at the Chennai airport. Earlier on Tuesday, addressing meetings in Virudhunagar and Tuticorin districts on the third day of his campaign, Kamal Haasan played the “MGR card’’ once again, as he did on the first day of his campaign. The former chief minister MGR was referred to as Makkal Thilagam and not as one representing the AIADMK and earlier the DMK. "He belongs to all the 7.5 crore people of Tamil Nadu," Kamal said. Kamal said some people were raising a hue and cry over his mention of MGR, claiming he belonged to them. ``Many ministers of today would not have seen the bright face of MGR, but I have sat on the lap of MGR, and he used to greet me whenever I achieved something big or small. He belongs to all the people of Tamil Nadu,’’ he said adding that the people of the state would give a fitting reply to those who lay individual claim to MGR. The MNM leader who met members of the business community and the public during the tour said they had not yet finalised anything on candidates, but being rich or highly educated alone was not enough for one to become their candidate. He should be willing to serve the people and there was no dearth of such people in MNM. His party would not bribe voters, but suggested people ask (those who did) ``for Rs 5 lakh instead of Rs 5,000 per vote and see if they give it,’’. Kamal said women were telling him that his victory was ensured and his party would give them due representation in the government when it comes to power. Stating that the AIADMK symbol ``Irraitai Illai’’ had lost its significance, he said its power was decided by MGR. ``Now, some people are sharing the two leaves and eating out of it,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/will-work-with-rajini-if-policies-match-kamal/articleshow/79748566.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||No open air mass but churches to increase indoor services for Christmas in Mumbai||MUMBAI: With 10 days left for Christmas, Archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, on Tuesday issued Covid-19 guidelines for churches in the city to celebrate the festival. Since open air masses are not permitted by the state authorities on Christmas Eve, churches will increase indoor services that day. They will also conduct evening mass on Christmas Day, which is unprecedented. Timings will be advanced. First holy communion and confirmation ceremonies can also resume. In line with pandemic precautions, fewer participants will be permitted and candidates will receive the sacrament in groups at different masses. The Cardinal met the council of deans on Monday to prepare Covid-19 SOPs for Christmas. He noted that fewer worshippers have been going to church since they reopened after lockdown, making the situation easily manageable. “To facilitate attendance at Christmas mass, more than one Vigil (Eve) mass may be celebrated inside the church. Similarly, masses on Christmas morning can be increased, and we are encouraging (churches) to have mass on Christmas evening too,” he said. The Cardinal and deans recommended that Christmas Eve mass begin at 8pm, rather than after 9pm. Given that Section 144 is operative in the city, each mass will accommodate not more than 200 people. The rule forbidding choirs remains in place but the Cardinal offered a relaxation. “For Christmas, there could be three to four choristers singing at different microphones with social distancing. Recorded choir music is encouraged. Distributing holy communion would violate Central and state government directives... So the current policy to distribute communion outside church is the best option,” Cardinal Gracias said. Churches can build cribs for Christmas but will have to display a ‘Do Not Touch’ sign prominently there and at statues. Since restrictions could be imposed on New Year’s Eve (December 31), the Cardinal instructed churches to avoid scheduling midnight mass late. He urged them to conduct New Year’s Eve mass at 7pm or earlier. The Cardinal iterated that exemption from attending Sunday mass remains in place. Worshippers will be encouraged to come for Christmas mass through the week, and senior citizens can join online. All churches have reported fewer attending mass since lockdown was relaxed. Those who do are mindful to wear masks and observe social distancing norms. As a result, the decision to reopen churches first for private prayer and then a week later for public mass, has been vindicated. After online mass, eucharistic ministers have been taking holy communion to people zone-wise, even handing it to representatives to deliver to senior citizens at their homes. At holy confession in a parish, priest and penitent wore masks and a linen cloth was placed over the confessional grille. Meanwhile, the annual Prabhu Yeshu Janmotsav Christmas musical concert at Girgaum Chowpatty was cancelled by organiser Abraham Mathai. A virtual event will be held instead. Permission was granted for the 55-year-old event but the organisers cancelled it to avoid the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-open-air-mass-but-churches-to-increase-indoor-services-for-christmas/articleshow/79747137.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||AAP takes poll plunge in UP, says ready for 2022 contest||LUCKNOW: Having earlier declared its plans to contest next year’s panchayat elections in UP, Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday announced that it would be contesting the 2022 UP assembly elections as well. After Punjab, Haryana and Goa, UP will be the fourth state other than Delhi, AAP’s base, where the party is taking a plunge into serious electoral politics. Promising to bring the Delhi model of development to UP, Kejriwal said that all governments in the state had failed to bring about development, clear in the fact that even now, people needing medical attention or wanting to send their children to good colleges, looked towards Delhi. “Why do people of UP travel to Delhi for every major and minor facility? If a family living in Kanpur has to send their child to a good college, they have to send him/her to Delhi. If a person living in Gorakhpur has to get good medical treatment for his/her parents, they have to come to Delhi. Why? Can’t the biggest state in the country not turn into the most developed state in the country?” Kejriwal said, saying that like Delhi, every colony in UP could have a mohalla clinic, 24-hour power supply, public school education at par with private schools. He added that development of UP was held back because of “dirty politics” and people from UP had been approaching him, asking for a Delhi-like government which was honest and had intent. AAP MP and UP convenor Sanjay Singh said that the party had already started work on ground in UP and in the past five months, no other political party had been seen taking up people’s issues other than AAP. The party has appointed two senior Dalit members, minister Rajendra Pak Gautam and former minister and MLA Rakhi Bidlan, to oversee the election work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-takes-poll-plunge-in-up-says-ready-for-2022-contest/articleshow/79748585.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Makeshift vendors demand new place for weekly shanties||Madurai: Makeshift vendors on Monday staged a protest on Anna Maaligai premises, where the Madurai Corporation’s main office functions, urging the civic body to allot a new place for the weekly shanties at the earliest.Around 150 people gathered on the campus and held a sit-in protest. They said though the civic body had agreed to provide an alternative place at Park Town near Anaiyur a few months ago, an order was yet to be issued. They added that there had been a loss of livelihood due to this delay. V Senthil, one of the vendors, said they are struggling financially due to a lack of sufficient income in the past two months. “Following the relaxation of lockdown norms, all the other weekly shanties were allowed to function, but we could not earn much. We lost our livelihood heavily and struggling to feed our children,” he said. Nanda Singh of AITUC said, around 150 vendors were selling vegetables and fruits in the Sunday shanty in Uchaparambumedu. However, the residents of EB Colony, who found it disturbing, moved court and received a judgement to shift the shanty.Deputy commissioner V Nagajothi met them and listened to their grievance. Based on his assurance that the issue would be resolved in a week's time, the protesters left the place. The weekly shanties are held at Bypass Road, Ellis Nagar, Ponmeni, Ellis Nagar, Koodal Nagar, and Anaiyur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/makeshift-vendors-demand-new-place-for-weekly-shanties/articleshow/79748567.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||92 new Covid cases, 124 recoveries bring active tally below 1,000 in Goa||PANAJI: Three Covid-19-related deaths were reported on Tuesday taking the cumulative mortality to 710. Tuesday saw a total of 92 new cases and 124 recoveries, which took the active cases in the state to 995. It is for the first in five months that the active tally has dropped below 1,000. Twelve of the new cases detected were among travellers to the state. Of the three mortalities, a 57-year-old female from Vasco with diabetes and hypertension passed away within an hour of arrival at Goa Medical College (GMC). She had developed Covid pneumonia and died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome . She was receiving treatment at a private hospital for the past five days. “The patient was transferred from a private hospital in South Goa where she was admitted from December 10. She was symptomatic from December 7,” dean Goa Medical College and head of Covid hospitals in the state, Dr S Bandekar, said. “Since her condition worsened she was shifted to GMC for further management,” he said. Two other patients passed away, one each at GMC and Manipal Hospital. A 75-year-old male from Cuncolim with hypertension, diabetes and history of a stroke developed Covid pneumonia and died of acute respiratory syndrome and septic shock after 20 days of treatment at GMC. A 79-year-old man from Bicholim with diabetes, ischemic heart disease and chronic kidney disease passed away after 15 days of treatment at Manipal hospital. After developing Covid pneumonia, he died as a result of acute respiratory syndrome and septic shock. A total of 70 patients opted for home isolation and 45 were hospitalised. The state’s recovery rate stands at 96.5%. The Margao urban health centre continues to be the only health centre with more than 100 active positive cases. AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Sunday said the virus is likely to return and infect a large number of people if people let their guard down and if super spreading events are promoted. Speaking via videoconferencing at the Manohar Parrikar Vidnyan Mahotsav he advised people to be very careful for the next few months and have aggressive Covid-appropriate behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/92-new-cases-124-recoveries-bring-active-tally-below-1000-after-5-mths/articleshow/79748610.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Teenage girl ends life after failing SSC exam twice||Rajkot: A 17-year-old girl ended her life by hanging herself at her home in Jamnagar on Monday evening as she could not clear the Class X exam, twice.The girl Pujaba Vala, a resident of Gayatrinagar society, was found hanging from a ceiling hook by her father Bahadursinh Vala. He brought down his daughter’s body and informed police about the incident. Bahadursinh, a dairy farmer, told police that Pujaba was upset since she had failed her Class X exam for the second time. After failing last year, Pujaba had taken the exam externally this year. A case of accidental death was registered at Jamnagar B Division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/teenage-girl-ends-life-after-failing-ssc-exam-twice/articleshow/79745183.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Vilacheri doll makers count on Christmas to offset losses||MADURAI: Vilacheri doll makers, who saw low sales during Ganesh Chaturthi and Navaratri this year due to the lockdown, are keeping their fingers crossed hoping Christmas brings them a windfall. These nimble-fingered doll makers make dolls mainly for festive decorations using mud, papier mache and plaster of paris. R Harikrishnan, treasurer of Kullalar Kaivinai Kalaignar Nala Sangam, said it has been 65 years since their families settled in Vilacheri on the outskirts of Madurai and many of them were fourth generation doll makers. M Ramalingam, who has been making dolls for over 35 years, says the one reason they chose Vilacheri was that the tanks nearby had the best clayey soil that was malleable and good to make dolls. ``But now we use papier mache as an alternative for some dolls and clay is sourced from other places, because the local tanks have become polluted and the soil has lost its quality to be moulded into dolls,’’ he said. This year though, they have made a variety of dolls, including a set of 18 dolls including mother Mary, Joseph, baby Jesus, a crib, lambs, shepherds and angels with the dolls ranging in size from 3 inches to two feet. The prices start from Rs 15 and the big ones sell for as much as Rs 350. Make in India has given us an excellent opportunity and we can use our skill to make dolls of global standards with a little help from institutes like IIT, which can guide us on the use of resins and raw materials, said Ramalingam. He said the hue of synthetic colours available made it possible to make any doll of any size. They are also in the process of applying for GI tag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doll-makers-count-on-christmas-to-offset-losses/articleshow/79748568.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Junagadh cops seize 24 guns in three months||Rajkot: As many as 24 guns and 75 cartridges were seized by Junagadh police in the past three months. Of these, 18 were pistols, five were country-made guns and one was a revolver. Police said that most of the arms were supplied by a gangster named Rajesh Rajawat from Madhya Pradesh, who was nabbed. His two accomplices Ramu Pandit and Chhotu Sardar are absconding. Most of the accused from whom guns were found said that they had purchased the weapons to protect themselves as they had ongoing feuds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-cops-seize-24-guns-in-three-months/articleshow/79745208.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Madurai||HC: How many times has Indian rupee been devalued since 1947?||Madurai: Observing that there is a huge difference between ‘devaluation’ and ‘demonetization’, the Madras high court on Tuesday sought a response from the central government on how many times the Indian rupee was devalued since 1947.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing an appeal filed by a few aggrieved persons challenging an order of a single judge dated August 26. The appellants had sought for a direction to award them marks that were deducted in the TNUSRB exam they had written and to permit them to take part in the interview for recruitment.In 2019, the TNUSRB issued a notification for online applications for direct recruitment for the posts of sub-inspector of police. There was a question in the written examination ‘Indian rupee was devalued ------- times since 1947? and the options given were '(A) 3 (B) 4 (C) 2 (D) 1’. In the preliminary answer key published by the board, ‘A - three times’ was declared as the correct answer and subsequently in the final answer key ‘B - four times’ was mentioned as the correct answer.Two students who had written three times as the answer moved the high court seeking to award them 0.5 marks as they had marked the correct answer. The state government submitted that experts had arrived at the correct answer as four times by taking into account the demonetization done by the central government in 2016.Expressing displeasure over the way in which the experts had acted recklessly, the judge had held that the correct answer was ‘A - three times’. Issuing a note of caution to the TNUSRB while getting an expert opinion, the judges directed to award 0.5 marks to the petitioners.Subsequently, after the order of the single judge, the government deducted 0.5 marks to the candidates who have marked the answer as ‘B - 4 times’. Hence, the aggrieved candidates filed an appeal. Hearing the appeal, the judges observed that the single judge had held that the Indian currency was devalued only three times though the expert opinion says it is done four times. The judges suo motu impleaded the Union finance ministry and sought a response as to the number of times the Indian currency was devalued since 1947 along with the year-wise details.The judges also said that though the appellants sought permission to take part in the interview which commences on December 17, they refused to grant permission, and observed that if they succeed in the appeal, then the court would direct to call for the interview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-how-many-times-has-indian-rupee-been-devalued-since-1947/articleshow/79748630.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Picnic spots near city bustle with activity after 8 months||Coimbatore: Picnic spots closer to the city would soon be bustling with activity again. After throwing open the Monkey Falls at Aliyar on Pollachi-Valparai road for the public on Sunday, the forest department is all set to open Kovai Courtallam Falls next week.V Pugalendi, Pollachi forest range officer, said, “We opened the Monkey Falls after a gap of eight months on Sunday and the entry point to the falls will be disinfected daily. We are allowing at least 200 tourists a day after screening them for temperature at the check post, where we have deployed the department’s frontline staff with a thermal scanner. We have also placed hand sanitizers at the check post. Tourists must wear face mask.”He said the water falls was closed on March 24 following the Covid-19 outbreak.The public works department (PWD) has, meanwhile, opened the park at the Aliyar Dam near Pollachi for tourists on Tuesday morning. The opening ceremony was presided over by Valparai MLA Kasthuri Vasu.P Manickavel, assistant engineer, PWD, said they had deployed staff at park’s main gate to ensure tourists were adhering to the face mask etiquette. “We have also placed hand sanitizers at the entrance. Tourists are not allowed to take their food inside the park, where plastic items are banned.”The park will be open for the public from 8am to 6pm daily. There is an entrance fee of Rs5 for all the visitors aged above three years. “Visitors’ details, including mobile phone numbers, will be entered in a register before allowing them in,” the officer said.The park saw a footfall of 900 on Tuesday.D Venkatesh, district forest officer, said, they were preparing standard operating procedure to be followed by tourists at the Kovai Courtallam. “We are planning to open the Kovai Courtallam Falls in the next week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/picnic-spots-near-city-bustle-with-activity-after-8-months/articleshow/79747291.cms||A Subburaj
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Man sentenced to death for murder of pregnant wife||Theni: A 36-year-old man was sentenced to death for torturing and murdering his six months pregnant wife near Chinnamanur in Theni district in 2015. Theni additional district judge (fast track court) A Abdul Kadhar sentenced M Suresh of Mittai Company Street in Gandhi Nagar Colony in Chinnamanur to death on Tuesday. The judgement is awarded considering it a rarest of rare case and based on the guidelines of the Supreme Court, the additional district judge noted. Suresh married N Karpagavalli when she was just 14 years old. She gave birth to two children and became pregnant for the third time. Suresh suspected her fidelity and often tortured her by injuring her using cigarette butts and beating her up. He picked up a quarrel with Karpagavalli on July 21, 2015 and punched her on her private part and abdomen with his fist. The woman bled profusely, resulting in abortion. She was admitted to hospital where she died the next day. Based on a complaint from her father Nallathambi, the Chinnamanur police registered a case. The additional public prosecutor A Vellaichamy appeared for police in the court. As many as 20 witnesses were inquired and 13 material evidences were submitted by police. Suresh was found guilty under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 316 (causing death of unborn child by act amounting to culpable homicide) of the IPC. He was also sentenced to 10 years of imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 for causing the death of the unborn. Theni district superintendent of police Sai Charan Tejaswi appreciated the additional public prosecutor and police officials who presented the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-sentenced-to-death-for-murder-of-pregnant-wife/articleshow/79748593.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Madurai||Haphazard parking chokes Munichalai Road in Madurai||Madurai: Haphazard parking is choking vehicular movement in Munichalai Road at Nelpettai signal, causing inconvenience to the people commuting through the area. Vehicles coming through East Veli Street are unable to move freely into the Munichalai Road. Recently, the Madurai Corporation dug up the left side of the road for laying drinking water pipeline. While it was filled with soil, bitumen road was not laid. With the surface level of the place where the work was carried out going down, the traffic situation has worsened.V Venkatesan, a resident of Ismailpuram said, “The road has become narrow due to vehicle parked on the side. Moreover, with the certain part of the road damaged, vehicles are unable to move freely, resulting in congestion,” he said.R Sakthivel, another resident, said that the drivers do not follow lanes strictly. As a result, vehicles coming from opposite direction occupy the space meant for vehicles coming in from East Veli Road.Residents said that bikes, cars and commercial vehicles are parked on both sides of the road. There would not be a problem if they are parked at a distance from the junction. A traffic police officer said that the problem is mainly due to presence of a couple of transformers of the electricity department. The people tend to park their vehicles near these transformers. Once the transformers are shifted, no one can park there. “We have raised the issue to the district collector and he has assured of looking into it. We hope the transformers are shifted at the earliest,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/haphazard-parking-chokes-munichalai-road-in-madurai/articleshow/79748613.cms||V Devanathan
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Training for vaccination programme tobegin today; centres yet to be identified||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) will begin training of medical officers followed by vaccinators for execution of Covid-19 vaccination programme from Wednesday. The number of health care workers registered for phase-I vaccination has also increased to 19,000. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar have organized training for 80 medical officers at Town Hall in Mahal, from 10am to 4pm. Surveillance medical officer from World Health Organization (WHO) Dr Mohammed Sajid will impart training to the medical officers. After this, medical officers will train nursing staff, who will be appointed as vaccinators. As reported by TOI on December 16, the civic body had fixed a target to administer vaccine to around 20,000 heathcare workers from government and private hospitals under phase-I. As per tentative plan, 50 vaccination centres will be developed for the purpose. Each centre will have four vaccination officers and one vaccinator. An NMC official told TOI, “Medical officers will be trained as per the guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) for developing the centre, which will be equipped with all necessary facilities.” “Each centre will have a waiting room where beneficiary’s registration ID, identity proof and schedule will be verified. Temperature and symptoms of the beneficiary will also be checked. Vaccine will be administered in a separate room earmarked for the purpose. The beneficiary will be asked to wait in observation room for 30 minutes where again temperature followed by blood pressure etc will be checked,” he said. The official added the NMC has registered health care workers on MoHFW portal. “Government will make available CoWIN in which details like name, age, contact number and address of the beneficiaries will be uploaded. After this step, the beneficiary will get a message informing date, time and venue of the vaccination. The beneficiary will also get a post-vaccination message and another one informing about the second round of vaccination, which is yet to be cleared by the MoHFW,” he said. The civic chief on December 15 had directed assistant commissioners and zonal medical officers to identify centres and submit list within a week. However, the list is yet to be submitted. NMC sources told TOI, “The decision as to where to set up vaccination centres is yet to be taken. Initially, it was decided that NMC’s urban primary health centres (UPHCs) will be converted into vaccination centres. However, it was observed that the UPHCs do not meet the requirements. Now, whether to use community halls or schools, government, private hospitals for developing the centres is being discussed,” said sources. Till last week, around 15,000 health care workers were registered for the vaccine. Only 209 of 650 private hospitals had submitted the list of health care workers despite the deadline lapsed on October 28. After prodded by A team led by Dr Gantawar, the number has increased to 19,000. The number of private hospitals submitting the list has also gone up to 320. NMC sources said the number is likely to cross 20,000. The NMC is, however, yet to receive guidelines for vaccine storage. NMC officials are identifying storage facilities having arrangement for maintaining temperature ranging from 2 to 8 degree Celsius. The NMC has also not received any guidelines whether the beneficiaries will have to get done RT-PCR or antibodies tests before taking the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/training-for-vaccination-programme-tobegin-today-centres-yet-to-be-identified/articleshow/79887704.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||BJP hits back, calls Arvind Kejriwal ‘habitual liar, inefficient CM’||LUCKNOW: Hours after Aam Aadmi Party chief and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal announced his party’s plans to contest 2022 UP elections, the BJP hit back, calling him a “habitual liar” whose inefficient administrative skills have been exposed during the Covid-19 pandemic. UP government spokesperson and cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh said that Kejriwal not only stands unmasked in UP but also in Delhi. “He should, therefore, hide behind the curtain,” Singh said, adding that AAP governance turned out to be an abject failure when it was required the most. “He turned out hapless people of UP, Bihar and Jharkhand during the trying times of Corona, while the Yogi government, on the other hand, received and gave them ration and sustenance allowance,” he said, maintaining that the state government gave more than 26 lakh people jobs in 6.65 lakh industrial units. “The state government gave due concern to creation of jobs for the thousands of migrants who returned to their home state during the lockdown,” he said, adding that the UP model was followed in other states also. Singh said Kejriwal specially owes an apology to the people of Purvanchal whom he had insulted by saying that they come to Delhi on a ticket of Rs 500 and get treatment of Rs 5 lakh, while depriving Delhi people of the facility. “Even Purvanchal has enough facilities to match the standard of your (Delhi) hospitals,” the minister added. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya also took a potshot at Kejriwal, saying that the person who was incapable of taking care of 2 crore people was dreaming of governing 24 crore people. Singh said that Delhi has over six lakh Covid cases while UP, which is 12 times Delhi in terms of population, has 5.66 lakh cases.  “It is not surprising why the Delhi high court gave adverse observations to the Delhi government vis-à-vis poor handling of the Corona crisis,” he said. “On the other hand, UP government has received accolades from the World Health Organisation for efficient management of the pandemic,” the minister said, adding that the state government was open for a debate with the AAP government on tackling the Covid crisis. “The UP government added 52 medical colleges in the last four years of its rule. But what about your government,” he asked Kejriwal. Accusing the Delhi CM of confusing people through his remarks, Singh said Kejriwal’s observation that AAP people were moving around in the state with oximeters did not hold any ground. Singh also accused the Delhi government of not doing enough to provide employment to the youth. “The unemployment rate in Delhi is over 45%, while UP government gave 4 lakh jobs to the youth in the past three and a half years,” he said, stressing on how UP government made 1.5 crore youth self-reliant through various schemes, including One District One Product (ODOP) which proved to be a game changer. He said that the MSME sector proved to be the biggest provider of jobs to migrants who returned to the state in large numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-hits-back-calls-kejriwal-habitual-liar-inefficient-cm/articleshow/79748641.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||UP’s anti-conversion law can’t be applied retrospectively: Expert||MORADABAD: UP’s new anti-conversion law is not retrospective, but it was used against the Muslim man from Moradabad who married a Hindu Dalit woman from Dehradun five months ago. While the woman is back home, the man and his elder brother are still in jail while police investigate. The 22-year-old woman, a graduate, had been working as an accountant in Dehradun when she met the man. They fell in love in 2019 and got married on July 24 this year in a nikah ceremony. “I moved to Moradabad of my own accord … We were trying to register our marriage to make sure we were not violating any laws, even by mistake. Everything that happened after that is a nightmare,” she told TOI on Tuesday. “I want my husband back.” The case against her husband may not stand legal scrutiny. “It’s a settled principle of law of interpretation that all laws are applicable with prospective effect (from that point forward) unless there is a specific provision that makes it applicable with retrospective effect,” Supreme Court lawyer Shobha Gupta told TOI. “In other words, no penal provision can be made applicable from a date prior to its commencement,”. The UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religious Ordinance, 2020 came into effect on November 28. “Section 1(3) says, ‘It shall come into force at once.’ That means after the signature of the governor … Any marriage by way of conversion of religion which has taken place before or even on that day but before the governor signed it is not covered by the ordinance. It is not a criminal act,” she said. “Invocation of the provisions of the ordinance with cases of religious conversion prior to this is not permissible in law and, therefore, unsustainable in courts,”. “When the couple was trying to register their marriage, the ordinance did not apply to them. They were married before the new law was promulgated,” Gupta said. The FIR, the woman said, was registered because of pressure from Bajrang Dal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ups-anti-conversion-law-cant-be-applied-retrospectively-expert/articleshow/79749812.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Post-Covid care yoga shifts to online mode||PANAJI: To aid the recovery of Covid-19 patients, the post-Covid clinic at Margao has introduced a yoga programme on a virtual platform. The videos are aimed at helping patients restore their lung health after recovering from the infection. The clinic has readied yoga tutorials for preparatory practices, breathing, relaxation and deep lung exercises for post-Covid care and has circulated these among patients visiting the clinic every Thursday. Clinic coordinator Dr Rita Vaz says all patients under post-Covid care across the state can follow the videos and perform the exercises on a daily basis. “The yoga programme has been prepared according to guidelines by the Ayush ministry. The regular practice of yoga aids in faster recovery from persistent symptoms by enhancing immunity and improving lung health,” Vaz says. A YouTube channel of the yoga modules, Tele Yoga Goa, has also been launched and is being sent to Covid long-haulers through a WhatsApp broadcast channel. “The module is beneficial to asymptomatic patients recovering at home, too. The exercises concentrate on deep breathing and respiratory health that in turn leads to stress elevation and improvement in lungs. In none of the exercises are patients asked to hold their breath. They are only advised to breath deep according to their maximum capacity,” she says. The exercises will also help patients with anxiety, which many have been facing after being tested for Covid, she adds. A 15-minute group breathing exercise session was organised at the post-Covid care clinic at Hospicio, Margao, last month to demonstrate the exercises. It was subsequently decided to move the sessions to the virtual domain following space constraints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/post-covid-care-yoga-shifts-to-online-mode/articleshow/79748680.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 16, 2020||Madurai||HC shocked at handling of case against cop by police, judiciary||Madurai: Expressing shock at the casual handling of a non-bailable offence case by the police and the judiciary, the Madras high court on Tuesday took a serious view at the release of a police constable who misbehaved with a woman, the same day after his arrest. The court also directed the registry to call for the records pertaining to the proceedings pending before the Sankarankoil JM and directed the Sankarankoil inspector to file a report providing all the details from the arrest till the release of the constable. The court was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation based on a news report where the policeman in an inebriated condition misbehaved with a woman at Sankarankoil bus stand in Tenkasi district on December 3. Additional advocate general M Sricharan Rangarajan submitted that the social media cell which took note of the news report and the video which was circulated on social media, obtained a complaint from the victim’s husband and registered a case against the constable for offences under Sections 294(b), 323, 506(i) of IPC and Section 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. He submitted that the constable was working in a battalion in Tirunelveli district and was absent for duty since November 18. He was arrested and produced before the Sankarankoil JM on December 4, but granted bail the same day. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that a perusal of the FIR reveals that the victim’s husband was beaten up by the constable when he resisted the harassment. The judges observed that it is not known as to whether the husband was taken to hospital. Since the constable was granted bail the same day, it is not known as to whether the police and the public prosecutor had opposed the grant of bail. The judges noted that the bail order was also not produced. During the previous hearing the court had asked the government to form a separate wing to monitor and take action on the commission of offences reported in media and social media. The judges observed that though it was stated that there is a mechanism to monitor the media and social media in the police department, there seems to be no such mechanism. Hence, the judges suggested the state government to constitute a committee comprising officials from all the departments to go through the newspapers and media and to take steps to resolve the issues which are reported. The judges suo motu impleaded the chief secretary and secretaries to various departments and asked the government to derive such a mechanism and report before the court on December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-shocked-at-handling-of-case-against-cop-by-police-judiciary/articleshow/79748650.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||‘Millionaire’ thief, son nabbed from posh Surat bungalow||RAJKOT: Now, whether this Surat father-son duo was inspired by the real life shenanigans of Devinder Singh alias Bunty, the real-life Delhi-based master-thief, or if Bollywood actor Abhay Deol’s rendition of the slippery character on silver screen with ‘Oye Lucky’ motivated them, it will be known only after cops dig into their dirty past. But on the face of it, Anand alias Jayanti Sitapara too never settled for anything less than what provided him a lavish living — from posh villas to fast cars and glitzy baubles — the ‘millionaire thief’ and his son Hasmukh set the bar high for cat burglars. However, the show came to an end after law caught up with them in their sprawling bungalow in Surat’s Palsana road on Tuesday. Anand and Hasmukh were arrested on the admission of their accomplice Piyush Amreliya who spilled the beans on the duo after he got caught in a theft of a house in Ramkrishnanagar where they stole valuables worth Rs 9 lakh including cash. Amreliya was nabbed 20 days ago after his face was captured in the CCTV footage. Cops seized gold jewellery worth Rs 10.5 lakh, Rs 1.25 lakh in cash, watches worth Rs 7,000 and two bikes from Anand’s bungalow. It also came to light that the man had booked a car for his son which was soon to be delivered. Their modus operandi was simple — Amreliya would recce the targeted house first before informing Anand if it was an easy break-in. Anand and his son would then travel to Rajkot for the act, and while Amreliya would keep vigil, the father-son duo would commit the burglary. Police suspect that the gang may have targeted more than a dozen houses in some of the posh societies of Rajkot including Dharmjeevan, Ambaji Kadva plot, Jairaj plot, Indraprasthnagar, Prahlad plot among many others in the last nine months. “So far we have received only one complaint, but are expecting more victims to come forward and lodge their complaints,” said inspector V K Gadhavi of detection of crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/millionaire-thief-son-nabbed-from-posh-surat-bungalow/articleshow/79745264.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Support for Yogi Adityanath trends on social media||LUCKNOW: After AAP convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced his party’s plans to contest UP assembly elections in 2022, the social media went abuzz with comments, mostly in favour of UP CM Yogi Adityanath. A hashtag in Yogi’s favour (#UPKiShaanYogiji) was among top trends on twitter. A state government spokesperson said that social media trends were indicative of the growing popularity of CM Yogi. The impact of Yogi’s campaign was also evident in the results of Bihar assembly elections and Hyderabad municipal body polls. “The firebrand and development-oriented image of Yogi Adityanath is leaving its impact even on social media. This was once again seen on Tuesday when over 50,000 people tweeted in favour of UP CM,” he said, adding that people hailed Yogi for handling coronavirus crisis in the most populous state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/support-for-yogi-trends-on-social-media/articleshow/79748673.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 68L syphoned off from 5 registrar offices in Tirupur||Tirupur: The state registration department has found financial irregularities to the tune of Rs 68 lakh in the registrar offices in Tirupur district.Five staff, including two joint sub-registrars, were placed under suspension on Tuesday for syphoning off funds from the department. The registration department has lodged a police complaint, seeking legal action against them.“At least Rs 68,70,657 has been syphoned off from the five registrar offices in Tirupur,” said a senior official with the registration department in his complaint to the Tirupur city police commissioner.The suspended staff – joint I sub-registrar Vijayashanthi, joint II sub-registrar Muthukannan, assistants R Shankar and P Panneerselvam and junior assistant Monisha from joint II sub-registrar office - are likely to face a police probe.Police said the five could be arrested if the complaints against them were found to be true. “We would then take steps to retrieve the looted money.”Registration department officials said more people could be involved in the irregularities.According to an official with the registration department, Shankar and Paneerselvam took away cash paid by the public for registration of properties and deleted the receipt records. When the accounts did not tally, suspicion grew and an internal probe revealed that they had fudged records and looted the money.Tirupur district registrar Ramasamy alerted deputy inspector general of registration (Coimbatore zone) M Jagadeesan about the scam and the latter conducted an inquiry with the five. Jagadeesan found that the complaints were true and informed inspector general of registration P Shankar, who suspended the five and issued directions to proceed with a police complaint.A senior officer said the scam could be bigger, indirectly hinting that the money syphoned off was more than Rs 68 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-68l-syphoned-off-from-5-registrar-offices-in-tirupur/articleshow/79747312.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 21% drop in daily Covid testing, 17% slide in cases||AHMEDABAD: When there were restrictions and even high rates for the tests in September, Gujarat was recording an average 69,540 tests daily. Three months later, while the tests are open for all, while the rate for the tests have gone down, the first 14 days of December recorded an average 64,269 tests daily. The 54,883 tests recorded in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Tuesday were the lowest in 27 days. In fact, the analysis of past 10 days reveal that the number of daily tests came down from 69,580 to 54,883, whereas the number of daily cases came down from 1,455 to 1,110. While the tests recorded drop of 21%, the cases also got dropped by 17%. The test positivity rate (positive cases per 100 tests) for the first 14 days of December was 2.1%, which has increased slightly from 2.08% in November and has dropped a bit from October’s 2.2%. Experts pointed out that the state is primarily relying on the rapid antigen test (RAT) to find the new positive cases - the method which accounts for close to 90% of the total tests performed daily. RT-PCR are generally performed on the symptomatic patients, those undergoing medical procedure or those requiring certificates for travel. Till July, the state primarily depended on RT-PCR method - and thus the daily tests were also averaging 12,617 as positivity rate was 8.51%. As RAT was introduced in August, the daily tests’ number shot up to 50,550, as the positivity rate got dropped to 2.67%. Analysis of the districts also reveal the skewed testing ratio and positivity rate. Ahmedabad and Surat districts cumulatively accounted for 36.31 lakh out of 87.52 lakh tests conducted so far, which means that four out of 10 tests were conducted in these two districts. On the other hand, Vadodara and Jamnagar districts were found to have the highest positivity rate (4.28% and 4.24% respectively), followed by Gandhinagar (3.49%), Surat (3.3%), and Mehsana (3.22%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/21-drop-in-daily-covid-testing-17-slide-in-cases/articleshow/79747761.cms||Parth Shastri
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Follow SOPs to keep Covid at bay, officials tell colleges||Coimbatore: The district recorded 117 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, even as 106 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The district presently has 1,048 active cases. While the district has logged 50,677 Covid-19 cases so far, 48,998 have recovered till date. The recovery rate stands at 96.6%. The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, remained static at 631, as the district didn’t record any fatalities on the day. In the wake of IIT-Madras turning into a Covid-19 cluster, which is growing bigger, health department officials are conducting meetings with college principals to ensure strict adherence to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent such an outbreak in the district. On Tuesday, officials visited the Bharathiar University to check compliance with the SOPs. Later, they conducted an online meeting with the principals of its affiliated colleges. G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We insist on wearing face masks throughout the day wherever they are on the college campus, be it in laboratories, classrooms, mess and hostel.” In hostel rooms with four beds next to each other, he said they had asked them to provide enough space in-between to ensure social distancing. Also, only 50% of the student strength would be allowed on the campus at any given day. Colleges have also been asked to come up with a mechanism to screen the students and teachers. “They have to be screened for temperature while entering the campus. The same procedure should be followed for hostel inmates as well. Colleges should also find a way to disinfect all common areas such as libraries, canteens, messes, classrooms, hostel elevators and corridors daily,” the officer said. He said students and teachers from containment zones shouldn’t be allowed on the campus and mess staff, who are unwell, shouldn’t be allowed to work. Colleges have also been advised to keep libraries and canteens closed as much as possible to avoid overcrowding. “We have also advised the students coming from other districts to get tested at a nearby primary health centre before mingling with other students and starting classes,” said a health department official. According to the SOPs issued by the state government, students should be given the option of e-learning even after the commencement of classes on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/follow-sops-to-keep-covid-at-bay-officials-tell-colleges/articleshow/79747337.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Tug of war in BJP over mahila morcha chief post||LUCKNOW: It is over three months since the new state executive was announced by the BJP, but the tug of war is on over who should head the mahila morcha, with one lobby strongly advocating Archana Mishra’s name and rivals wanting that incumbent Darshana Singh continues as president. Even the new in charge of the party’s state affairs, Radha Mohan Singh has apparently not been able to resolve the contentious issue despite his directions to complete the nominations in the organisation’s frontal wings. The issue was widely discussed at a recent private function where most office-bearers from the state, including the state president and senior ministers, had lined up to mark their attendance. Party sources say that Mishra is relatively new in the organisation as compared to Singh, but she enjoys the blessings of a powerful lobby. Singh is perceived to be the protégé of the previous state president Mahendra Nath Pandey and has also completed her term. But her sympathisers in the party want her to continue and oppose Mishra. This dilemma is delaying the announcement of the mahila morcha office bearers and even the constitution of the yuva morcha as the caste and social equations are inter-dependent. Meanwhile, posts in the state’s corporations, boards and other PSUs, which are nominated by the ruling party, have also been lying vacant even as the Yogi government about to enter the fifth year of its term. The state president had told TOI that the vacant posts would be filled up once the new executive committee is announced, but now the ruling party appears to have dumped the vacant positions, causing resentment among senior workers and leaders who have not been accommodated in the organisations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tug-of-war-in-bjp-over-mahila-morcha-chief-post/articleshow/79748714.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 16, 2020||Agra||10-year-old raped in Firozabad, accused at large; FIR registered||AGRA: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 25-year-old man in Firozabad. An FIR has been registered against the man. Both the accused and the survivor belong to Pachwa village under Jasrana police station. According to the police, the survivor, along with her family members, had gone to attend a wedding ceremony on Monday when the accused took her to a nearby field and raped her. The survivor was crying and bleeding from the abdomen when the villagers found her. She was admitted to a hospital. Jasrana station house officer Jitendra Kumar said, “The medical examination of the survivor confirmed rape. Based on the complaint received from the survivor’s father, an FIR has been registered against the accused Neeraj under IPC section 376 (punishment for rape) and POCSO Act. The accused is absconding. Raids are being conducted to nab him.” Senior superintendent of police Ajay Kumar said, “Statement of the survivor has been recorded. She is under treatment and her condition is stable. Two teams have been tasked to arrest the accused who is survivor’s neighbour. The accused will be put behind the bars very soon.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-year-old-raped-in-firozabad-accused-at-large/articleshow/79743605.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||‘Farmers’ protest hijacked by forces with vested interests’||LUCKNOW: Kisan Manch state chief Devendra Tiwari, who took active part in farmers’ protest in the NCR for over two weeks and was also detained by the police during last week's Bharat Bandh, now says he is disillusioned the way the movement had been hijacked by the people with vested interest. He, however, also blames the messengers of the Central government for their failure to convey to farmers that most of their demands had been accepted. “If one goes through the written undertaking by the Union government one can see that the government has largely accepted all demands of agitating farmers. So, ideally no issue is left now except the hidden political hand behind the move,” he said. “We will meet Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath soon to apprise him that the farmers’ agitation has been hijacked by the Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and the Congress,” Tiwari told TOI on Tuesday. Talking to TOI here after withdrawing from the ongoing farmers’ agitation on Tuesday, he said that the movement had now turned political and was just targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi which was ‘most unfortunate’ and ‘frustrating’. Tiwari was among the farmers’ leaders who had attended the last meeting between farmers and the government's representative headed by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. “I am not able to understand when the government has given a written undertaking for amendments and has clearly stated that the MSP will continue and mandi tax be imposed on private players where is the point of confrontation? These were original demands of farmers which the government has already conceded,” said the Kisan Manch leader. “Farmers had started their agitation for their agricultural interests and concerns and not to dance to the tune of political parties,” he said, accusing the Opposition parties of befooling farmers. Tiwari also lamented how some sections in the farmers’ agitation have reduced the movement into picnicking. Music, dance and pizzas are diluting the farmers’ stir. “Have you ever seen protestors singing and dancing on filmy music and enjoying western food,” he remarked. "This is also the reason why the movement has failed to draw the people’s sympathy.” Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said not only the Kisan Manch, but some other farmer unions have also sought time from the CM to extend solidarity with the government after their demands have been met by the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farmers-protest-hijacked-by-forces-with-vested-interests/articleshow/79748691.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid vaccination: With little data, Telangana may open up self-registration for some recipients||HYDERABAD: Drawing up an exhaustive list of patients with co-morbidities might be an uphill task for the state given that it does not have a detailed database right now. According to available estimates – largely from government facilities – the state has close to 11 lakh patients who have co-morbidities or who are immunocompromised. However, there is no record of such patients treated at private facilities, which means that the actual numbers might be more. “The estimates are drawn on the basis of fixed percentages. Nearly three per cent of the total population of the state (3.7 crore) will fall in the category of below 50 years of people having co-morbidities,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. While there is no exhaustive data of these patients, and no clear road map on how to collate the data, state authorities are likely to open up self-registration for people below 50 having co-morbidities and people above 50 years (elderly category) in the next two weeks. “Once the self-registration is opened, people falling in this category can register on the CoWin software. Once enrolled, they will be eligible as a beneficiary and will be attached to a centre. They have to go to the centre with an ID proof for the vaccination later. However, the category is likely to be third in the phased vaccination programme,” added the official. While there is no exhaustive data of patients, state authorities are likely to open up self-registration for people below 50 having co-morbidities and people above 50 years in two weeks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-little-data-state-may-open-up-self-registration-for-some-recipients/articleshow/79747340.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU to develop naturally coloured cotton||Coimbatore: After a gap of nearly three years, the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has resumed its efforts to develop naturally coloured cotton varieties that come in shades of brown and green. Scientists say it would take at least six to seven years to commercially release the varieties as only two trials could be done a year after crossing, as the cotton is a six-month crop. While they had attempted to develop such a variety back in 2015, the plan was shelved as there wasn’t a huge demand for the coloured cotton, which could contaminate any pure white cotton varieties growing nearby. However, naturally coloured cotton seems to be the solution to the water pollution caused by dying units, which often let untreated effluents into waterbodies. With the Nagpur-based Central Institute of Cotton is doing research on coloured cotton and developing cultures that are in pre-release stage, TNAU has also restarted its efforts. Dr S Geetha, director, Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, says there are some naturally occurring varieties of coloured cotton in India. “We are in the process of identifying them, crossing them with stabilized cultivated cotton varieties, and then trying to find the superior coloured variety with good fibre length, strength and micro layer counts.” It is only the colour gene that scientists are transferring through conventional breeding to cultivated species to improve the quality, colour, stability and yield. Geetha says they will keep finding natural varieties and crossing them, until they come up with a variety of cotton with a stable amount of colour, high yield and good fibre qualities. “The target is to develop the cotton with enough colour and minimize the requirement for dyeing.” TNAU too says there are many limitations to cultivating naturally coloured cotton. “First of all, cotton comes only in a few natural colours like shades of brown, green and blue. If you further colour the garments made of naturally coloured cotton fabric with chemical dyes for designs, the point is lost” says Geetha. The fear is that pollen from the coloured cotton might fall onto the white cotton that is cultivated in the vicinity and mate, contaminating the latter’s colour. “At least 99% of the cotton demand is for the pure white, so we can’t afford to get that contaminated. Hence, coloured cotton has to be cultivated on a small, niche and isolated area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-to-develop-naturally-coloured-cotton/articleshow/79747346.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Oppn must unite against BJP, says NCP||Panaji: President of Goa state Nationalist Congress party (NCP) Jose Philip D’Souza on Tuesday called for unity among the opposition parties to fight the upbeat BJP in the 2022 assembly elections “The zilla panchayat elections have shown that the opposition parties need to be united to bring about a change on the political horizon in the state,” D’Souza said reacting to the results. “Our strike rate of NCP was 25%, far far better than Congress, as one candidate won out of the four fielded by NCP,” he said. He said in the last assembly elections held in 2017, Congress was not keen on an alliance with other parties to defeat BJP. “Even when we went to Delhi to meet their top leaders, we had seen their attitude,” he said. He added that political parties should be practical and not just contest more seats if they don’t have the winning capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/oppn-must-unite-against-bjp-says-ncp/articleshow/79748723.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Shopowner alleges theft, beats minors||BHUPALAPALLY: A kirana shopowner tied four minors to a pole and beat them severely, alleging that they had stolen things from his shop. The incident came to light when locals posted the video on social media district. The incident took place in Maddalapally village of Mahadevpur mandal. Upon finding out about the incident, the minors’ parents and other villagers gathered in front of the shop and tried to stall the shop keeper. Police were notified of the situation. Tension prevailed in the village when a youth tried to manhandle the shopkeeper, enraged by the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shopowner-alleges-theft-beats-minors/articleshow/79747347.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||12 lakh parents in Telangana gave consent to send kids to school: TRSMA||HYDERBAD: Nearly 12 lakh parents of students studying in budget schools in Telangana have given their consent to send their wards to schools when they reopen, said Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association. This follows the worry that children will lose interest in studies if schools remain shut for a few more months. Members of TRSMA, which has started circulating and collecting consent forms from parents across the state in the past week, said that they are expecting to get consent from at least 60 per cent parents. “Right now, more than 40 per cent of 30 lakh parents gave their consent. Once we get a reply from a majority of parents, we will place these findings in front of the government and will pressurize them into reopening schools,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA. Parents said that children are neglecting their studies completely assuming that they will be promoted this year as well. “It’s been over nine months since schools have been shut. Although online classes are being conducted, my child is missing half of them as I carry my mobile phone to work. After classes, he is not doing his homework or studying. He is completely neglecting his studies and is spending more time playing with his friends,” said K Madhusudhan Reddy, whose son is studying in class 9. Another parent Mahesh A, whose children are studying in class 8 and class 4, said that children are becoming lazy and are lagging in academics despite attending online classes.  Few parents, however, said that instead of taking unilateral decisions, managements should conduct a meeting at the school level with parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/12l-parents-gave-consent-to-send-kids-to-school-trsma/articleshow/79747352.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn gears up to implement third phase of UGD project||Coimbatore: The city corporation has proposed to implement phase-III of the underground drainage (UGD) project. In this final phase, areas such as Ganapathy, Ganapathy Managar, Thannerpandal, Ondipudur, Vadavalli, Veerakeralam, Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur would be covered. A city corporation official said, “We have already prepared a detailed project report and are conducting environmental assessment study in the project areas by roping in a consultant. We have approached the Asian Development Bank, seeking financial support for the project and it has vetted the same. The project will be implemented by the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board.” In this phase, pipelines would be laid for 669.98km with 25,682 manholes. According to the official, 5,603 manholes would be constructed at Ganapathy, Ganapathy Managar, Thannerpandal and Ondipudur in the east zone, where the pipeline would be laid for 141.98km. While 11,342 manholes will be constructed at Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur, where pipeline would be laid for 298km, at Vadavalli and Veerakeralam, pipeline would be laid for 230km and 8,737 manholes would be constructed. Two sewage treatment plants would also be constructed – one near the old dump yard at Kavundampalayam to treat sewage water from Thudiyalur and Kavundampalayam and another one at Chokkampudur to treat sewage from Vadavalli and Veerakeralam. According to the official, sewage water from the east zone will be treated at the existing plant at Ondipudur. “UGD connection will be provided to 66,0511 households in the third phase. The project is designed in such a way to cater the needs of the population in these areas in 2035 and 2053, when they are estimated to generate 62.33 million litres and 80.68 million litres sewage a day, respectively,” he said. On Tuesday, the city corporation held a public hearing at three places in the city to understand the public views and grievances regarding the UGD project. Most of them demanded the civic body to implement the project at the earliest.During the meeting, M Devendran, secretary, Coimbatore District Roads Protection Committee, said, “Instead of releasing the treated sewage water into Sanganoor canal, it should be let into Chinnavedampatti agri water tank that is used for irrigation purposes. While implementing the project, proper traffic management should be ensured by providing alternative routes. A nodal agency should also be appointed to coordinate and ensure smooth execution of inter-departmental work.”Instead of digging up the middle of the road and damaging it, he says, it would be better if the pipelines are laid on roadsides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-gears-up-to-implement-third-phase-of-ugd-project/articleshow/79747388.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Farm labourer held for murdering friend suspecting affair with wife||Rajkot: A farm labourer was detained by Virpur police on Tuesday for killing a man from his village last month.The accused Vinod Vasava was nabbed after investigation revealed that the victim Nilesh Vasava had died from drowning after the former pushed him in the well on November 27. The duo is native of Gundiya village in Bharuch district and work in Kerali village in Jetpur taluka. Nilesh’s body was found on November 29 and it was suspected that he accidentally fell in the well and died. “We were searching for him after his wife lodged a missing person complaint, but once his body was found a case of accidental death was registered. However, our investigation revealed that he had been killed as he had illicit affair with the accused’s wife,” said sub-inspector R N Bhojani of Virpur police station. After Vinod was detained, he admitted to killing Nilesh. He said that he had asked Nilesh for hanging out and then have country-made liquor. The duo bought liquor, but Vinod made sure that Nilesh drunk enough to not be in his senses. Vinod then took him near a well in the orchard owned by Ranchhod Ramoliya. As Nilesh bent forward, Vinod pushed him and returned home. “We will formally arrest him, once his Covid-19 test turns out to be negative,” said Bhojani.Box: Man attacked by distant relative succumbsRajkot: A 40-year-old man Ramesh Vaghela from Vegadvav village in Surendranagar succumbed to his injuries caused by axe blows on Tuesday morning.Vaghela was attacked by his cousin Munna’s brother-in-law Vikram Vaghjibhai at Pratapgarh village in Morbi on December 13. Vaghela and Munno were visiting Munno’s in-law’s house to pick up his wife. Munno and his wife had a confrontation over some domestic issue following which she had moved to live with her parents.When Vaghela and Munno went there, there were heated arguments which enraged Vikram. He picked up an axe and hit Vaghela multiple times. Vaghela was taken to Surendranagar and later to Ahmedabad where he died during treatment. A murder case was registered against Vikram on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farm-labourer-held-for-murdering-friend-suspecting-affair-with-wife/articleshow/79745314.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist to get 28 Amma mini clinics soon||Coimbatore: The district is all set to get at least 70 of the 2,000 Amma mini clinics that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced on Monday. Of them, 28 clinics will be set up in the first phase. While seven of them would be in the city corporation limits, the remaining would come up in rural areas and municipalities. While the exact location of these clinics is yet to be fixed, officials said they would come up within a month. While the chief minister announced the Amma mini clinics for covid-19 testing, officials said they would not be equipped with RT-PCR kits. The clinics would only check for symptoms, provide medication for the same and refer people to the nearest primary health centres for testing. “We will have to allot a lab technician and provide facilities if the clinics had to be equipped to take Covid-19 tests,” said a corporation health officer. The mini clinics would have a doctor, nurse and helper. “People can approach them for any illness,” he said. The clinics would function from 8am to 12pm and 4pm to 8pm. East, north and central zones of the city corporation would get two clinics each in the first phase, while west zone would get one. “We have allotted the mini clinics based on the number of people living in slums and the distance of primary health centres,” said Dr Raja, city health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-to-get-28-amma-mini-clinics-soon/articleshow/79747356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar tests Covid positive||HYDERABAD: Transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19. The minister (55), who represents Khammam in the assembly, asked everyone who has come in contact with him in the recent past to be in home isolation for 10 days and get a Covid-19 test done. On December 10, Ajay Kumar had met IT minister KT Rama Rao at Pragati Bhavan in Hyderabad. Kumar said he is in home isolation at the ministers’ quarters in Hyderabad and urged people not to meet him or call him and that he would share his health updates at regular intervals. “There is no cause for concern. I will recover and come back and participate in official programmes,” the minister said in a statement on Tuesday. He had got an RT-PCR test done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-puvvada-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/79747358.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||All eyes on civic elections in Khammam and Warangal||HYDERABAD: After the polls to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, all eyes are now on the Khammam and Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) elections. The elected bodies in these two civic bodies will complete their term in March 2021. After the rise of BJP in GHMC polls, there is curiosity in political circles whether TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will go for polls to the two local bodies early or later. Even the delimitation of wards in GWMC is pending. Presently, there are 58 wards with population varying from nearly 16,000 to 12,000 in various wards. The state government, on the directions of the high court, had agreed to go for delimitation. TRS MLA from Warangal East Nannapuneni Narendar told TOI that the number of wards are expected to increase from the existing 58 to at least 66 after the delimitation exercise. Subsequently, reservation of wards would be finalised. “All this exercise can be completed in 15 days to one month’s time. I don’t think there will be any delay in conduct of elections due to delimitation of wards,” he said. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said as per the Municipal Corporations Act, they will decide the poll dates in consultation with the state government. The continuous heavy rains that resulted in flooding of several colonies in Warangal corporation area in July and August are likely to play a crucial role in the ensuing elections to the civic body. “TRS government has to be blamed for the flooding of colonies. The government has allowed encroachment of lakebeds and did not remove them despite being brought to its notice,” said BJP Warangal urban district president Rao Padma. The BJP is confident of bagging the mayor’s seat in GWMC this time although it had managed to win only one of the 58 wards in 2016 polls. “The BJP is day-reaming of a good performance in GWMC. Though the saffron party leaders, including Union minister Kishan Reddy, have started visiting Warangal, the TRS will sweep the polls,” said TRS corporator V Bikshapathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-eyes-on-civic-elections-in-khammam-and-warangal/articleshow/79747455.cms||Roushan Ali
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP to launch block-leveloutreach prog for farmers||LUCKNOW: Even as massive protests by farmers against the new farm laws continues in the National Capital Region, the UP government is going to launch a major programme to connect with farmers at the block level. Named Mission Kisan Samman Yojana, the scheme is being finalized and should be announced formally this week. A senior government official said that since the Covid-19 lockdown in March, most of the interaction with farmers was online. Now that the situation had started easing out, direct contact would be made with farmers, following all Covid-19 protocols of social distancing etc. “The government will be setting up camps in all blocks where it will reach out to farmers and inform them about various schemes being run by both the state and central governments,” said a senior government official. “It will also educate them about the improvements in technology, new technology and, where necessary, also provide direct benefit on the spot,” the offcial added. To showcase the government’s commitment to farmers and undercut opposition criticism of the farm laws being against farmers’ welfare, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has addressed farmers’ issues in most of his public addresses. The UP government has also said that it has made historic payments to paddy, sugarcane and wheat farmers over the past four years, which includes the arrears of the previous Samajwadi Party government. “This new scheme will be an opportunity for the government to convince farmers that the new laws are not against them and in fact, the government has taken several steps for their welfare,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-launch-block-leveloutreach-prog-for-farmers/articleshow/79748730.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC raises questions about fire safety in hospitals||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday had a barrage of questions for the state government with regard to the fire at Shrey Hospital, in which eight Covid-19 patients perished in August, and requested it to adopt the Centre’s Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulations) Act. During the hearing, on a PIL filed by advocate Amit Panchal, seeking action on the hospital fire and implementation of fire safety laws in the state, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora questioned how the purpose of a residential building can be changed to commercial by paying an impact fee. The judges observed that Shrey Hospital was also a residential building, but was converted into a commercial building on payment of impact fees. The high court was also concerned about the issuing of fire NOCs to hospitals that function in buildings having other establishments as well. The judges asked what if the hospital has a fire NOC but the building is not equipped to deal with a fire emergency or vice versa. During the last hearing on this PIL, the high court had questioned the Clinical Establishments Act not being implemented. The judges again questioned why the state of Gujarat has not framed rules when the Centre’s Act has been there for so many years. To the court’s query, the advocate general again assured the court that the government would be quick in this direction. Justice Pardiwala told the state law officer that he was requesting the government to adopt the law in the larger public interest. The petitioner-advocate pointed to laxity on the part of the government in recruitment for fire departments across the state. Highlighting the government’s admission that 593 posts in the fire departments of nagarpalikas are still empty, he submitted that this would shake judicial conscience. He also urged the HC to direct the state government to provide data with regard to types of buildings not having NOCs, number of industrial establishments etc. The court has posted a further hearing for January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-raises-questions-about-fire-safety-in-hospitals/articleshow/79747551.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Kadi man shot dead by unidentified assailant in the US||PALANPUR: Another NRG has fallen prey to fatal shooting in United States (US). Ashok Patel, 50, who worked as a store clerk was shot dead by an unidentified assailant early on Sunday morning at Craig’s Food Mart on West Broad Street in Hazleton, a city in Pennsylvania’s Luzerne County. “My father was a farmer. We were happy as long as he stayed with us. Leaving for the US was a mistake,” said Patel’s son Bhavik, who along with his mother lives at Vadu village of Mehsana’s Kadi taluka. Patel was the sole bread earner of the family which is in shock with the untimely demise of the deceased who was living alone in the US since last nine years. “Even before three months, my father was shot while he was working as a store clerk in Maryland. It was after an emergency surgery that he had survived but this time he couldn’t,” said Bhavik. Patel is said to be shot by an unidentified man who was wearing an orange t-shirt. Hazleton police is also on look out for a woman who was close to the store when Patel was shot dead. The killer fled the spot in a dark-colored jeep while the woman drove past him in a white truck that had the license plate secured to the top right corner of her truck's cab. “Mr. Patel was murdered in a cruel and violent ambush while he worked to support his family and himself,” said Stefanie Salavantis, district attorney of Luzerne County who along with Hazleton police addressed media persons on Monday. “Mr. Patel did nothing to provoke his killer, and the preliminary investigation reveals that the shooter walked into the store to commit a robbery and shot Mr. Patel for no other reason than to avoid leaving a witness behind,” she said, while urging the unidentified woman to come forward and help police in its investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kadi-man-shot-dead-by-unidentified-assailant-in-the-us/articleshow/79745367.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Didn’t get high-tech plates yet? Shell out Rs 5,500||NEW DELHI: If you haven’t still got a high-security registration plate (HSRP) and a colour-coded fuel sticker for your car, be prepared to shell out Rs 5,500. On Tuesday, the transport department’s enforcement wing started a special drive and 239 challans were issued on Day 1. According to the amended Motor Vehicles Act, a vehicle without HSRP can be fined Rs 10,000, which has been compounded to Rs 5,500. A similar amount is chargeable if a car doesn’t have the fuel sticker. “We have deployed nine teams in limited areas and the emphasis is on colour-coded fuel stickers, which help identify whether a car is petrol- or diesel-run etc from a distance. Enough time has been given to car owners to get these affixed,” a Delhi government official said. “Getting a HSRP affixed is in the interest of the car owner because in the case of a theft, it is much easier to trace the vehicle. Now the system is in place and the capacity has gone up,” transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI. The objective of the drive is to sensitise vehicle owners to get fuel stickers at the earliest but the number of enforcement teams will soon be scaled up to 50 and many more locations will be included in the drive, he added. Those who have already booked a HSRP and colour-coded fuel sticker online can show the receipt to escape the fine. The Supreme Court had directed in 2018 that fuel stickers should be affixed on vehicles in Delhi-NCR and since October 2, 2018, HSRP and fuel stickers are affixed on vehicles in Delhi at the time of registration. The number of vehicles without HSRP is at least 30 lakh, including 12 lakh cars, and only about 3.5 lakh cars have fuel stickers. A light-blue sticker is used for petrol and CNG vehicles, and orange for diesel vehicles. Slots for fitment of HSRP and fuel stickers can be booked through www.siam.in, which redirects the vehicle owner to the respective HSRP manufacturer’s website. The spokesperson of Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited, one of the HSRP manufacturers, said overall one lakh online bookings had been made for both till date and more than 70,000 had been affixed. This includes 23,400 bookings for doorstep delivery, out of which 21,169 have been affixed. The company can affix up to 20,000 HSRPs in a day, he said. In October, transport minister Gahlot had stopped online booking after complaints were received from vehicle owners about delays. The process resumed on November 1. Nearly 500 locations under 88 pincodes are now covered under the doorstep delivery service. On Monday, a meeting was held with all motor licensing officers (MLOs)through videoconferencing and they have been asked to sensitise vehicle dealers in their areas, Gahlot said. Under the system, dealers have to send a message to vehicle owners when plates reach the dealership, take a picture when it is affixed and upload the details on the VAHAN software. “We got to know that some were not complying and we have told all MLOs to sensitive them, or we will take action,” Gahlot said. Another meeting will be held on December 23, which will be attended by all MLOs and representatives of the vehicle dealers’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/didnt-get-high-tech-plates-yet-shell-out-rs-5500/articleshow/79747728.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 350 more health officials get Covid vaccine rollout training||HYDERABAD: The second day of a state-level training session for 350 district health officials to prepare for Covid vaccine roll-out was held on Tuesday. The session was for two days. Till now, two rounds of trainings have been completed. The district-level training will begin on Thursday, following which Primary Health Centre (PHC) level training will be held to cover 30,000 healthcare workers and officials in the state for the roll-out of the Covid vaccine. Officials who have completed two levels of training will now train remaining healthcare workers who will be involved at various levels. As part of the training, the staff will be taught to prepare and plan for storage, distribution of vaccine to all cold chain points and finally to all session sites. They will also check availability of cold chain equipment and their functional status. The training included aspects on establishing committees at district-level for Covid vaccination and conduct of orientation meetings with medical colleges, private practitioners and other professional bodies like Indian Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/350-more-health-officials-get-covid-vax-rollout-training/articleshow/79747390.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist may get 3 all-woman police stations||Coimbatore: If everything goes well, all-woman police stations are likely to come up at Mettupalayam, Anaimalai and Karumathampatti in the district. District superintendent of police Ara Arularasu would be sending a proposal to the state government in this regard soon. The Coimbatore rural police have three all-woman police stations at Pollachi, Perur and Thudiyalur. The Pollachi all-woman police station covers 15 police stations in Pollachi and Valparai sub-divisions. The Thudiyalur all-woman police station covers nine police stations in Periyanaickenpalayam, Mettupalayam and a portion of Karumathampatti sub-divisions. The Perur all-woman police station covers the entire Perur sub-division and a portion of Karumathampatti sub-division. “With raising awareness on crime against women and children, more people approach all-woman police stations to register complaints. People from Mettupalayam, Annur and Sirumugai must visit Thudiyalur all-woman police station. Likewise, people from Valparai and Anaimalai must visit Pollachi all-woman police station to lodge complaints. It is time consuming to travel to these stations. So, we are going to send a proposal to the state government to set up three more all-woman police stations in Coimbatore district,” Arularasu said. “If the state government sanctions three all-woman police stations, we will set them up in Mettupalayam, Anaimalai and Karumathampatti. It would help people to easily approach all-woman police stations and police can quickly act based on the complaints. If the government sanctions only two all-woman police stations, we would set them up in Anaimalai and Mettupalayam,” he added. “To tackle crime against children (mostly POCSO cases) and women, we have to increase the number of all-woman police stations. This would help a speedy trial,” Arularasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-may-get-3-all-woman-police-stations/articleshow/79747415.cms||A Subburaj
December 16, 2020||Goa||Meat traders approach Goa CM Pramod Sawant to resolve beef supply issue||PANAJI: Meat traders from Goa on Tuesday sought the intervention of chief minister Pramod Sawant to ensure supply of beef to Goa. In a representation submitted, the traders said that if Karnataka notifies the anti-cattle slaughter bill they passed earlier this month, Goa will be badly hit. Already the supply has been impacted due to developments in Karnataka and beef shops have been shut for two to three days, they said. Even cold meat shops ran out of stock on Tuesday. Executive secretary of the council for social justice and peace (a wing of Goa Church), Fr Savio Fernandes was also present with the traders when they met the chief minister on Tuesday evening, at Altinho. “Goa is one of the highest beef consuming states in India in addition to having a population of mixed cultures, many of which treat beef as an integral part of their staple diet,” the representation stated. The letter also stated that the act, if notified, will have a cascading effect on culinary businesses in the state. The representation pointed out that being a renowned tourist destination, Goa attracts tourists for its Indo-Portuguese culinary menu. “Goa also houses a number of production houses of cold meats, which need beef as their raw material for processing. Such cold meats, in addition to being locally consumed, are also exported not only to other parts of India, but globally,” the representation stated. Their livelihood will also be affected, the traders said The letter stated that the old and non-performing animals with dairy farmers in Karnataka could be sold to meat traders in Goa.  Fernandes told TOI that they will be submitting a memorandum to the CM on the issue this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/meat-traders-approach-cm-to-resolve-beef-supply-issue/articleshow/79748741.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||PM: Opposition misleading tillers, govt ready to clear doubts||DHORDO (KUTCH): As the farmers’ agitation against the new central farm laws entered Day-20 with no signs of the deadlock getting resolved, PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday accused the opposition of “misleading” them and said that the same political parties that have now united to “confuse” the peasants were in favour of ushering in these reforms when they were in power. “There is a big conspiracy by opposition parties to provoke and mislead farmers and try to scare them that the new farm laws will result in their land being usurped. I reiterate that our government is ready 24-hours to clear all their doubts and concerns,” Modi said at Dhordo in Gujarat’s Kutch district, after laying the foundation stone of three projects — the world’s largest hybrid renewable energy park, a desalination plant and a milk processing plant. The PM reiterated that the demand for farm reforms was being voiced for years and several peasant organisations had been demanding that they get an option to sell their grains anywhere as per their choice. “The same parties who are instigating the farmers were in favour of changing the archaic agriculture laws. But they only gave false hopes to farmers then and could not usher in the reforms. But today the opposition has united to mislead the farmers,” he said. “Does the dairy owner contracting milk purchase from you, ever take away your cattle? Does the person selling vegetables or fruits usurp land or property of the seller?” Lauding the dairy industry’s contribution to India’s total agricultural produce, the PM said this was possible because of the freedom given to the cattle breeders to do their business. “Dairy industry accounts for 25% of India’s total agriculture sector produce in value terms and it is about Rs 8 lakh crores. This much more than the contribution of cereals and pulses,” he said. “Today, the country is asking why the small and marginal farmers cannot be given similar freedom,” he said. Stating that the new farm laws have been brought in with “honest intention”, Modi exuded confidence that the farmers will defeat all those elements who are trying to mislead them and playing politics by using them as a tool. “From the very first day in the office, farmers’ interests have been the top priority of the government. We have been constantly striving to see how the cost of farming can be reduced, farmers get new alternatives, their incomes rise and all their difficulties are eased,” the PM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-opposition-misleading-tillers-govt-ready-to-clear-doubts/articleshow/79749837.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath recommends ED probe into Dubey’s Rs 147 crore assets||LUCKNOW: In a fresh development, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has recommended a probe by the Enforcement Directorate into all the properties worth Rs 147 crore amassed by gangster Vikas Dubey, who was killed in an encounter with the STF in July this year. The ED was already probing money laundering charges and registered a case against Dubey and his 10 associates, including his financier Jaykant Bajpai on September 14, for violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. While the probe into the gangster’s money trail is under way, the CM on Tuesday recommended a probe by ED to find out the source of income of Dubey and associates and how they raiseed assets worth Rs 147 crore. The decision of the CM was based on the report prepared by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), headed by additional chief secretary, Sanjay Bhoosreddy, which had specifically recommended that the ED should investigate Dubey’s properties. According to officials, the mandate of the ED was earlier to check money trail and funding, but now it will also probe all the sources of income of the don and his aides over the past 20 years. The SIT had also recommended action against 90 officials, including 41 policemen, and other government employees from rural development, food and revenue departments. On the intervening night of July 2 and 3, a police team that reached the Bikru village of Kanpur district to arrest Dubey, was attacked by him and his accomplices in which eight policemen, including a circle officer and a police station in-charge, were killed brutally and five policemen, a home guard and a local person were injured. Dubey was killed in an encounter by the STF on July 10 while he was being brought from Ujjain to Kanpur after his arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-recommends-ed-probe-into-dubeys-rs-147cr-assets/articleshow/79748739.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Sanskrit requires attention and novel revival measures||By Dushyanth SridharChennai: The recent announcement by Prasar Bharati on the 15 minutes news bulletin in Sanskrit has ruffled some feathers in Tamil Nadu. A section of the political circle believes that Tamil and Sanskrit can’t co-exist. Well, they are oblivious of the fact how ingrained and intertwined the two languages are. For instance, the much-loved chief ministers (like Kamaraj, Karunanidhi, Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa) had Sanskrit names; if at all they believe that one’s name is one’s identity. It is the same state which has been at the fore-front, fighting for the upliftment of the deprived and the marginalised. This is reflected in the 69% reservation quota. If the present leaders opposing the order are true to their conscience, and believe that the voice of minorities should be heard, let them lend their ears, now. Sanskrit, as a language is spoken by a miniscule part of the population, makes it a minority language that needs protection, preservation and revival. Screen time of 15 minutes a day translates to 0.01% of the overall viewing time. Doesn’t it merit this attention? It could be argued that this attempt is only language jingoism. But in my opinion, if it does inspire a small section of the younger population to appreciate Sanskrit, and seek its revival, what is wrong? Every small measure matters to revitalise every endangered language. India shouldn’t add any more languages to the extinct list.It takes over a millennium for a language to effectively evolve and reach a ‘usable’ stage. The Indic civilization has birthed and nurtured many languages. Many languages possess literature that remain the best among equals, and a few others have influenced languages of this sub-continent, and others as well. One such language which has dominated the literary and religious discourse in the sub-continent is Sanskrit. The earliest known scriptures being Valmiki’s Ramayana, Vyasa’s Mahabharata and the Puranas.The literature basket that comprises renowned works of Kalidasa, Bharavi, Harsha, Panini, Kalhana and Jayadeva are in this language. The revered philosophers in this civilization like Adi Shankara, Ramanuja, Desika, Madhva and Appayya have presented their treatises in Sanskrit. From Aryabhata and Bhaskara till Madhava of Sangamagrama, our mathematicians whose contributions we are extremely proud of, have presented their findings in Sanskrit. So, have our contribution to logic, science, metallurgy and astronomy, been in this language.While this knowledge remains in Sanskrit, the percentage of population that can speak this language is nominal. Isn’t this worrying? How will a mathematics student appreciate the contribution made by Madhava (1350-1425) to the Infinite series if Sanskrit isn’t one of his languages? The student may believe that Leibniz (1646-1716) had found it, after all. It could be argued that translations do serve the purpose. Yes, it does. Sir William Jones (1783-1794) translated Kalidasa’s epic drama – ‘Abhijnana Shakuntalam’ in English. This was done to create awareness in the European audience on Indian literature. But will it make sense for an Indian to read an English translation to understand a Sanskrit work? This is besides the fact that emotions are also lost in such translations. Not just Sanskrit, every other Indian language deserves its due position and respect. Waiting for a day when a child in the remotest of villages in Uttarakhand reciting chaste Tamil verses of ‘Periyazhwar’, who has sung on the Ganga waters, is not a distant dream. Similarly, a girl near Mysuru should strike a chord with the ‘Raghuvar Tumko’ composition of Tulsidas, in her Bharatanatyam performance. For this harmony to be seen and felt, there should be no acrimony to learning languages. Vedanta Desika (1268-1369) from Kancheepuram has composed in Tamil as much as he has in Sanskrit. His composition in Prakrit and his references in Pali, bear testimony to the fact that he didn’t view such languages as that of Nihilists. The taboo that Urdu is a ‘Muslims-only’ language, Hindi is a ‘Hindus-only’ language and Sanskrit is a ‘Brahmins-only’ language must go. At the end of the day, politics over languages should stop.(The writer is speaker and research-scholar on the Indic heritage and culture)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sanskrit-requires-attention-and-novel-revival-measures/articleshow/79749389.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Salem||‘BJP will form govt in TN like in Goa, K’taka’||Salem: Like in north-eastern states, Karnataka and Goa, BJP will form government in Tamil Nadu, national general secretary of the party and in-charge of the state C T Ravi said here on Tuesday. “We have been strengthening the party in all the 234 assembly segments,” Ravi said while addressing reporters after participating in the general body meeting with the office-bearers from the central districts. He said the central government’s new farm laws will pave a new way to farmers to get several benefits. “New shandies will be opened across the country,” he said. Opposition parties are misleading the farmers and supporting middlemen, he said adding that the new farm acts will assure minimum support price to farmers. Criticizing the DMK for its dynastic politics, the BJP leader said, “The DMK party chief has been working only for his family and not for the welfare of the people.” “People in Tamil Nadu are ready to welcome BJP in the 2021 assembly election,” he said. On Kanyakumari parliamentary byelection, Ravi said, “We will face the election by highlighting the central government’s developmental schemes and projects.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/bjp-will-form-govt-in-tn-like-in-goa-ktaka/articleshow/79747438.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Charges for Ahmedabad municipal corporation-quota beds in private hospitals reduced||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has reduced the bed charges for its 50% quota in private hospitals by 10%. The AMC has recently reduced the charges for treatment as private patients in all the designated Covid hospitals. At a meeting held on Tuesday, the civic body decided in principle to derecognize designated Covid hospitals for treatment of other patients. The decision to derecognise these hospitals was taken based on the representation made by the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). Rajiv Kumar Gupta, the additional chief secretary, forest and environment, who is in-charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, said that after reducing the charges for private Covid patients, it was decided to reduce the charges for patients in private hospitals on AMC quota. The charges which earlier ranged from Rs 720 to Rs 11,300 will now range from Rs 605 to Rs 10,100. Gupta said that the rate of infection has dropped and there has been a reduction in the number of patients admitted. “A detailed discussion was held with the AHNA and it was decided to reduce the charges,” he said. Since November, the AMC has been adding beds, but all these were requisitioned in private hospitals and reserved for private patients on paid basis. The officials said that in all, the AMC has designated 5,379 beds in private hospitals of which 3,950 are private quota and only 1,450 are AMC quota beds. The reduction will be applicable for the 1,450 ACM-quota beds in these 30 private hospitals. Soon after the meeting, municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar issued a notification fixing the rates. The notification stated that the rates per day for government bed (referred by AMC) do not include cost of medicine tocilizumab and dialysis. The notification stated that per dialysis, the AMC would pay Rs 1,650. During the meeting, AHNA made representation that some of the hospitals should be relieved as designated Covid hospitals so that they can treat other patients. A final decision on this is likely to be taken in the next meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/charges-for-amc-quota-beds-in-pvt-hospitals-reduced/articleshow/79747548.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Triclosan in soap, toothpaste harmful to health: IIT-Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Toothpastes, soaps and even deodorants having triclosan, an anti-bacterial and anti-microbial agent, can impact the nervous system in humans, researchers at Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), have found. They say that the chemical, even when used well within the permissible limits, can pose a huge threat to quality of life. Triclosan is used in several consumer products to increase their shelf life by stopping the growth of unwanted micro-organisms, which might degrade the product. The researchers found that while the permissible limit of triclosan is 0.3 per cent in India, it’s usage, even 500 times lower than the permissible limit, can cause potent neurotoxic effects. The research findings were recently published in the peer reviewed journal ‘Chemosphere’ of the United Kingdom. “A person’s motor functions such as walking and behaviour can be directly affected by the usage of triclosan. The chemical affects the structure of neurons and the architecture of the brain that control all motor skills. Even though 0.3 per cent of triclosan is used in many products, it still poses a risk to human health,” IIT-H associate professor, department of biotechnology, Anamika Bhargava said. Triclosan exists even in kitchenware and clothes although its initial use in the 1960s was restricted to medical care products. Generally, in very low amounts, triclosan might be well tolerated by humans, but the use of triclosan-based products on a daily basis poses a big risk to humans in the long term. In 2017, the Food and Drug Administration in the US reviewed the evidence against triclosan and imposed a partial ban on its use. However, India lacks any such regulation so far on the use of triclosan-based products. “At this concentration, it can be toxic and cause neuro-behavioural alterations in humans. Through our study, we caution usage of triclosan and suggest restricted usage or ban in India to prevent a long term damage,” Anamika added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/triclosan-in-soap-toothpaste-harmful-to-health-iit-h/articleshow/79747418.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Youth dies in Bagru mishap||Jaipur: A 23-year-old youth was killed when the vehicle he was in, overturned in Bagru on Tuesday night while his co-passenger was unhurt. The deceased was identified as Ram Kishore. The accident occurred around 8pm on Tuesday. Cops are unsure on the cause of accident apart from speeding and said post-mortem will reveal if he was intoxicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-dies-in-bagru-mishap/articleshow/79747444.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Chief Justice who held public interest in high esteem||HYDERABAD: Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, who is set to take over as Chief Justice of Uttarakhand high court soon, in his one-and-a-half year tenure as CJ of Telangana high court ushered in reforms in justice system and gave great importance to public interest. In his brief stint here, CJ Chauhan won many hearts with his efforts to streamline Covid-19 management and public health affairs and key issues like lakes management. There were several instances where he sensitised bureaucrats and the state administration about the gravity of the pandemic and migrant workers. His effort in ensuring a safe passage for a large number of migrant workers during the lockdown with the help of the state government and SCR was appreciated. Justice Chauhan’s parent high court is Rajasthan high court where he started his journey as a judge in June 2005. He was transferred to Karnataka high court in March 2015. He came to Telangana high court as a senior judge and later became its acting CJ in April 2019. He was made a full-fledged CJ on June 23, 2019.  Despite being a CJ, he himself presided over criminal benches and resolved several habeas corpus pleas, prevention detention cases, along with attending to long-pending criminal appeals and petitions. He also won the hearts of lawyers by treating them with respect. “He has always addressed us as ‘sir’ regardless of our standing at the bar,” an advocate said. Justice Chauhan had the distinction of presiding over distribution of Rs 25 crore financial assistance to poor advocates during lockdown. Insiders say he sailed along with the bar in securing this relief from the state government. Lawyers recall how he did not spare even senior officers when they displayed a lack of initiative in attending to duties or in according due respect to orders of the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chief-justice-who-held-public-interest-in-high-esteem/articleshow/79747459.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Trichy||Spurned lover slits throat of girl, arrested||Trichy: A spurned lover slit the throat of a college girl in Thanjavur on Tuesday for refusing to reciprocate his love. However, the condition of the girl, who was admitted to the Thanjavur government medical college hospital, was stable, police sources said adding that the accused was arrested. The victim was identified as G Asha, 20, a resident of Arasamara Street in Nadukavery near Thiruvaiyaru, a final year student of arts and science college in Thanjavur. The accused R Ajith, 24, hailing from the same area, was an electrician. Though the two were friends, they fell out recently, police sources said. The incident took place when the girl was travelling on a town bus on her way to college from the old bus stand in Thanjavur. The accused had stalked her from Nadukavery pestering her to marry him. As she rejected his appeals, he took out a knife, inflicted injuries on her throat and attempted to escape by jumping from the bus at Ramanathan hospital roundabout. However, passersby caught him following the alarm raised by co-passengers. He was handed over to South police which arrested him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spurned-lover-slits-throat-of-girl-arrested/articleshow/79748742.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana set to get its first woman Chief Justice||HYDERABAD: Justice Hima Kohli, the senior judge from Delhi high court, who is coming to Telangana high court as its first woman Chief Justice has the distinction of both driving and helping the Delhi government in dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. She was heading a bench that was monitoring Delhi’s preparedness in fighting Covid-19. Justice Kohli passed directions, ranging from increasing labs that could conduct Covid tests and speedy accreditation by ICMR for labs to reducing the turn-around time that is time taken to inform patients of their test results. Thanks to monitoring by her bench, wait period was reduced to a day from when the sample was taken from the earlier three days. Born September 2, 1959, in Delhi, Justice Kohli did her schooling from St. Thomas School and graduated in History (Hons) from St. Stephens' College. On completing her law course in 1984, she enrolled as an advocate with Bar Council of Delhi the same year. She was appointed Additional Judge of Delhi HC on May 29, 2006, and took oath as a permanent judge on August 29, 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-set-to-get-its-first-woman-cj/articleshow/79747490.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 16, 2020||Mysuru||Sitas with a voice||Bizarre as it might sound, a lawyer from Bihar had filed a petition in the court in 2016, demanding action against Lord Rama for mercilessly abandoning his pregnant wife Sita based on false accusations against her, and seeking justice for Sita, who suffered untold miseries for no fault of hers. While no court of law can provide justice to Sita, a fine literary work can, and after reading SL Bhyrappa’s novel Uttara Kaanda, one is certain to exclaim, “Yes, finally justice has been done to Sita!” Bhyrappa gives the leading lady of the Ramayana such a powerful voice that the piteous image of Sita of the Treta Yuga, who prays Mother Earth to swallow her in, fades from the minds of readers; in her place emerges the picture of a resolute Sita, who places her dignity and self-respect above everything else, and, before walking out of the dharma sabha, makes so bold a statement that leaves everyone stunned. “My sons are not your Maharaja Rama’s sons,” pronounces Sita, as a wave of shock sweeps through the assembly. “When your Maharaja disowned me, these children were in my womb, which means that along with me, he abandoned the children too. So, he lost his right to fatherhood. He is no longer my husband, hence he is not the father of my sons,” Sita tells the citizens of Ayodhya, as Rama looks at her helplessly. After having penned 24 novels, Bhyrappa, the 90-year-old Kannada litterateur, recently hinted that Uttara Kaanda, his latest work, would probably be his last. A glance back at his incredible literary journey – from Gathajanma (1955), a short story he wrote when he was in high school, to Uttara Kaanda (2017), which is a retelling of Valmiki’s Ramayana – illustrates that most of his literary works, which range widely in genre, theme and structure, share one most important feature in common: A strong, unapologetic woman shines brilliantly at the centre of the action. “Though Bhyrappa wrote Gathajanma in his adolescence, a rare kind of maturity is seen in his depiction of Gauri as a decision maker in the conservative, patriarchal society of the 1950s. This set the tone for his female leads growing into confident, resilient, and wonderfully complex characters,” says writer and critic LV Shantakumari. Compared to other ancient classics like Vyasa’s Mahabharata and Homer’s Iliad, the central characters in Valmiki’s Ramayana lack the qualities of inner conflict and human frailty. This lack of psychological complexity is even more glaring in the later versions of the Ramayana by the poets of the Bhakti Pantha who subdued Sita’s voice further, and glorified the ideals of Rama, positioning him as irreproachable. Bhyrappa has not only amplified Sita’s voice but also artistically bridged the gaps in the epic with his unparalleled ability to read through the minds of the characters. It is no overstatement to say that by reconstructing the Mahabharata through his novel Parva (1979), and Ramayana through Uttara Kaanda, Bhyrappa has created parallel epics for the modern era. The leading ladies in these novels appear contemporary and timeless at once as Bhyrappa divests the Sanskrit epics of their mystical and divine aura and gets realistic. Sita’s equanimity is in stark contrast with Urmila’s playfulness, but both equally win our hearts. A jovial and witty Urmila also has the guts to criticise Rama and Lakshmana openly: “Men who don’t grow up with sisters and female relatives tend to be like this. Such boors don’t understand the sensibilities of women.” In Parva, Kunti is formidably ambitious as she fights all odds to ensure her sons’ future in an unjust world and a defiant Draupadi deals with every blow of destiny with amazing resilience. On their chosen paths What’s more motivating than a woman who is determined, makes independent choices, and accepts complete responsibility for her thoughts, feelings and actions? When Lakshmi, the free-spirited film-maker in Avarana, discovers that the Muslim man she loved and married is not the progressive individual he claimed to be, she breaks free from the shackles and throws herself into the intellectual pursuit of religion, caste and creed. In the novel Daatu, Satyabhama, the daughter of a Brahmin priest, is stopped from marrying a man of another caste. She follows her impulses and sets off on a voyage of self-discovery. When an affair with her music guru ruins Madhumita’s (Mandra) personal life, she remains undeterred and relies on her musical prowess, achieving excellence and bliss in it. One cannot find peace by avoiding life. Nanjamma (Gruhabhanga), a role inspired by Bhyrappa’s own mother, is a karma yogi, who fulfills her maternal duties, putting up a relentless struggle against abuse, poverty, famine, plague and superstitions. Thayavva, Karunaratne, Katyayini, Nagalakshmi, Amrita, Vyjayanti, Kaanthi, Chandrika and Ubhaya Bharati are some other unforgettable protagonists who have the courage of their convictions. With all their virtues and grey shades, women in Bhyrappa’s prose are born fighters. They are assertive in their pronouncements and act in ways that leave everyone flabbergasted. Lakku (Sakshi) shocks even the cops as she bobbitizes evil-doer Manjayya to save the women of the village from his atrocities and walks straight into the police station with the bleeding organ in her hand. “Sacrifice, dedication, revolt – these are the essential traits seen in varying degrees in Bhyrappa’s female protagonists. They culminate in Sita in perfectly balanced measures,” observes novelist Sahana Vijayakumar. When Sita, a simple and enlightened soul, realises with agony that power associated with kingship has indeed changed her once-loving husband Rama, she refuses to go back to Ayodhya, preferring instead to live in her modest hut and work in her farmland. But can she really stop loving Rama? In the trade-off between love and self-respect, what finally wins? As readers of Uttara Kaanda ponder over these compelling questions, and as the kind sage Valmiki – grief-stricken with the tragic separation of the pair of krauncha birds – fails to avoid tragedy even in the epic poem that he writes, there arises from Bhyrappa’s mighty pen a truly empowered Sita, who is set to inspire women for generations to come. I believe in pure literature: Bhyrappa When looked through the feminist prism, there have been criticisms against Bhyrappa that in novels like Kavalu and Yaana, he has projected educated, modern women who challenge the puritanical value system as opportunists and low in character. Bhyrappa dismisses these allegations and maintains that he portrays his characters realistically, without any burden of ‘isms.’ “Some people staged protests and termed me anti-women after Kavalu was released but I did not see protests accusing me of being anti-men when I published Gruhabhanga, Sakshi and Parva. And, why is it that none of these so-called progressive writers tried to touch upon the subject of Sita the way I did?” asks Bhyrappa, who stands out to be one of the most distinguished and widely-debated novelists of modern India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sitas-with-a-voice/articleshow/79740121.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Industries protest raw material price hike||Coimbatore: Members of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Association protested in front of the south taluk office here on Tuesday, urging the Union government to take necessary steps to control the price hike of raw materials. Speaking to reporters, J James, coordinator of the association, said industrialists had been, of late, facing problems one after another. “After the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, it is only now we are trying to beef up our production. Increase in the price of raw materials by 30% to 140% has come as a big blow to us. The Centre hasn’t taken any steps to control the price hike so far.” If the government continued to remain silent, he said industries wouldn’t be in a position to continue their production. “To control the “abnormal” price rise of raw materials, a price monitoring committee should be formed with representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises as its members. The committee should fix a cap on the price of raw materials. The government should also bring the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on raw materials to 5% from 18%-28%. It should also announce a separate loan scheme for those who are doing job works,” he said. Meanwhile, members of the Coimbatore, Tirupur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association would down their shutters on Wednesday in support of the foundries that are stopping production indefinitely to protest the price hike of raw materials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industries-protest-raw-material-price-hike/articleshow/79747464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Just a call away: Kamal on working with Rajini||Madurai: Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiyam president Kamal Haasan on Tuesday reiterated that he and Rajinikanth will work together for the good of the people if the policies of the two parties match. “My friendship with Rajinikanth is deep. We are just a phone call away, from connecting with each other. I do not know what the policies of his (Rajinikanth) party are. If the policies match and for the good of the people, we will let go our egos and work together,” Kamal said responding to reporters’ questions in Tuticorin on Rajinikanth’s political plunge. Kamal said, “Both of us have the same reason for coming into politics. There is a need for a change. Our party has already made its policies clear and people know it. Let him also announce the policies of his party. We cannot go by just one word.” In February this year, Kamal Haasan had first hinted at joining hands with Rajinikanth if the “need arises”. On the same day, Rajinikanth, on his return from Goa after receiving an award, towed Kamal’s line. “While these things are better addressed closer to the elections, if the circumstances demand, we too will be willing to work together with Kamal (on the political front),” Rajinikanth told reporters at the Chennai airport. Earlier on Tuesday, addressing meetings in Virudhunagar and Tuticorin districts on the third day of his campaign, Kamal Haasan played the “MGR card’’ once again, as he did on the first day of his campaign The former chief minister MGR was referred to as Makkal Thilagam and not as one representing the AIADMK and earlier the DMK. “He belongs to all the 7.5 crore people of Tamil Nadu,” Kamal said. Kamal said some people were raising a hue and cry over his mention of MGR, claiming he belonged to them. ``Many ministers of today would not have seen the bright face of MGR, but I have sat on the lap of MGR, and he used to greet me whenever I achieved something big or small. He belongs to all the people of Tamil Nadu,’’ he said adding that the people of the state would give a fitting reply to those who lay individual claim to MGR. The MNM leader who met members of the business community and the public during the tour said they had not yet finalised anything on candidates, but being rich or highly educated alone was not enough for one to become their candidate. He should be willing to serve the people and there was no dearth of such people in MNM. His party would not bribe voters, but suggested people ask (those who did) ``for Rs 5 lakh instead of Rs 5,000 per vote and see if they give it,’’. Kamal said women were telling him that his victory was ensured and his party would give them due representation in the government when it comes to power. Stating that the AIADMK symbol ``Irraitai Illai’’ had lost its significance, he said its power was decided by MGR. ``Now, some people are sharing the two leaves and eating out of it,’’ he said. Pointing out to his party functionaries on the stage, he said they may not look like politicians, but are an example of what politicians would be in future. What MNM would strive to do is make Tamil Nadu a global leader, not a leader among states that are corrupt. The people of Tamil Nadu will give anybody who tries to divide the state using caste and creed a fitting reply, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/just-a-call-away-kamal-on-working-with-rajini/articleshow/79747482.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Record 3,978 mask offences in Ahmedabad on Tuesday||AHMEDABAD: As spurt in Covid-19 cases is being witnessed in the city, cops have intensified their drive to catch people without masks in Ahmedabad. With this, the city reported 3,978 cases on Tuesday, which is the highest number till date. Apart from this, the city reported continuous surge in mask offences in December and on an average one person is caught without mask on roads every 30 seconds in Ahmedabad. An official statement of the city police said that for 3,978 cases of mask offences, Rs 39.78 lakh was collected in fines. “In December, police recorded at least 3,000 cases on most of the days which suggested that people are still not wearing masks and cops have intensified their drive to nab such offenders,” said a police officer. He said that 40,578 cases of mask offence were registered between December 1 and December 15 and a fine of Rs 4.05 crore was recovered from those offences. Police have also held drives to nab people not wearing masks during weekends. ‘We have identified certain areas and hotspots where people usually gather in large number without wearing masks. Special drives are held in such areas to register mask cases,” said a police officer. Sources in police said that police stations have been given target of registering at least 80 cases of mask offences every day which also reflected in the number of offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/record-3978-mask-offences-in-the-city-on-tuesday/articleshow/79747535.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Complex surgery reduces pain of four-year-old rape survivor||RAJKOT: Doctors at the government-run children hospital successfully performed a complex surgery on a four-year-old rape survivor, who suffered severe damage to the perineum, the tissue between vagina and anus, in the sexual assault six months ago. The girl from Savarkundla town of Amreli district was discharged from Janana Hospital on Monday after 10 days of treatment and the complex surgery. Due to the damage, she was unable to control passing of stool and the surgery became complex due to her tender age and fragile organs. Doctors said the girl is still under immense trauma and initially resisted their attempts for medical examination. Police could arrest 35-year-old rickshaw driver Raju Mangrolia after the girl’s younger brother, who saw him kidnapping her from their slum dwelling, gave his exact description to the cops. Members of ‘Sakhi One Stop,’ a health check-up group of the women and child development department, had visited the girl’s family last month and they saw her plight. Janaksinh Gohil, officer of the department said, “We took the girl to Amreli Civil Hospital from where she was referred to Rajkot.” Dr. Nirav Garala, assistant professor of gynaecology department told TOI: “We had to clear her entire intestines, so that the organ doesn’t get infected again. She was put on liquid diet. Planned surgeries are not performed at present due to Covid-19 pandemic, but looking at the girl’s condition, it was imperative.” Nirlipt Rai, Amreli superintendent of police (SP), said. “A special public prosecutor has been appointed in this case and the trial is about to completed in this case.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/complex-surgery-reduces-pain-of-four-year-old-rape-survivor/articleshow/79745449.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Mom takes away mobile, boy hangs self||AJMER: An 18-year-old boy committed suicide after his mother took away his mobile phone and scolded him for not studying for exams, on Tuesday. The deceased boy was in Class XII and his board exams were just three months away. His mother was upset about him spending a lot of time on his phone and not studying. Police sent the body for postmortem and registered a case. According to police, 18-year-old Devashish, a resident of Nagara region of Alwar Gate police station was on Tuesday afternoon found hanging in his room when his elder brother Hitesh went inside the room. Police were informed and they took the body down and found no suicide note in the room. The family members of the deceased stated that on Monday night, Devashish was depressed because his mother took away his mobile. On Tuesday morning, he again asked for his mobile but his mother refused and asked him to study. Later, when his brother went to Devashish’s room, he found him hanging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mom-takes-away-mobile-boy-hangs-self/articleshow/79747463.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress leaders make beeline for New Delhi||HYDERABAD: Lobbying for the post of the state president of the Congress has shifted to New Delhi with all the serious contenders having already reached the capital, or have made plans to fly there on Wednesday to lobby for the coveted post. The party functionaries are are seeking appointments with Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to make a strong case for themselves for the TPCC chief’s post. They are also meeting other top leaders of AICC with a request to favour their candidature with the party leadership. Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy is likely to take up his case for TPCC chief’s post with Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday after the meeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, which is scheduled to meet at 3 pm on Wednesday. Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy is also flying to Delhi on Wednesday to meet AICC general secretary KC Venugopal to pitch for his candidature. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and MLA D Sridhar Babu are already camping in New Delhi lobbying for the coveted post. Sanga Reddy MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy is also leaving for New Delhi on Wednesday. Former Minister and NDMA ex-vice-chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy too will be flying to Delhi in a couple of days. Former MP and AICC secretary Madhu Yashki Goud has just returned from Delhi after meeting AICC general secretary KC Venugopal. Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah too is leaving for Delhi on Wednesday. Interestingly, there are two groups, with one seeking to give a message to the Gandhis that newcomers should not be given the state leadership, which is an indirect way of scuttling Revanth Reddy’s chances. The other group—comprising former minister Mohd Ali Shabbir and TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi, who support Revanth Reddy’s candidature—too are expected to go to Delhi soon and meet Ghulam Nabi Azad. AICC in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore told TOI that he has sent the report of 162 party leaders, whom he has met and taken the opinion of, on who should be the next TPCC president. “It is up to Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to take a final call,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-cong-leaders-make-beeline-for-new-delhi/articleshow/79747470.cms||Roushan Ali
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Balka Suman lashes out at Sanjay Bandi for his remarks||HYDERABAD: Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MLAs Balka Suman, Kranthi Kiran, Rohit Reddy and MLC Srinivas Reddy on Tuesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other union ministers was to seek pending central funds and arrears to Telangana. They sought to advise BJP state president Bandi Sanjay to stop making wild allegations against KCR. “Bandi Sanjay should know why CM KCR met PM Modi. The BJP state president should improve his knowledge as chief ministers meeting the PM is a common development,” said Balka Suman, who is also the government whip. Suman lashed out at the BJP state president on his remarks against CM KCR and said the BJP leader lacks knowledge on politics, “Bandi has no respect for the Constitution. How can a president of the national party BJP make irresponsible statements such as KCR will go to jail and that the government will collapse,” Balka Suman said. The TRS leaders charged Bandi Sanjay of trying to mislead the people on welfare and other development programmes being implemented by the TRS government in Telangana. “CM KCR is known for his pro-poor and pro-farmer policies and numerous welfare schemes,” Balka Suman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suman-lashes-out-at-bandi-for-his-remarks/articleshow/79747498.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Goa cops nab Nigerian national with Rs 12 lakh drugs||PANAJI: The anti narcotics cell (ANC) of Goa police on Tuesday arrested a Nigerian national for possession of narcotic substances worth Rs 12 lakh. ANC had received reliable information that one Nigerian national was involved in the narcotic trade in Pernem. An ANC team was then constituted to confirm the tip off. Once police confirmed that the Nigerian national was supposed to come to Arambol to strike a deal, they accordingly laid a trap. When the accused arrived at the designated spot for the narcotic transaction he was caught. He was found in possession of 11.8gm LSD liquid and ganja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nigerian-caught-with-rs-12-lakh-drugs/articleshow/79748752.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sharp fall in new, active Covid cases in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: With the decrease in number of new Covid cases, the number of active cases in the city has also declined. In the last fortnight, the city has seen a decline of 196 active cases, with the maximum drop in the Central Zone in the Walled City area. Only North Zone saw an increase in active cases. In the entire city, South West Zone and South Zone were the only two zones that saw an increase of active cases in last 24 hours. On Monday, the South West Zone had 405 active cases which increased to 418 on Tuesday. The officials said the decline in the active cases was only because a large number of people, who were under treatment or under home quarantine, have completed treatment or finished their 14 days of home quarantine in the western part of the city which had seen a spike in Covid-19 cases since Diwali. The officials said that in the last 24 hours ending 11am on Tuesday, 237 new cases were added and 229 patients were discharged. The data analyzed for Arogya Setu revealed that a majority of infected people are in Thaltej, Gota, Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Navrangpura, South Bopal, Prahladnagar, Naranpura and Anandnagar. The cases are sharply on the decline in the Central Zone. In the last week of November, the Walled City had 325 cases which have gone down to 221. Within a week, this area in the Walled City, which was the first to be quarantined, will be the first zone to have less than 200 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sharp-fall-in-new-active-cases/articleshow/79747528.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur man kills pal for seeking sexual favours from wife||UDAIPUR: A 28-year-old man was killed by his friend because he wanted to spend time with the latter’s wife to please him if he could not repay the loan. The murder took place on Monday and it came to light when someone informed the cops of an unidentified body lying in a vacant plot near Hotel Padmini under Kotwali police station area of Chittorgarh district. “A team was constituted by ASP Sarita Singh and the Kotwali team solved the murder mystery in 24 hours,” Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava told TOI. According to police, the body was of Bablu alias Gopal, son of Nand Singh Rajput, resident of Sarangi in Alirajpur of Madhya Pradesh. During investigation it was found that Bablu was last seen with his distant relative and friend Deepak alias Kalu, son of Rajendra Singh, resident of Panchwati in Senthi. Kalu was into aluminium fabrication works and he had taken a loan of Rs 7,500 from Bablu. Police suspected Kalu since he was missing after the incident and had left the city with his wife. Police teams nabbed Kalu and interrogated him thoroughly. The accused confessed to his crime and narrated the incident to police. Kalu told the cops that on December 12, he and Bablu boozed together the entire day near Hotel Padmini dueing which Bablu demanded the money Kalu had borrowed from him. When Kalu said he was unable to repay the sum, Bablu offered an indecent proposal. He told Kalu that he need not repay the sum if he permitted him to spend time with his wife. The proposal enraged Kalu to an extent that he put some stones in his towel and hit on Bablu’s head from behind when he had gone to pass urine. When Bablu fell on the ground, he strangled him to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/man-kills-pal-for-seeking-sexual-favours-from-wife/articleshow/79747501.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Baby delivered during open heart surgery||HYDERABAD: In a rare case, a baby was delivered when the mother suffered heart failure during labour and had to undergo an open-heart surgery. The 22-year-old patient, Akhila, had presented with 35 weeks of pregnancy and having shortness of breath, dry cough, cold and mild fever for 10 days. While she had tested negative for Covid-19, she suffered heart failure, severe mitral regurgitation, had severe anaemia and low blood pressure BP (70/50mmHg). Such patients pose a high risk of mortality during labour and in the postnatal period. So a team of doctors, which included a gynaecologist and cardio surgeon, decided upon caesarean section followed by emergent mitral valve replacement. The patient was operated by Dr Prabha Agarwal, Consultant-Gynecology and Dr Krishna Prasad Consultant- CT Surgery simultaneously and she delivered a male baby weighing 2.75 kg with minimal distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/baby-delivered-during-open-heart-surgery/articleshow/79747539.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||EOW arrests Grand Venice Mall’s owner for role in ‘Bike Bot’ scam||LUCKNOW: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of UP police arrested Greater Noida's Grand Venice Mall owner Satiner Singh Bhasin late Monday night for his role as a co-conspirator in Rs 4,000-crore Bike Bot scam. Pursuing a non-bailable warrant against him, the EOW sleuths arrested Bhasin near GB Nagar district magistrate office. Bhasin was involved in illegal transaction of money with main accused Sanjay Bhati and has confessed to his involvement in the scam. The Bike Bot scam surfaced in November 2019 when a Jaipur resident lodged an FIR. It then came to light that Bhati, through his Garvit Innovators Promoters Limited (GIPL), had duped 2.6 lakh people. Bhati lured customers into investing in motorcycle taxis and assured them monthly returns, besides doubling their investment within a year. The victims spread across seven states — UP, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Karnataka, Maharashtra and West Bengal. After initial UP Police inquiry, the probe was handed over to EOW in March. The Enforcement Directorate had also registered a case and attached moveable and immoveable assets worth over Rs 103 crore of the company on July 20. A senior EOW officer told TOI that Bhasin was a friend of mastermind Bhati and co-accused Brijendra Singh Hooda. In a planned conspiracy, Bhasin received Rs 98 crore from them in his company's accounts and the amount was shown as investment. “Rs 98 crore of Bike Bot investors was routed through improper channels into Bhasin Infrastructures and Vinamra Infrastructures, both owned by Bhasin,” said the officer. In a bid to show the investment genuine, a fake allotment letter was also issued to Bhati's GIPL company stating that all commercial properties of Grand Venice Mall were being sold to GIPL. However, during probe, no sale deed between the two could be found. It also surfaced during the probe, that the accused handed over fake cheques of maturity amount to investors. The cheques had forged signatures of Karan Pal Singh, the issuing authority of the Nobel Cooperative bank, where GIPL had its account. Later, Karan Pal was also arrested by the EOW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eow-arrests-grand-venice-malls-owner-for-role-in-bike-bot-scam/articleshow/79748746.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||3 dead in two fire incidents||Fire killed three persons in two separate incidents on Tuesday. In Bikaner, a labourer died after a high-tension wire fell on the truck he was unloading and caught fire. In the second incident, an elderly couple was burnt alive after their house caught fire in Sriganganagar. The deceased in Bikaner’s Gajner was identified as 25-year-old Shankar Lal. The elderly couple who died in Sriganganagar were identified as — Anil Kumar (70) and his wife Anita Devi (66).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-dead-in-two-fire-incidents/articleshow/79747522.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||No Bisalpur piped water to Ajmer for next 50 hours from tonight||AJMER: There will be no water supply to the district from Bisalpur dam for 50 hours from December 17 as the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) would be undertaking repair of the pump house and pipelines. The department has appealed to the residents to store enough water on December 16 to avoid scarcity. Ajmer, Beawar, Kishangarh, Sarwar, Pushkar and surrounding villages including Pisanghan and Jawaja blocks get water from Bisalpur dam, but the department was facing breakdown of lines which affected supply to these areas. “We decided to shut down the supply on December 17 and 18 to repair the pump and lines,” said superintendent engineer of PHED C L Jatav. The department also asked people to store water for three days on December 16 so that they will not face any scarcity. Officials said the shout down will be enforced on the midnight of December 16. The next supply will probably resume on December 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-bisalpur-piped-water-to-ajmer-for-next-50-hours-from-tonight/articleshow/79747487.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold chains snatched from women||Coimbatore: Unidentified men snatched five sovereigns of gold chain each from two women in two separate incidents in the city on Monday. According to the Karamadai police, K Rukmani, 80, is residing with her family members in a house on Anna Street at Karamadai. Around 1.30pm on Monday, Rukmani was alone at her residence when an unidentified man in mid-30s approached her on the pretext of searching for a house on rent. Suddenly, he snatched five sovereigns of gold chain from her neck and escaped. Based on Rukmani’s complaint, the Karamadai police registered a case against an unidentified chain snatcher under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. Police said the chain snatcher’s image was captured by a CCTV camera in the locality. Police have collected the CCTV footage to identify the chain snatcher. The Podanur (crime) police said S Radhika, 42, from Muthu Nagar near Eachanari, was walking towards a bus stop from her residence when two unidentified men followed her in a motorcycle and snatched five sovereigns of gold chain from her and fled the spot. Based on Radhika’s complaint, police registered a case against the unidentified men. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-chains-snatched-from-women/articleshow/79747544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Tea-rrific: More prefer a cuppa than coffee in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The people of Telangana love their tea over coffee. If there was any doubt about this, one need only visit a local Irani cafe to find hoards of people sipping a hot cup of chai. While anecdotes of people’s love for tea are common, no one has ever quantified this till now. A study at Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agriculture University reveals that while 89 per cent of households in the state consume tea, only eight per cent consume coffee. The per capita monthly consumption of the tea powder in the city is 302 gm, little less than state’s average of 306gm. In rural areas of the state, per capita monthly consumption of tea powder stands at 303gm. In urban areas, it is 308gm. Interestingly, two small districts Komarambheem Asifabad and Wanaparthy have the highest per capita monthly consumption of tea powder, with 437gm and 438gm respectively. In Medchal Malkajgiri, Ranga Reddy and Sanga Reddy the per capita monthly consumption is 316gm, 352gm and 254gm of tea powder respectively. “I am regular to my local Irani café. Even if we make tea at home, I go there. It gives me a sense of being Hyderabadi,” said SK Reddy, a resident of Mehdipatnam. Incidentally, during the pandemic, cafes have been facing the losing out on business like restaurants. “ Due to hike in prices of ingredients and salaries, we are now selling single chai at a price of Rs 15 which was earlier about Rs 8 to Rs 10,” said Ahmeda Pasha, an Irani café owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tea-rrific-more-prefer-a-cuppa-than-coffee-in-t/articleshow/79747504.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Man rapes sister-in-law after family dispute in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A man raped his sister-in-law in Jaipur’s Renwal following a family dispute. “The complainant alleged that her husband’s younger brother sexually assaulted her on December 5 after an argument in the family. The accused apparently forcibly entered her house following which he executed the crime,” said an official of Renwal police station. The woman lodged the case on Monday and according to officials she had not registered the complaint earlier as there was pressure from her family. The woman’s medical examination was done though the accused is yet to be arrested. “Although the medical examination was done, we do not hope to find much evidence as the matter is 10 days old. We will question her family members as well to check the veracity of the allegations”, added the official. The case under relevant IPC sections was registered. Recently police arrested had three persons who gangraped a 17-year-old girl in Sriganganagar. The incident happened when the girl was out with her friend and the accused waylaid them following which they took turns to rape her in a field. All the accused are in their 20s. Following the assault, they forced the girl’s friend to transfer Rs 5,000 through e-wallet into their account and threatened dire consequences if they reported the matter to anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-rapes-sister-in-law-after-family-dispute-in-city/articleshow/79747546.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Child marriages: 39 FIRs filed in Haryana, 16 in Punjab this year||CHANDIGARH: The practice of child marriage is still continuing in Haryana and Punjab despite the enactment of a law by Parliament, Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, which made marriage of boys younger than 21 years and girls younger than 18 years an offence. As many as 39 cases under the Act have been registered in Haryana and 16 such FIRs have been registered in Punjab this year. As per information provided by Kala Ramachandaran, Haryana ADGP, crime against women, a total of 104 complaints were received by Haryana police regarding child marriages so far in 2020 for registration of such cases. “The FIRs have been registered in 39 of these 104 complaints. In the rest of the complaints, cases were not registered since either the girls were found to be above 18 years of age, or the marriage had not been held or the complaint was found to be false,” informed the ADGP. Similarly, as per information provided by filed by Sarabjit Singh, AIG (litigation), bureau of investigation, Punjab police, a total of 17 complaints were received till now this year in Punjab about child marriage and of these, 16 FIRs have been registered. The replies from both the states about child marriages came in the wake of an order passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court on October 16 seeking details from the two states about cases registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Besides providing information about the FIRs, both the states also informed the HC that recently directions have been issued to their field units about the role of the police on receipt of a complaint under the Prohibition Of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The HC was also informed that the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 is part of syllabus for the induction course for DSPs and sub-inspectors. In its October 16 order, the HC had sought information after observing that in many cases coming up before the court, it has been noticed that in cases where a male adult more than 21 years old solemnize marriage with a minor girl less than 18 years of age falling within the definition of child under Section 2(a) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and is liable to punishment under Section 9 of the same Act, no FIR under Section 9 of the Act is registered against such male adult despite the offence being cognizable. “The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 is a secular Act which applies to all irrespective of religion and is intended to curb the menace/social evil of child marriage and the provisions thereof need to be strictly implemented so that the same does not remain dead letter and the object of enactment thereof is achieved,” the HC had observed. The matter will now come up for hearing on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/child-marriages-39-firs-filed-in-haryana-16-in-punjab-this-year/articleshow/79747549.cms||Ajay Sura
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP government helped 32 lakh get job opportunities since March||LUCKNOW: Since the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in March, the UP government has directly provided employment to and helped get employment for almost 32 lakh people. A government spokesperson said that 26,62,960 people were provided employment in 6,65,740 new MSME units through the Atmanirbhar package in the past eight months, a result of the action plan prepared on the directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to find employment for the lakhs of migrant workers who returned to the state after imposition of the lockdown. “The government’s ODOP scheme proved to be a game changer in providing employment. Of the 6.65 lakh employed, 2.57 lakh got jobs in already operating MSME units. In addition, the government gave loans of Rs 1,092 crore to 4.24 lakh functioning MSME units under the Atmanirbhar package. These units were reeling under the impact of the economic slowdown, and the loan helped save jobs,” said the spokesperson. Meanwhile, another 5.25 lakh people got employment through a new portal created by the government. The spokesperson said that the supply chain was affected due to the lockdown, affecting the functioning of units but the government held meetings with MSME industries and managed to arrange for raw material. Arrangements were also made to house migrant workers in these industries and as a result, around 4,000 small-scale units started functioning by the second phase of the lockdown. In the third phase, about 2.5 lakh micro and cottage industries that were lying closed were revived. “Along with this, skill mapping of about 40 lakh migrant workers who returned from other states was carried out. Of these, 1.14 lakh workers were provided jobs in the real estate sector. More than 1 lakh were provided employment in small districts,” the spokesman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-helped-32l-get-job-opportunities-since-march/articleshow/79748753.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 5 brothers, 2 cousins get life in jail for Jhalawar murder||KOTA: An additional district judge (ADJ) court in Bhawanimandi in Jhalawar district on Tuesday convicted seven persons, including five brothers, to life term in jail for murdering a 40 year-old-man in July 2014 over past enmity. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 10,000 on each of the convicts, five of whom were on Tuesday evening sent to jail as two others had already been in jail under judicial custody after their arrest following the murder. The deceased was identified as Gub Singh of Karnaliya village under Gangdhar police station of Jhalawar district. The convicts identified as Laxman Singh (56), Tej Singh (51), Pradhan Singh (31), Nepal Singh (43), Bhadur Singh, all sons of Sardar Singh of Karnaliya village, along with their cousins Dhara Singh (28) and Umrao Singh (49) attacked Gub Singh with sticks, iron rods and sharp weapons brutally murdering him on the spot in his field at Karnaliya village over past enmity in July 2014, the assistant public prosecutor said, adding that police lodged a case in this connection in Gangdhar police station against the accused for murder under Sections 302/150, 148/323 of IPC and initiated investigation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-brothers-2-cousins-get-life-in-jail-for-jhalawar-murder/articleshow/79747554.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt employees arrested for harassing parents||HYDERABAD: Two siblings, both government employees, who insulted their parents by allegedly garlanding their photograph with footwear, have been arrested by the Suryapet town police. The two were arrested on the complaint of their mother, who also alleged that her husband was abducted by their two sons to get property transferred on their names. Nune Saroja approached police on December 14 with a complaint against her two sons — Ravindar, 54, and Dayakar, 46. She told police that her sons, who were demanding that property be distributed to them, insulted her and their father Nune Sanjeeva Rao by placing footwear like a garland to their photograph. They also took photographs of this and insulting them. Saroja told police that Ravindar and his two sons — Prashanth, 26 and Bhaskar, 21 — abducted her husband and urged police to trace him. On Tuesday morning, sub-inspector Edukondalu and police personnel went to the house of Ravindar at Thirumalanagar and apprehended him and his two sons and also Dayakar from Miryalaguda and took them to the police station. Suryapet town inspector A Anjaneyulu said the sons confessed that they had forcibly made their father register properties on their names. All the four, who were arrested, were produced before the court and sent for judicial remand. “Children harassing their parents for distribution of property will be punished according to law. Strict action will be taken when complaints are brought to us,” inspector Anjaneyulu said. The two sons harassing their parents for property, he said, was heinous, as both of them also had jobs and were in fact government employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-employees-arrested-for-harassing-parents/articleshow/79747567.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 16, 2020||India||Badal: BJP real ‘tukde-tukde’ gang, plotting Hindu-Sikh rift||BATHINDA: Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal continued his attack on his party’s former ally, saying on Tuesday that BJP was the “real tukde-tukde gang” and “most divisive force”. He claimed BJP had tried to create differences between Hindus and Muslims and now was trying to drive a wedge between Hindus and Sikhs. “BJP hands out certificates of nationalism to anyone who toes its line and those who oppose are called part of the ‘tukde-tukde gang’,” Sukhbir said, urging the saffron party to give up its “egoistic attitude and listen to the concerns of farmers”. “BJP has been resorting to dangerous conspiracies to sabotage the hard-earned atmosphere of peace and communal harmony of Punjab just for the realisation of its petty political goals. The BJP leadership must realise that their party today has become the most powerful divisive force. It has been resorting to dividing the country and its people by spreading hatred in the name of religion,” Sukhbir said told reporters. He claimed SAD would not allow this division of people on religious lines in Punjab and would not shy away from making sacrifices for the upkeep of communal harmony and brotherhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/badal-bjp-real-tukde-tukde-gang-plotting-hindu-sikh-rift/articleshow/79749841.cms||Neel Kamal
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Online lok adalats solve 83k disputes||Introduced for the first time amid the pandemic in the state, online lok adalats have contributed in amicable settlements of a lot of cases. An initiative of the Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority (RSLSA), the two online lok adalats held on August 22 and December 12 led to the disposal of 83,444 cases comprising both pre-litigation cases and pending cases together. Brajendra Kumar Jain, member secretary of RSLSA, said in first lok adalat, 72,090 cases were taken up, of which 4,395 were pre-litigation and 29,151 pending cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-lok-adalats-solve-83k-disputes/articleshow/79747581.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Shimla||Test for Atal Tunnel: No winter copter service to Lahaul this season||MANALI: The winter helicopter service, which keeps tribals of Lahaul valley connected with the outer world in the winter season, will not be available this season. The helicopter will be made available only in case of medical emergency and road blockades. The state government operates its 20-seater chopper to snow-bound tribal areas, including Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi, from late December to April. These areas are cut off from the rest of the country after heavy snowfall in winter season and helicopter is the only mode of transport for residents,who want to travel to other areas. As the government has asked Border Roads Organisation (BRO) to keep the Manali-Keylong highway open even after snowfall, there will be no need for regular sorties. Tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda said the Lahaul-Spiti administration and the BRO had been directed to keep the Manali-Lahaul highway open through Atal Tunnel even after snowfall. “This will help residents move freely through the tunnel without need of waiting for their turn for helicopter for days. Despite this, officials will stay ready as the service can be used to lift medical emergencies, if the road is blocked after snowfall or avalanche. With both available options, we can save precious lives,” he said. The minister said there would be no shortage of petrol and diesel in the valley as petroleum trucks were allowed to use the tunnel. “Vehicular movement to and from Lahaul will increase this winter season. People will get uninterrupted fuel supply.” The state government operates helicopter sorties between Lahaul and Kullu on subsidised rates. The residents were needed to apply for seat in helicopter in advance to travel between Kullu and Lahaul. Booking used to start from December. Out of thousands of applications, some people used to get chance to ride the chopper after 2-3 months. Most applicants were forced to wait for opening of the road. Lahaul-Spiti district has 13 helipads. Helicopter sortie to Lahaul totally depends on weather conditions. In case of low visibility near Rohtang, where weather is mostly unpredictable, chopper has to return. The weather used to suspend sorties for many days every year. Many patients in the valley have lost lives for the want of chopper. Atal Tunnel is expected to show its importance this season. “The residents will no more be dependent on helicopter or weather. The BRO is clearing snow from Atal Tunnel highway day and night and even then we need to be prepared to deal with emergency situations like very heavy snowfall and avalanches blocking the highway for few hours or days. In such condition, helicopter will be there to help the people,” Markanda added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/test-for-atal-tunnel-no-winter-copter-service-to-lahaul-this-season/articleshow/79747582.cms||Suresh Sharma
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Why no tailing pond lining at Kadapa uranium project?’||HYDERABAD: A former chief scientist of IICT has alleged that the draft environmental impact assessment (EIA) of Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) does not mention about the lining of existing tailing pond where it is alleged that seepage of uranium waste is happening. The UCIL, which is planning to expand its uranium mining project at Thummalapalle in Kadapa district, however, said lining of the tailing pond is being taken up. In a letter written to the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board, scientist K Babu Rao said experts had recommended multi-layer lining of the existing tailing pond. “The UCIL, however, has not lined the pond. Presence of grass, plants and trees within the pond is an ample indication that the surface was not prepared for impoundment of tailings. There is no proposal in the draft EIA report to line the existing pond as per the directions of the APPCB,” he pointed out. He said a picture of a borehole in the EIA report is being projected as a monitoring well. “The UCIL had been claiming thickened tailings disposal (TTD) all these years without actually thickening the tailingss. How do we believe that they will convert the tailings to a thick cake that is more expensive. It is only an idea taken from a private infrastructure consulting company and no details as to its feasibility are not known,” he said. The UCIL quoting an expert committee report said borewells in the villages showing a spike in uranium and other salts are located on the ore body. “The spike in uranium and sodium levels in groundwater from the borewells is due to intersecting of the ore body. In view of public perceptions and as per the guidelines of the APPCB, we have awarded the work for laying of lining for the tailing pond,” the UCIL said. In a statement, it said: “We are planning to store the tailings in the form of dried filter cake at a secure disposal facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-no-tailing-pond-lining-at-uranium-project/articleshow/79747603.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Plea to lift Delhi-Bagdogra flight curbs||KOLKATA: Bagdogra airport authorities, travel agents and hoteliers from Darjeeling and the Dooars have urged the state government to withdraw the restriction on flights from Delhi to Bagdogra. When the ban on flights from six cities, including Delhi, was imposed in July and then partially withdrawn in September, it was applicable to all airports in Bengal, including Bagdogra and Andal. But the communication sent out by the state government on Monday only mentioned resumption of daily direct flights between Delhi and Kolkata. The civil aviation ministry and the Airports Authority of India that operates Bagdogra airport are also set to write to the state government, urging it to extend the concession to Bagdogra. “Everyone is surprised that the ban on daily flights from Delhi has been lifted only for Kolkata and not Bagdogra. Since the CM and her team is in north Bengal now, we are trying to reach out to senior bureaucrats, and through them to the CM, seeking the lifting of curbs on flights from Delhi to Bagdogra at present,” an airport official told TOI. At present, nine direct flights operate between Delhi and Bagdogra on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays when the ban is eased. Similarly, the airport gets three flights from Mumbai, two from Chennai and one from Ahmedabad on these days. On the remaining days of the week, the flight count slumps from 30 flights to 12-14. Hoteliers and travel agents in north Bengal are particularly perturbed about the decision to persist with the ban on Bagdogra. “We have been urging the government to lift the ban on flights as tourism is beginning to look up after many months. A big chunk of the high-spend tourists fly in from Delhi. Now that the ban on flights from Delhi has been revoked for Kolkata, it should be done for Bagdogra as well,” said Samrat Sanyal, a leading tour operator based in Siliguri. Andal airport authorities, too, hope to attract more flights once the curbs are withdrawn. At present, it has a flight each to Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays that are registering 90% plus loads. Meanwhile, Kolkata airport is looking ahead to a bumper weekend in terms of passenger movement after more than five months. Since July 6, there has been restriction on flights from six high traffic cities. When it was relaxed in September, airlines decided to operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Traffic on weekends as well as Tuesdays and Thursdays have therefore been extremely low. “It was not possible to get the flights up and running on Tuesday as bookings were opened only on Tuesday. But we expect all airlines to restore the Delhi flights to daily frequency by this weekend. That will mean 18-19 more flights on these two days,” a Kolkata airport official said, adding that additional manpower would be deployed during the weekend to cope with the expected rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plea-to-lift-delhi-bagdogra-flight-curbs/articleshow/79746349.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 16 Covid cases; 28 discharged||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris added 16 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, pushing the tally to 7,698, even as 28 patients were discharged after recovery. So far, 7,522 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the hill retreat. The number of active Covid-19 cases now stands at 134. Of the new cases, at least five were reported from Gudalur block, while the remaining cases were spread across Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri blocks. Of the 134 active cases, 31 patients are admitted to the government and private hospitals in Coimbatore district. While another 29 are kept in home quarantine, the remaining Covid-19 patients are treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and two Covid care centres in the district, said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-16-covid-cases-28-discharged/articleshow/79747599.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Legendary film baddies get persona-fit homes||AHMEDABAD: How can the famed ‘Thappad ki goonj’ of Dr Dang from the Bollywood film “Karma” be reflected in interior design? Karnavikumari Jadeja’s project as part of ‘Fictional Spaces’ studio at Cept University put the baddie at the bottom of a pit-like structure so that ‘The sound of screams (of his prisoners) gives Dr Dang pleasure…” Dr Dang is one of the 11 Bollywood villains whose living spaces were designed during the undergraduate studio work conducted by associate professor Jay Thakkar and teaching assistant Kamna Vyas. The other baddies who got their own ‘abode’ included Bhawani Devi (Lalita Pawar in “Sau Din Saas Ke”), Kamlak Jadugar (Amrish Puri in “Hatim Tai”), Simi Sinha (Tabu in “Andhadhun”), Crime Master Gogo (Shakti Kapoor in “Andaaz Apna Apna”), Anna (Nana Patekar in “Parinda”), Shakaal (Kulbhushan Kharbanda in “Shaan”), and Din Dayal ‘Lion’ (Ajit in “Kalicharan”). GABBAR SINGH IN ‘ATLANTIS’: The ‘Daaku’ goes beneath the sea after his makeover by Arthav Vagadia. Gabbar tries to conquer the land of Atlantis by force. In a nod to Gabbar’s history, his place is full of references to guns, drums and rocky terrain. MOGAMBO IN ‘THE BOOK OF LIFE’: The project by Shreeya Suhag imagines the villain in the Land of the Dead. Thus, the skull motif is used extensively to show his penchant for death. Red is the colour of choice for interiors, as there’s also a lava pit! CRIME MASTER GOGO IN ‘THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE CHRISTMAS’: Mogambo ka bhatija gets a closet full of black outfits and red shoes in this rendition by Kasturi Mitta. The red and gothic scheme dominates the scene as Gogo goes about his business, planning the next big operation. He also has a few guns, just in case. SHAKAAL IN ‘METROPOLIS’: Aryan Keswani imagines Shakaal’s incarnation as a cyborg who plans to control a city through the spread of a poisonous gas. He’s conversant with the latest technology and his ‘lair’ is complete with cybernetics and a ‘performance stage’ in front of his throne. The colour scheme consists of gold, blue, and green. SIMI SINHA IN ‘FROZEN’: In Srushti Mehta’s world, Simi wears a katana and loves prints tattooed on her body. The icy walls have fire within — showing the dual personality of the protagonist in her own story. A piano completes the scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/legendary-film-baddies-get-persona-fit-homes/articleshow/79747742.cms||Parth Shastri
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Mandatory telecast goes against the spirit of the Constitution||J RavindranThe recent notification by the country’s public service broadcaster is an attempt to rattle the basic structure of the Constitution and hit at the root of the idea of unity in diversity.Article 343 of the Constitution recognises Hindi in Devnagri script as an official language of the Centre. The eighth schedule defines 22 official languages of India. It is Article 29 of the Constitution which preserves the linguistic diversity of the country. It states that every citizen of the country has the right to conserve their language. It clearly sends out a message that the government cannot impose a particular language.Sanskrit finds place as one of the official languages. According to the last census, 14,000 people said Sanskrit was their primary language, with less than 1,000 speakers in North-east India, Odish, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat. It is mostly used by priests during religious ceremonies.Prasar Bharati is a statutory corporation created under a special enactment called Prasar Bharati (Broadcasting corporation of India) Act 1990. The twin objectives of the law are crystallised in Section 12 of the act. It ensures that the broadcasting is conducted as a public service and reinforces that the purpose of establishing the corporation is to gather news not propaganda. It also ensures a balanced development of broadcasting on radio and television. Sec 12(m) states: "Promoting national integration by broadcasting in a manner that facilities communication in the languages in India and facilitating the distribution of regional broadcasting services in every state in the language of that state". The present order is in contravention to this law.The legislative intent of the act finds an echo in the Supreme Court’s 1995 judgment in The Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Vs. The Cricket Association of Bengal, which said the "first facet of the broadcasting freedom is freedom from state or governmental control, in particular from the censorship by the Government. Public broadcasting is not to be equated with state broadcasting. Both are distinct".The MIB on December 14, 2011 had directed local cable operators and DTH operators compulsory transmission of Doordarshan and Parliament channels on satellite/cable television networks. Therefore every household in the nation had access to 27 channels. In the said mandatory channels, one is DD News that telecasts a daily Sanskrit bulletin from 7.15am to 7.30am and also a weekly Sanskrit News Magazine – Vaartavali on Saturday at 6pm.Prasar Bharati also operates regional channels in all states where programmes are telecast in the regional language of the state. Against this backdrop, it has now issued the circular directing that all regional language channels (in the case of state of Tamil Nadu, Podhigai) simultaneously telecast the daily Sanskrit bulletin and simultaneously telecast weekly Sanskrit News Magazine – Vaartavalli.Prasar Bharati making it mandatory for the regional language channels to telecast Sanskrit news is an attempt by vested groups to impose a particular language on linguistic and religious minorities, which goes against the letter and spirit of the Constitution. It has no powers under the statute by which it was created to impose such mandatory telecast.It is pertinent to state at this juncture that the ancient and heritage rich Tamil language is not derived from Sanskrit and we in Tamil Nadu want an inclusive India, a secular India, an India that belongs to everybody,Broadcasting media is affected by the free speech right of the citizens guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India. The said view has been expressed by the apex court. Once this is so, monopoly of the broadcasting media by the government or any other corporation is unacceptable. Clause (2) of Article 19 does not permit a monopoly in the matter of freedom of speech and expression as is permitted by Clause (6) of Article 19 vis-a vis the right guaranteed under Article 19(1) (g). A successful democracy posits an "aware" citizenry. This cannot be provided by a medium controlled by a state.The present circular is a threat to democracy. Whatever is imposed can never be a success and time has come for the people of Tamil Nadu to oppose this in a democratic way.(The writer is a former assistant solicitor general of India for Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mandatory-telecast-goes-against-the-spirit-of-the-constitution/articleshow/79749425.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Goldsmith makes away with 25kg of gold bars||Coimbatore: A city-based goldsmith has allegedly gone missing with more than 25kg of gold bars. While police confirmed that the goldsmith was absconding, but they are yet receive any complaints from victims. Police sources said the owner of a gold smithery at Ashok Nagar in Selvapuram received more than 25kg of gold ingots from around 15 jewellers to make ornaments. When he failed to return the ornaments in the promised date, a few jewellers tried to contact him through phone, but in vain. Then they found that the goldsmith had run away with gold bars. Following this, they circulated the information among other jewellers through WhatsApp. The Selvapuram police also received the message. Police sources said they were expecting complaints from victims. They estimated the worth of gold bars to be more than Rs 10 crore. If the jewellers approach police, the case would be taken up by the city crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/goldsmith-makes-away-with-25kg-of-gold-bars/articleshow/79747580.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||Raped teen gives birth to girl in Nagaur, culprits still at large||JAIPUR: Cops are yet to arrest the culprits who raped a 14-year-old girl in Nagaur following which she gave birth to a baby girl. She has accused her brother and his two friends of sexual assault. While the young mother and baby are healthy, cops are still to establish the age of the accused. DNA samples have been taken from the girl and the baby. An official of Padu Kalan police station in Nagaur where the case was registered told TOI, “The family did not report the matter to us and we only came to know through hospital staff. The girl and the baby are still in the hospital. The rape survivor told us that she was raped multiple times by her own brother and his friends and we have started an investigation into the matter.” The girl claimed that her brother and his friends had also threatened to harm her if she reported the matter. “While we can still understand that the girl was scared, the surprising part is that even the parents did not report the matter even after she became pregnant. We will question them also in the case”, said the official. The accused are yet to be found and the survivor’s medical examination was done. Elaborating further on the investigation, the official said, “The case is still in its early stages and we are yet to ascertain if the accused were minors or adults at the time of assault. We have taken DNA samples from the mother and the baby which will be matched with the samples which we will take from all the accused to confirm as to who actually impregnated her.” A case under Pocso Act has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raped-teen-gives-birth-to-girl-culprits-still-at-large/articleshow/79747587.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Twice in 2 weeks: LPG price hikes singe kitchens||KOLKATA: For the second time in two weeks, the price of LPG cylinders was hiked by Rs 50, singeing the middle-class. Households are wary of further hikes in coming days. Those who do not avail of LPG subsidies have spoken out against the jump in the backdrop of a rise in food prices. The new domestic LPG price after the latest hike of Rs 50 will be Rs 720-721. Heena Bhattacharya, a lawyer and partner of a Kolkata-based law firm, felt it was becoming increasingly tough for many to manage expenses now. “We do not avail of the subsidy and my family may not be directly impacted by it. But those whom I employ — driver and household help — are feeling the pinch. Eventually they will ask for a raise in salary. But our income has already been hit hard during the pandemic,” she said. “Food prices were already high. Now there is an increase in the LPG price as well. It will be difficult for the middle-income group to absorb the triple-whammy,” she said. Meghamitra Mahato, an executive at a nationalized bank in Kolkata, felt that such increases will now eat into the savings of middle-class people. “An average middle-class family saves 10%-15% of their salary. Most employees had to accept a salary cut during the lockdown. If they are consuming 13 cylinders in a year, the Rs 100-hike would translate into an annual increase of Rs 1,300 for the family. If you consider price escalation of food and other commodities, then they are already quite stressed,” she said. Sudip Dey, an investment consultant felt that petroleum prices were on the rise and it will become dearer in days to come. “That will put pressure on the LPG as well. LPG price is an index of expenditure for middle-class families. Food price was already high. The LPG price hike is only going to add to the woes,” Dey said. Incidentally, the total number of LPG connections in the state is around 2.9 crore. GST levied on LPG since July 2017 is 5%. The highest price of LPG this year was Rs 774 (in April) while the lowest was Rs 584. The highest price ever, Rs 1,270, for domestic LPG was recorded on January 14. Vice-president of All India Bharat Gas Distributors’ Association Sukomal Kumar Sen pointed out that even after the increase, the price would be nowhere near the highest point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/twice-in-2-wks-lpg-price-hikes-singe-kitchens/articleshow/79746346.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Biometric breach: Jind man defrauded of Rs22,500||Jind: An amount of Rs 22,500 was fraudulently withdrawn from a bank account in Jind district by using biometric (fingerprint) verification, pointing to security breach of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) system again. The victim, Pardeep Kumar (27) of Safidon town in Jind district,is employed as a salesman at a petrol pump in town. It is pertinent to mention that a similar case was reported by TOI on January 29, 2019, in which an Aadhaar operator named Vikram was in Jind, but Rs 7,500 had been withdrawn from his bank account from Bihar by using biometric verification and the case hasn’t been solved yet. In Vikram’s case even 143 frauds multiple stations IDs, which allowed Aadhaar cards to be made from multiple devices, were created to generate such ID cards by using fraudulent documents. Talking to TOI, Pardeep Kumar said, “I have never withdrawn money by using my fingerprints. I don’t use netbanking services and didn’t get any OTP or even used ATM card at the time when the money was deducted from my bank account. The first transaction of Rs 10,000 by from a customer service point (CSP) was made on November 19, subsequently of Rs 10,000 on November 20 and Rs 2,500 had been withdrawn on November 22 and all three transactions were made through CSP where a person can withdraw the amount only by physical appearance. I didn’t receive any amount deduction message or any OTP. I came to know about the fraud when I checked the account on November 25. It seems that the Aadhaar system is not safe as someone has created a clone of my fingerprints and withdrawn money, which raises several questions about the system. When SBI bank officials failed to give me details and resolve the issue, I finally approached the police.” Talking to TOI, Safidon ASP Ajit Singh Shekhawat, who is investigating both cases, said, “The amount was deducted by using fingerprint verification at CSP kiosk at an unknown place. This is a serious issue and investigating is on in both cases. I will approach UIDAI officials as well. We have booked an unknown accused on December 12 under sections 379 (punishment for theft) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC and launched a probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/biometric-breach-jind-man-defrauded-of-rs22500/articleshow/79747571.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jaipur||MPUAT inks MoU with IVRI||An MoU has been inked between the Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT), Udaipur, and the ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) at Izzatnagar, Bareilly. The agreement is aimed to help the students of MPUAT in action research, joint studies, faculty/student exchange in areas of animal husbandry and veterinary sciences. Narendra Singh Rathore, VC, MPUAT and B P Mishra, director and VC, IVRI, Izzatnagar, signed the memorandum on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mpuat-inks-mou-with-ivri/articleshow/79747611.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Election code lifted, govt can now resume development works, recruitment||PANAJI: The state election commission on Tuesday lifted the model code of conduct which had been imposed due to the recent zilla panchayat (ZP) elections. The results of ZP elections were declared on Monday. The lifting of the model code will enable the state government to resume development works in the state. “The model code of conduct imposed by the SEC with effect from December 5 is lifted with effect from 00.00 hrs of the intervening night of December 14 and 15,” state  commissioner Chokha Ram Garg said. Last month, the state government issued an office memorandum to pave way for departments to start the recruitment process and infrastructure works from December 1. But everything came to standstill due to ZP elections. Over the last two to three months, the economy has shown signs of recovery. If one takes GST collections as a barometer for economic recovery, October’s GST collection nearly matches the Rs 311 crore collected a year ago. The revival of tourism, along with the periodic release of funds to meet the GST compensation gap, has buoyed the state’s coffers. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that the process to recruit over 10,000 people — one of the largest recruitment drives — will begin from December 1. Earlier this year, in March, an office memorandum issued by then finance secretary Daulat Hawaldar had stated, “defer recruitment in all government departments, autonomous bodies/state PSUs/local bodies receiving grants from the state up to December 2020”. The memorandum had stated that the government would stop granting expenditure approvals for infrastructure projects till December, even if the project has received administrative approval. Except for projects partly or wholly funded by Centre or deposit works, this had a bearing on projects initiated by government departments, corporations, state undertakings and panchayats and municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/election-code-lifted-govt-can-now-resume-devpt-works-recruitment/articleshow/79748764.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribal woman, 65, trampled to death by elephant in forest||Udhagamandalam: An Irula tribal woman was trampled to death by an elephant in a reserve forest of Segur range falling under the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) –buffer zone in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. M Sarasu, 65, a resident of Anaikatty village in the range, went to the forest around 1pm to collect fodder for cattle, a forest official said. Sarasu, who was accompanied by her son Balan, 42, and her sister Mathi, 55, encountered an elephant and its calf when she was some 3km away from her home. “The elephant charged at them. While Balan and Mathi managed to escape, Sarasu was attacked by the elephant. She died on the spot,” said L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone Police retrieved the body and sent it to the Ooty government hospital. The postmortem will be conducted on Wednesday as the body reached the hospital late in the evening. In the meantime, an interim relief of Rs 50, 000 was handed over to the family of the victim by the forest department. This is the fifth death reported due to elephant attack in the Nilgiris in the past one week. Meanwhile, the forest department has brought three kumkis from the Theppakadu elephant camp to chase away the rogue elephant that killed three people in Pandalur division. “The kumkis were stationed near Cherambadi to help us in tackling the elephant. A team was deputed to chase away the elephant into deep forest as soon as possible,” said Guru Swamy Baddal, district forest officer, Nilgiris division, who is also in charge of the Gudalur division. On December 12, the rogue elephant killed a 65-year-old man at Kannampalli near Cherambadi. The next day, it killed a father-son duo at Kolapalli near Cherambadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribal-woman-65-trampled-to-death-by-elephant-in-forest/articleshow/79747626.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||‘Santa’s caravan’ to bring cheer to your doorstep||Kolkata: In Covid times, it’ll be ‘Christmas on wheels’ in Kolkata. Come Saturday, Santas will come driving at your doorstep to deliver some Yuletide cheer.A gala ‘Christmas Caravan’, comprising decorated four- and two-wheelers, driven by ‘Santas’, with carols singers on board or riding as pillions, will go around the city streets on Saturday evening. The event was conceived by the Catholic Association of Bengal (CAB) as congregations, Christmas luncheons and gatherings are mostly off the table, or will have limited participation. Minister Firhad Hakim and other dignitaries will flag off the vehicular parade that will drive through Middleton Row, Camac Street, Park Street, AJC Bose Road, CIT Road, Syed Amir Ali Avenue, Rashbehari Avenue and Chowringhee Road.“This sort of Christmas caravans are usually organized in the West. We decided to have it here this time, sharing love and peace in the festive season, to usher in some Yuletide cheer. We are doing this especially for children and the elderly, who will be missing the usual Christmas fun and festivities due to the pandemic,” CAB president Angelina Mantosh Jasnani said. The caravan will start outside Loreto House at 6.30pm. People from all faiths can sign up for the event.The vehicles will be decked up with Christmas lights and decorations and goody bags will be distributed. There will also be a cash prize of Rs 5,000 for the best-decorated motorbike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/santas-caravan-to-bring-cheer-to-your-doorstep/articleshow/79746355.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Rajkot||Cops bust customs officers’ liquor party, 3 nabbed||RAJKOT: Acting on a tip off, local crime branch (LCB) of Amreli district carried out a raid in liquor party at the Customs’ guest house number one in Pipavav Port Colony and nabbed three officials. According to police, Nilesh Joshi (50), Bhagvan Meena (54), and Kirupanand Guriwan (53) — all three officials of superintendent rank in the customs department were arrested. Cops also recovered Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), beer and other valuables all worth Rs 17,800 from the spot. The three officials who were staying in the guest house in Pipavav Port have been booked under various sections of Prohibition Act. “We had specific information that Nilesh Joshi, who is living in Guest house's room number one, was bringing the IMFL and inviting other people to party. We carried out the raid on Monday and nabbed them from the spot,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-bust-customs-officers-liquor-party-3-nabbed/articleshow/79745488.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Meerut||Meerut records coldest day of season at 6 degrees Celsius||MEERUT/ BAREILLY/AGRA: Meerut recorded the coldest day of the season as temperature dipped to six degrees Celsius on Tuesday. However, both Bareilly and Moradabad with a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius each, were the coldest in west UP, followed by Shahjahanpur at 7 degrees Celsius. In Meerut, the minimum temperature recorded was one degree Celsius below normal temperature, the maximum temperature was four degrees Celsius below the normal temperature. A dense fog enveloped the region. “The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in Meerut on Tuesday were 18.2 degrees Celsius and six degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 94% and 47%, respectively,” said Brij Mohan, officer-in-charge, Met department, Meerut. The lowest temperature recorded so far in Meerut district was 7.7 degrees Celsius on December 4. Meerut was also colder than the neighbouring districts of Muzaffarnagar and Shamli. Muzaffarnagar registered a minimum temperature of 8 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above normal temperature. Shamli recorded 12 degrees Celsius at 8 pm on Tuesday. According to the forecast, the minimum temperature was likely to dip to 4 degrees Celsius at night in Shamli. “Cold wave conditions are predicted at isolated places over west Uttar Pradesh. Cold day conditions are very likely at a few places in west UP until December 19. Also, dense fog is predicted in the entire region,” said Brij Mohan. Agra region experienced a cold day on Tuesday. The temperature remained lower than the normal level, dipping to 8.1-degree Celsius. A partly overcast sky hung over the region. Neighbouring districts of Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri were cooled by chilly winds that blew throughout the day. In comparison to Agra, Aligarh was colder with a minimum temperature of 7.4 degrees Celsius. The Met department forecast a cold wave in Agra region over the next three days. A cold wave is declared when there is a significant drop in minimum or night time temperature. The IMD’s criteria for a cold wave in the plains is that the minimum temperature should be 10 degrees or lower and the departure from normal minimum temperature 4.5 degrees or less for two consecutive days. (With inputs from Kanwardeep Singh from Bareilly and Deepak Lavania from Agra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-records-coldest-day-of-season-at-6-degrees-celsius/articleshow/79745452.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Active Covid-19 cases in Kolkata at 3-month low||KOLKATA: For the first time in nearly three months, the number of Covid patients under treatment in Kolkata fell below the 5,000 mark even as the statewide tally of active cases hit a 19-week low. While recognizing that the data indicated steady progress in the state's fight against the pandemic, doctors have cautioned that there is no room for complacency and called for more RT-PCR tests to prevent any slippage. On Tuesday, Kolkata recorded 503 new cases, taking the tally of active cases to 4,930. The last time the number of people who had tested Covid-positive and requiring medical attention was below 5,000 was on September 27 when there were 4,944 active cases. In the entire state, active cases stood at 20,663 on Tuesday, the best figures since August 1, when there were 20,631 active cases. On Tuesday, 2,289 new Covid cases were detected in Bengal, of which 503 were in Kolkata. The last date when the state had added only around these many fresh cases was on July 29, when 2,294 people had tested positive. In Kolkata, 524 fresh cases had been recorded on July 14, after which the count has zoomed. Though lower fresh cases have been recorded on Mondays owing to decline in weekend tests, doctors said it was still heartening to see the numbers gradually decline. The Covid data released by the state actually illustrates the improvement even this month. The total number of Covid positive cases in the second week of December was down to 17,855, down from 21,570 recorded in the first week. The number of the two week’s combined tally of 39,425 is also less than that of the first two of weeks of November, October and September, when 54,834, 48,643 and 43,143 Covid positive cases were registered, respectively. Health experts also see a slight a drop in infection rate. However, they remain wary of the extensive use of rapid antigen test in the state and fear mild positive cases may not find reflection in the Covid bulletin. “Daily cases have come down and recovery rate has improved impressively. But the infection rate is still high. Our target is to drag the positivity rate below 5% and mortality rate below 1%. For this, we need to scale up testing further deploying more RT-PCR than antigen tests. Currently RT-PCR versus antigen tests in our state is 55% and 45%. Antigen tests should be reduced to 25%,” said senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee, who is also in the state’s global advisory board on Covid-19. Despite a overall gradual fall, positivity rate is still slightly above 8%. In Kolkata, the number of positive cases in the first two weeks of December was 9,912 against that of 12,048 and 10,270 cases in November and October, respectively. “The positivity rate has definitely come down given by the fact the now Covid beds are easily available in private hospitals. But the question remains are we missing too many cases due to extensive use of antigen tests, especially in the districts? We should also be seeing that there is a parity in testing,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta of Ruby General Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/active-cov-cases-in-kol-at-3-month-low/articleshow/79746359.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No more e-pass for weekend Metro ride||KOLKATA: From this week, you won’t need e-pass to ride the north-south Metro on weekends. On Sundays, services will start at 9am instead of 10am and go on till 10.30pm instead of 9pm. There will be more trains on Sundays as the interval between two trains has been reduced from 20 minutes to 15 minutes. The weekday schedule will be followed on Saturdays. TOI on Tuesday had reported that commuters would be spared of booking e-passes for Saturdays as well. Metro Railway has already decided to lift e-pass restrictions on Sundays. The call on an entire e-pass-free weekend was taken on Tuesday. “We may exempt the e-pass rule on Saturdays as well, because fewer people travel,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi had told TOI on Monday. There are no office-goers Saturdays. Sanjay Chatterjee, who was appointed by the state government to develop the e-pass technology for Metro as a means of crowd control in Covid times, had said, “Considering the low footfall on Saturdays, we have recommended lifting e-pass rule for Saturdays as well.” E-passes, generated from a link developed by Chatterjee’s company, are booked in advance to access the north-south line. With the technology in place, only 400 can board at a time. Before the pandemic, 6.5 lakh rode the north-south Metro daily and around 3,000 travelled at a time by an eight-coach train. Now, even though nearly 1.3 lakh ride daily, no more than 400 are accommodated at a time, thanks to the digital passes. This way, physical distance is maintained on India’s oldest Metro that has had the highest passenger density. Since Monday, Metro Railway has reduced e-pass hours to only two-and-a-half in the morning and three in the evening. Elderly, women and kids below 15 years don’t need e-passes. Chatterjee believed Metro can ensure physical distancing on Saturdays without the e-passes. Lately, footfall on Saturdays has gone up. Last Saturday, it was 1.06 lakh while Sunday’s passenger count was only 43,586. Joshi had told TOI on Monday, “We shall have to do away with e-passes completely, as the Covid situation improves.” The GM clarified that the passenger count will be controlled for some more time. “We shall keep adding services to ensure physical distancing,” he said. Since Monday, 12 more services have been added on weekdays and from Sunday there will be 102 services instead of 68. The e-pass rule doesn’t apply for the East-West Metro, which was flagged off in February this year. The 7km Sector V-Phoolbagan stretch clocks only around 500-plus passengers daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-e-pass-for-weekend-metro-ride/articleshow/79746351.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Eco-tourism work begins for Katarniaghat, Dudhwa||LUCKNOW: Work has started for the preparation of a masterplan for the development of eco-tourism in the Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary and the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. In the first meeting of Invest UP held on Tuesday, two members of Ernst & Young have been asked to visit the two parks over four to five days, study the development potential outside of the buffer zone and submit a proposal within the next two weeks. Investment minister and vice-chairperson of Invest UP, Sidharth Nath Singh said that E&Y has been asked to study the parks in detail and assesses the potential for development of connectivity, resorts etc. “Once the master plan is completed by next month, a presentation will be made before chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He is very keen that we have a working plan in place as soon as possible,” he said. Tuesday’s meeting was attended by representatives of the forest and tourism department as well, including forest minister Dara Singh Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eco-tourism-work-begins-for-katarniaghat-dudhwa/articleshow/79748759.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||As SC-appointed panel meets to discuss Char Dham project, road ministry amends own circular & allows wider roads in hills||Dehradun: The day the Supreme Court-appointed high powered committee on the Char Dham road project met to discuss the contested road width, the Union ministry of road transport and highways amended its own 2018 circular that formed the basis of the ongoing legal case. The 5.5-m maximum width limit for roads in hilly and mountainous areas is now effectively 10 metre. “For roads in hilly and mountainous terrain which act as feeder roads to the Indo-China border or are of strategic importance for national security, the carriageway width should be 7m with 1.5m paved shoulder on either side,” the circular issued on Tuesday, a copy of which is with TOI, said. Referring to the 2018 circular, ‘Standards for lane width of national highways and roads developed under central sector schemes in hilly and mountainous terrains’, which this now supersedes, it added, “The standards … have been further reviewed in the Ministry in light of the issues raised by the Ministry of Defence. A committee of chief engineers considered the suggestions received … and have recommended modifications to the standards.” On December 2, the defence ministry had sought wider road for “national security” before the Supreme Court, arguing that three national highways — Rishikesh to Mana (281km), Rishikesh to Gangotri (231km) and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh (162km) — lead up to the northern border with China and act as feeder roads. During that hearing, Justice RF Nariman had cited the 2018 circular and asked why the road and defence ministries were “not working in tandem with each other.” It had also asked the high powered committee to meet and deliberate on this. “This is under discussion now … Because the (road) ministry amended its own circular,” a member of the high powered committee told TOI after the meeting, which was held online. Another source added, “The two-day meeting has three points on the agenda — width of the road, the Supreme Court’s September 8 order (which had asked the government to follow the 2018 circular on road width, upholding the minority view of the panel) and lack of support to the high powered committee.” The 900-km Char Dham road widening project was announced in 2016. Environmentalists and geologists have, however, warned that cutting hills too much would make the terrain unstable and prone to landslides. The high powered committee to study the project’s impact was set up by the Supreme Court in August last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-sc-appointed-panel-meets-to-discuss-char-dham-project-road-ministry-amends-own-circular-allows-wider-roads-in-hills/articleshow/79760213.cms||Shivani Azad
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to add DJB, electricity dept staff to vaccine priority list: Jain||New Delhi: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that besides healthcare personnel and other workers, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and electricity department workers would be included in the list of “frontline warriors” against Covid-19 who will receive the Covid vaccine in the first phase. “On Tuesday, Delhi government issued orders that DJB and electricity department workers should be included in the list of frontline workers,” Jain said on Wednesday. “During the lockdown, all these workers were on duty, working 24x7; hence, they, too, have been duly included in the list of frontline workers along with police, civil defence and sanitation workers,” Jain said. “It is quite relieving that the effect of coronavirus in Delhi has been dwindling since the past month. For the first time since May, the positivity rate is 1.9%,” he said. “Five per cent is supposed to be good enough, and being at 2%, we are ideal. But I would still urge Delhiites to continue taking all the precautions. I lay stress on wearing a mask without fail,” the minister emphasised. Although the effect of the outbreak has come down, “coronavirus will live with us. It’s not going to completely go”, Jain said. “According to WHO parameters, Delhi is in a safe zone.” Almost 50% of the ICU beds in the city are available, though the occupancy lies between 80% and 90% in private hospitals, he added. Delhi government has prepared a list of nearly two lakh healthcare personnel in the capital who will be the first to get inoculated as soon as a vaccine for Covid-19 becomes available in the national capital. The “frontline warriors” will be followed by those who are 60 years or above and then by those in the 50-59 age bracket with comorbidities. The healthcare personnel include medical, paramedical, supporting, security, sanitation and administrative staff of all allopathy, dental and ayush facilities, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings. The database will be submitted to the Union health ministry by the Delhi health and family welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-add-djb-electricity-dept-staff-to-vaccine-priority-list-jain/articleshow/79767609.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||December 23 date for Dakshineswar Metro trial||KOLKATA: Trial runs along north-south Metro’s 4km Dakshineswar extension are likely to begin next Wednesday. “We are readying the system so that the first train can depart Noapara and run till Dakshineswar on December 23. However, it’s not decided whether it’s a one-day test run or the trials would continue after Wednesday’s debut run,” a Metro official said on Tuesday. The decision to introduce the first rolling stock along the upcoming Dakshineswar Metro was taken a day after Metro Railway’s general manager Manoj Joshi convened a meeting with officials and engineers of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) at Metro Bhavan on Monday. RVNL is implementing most of the Metro projects that are under way. But Metro Railway is in charge of operations for the network of rapid transit system in Kolkata. After the meeting, the GM said on Monday: “We are trying to have the first trial run next week. At today’s video conference, we fixed targets so that the test runs can begin immediately.” Joshi took stock of the progress, calling for speedy completion of the last-minute jobs, mainly the signaling system and the coordination of the AFC (automatic fare collection) gates that were fitted recently. The line is veering towards a January commissioning. A report of the trials and the joint testing undertaken by Metro Railway and RVNL to check the section’s readiness will be sent to the Commissioner of Railway Safety’s (CRS) Lucknow headquarters before it agrees to inspect and gives the date of visit. CRS, under the ministry of civil aviation, gives the safety nod for any new Metro project in India. On November 29, as reported by TOI, electricity was charged along the third rail of the 4km tracks for the first time. The power connection is prelude to the trial runs. The third rails supply power to the rakes through the third rail current collector. The existing north-south line, which is India’s oldest Metro, currently covers 27km — from Kavi Subhas station in south Kolkata to Noapara in the north. The extension to the north is something the city has been eagerly waiting for, especially after the Tallah bridge demolition. The Dakshineswar extension, which has missed several deadlines, would have been unveiled in July this year. But even as Metro Railway applied for CRS’ inspection, the crucial Train Protection Warning System (TPWS) equipment, a sophisticated accident prevention technology, due to arrive in from Siemens’ Germany in March, ran into lockdown restrictions. The equipment was finally delivered in November and work for putting the system together has been on ever since. Civil construction, comprising the tracks and the two stations — Dakshineswar and Baranagar — was completed three months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dec-23-date-for-dakshineswar-metro-trial/articleshow/79746365.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP’s anti-conversion law doesn’t apply to couples who got married earlier, says legal expert||MORADABAD: UP’s new anti-conversion law is not retrospective, but it was used against the Muslim man from Moradabad who married a Hindu Dalit woman from Dehradun five months ago. While the woman is back home, the man and his elder brother are still in jail while police investigate. The 22-year-old woman, a graduate, had been working as an accountant in Dehradun when she met the man. They fell in love in 2019 and got married on July 24 this year in a nikah ceremony. “I moved to Moradabad of my own accord … We were trying to register our marriage to make sure we were not violating any laws, even by mistake. Everything that happened after that is a nightmare,” she told TOI on Tuesday. “I want my husband back.” The case against her husband may not stand legal scrutiny. “It’s a settled principle of law of interpretation that all laws are applicable with prospective effect (from that point forward) unless there is a specific provision that makes it applicable with retrospective effect,” Supreme Court lawyer Shobha Gupta told TOI. “In other words, no penal provision can be made applicable from a date prior to its commencement.” The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religious Ordinance, 2020 came into effect on November 28. “Section 1(3) says, ‘It shall come into force at once.’ That means after the signature of the governor … Any marriage by way of conversion of religion which has taken place before or even on that day but before the governor signed it is not covered by the ordinance. It is not a criminal act,” she said. “Invocation of the provisions of the ordinance with cases of religious conversion prior to this is not permissible in law and, therefore, unsustainable in courts.” In the Moradabad couple’s case, specifically, it does not apply then. “When the couple was trying to register their marriage, the ordinance did not apply to them. They were married before the new law was promulgated,” Gupta said. The FIR, the woman said, was registered because of pressure from Bajrang Dal. Regional convener of the outfit Gaurav Malhotra told TOI as much: “Our workers are not threatening anyone but acting as citizens and reporting if any illegal religious conversion is being done. In the Kanth case, we had informed police and the family about the couple. Action was then taken by them.” A day after the Bajrang Dal men got to know about the couple applying to register their marriage, an FIR had been registered. Police, however, denied there had been any infringement of rights. “We got a complaint from the woman’s mother. Under the new law, the family can file a complaint. Since it was a cognizable offence, an FIR could not be denied. We were only following legal procedure. The woman’s mother could also have alleged police inaction,” Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary told TOI. Asked why the nikahnama documents were not taken into account, additional SP (rural) Vidya Sagar Mishra told TOI, “The documents didn’t come to us before the FIR was registered … We didn’t know she was married.” In the FIR, the woman’s mother had complained that her daughter had eloped with a person of another faith on December 1 and that she had found her daughter in Kanth on December 5. The woman, however, said they got married in July and had been living in Moradabad since. The court admitted her statement on Monday and asked police to take her to her in-laws. Now that the woman has made it clear she is an adult who married a man of another faith of her own accord, when will her husband and brother-in-law be released? Chaudhary said, “When the accused can be released depends on the court. We may file a report under Section 169 of the CrPC (release of an accused when the evidence is deficient) after investigation and request the court to release them. They could also apply for bail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ups-anti-conversion-law-doesnt-apply-to-couples-who-got-married-earlier-says-legal-expert/articleshow/79745411.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath for crackdown on illegal constructions, encroachments||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a crackdown on encroachments and unauthorized constructions and directed various development authorities to prepare a list of such constructions in the areas under their jurisdiction and take action against them. The CM issued the directions while chairing a review meeting of UP Housing and Urban Planning department on Tuesday. Yogi also asked officials to work on developing Ayodhya as a solar city, having floated the proposal in September this year. He said the Centre has asked each state to develop one solar city and Ayodhya will be developed as one in UP. The CM said that unplanned urbanization has to be stopped for which it is essential for all departments to work together on planning for urban areas. The help of experts should be sought wherever necessary, he added. He also asked officials to check whether private colonisers have provided roads, drainage, parks, clean water, power, street lights and other basic amenities in their projects. Rapping officials for delays in clearing online plans, Yogi said the facility had been provided for clearing online plans in seven days, but in several development authorities they had been pending for much longer than the prescribed time limit. He directed the principal secretary, housing and urban planning, to review all pending applications and take action against officials responsible for the delay. Reviewing public transport, the CM said all possible alternatives, including light Metro, mono rail or other modes adopted by cities across the world, must be considered. He directed all divisional commissioners to review the work of development authorities, housing development councils, Smart City projects and implementation of AMRUT schemes and submit a report him within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-for-crackdown-on-illegal-constructions-encroachments/articleshow/79748763.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Coimbatore||‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme resumed in district||Coimbatore: The civil supplies department resumed ration distrubution as per the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme at all the PDS shops in the district on Tuesday, almost one-and-a-half month after the ration distribution based on the scheme was stopped due to technical issues. From now on, ration products will be handed over to family members whose names were mentioned in the ration card after verifying their fingerprints.The scheme was implemented on a pilot basis at 135 ration shops in the south taluk of Coimbatore from October 1. Two weeks later, TNPDS had decided to extend it to all the 1,419 ration shops in the district. But within a few days, they had to put the plan on hold as it took more time to deliver products than old method due to slow server. “About two weeks ago, the department had implemented the scheme in 16 districts on trial basis after upgrading the software and improving the performance of the server. As it was found to be successful, the scheme was resumed in seven more districts including Coimbatore on Tuesday. It would be implemented in the remaining districts within two days on phased manner,” said an official from the office of district supply officer (DSO). The distribution was free of glitches and there were no complaints from the public on Tuesday, the official said. The time taken for billing per person is less than three minutes in most of the shops in the city limits and we have also sought report from the shops in the rural areas, the official added. “When the scheme was first implemented, it took at least 30 minutes to deliver products to a person. But now, it has come down significantly,” said a salesperson at a ration shop in Singanallur. Under the scheme, card holders could buy their monthly entitlement of ration products from any electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) enabled ration shops in the country and the products could be bought only by a person whose name was included in the card, the official said. “The scheme would help us to prevent smuggling. The quantity of products sold in the district per month is expected to come down by 40%,” the official addedMeanwhile, the Centre has been providing 5kg of channa to 4.16 lakhs of Antodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and priority household (PHH) ration card holders through TNPDS in the district. For the non-priority household ration card holders, the state government is providing a kilogram of toor dal for December for free of cost as Covid-19 assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-resumed-in-district/articleshow/79747648.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 16, 2020||India||Govt: Proposed amendments in power Bill won’t affect farmers||NEW DELHI: Farmers will not be affected by the direct subsidy payment mechanism in the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and will continue to get power as they do now, power minister Raj Kumar Singh told TOI on Tuesday. Farmers protesting against the farm bills are also seeking scrapping of the subsidy payment mechanism and privatisation of discoms proposed in the bill. As per the draft bill, state governments will pay the subsidy on power supplied to farmers and other eligible consumers directly to discoms. “In a federal system, state governments are free to give subsidy. But they have to be accountable for it and take responsibility by paying the amount to discoms. I assure farmers that discoms will not disconnect their connections in case of any delay in subsidy. They will continue to get power. State governments can also give free power to farmers (but must pay for it to discoms),” Singh said. Singh said the proposed changes in the Electricity Act of 2003 will make consumer the king and give choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-proposed-amendments-in-power-bill-wont-affect-farmers/articleshow/79749845.cms||Sanjay Dutta
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||496 new Covid-19 cases, 11 more deaths surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 496 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Tuesday, the coronavirus tally reached 83,502 in Uttarakhand. Also, 11 more fatalities were reported on Tuesday, taking the toll of the virus to 1,372. Notably, 60% of the total deaths have been recorded in Dehradun alone. “Among the 11 deaths reported on Tuesday, Dehradun recorded six, followed by two in Haldwani, and one each in Srinagar, Rudraprayag, and Haridwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the total 1,372 deaths, 766 are reported from Dehradun alone, followed by 190 from Nainital, 140 from Haridwar, and 104 from Udham Singh Nagar. Meanwhile, the nine hill districts have collectively reported 172 coronavirus-related deaths since March 2020. According to the health department, the maximum of 177 new cases were recorded in Dehradun on Tuesday, followed by 104 in Nainital, 60 in Pithoragarh, 25 in Udham Singh Nagar, 24 in Uttarkashi, 18 in Haridwar, 17 each in Chamoli and Pauri, 16 in Almora, 13 each in Champawat and Tehri, eight in Bageshwar, and four in Rudraprayag. Apart from fresh cases and deaths, the state also reported recoveries of 524 people suffering from Covid-19 infection. With this, the total number of cured cases reached 75,047 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/496-new-covid-19-cases-11-more-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79745504.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No Christmas stalls in heart of New Market this year||KOLKATA: The familiar sight of Christmas trees, toy Santas and other baubles at the central rotunda of New Market has gone missing this year. KMC, which owns the market, has not allowed the temporary stalls to come up this year to prevent the spread of Covid infection. This is a break from a tradition of over 60 years. Temporary stalls selling Christmas items get permission for a month to set up structures at the centre of the market and these have traditionally been a big draw. These stalls used to come up by the beginning of December and the bazaar would continue till January 2. This year, KMC has given permission to the stall owners to set up temporary structures on the terrace of Simpark Mall. However, C Chang, the 90-year-old Chinese senior who had brought in the tradition of setting up the bazaar, has chosen to opt out this time because his age makes him vulnerable. “Till last year, my father set up the stalls but this year, we are not allowing him. This is a difficult year and we have opted out of this seasonal business this time,” said his daughter Dorothy. The Chang family would set up about seven stalls while two more families would set up a couple of stalls each. They were later entrants to the business. They have chosen to take the KMC permit and set up a few stalls in the space provided outside the market. “That charm of the bazaar is lost. Outside the market there are distractions aplenty and hence it doesn’t feel like theme here,” said Habib, one of the two owners who have set up his stalls. MMiC (markets) Amiruddin Bobby said: “It’s a break in tradition. However, allowing it would lead to crowding and this could lead to the spread of infection.” To ensure that there’s no crowding at the cake shops and puts cakes on display outside shops, the KMC markets department has asked them to keep the passages free. Shops have also been told to ensure social distancing inside shops and in case there are queues outside, they should ensure distancing there too. The cake shops typically see a rush from December 22 onwards and it continues till the first week of January. On Christmas and New Year eve, queues outside some shops snake outside the market. “I have given special instructions to the security staff of KMC to help in maintaining social distancing outside cake shops,” said Mukul Barai, chief manager (markets), KMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-christmas-stalls-in-heart-of-new-mkt-this-yr/articleshow/79746368.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||‘Can’t make changes in forms at recruitment stage’||PRAYAGRAJ: In an important judgment relating to recruitment of 69,000 assistant teachers in the state, the Allahabad high court has held that job aspirants cannot be allowed to rectify mistakes in their forms at the last stage of recruitment. “If it changes the total score of the candidate, it will result in the selection process being 'stalled and derailed'," the court added. The court rejected the pleas of candidates seeking rectifications in their applications and held that it would be unfair to the selected candidates if erring candidates were permitted rectifications at the fag end of a recruitment exercise, which commenced in December 2018 and it will also badly impact the education of students at thousands of primary schools. Disposing writ petitions filed by Pawan Kumar and 34 others, Justice Yashwant Varma, while considering the larger public interest of impact of delay in selection process on education of school-going children, observed, "It not only causes grave injustice to the selected candidates but more importantly and in most cases negates and undermines public interest - the efficiencies of thousands of primary educational institutions. The education, which is of minor school going children itself hangs in the balance. It is these issues of vital consequences which must weigh and be accorded due consideration." Rejecting the pleas of candidates to rectify mistakes in their forms at the last recruitment stage , the court observed, “A pall of uncertainty and the veritable sword of damocles continues to hang over the fate of huge number of successful candidates. This position of uncertainty cannot be permitted to perpetuate and linger endlessly.” On December 1, 2018, the state government issued an order formulating guidelines for the conduct of the ‘Assistant Teacher Recruitment Examination 2019’ for filling up 69,000 posts of Assistant Teachers. Subsequently, on December 5, the applications were invited for the posts. Later, on January 6, 2019, the exams were held across the state in which 4,09,530 candidates participated. Consequently, on May 8, 2020, the final results were declared and on June 1, 2020, a district wise allotment list for 69000 posts was published. The court delivered this judgment on December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cant-make-changes-in-forms-at-recruitment-stage/articleshow/79748767.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Colleges, higher education institutions reopen in U’khand; record thin turnout||Dehradun: After a gap of nine months, several degree colleges and other higher education institutions reopened in Uttarakhand from Tuesday (December 15). While strict Covid-19 protocols, as mandated in the recently-issued SOP, were followed by the institutions, the turnout of students remained low on the day. Dehradun-based Dayanand Anglo-Vedic College, MKP College, and Shri Guru Ram Rai University colleges re-opened on Tuesday. According to the college administration at DAV College, students who couldn’t produce the consent certificate from their parents were sent back. Also, many students reached their college only for general enquiry on Tuesday. Sagar Kapoor, a student at DAV College, said, “I got the information about colleges being re-opened from the newspapers. However, I was still in doubt and decided to come to the college for further clarification. I just hope that we are allowed to come to the college without any restrictions soon.” Another student Kanika Nautiyal, who appeared for her Science practicals on Tuesday, said, “Getting consent from my parents was easy as the practicals are really important. The students are also conscious of the Covid-19 guidelines and are following them strictly.” Ajay Saxena, principal of the DAV College, said, “Students who had practical examinations on Tuesday and had written consent from their parents were allowed inside the campus. The Covid-19 guidelines were strictly followed and we are making efforts to keep everyone on the campus safe. Students with Commerce background have been asked to attend the online classes as usual.” In a similar vein, Rekha Khare, principal of the MKP College, said, “We had shared the message with the parents on Monday informing them about the Covid-19 guidelines and the mandatory requirement of written consent. The practicals were held strictly according to the guidelines and we have also written to the Dehradun Municipal Corporation for carrying out sanitisation at our campus at least thrice a week. Messages for following social distancing norms have also been pasted at several places in various departments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/colleges-higher-education-institutions-reopen-in-ukhand-record-thin-turnout/articleshow/79745530.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Manish Sisodia launches a new reading portal for kids||NEW DELHI: Talking about the need to inculcate the habit of reading stories in children, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia launched a new reading portal ‘Tadaa’ on Tuesday. Tadaa has been developed by NGO Katha as part of their 300 million citizens challenge. “I want to congratulate team Katha, and partners who have been working day and night to make this dream come true. The reading portal connecting 30 crore children of the country with stories is very useful. This will help in developing children’s reading ability,” said Sisodia. He also added that the AAP government has also used stories to improve the level of reading of kids in government schools through schemes like Chunauti and Mission Buniyaad. “Stories help children develop a mindset from an early age, and enhances their reading ability. With this new e-portal launch, it’s important to note that it won’t just be available in India, but will be accessible for children all over the world. With children finding themselves stuck inside the walls of their homes, it’s even more integral that they have access to fun, and meaningful stories, especially during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis,” Sisodia added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-launches-a-new-reading-portal-for-kids/articleshow/79747713.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||End impasse to cut economic losses: India Inc to govt, farmers||NEW DELHI: The two premier industry bodies have urged the government and protesting farmers organisations to resolve the issues to avoid any further loss to the economy. While CII said the farmer agitation has led to supply chain disruptions, which will impact the economy in the coming days, Assocham said the protests are inflicting a heavy blow on the economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and J&K. According to Assocham’s estimate, the daily loss is pegged around roughly Rs 3,000-3,500 crore. “The size of the combined economies of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal and J&K is about Rs 18 lakh crore. With the ongoing farmers’ agitation and blockade, economic activities have come to a halt,” said Assocham president Niranjan Hiranandani. CII said farmers protests may push logistics costs up by 8-10%. Many firms are facing labour shortages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/end-impasse-to-cut-economic-losses-india-inc-to-govt-farmers/articleshow/79749846.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Campal waste: NGT asks Goa pollution board to reconsider fine to CCP||PANAJI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) said the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) order asking the Corporation for the City of Panaji (CCP) to pay a Rs 18 lakh fine for not clearing waste at Campal parade grounds should be kept on hold. It has asked the pollution board to consider the submission of the corporation that it had already cleared the garbage. The GSPCB has been given two months to issue a new order after a review of the corporation’s claims is carried out. The tribunal has, however, said that if the pollution control board finds any violation, the CCP will have to compensate for it. The tribunal, having observed that both are official bodies, has disposed of the appeal by the CCP for now. “Instead of considering the appeal by seeking the response of the state PCB, we direct the state PCB to consider the objections of the appellant on merits and pass a further order in accordance with law,” the NGT has said in its order on December 11. In June this year, the pollution control board issued a show-cause notice to the CCP commissioner as to why ‘polluter pays’ principle should not be applied to the corporation and why a fine of Rs 18 lakh should not be imposed for improper handling of garbage. The CCP was told that its dumping of waste at Campal parade grounds was in violation of environmental and solid waste management norms. The show-cause was issued after GSPCB carried out an inspection where unsegregated tree waste, construction debris, waste from desilted drains and legacy waste was found dumped at the parade ground. On September 14, 2020, the pollution control board asked CCP to deposit the sum of Rs 18 lakh as environmental compensation for improper handling of waste. But CCP filed an appeal before the NGT stating that it had already complied with directives of the GSPCB over the waste and had cleared the waste from the site at Campal accordingly. CCP said no damage was therefore caused to the environment and the ‘polluter pays’ principle cannot be applied as a result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/campal-waste-ngt-asks-pollution-board-to-reconsider-fine-to-ccp/articleshow/79748820.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Headmaster accused of raping five kids inside govt school in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The headmaster of a government primary school in Bhadradri Kothagudem district was on Tuesday charged with repeatedly raping five girls aged between 7 and 11 inside the school since August 2020. The local police have registered a case under Section 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act against the accused who is on the run. Before sexually abusing the girls the 40-year-old forced them to watch porn and later threatened to harm them if they spoke about the assault, the police said. The incident came to light when one of the survivors — a seven-year-old studying in class 2 — recently took ill and was hospitalised. “While undergoing treatment, she opened up to her mother and told her about being sexually abused by her teacher,” said Anjaiah, sub-inspector of Laxmidevpally. The hamlet falls under the jurisdiction of this mandal. Later, it was found that the headmaster had not only raped one but four other students of the same school, the SI added. “After the lockdown was relaxed, the two teachers (the headmaster also doubled up as a teacher) were going to school on rotation as regular classes were are not being conducted. Whenever the accused was on duty, he would take one of the girls from their house with him, under the pretext of teaching them, and commit the crime,” the SI said. In her statement recorded with the police on Monday, the survivor’s mother said that her daughter was hesitant about going to school every time the accused called her for a class. “Though I kept asking her, she never told me anything about why she did not want to attend his classes. Then she recently fell ill and was unable to walk properly. Even then, I did not suspect that such a thing would have happened. Only after continuously asking her for days, she told me about being sexually abused. I heard that he used to also threaten the girls with a knife to ensure they didn’t open their mouths in front of anybody,” the mother said. Police along with Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials have sent the girl for a medical examination. Her statement, along with those of the other survivors and their families, will also be recorded soon, the police said. “The accused is also from Kothagudem and our teams are on the lookout for him. We will be able to gather more details about the offence once we arrest him. We are coordinating with ICDS officials as the girls are very young,” said Sunil Dutt, SP, Bhadradri Kothagudem. The police and revenue officials are also verifying if any school or anganwadi teacher from the mandal tried to dissuade the families from approaching authorities against the teacher. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/headmaster-accused-of-raping-five-kids-inside-govt-school-in-t/articleshow/79749279.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 16, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Man shoots sister dead after she refuses to make chapatis for pet dogs||MEERUT: In a shocking incident, a 26-year-old man shot his sister, 24, dead after she refused to make chapatis for his pet dogs. In the incident that occurred late on Monday in Bhawanpur area, Ashish Singh, a property dealer by profession, got so enraged by the refusal that he shot his sister twice before calling up police himself to surrender. According to police sources, one bullet hit her head and the second in the chest, killing her on the spot. He had 18 dogs at his place and there used to be frequent tiffs between the siblings over the huge quantity of food required for them. According to police, the weapon used in the murder was also illegal. Soon after the murder, the siblings’ mother fsell unconscious and had to be admitted to a hospital where her condition is stated to be stable. According to neighbours, Singh was very fond of street dogs. “So much was his obsession with dogs that he did not even marry as he thought this would create problems with his future wife. On Monday night, he asked his sister to make rotis for the dogs, which she refused and rebuked him. Enraged over her refusal, he shot her twice,” said superintendent of police (rural) Keshav Kumar. According to police sources, the accused showed no remorse after the murder and was his usual self. His neighbours said Singh was short-tempered and would pick up fights over petty matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-shoots-sister-dead-after-she-refuses-to-make-chapatis-for-pet-dogs/articleshow/79745567.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||UP: With 18,000 patients, active Covid-19 cases dip to 3%||LUCKNOW: Even as the active number of Covid-19 patients in UP hovers around 3%, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials to continue the effective management of prevention and treatment of the pandemic infection here on Tuesday. As per official data, only 18,328 of the total 5,68,064 were active as on Tuesday. Presiding over a high-level team-11 review meeting, the CM also told officials to pay special attention to Lucknow where over 2,800 active cases are under treatment. Meerut follows next with 1,700 active infections. The CM instructed officials to ensure that Integrated Command and Control Centre must remain active in all districts despite declining case load. “DMs and CMOs should compulsorily hold meetings at Covid-19 hospitals in the morning and at the Integrated Command and Control Centres in the evening and plan strategies for the future,” the CM instructed. He said that contact tracing and surveillance activities must be continued in the top gear and reiterated that testing has played the most crucial role in breaking the infection chain. He also said that specialist doctors must regularly take rounds of Covid-19 wards as this will make better treatment accessible to patients. Directing to further strengthen the ambulance services, the CM said that consideration should be made for its decentralisation at district or divisional level. “Keeping in mind the availability of Covid-19 vaccine in near future, the training work of vaccinators should be carried out swiftly and this should be monitored continuously by senior officers,” he said. Later, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said that of the total active cases in the state, 8,132 are under home isolation while the remaining were in hospitals. He also informed reporters that the total number of recoveries in the state reached 5,41,579 with 1852 new entries. The state also recorded the death of 20 persons due to Covid-19 complications which took the toll to 8103.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-18k-patients-active-covid-19-cases-dip-to-3/articleshow/79748816.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 16, 2020||Meerut||Noida builder arrested by Meerut EOW for laundering Rs 98 crore of bike bot scam money||MEERUT: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Uttar Pradesh Police in Meerut has arrested Noida builder Satendra Singh Bhasin for allegedly laundering Rs 98 crore of investors’ money in the bike bot scam in his real estate projects. This comes over a fortnight after Dinesh Pandey, another such launderer, was arrested from Delhi airport for illegally investing Rs 150 crore of investors’ money in the scam. A resident of Delhi, Bhasin, already facing several probes of real estate fraud by Delhi unit of EOW, was currently out on bail. According to EOW sleuths in Meerut, Bhasin, one of the accused in the bike bot scam, received Rs 98 crore in accounts of his infrastructure firms to be invested in his projects. To keep books clean, the illegally received money was shown to be invested in infrastructure projects and an allotment letter for the same was issued by Bhasin to Garvit Innovative promoters Pvt limited (GIPL), the parent company in the bike bot scam. “There was no legal agreement or registered deed for those properties in the name of GIPL,” superintendent of police (EOW) Ram Suresh Yadav said. Garvit Innovative Promoters Limited, a Noida-registered company, had in 2018 come out with a multi-level marketing scheme, called ‘bike bot’, and lured investors with the promise of double returns in a year. They sought Rs 62,100 each in investment for a motorcycle taxi and assured monthly returns besides doubling the investment amount in just one year but failed to deliver on the promise. The firm has duped around 2.25 lakh investors to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore across UP, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh, the probe agency claimed. As of now, the EOW’s Meerut wing is probing 68 FIRs registered in the case and a total of 20 accused have been arrested. Nine of these arrested accused with five carrying rewards of Rs 50,000 each were arrested in the last 2-3 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/noida-builder-arrested-by-meerut-eow-for-laundering-rs-98-cr-of-bike-bot-scam-money/articleshow/79745577.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Cong misguiding farmers, says education minister||Haridwar: Union education minister and Haridwar MP Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said that Congress is behind the ongoing farmers’ protest and its leaders are misguiding the farmers. Addressing a press conference in Haridwar on Tuesday, he said that the three new farm bills are very crucial and will help in doubling the income of the farmers. “Neither the MSP nor Mandi system will be affected,” he said. The minister also held a meeting with Kumbh Mela officials and asked the official to complete all related works within stipulated time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-misguiding-farmers-says-education-minister/articleshow/79745579.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Rajini aide house, from where MSK registered, abuzz||CHENNAI: Door no 10 on First Street of Balaji Nagar at Ernavur in Chennai was the source of intriguing suspense in political circles all Tuesday. The single-storied building located in a calm neighbourhood in Tiruvottriyur assembly constituency in North Chennai was the address given for registering a political outfit - Makkal Sevai Katchi (People’s Service Party). The outfit mentions actor Rajnikanth’s name in its application to the Election Commission. A neighbour said the property belonged to A J Stalin (Joseph Stalin) of the Rajini Makkal Mandram. “He (Stalin) rarely comes here. He is associated with Rajinikanth’s fans clubs and the Mandram,” said Nagapushanam, one of the neighbours. Joseph Stalin was the RMM’s Thoothukudi district secretary. He has been associated with Rajinikanth and his fans clubs for more than three decades.  Meanwhile, RMM administrator V M Sudhakar issued a statement, urging Mandram members and office-bearers “to ignore media reports and to be patient and wait for an official communication” from the leadership. He neither concurred with nor denied that Rajinikanth’s close aide had registered a party and it was allocated the “autorickshaw” symbol from a common pool of symbols.  “We received a circular asking us not to react nor take the news seriously until we receive a communication from the leadership (Rajinikanth himself),” said a district secretary. Insiders said the party’s high-level committee, led by actor Rajinikanth's confidantes, Ra Arjunamurthy and Tamilaruvi Manian, had been working behind closed doors to devise strategies and policies for the actor to make announcements about the launch of the party on New Year’s eve. “They want to reserve the surprise element and we are also particular that we should hear it from Thalaivar,” said another functionary.  In Eranavur, Rani, Stalin’s tenant, said, “We are here for more than a year now. But we have not seen him even once. We usually do online transfer of the monthly rent. We are not aware of a political party being registered in this address.” She said many visited the house since Tuesday morning to make inquiries. Repeated attempts to reach Stalin failed.  TOI published a report titled, ‘Rajini’s name in TN party’s poll application’, on Tuesday about the newly registered party Makkal Sevai Katchi by the RMM member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-aide-house-from-where-msk-registered-abuzz/articleshow/79746417.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
December 16, 2020||Agra||Barn owl injured by kite manjha in Taj Nature Walk in Agra||AGRA: A Barn Owl was injured by a kite manja in Taj Nature Walk in Agra. It’s currently receiving intensive medical treatment at the Wildlife SOS transit facility. According to the NGO officials, forest department officials at Taj Nature Walk found a Barn Owl caught in a Chinese manja (glass-coated nylon string) which was entangled around its left wing. A closer look confirmed that the dangerous kite string had cut into the wing. The forest official alerted the Wildlife SOS rescue unit which rushed to the location and transferred the injured owl to their Animal hospital for further treatment and care. Deputy director, veterinary services for Wildlife SOS Dr S Ilayaraja said, “The bird has sustained soft tissue damages in the left wing. We are currently providing laser therapy and other medication. It will be released to its natural habitat once it has fully recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/barn-owl-injured-by-kite-manjha-in-taj-nature-walk/articleshow/79745588.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Only 3 qualify for GPSC written test||Panaji: Of the 3,000 candidates who answered the CBRT for junior scale officers (JSO), only three have qualified for the written test, said chairman of the Goa Public Service Commission (GPSC) Jose Manual Noronha. GPSC had advertised for 22 positions of JSO in January this year and had received around 3,700 applications for the openings. The screening test was scheduled for March but was postponed due to the pandemic and the commission decided to conduct a pre-screening test prior to the screening exam. Noronha said that of the 3,000 applicants, 101 were eligible to answer the screening exam held on December 13 and only three candidates were declared successful. “These candidates will now have to answer the written exam which comprises four papers of 250 marks. This will be followed by an interview carrying 40 marks,” Noronha said. Meanwhile, the commission conducted a screening examination for the post of civil registrar in the law department where around 310 candidates had applied for four positions— 2 in general category , 1 in OBC and 1 in ST category . Of the 310, 11 candidates cleared the exam in general category while five cleared in OBC category and seven in ST category. These candidates will now have to answer an interview for final selection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-3-qualify-for-gpsc-written-test/articleshow/79748879.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||Civic body tells court it has rejected plea by MIT on Pune's Vetal Tekdi road||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in a written say filed on Tuesday, has contended that it had recently rejected MAEER’s MIT group’s plea for retention and regularization of the contentious kuccha road the college has built on the Vetal Tekdi’s slope. The civic body also said the civil court has no jurisdiction to try the suit initiated by the MIT group against the work to demolish the kuccha road. The next hearing is on December 22. On December 8, the civil court had issued an interim status quo order, bringing the PMC’s road demolition work to a halt. The court had told the PMC to file a written say and the matter is due for a hearing over confirmation of the interim stay order, and other prayers mentioned in the MIT’s suit application. PMC’s chief law officer Manjusha Idhate told TOI, “We have prayed to the court to reject MIT’s stay application primarily on the grounds that the PMC recently rejected their application for regularization and retention of the structure. In our written say, we maintained that MAEER’s MIT had applied for regularisation and retention of the structure (after commencing the road construction work) under Section 44 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act. The PMC recently rejected their application because there is no provision on constructions in the hilltop/ hillslope zone as per Pune’s Development Control and Promotion Regulations. The decision on constructions on hilltop/ hillslope zones is pending with the state government,” she said. If an application under Section 44 is rejected by the planning authority (here, the PMC), the petitioners’ only remedy is to approach the state government and not the civil court, Idhate added. “Our say is that since we rejected their application, the civil court has no jurisdiction to try this suit and, hence, the stay application be rejected. Our argument will be heard on December 22.” City engineer Prashant Waghmare also confirmed to TOI on Tuesday that the civic body had rejected MIT’s application seeking regularisation of the road building activity on the tekdi’s slope. Mangesh Karad, executive director and secretary of MAEER’S MIT Group, said, “The matter is in court and I do not want to comment on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-tells-court-it-has-rejected-plea-by-mit-on-vetal-tekdi-road/articleshow/79746421.cms||Neha Madaan
December 16, 2020||Pune||Rider follows word on water supply from Pune's Bhama Askhed||PUNE: The irrigation department has now come up with a rider for the civic body to ensure assured supply of 2.65 TMC water to the city’s eastern parts following completion of the Bhama Askhed pipeline. The irrigation department wants the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to reduce its lifting of water by 2,67 TMC from Khadakwasla once the latter starts using water from the Bhama Askhed dam. The current contract allows the PMC to lift 11.5 TMC water from Khadakwasla every year. TimesViewThe civic body and the irrigation department frequently engage in a tussle over lifting of water amid threats of stopping supply. There cannot be any doubt related to the judicious use of water, both for drinking and irrigation purposes. But one must remember that the population in areas under the PMC limits has increased to over 50 lakh now from 35 lakh in 2011. It is time to revise the water quota and put a stop to the constant bickering.PMC officials said the irrigation department’s advice to the civic administration to utilize less water would affect water distribution in the city. An official said Pune’s population has grown fast after 2011, when the water quota was fixed at 11.5 TMC. Eleven villages were merged in the city limits two years ago. Twenty-three more villages are supposed to be merged in the municipal limits. The official said any reduction in the existing quota would not be feasible for the civic body to ensure seamless distribution of water. Aniruddha Pawaskar, head of the PMC’s water supply department, said, “We are not considering any reduction in water quota. We have not received any letter from the irrigation department.” An official said the civic administration was looking forward to a revision of water quota to 18 TMC, considering the increased population. “The PMC wants at least 18 TMC water. Even if we get water from Bhama Askhed, the city’s demand will not be fulfilled. There is no question of any reduction in the existing water quota,” said Vivek Velankar of citizens’ group Sajag Nagrik Manch. An irrigation department official said, “The PMC is advised to reduce lifting of water from Khadakwasla in proportion to the quantum of water it will use from Bhama Askhed. For instance, if PMC lifts 2 TMC water from Bhama Askhed, it should reduce the same quantum of water use from Khadakwasla.” Over 10 lakh citizens of the eastern parts of Pune along Ahmednagar Road, including Wadgaonsheri, Chandannagar, Lohegaon, Dhanori and Kharadi are expected to get assured water supply from the PMC that recently completed the Bhama Askhed pipeline. Water will come from the dam 50km away in Khed taluka via the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rider-follows-word-on-water-supply-from-bhama-askhed/articleshow/79746408.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Soon, children can learn moral values from characters of Panchtantra Van at Raj Bhavan||LUCKNOW: The jungles of the famed ‘Panchtantra’ tales are about to come alive in Lucknow. There would soon be a ‘Panchtantra Van’ in the heart of the city, proposed at Raj Bhavan. As the name goes, Panchtantra Van would be a green space depicting tales from Panchtantra, a celebrated collection of stories that talk of moral values and righteous behaviour. The Awadh forest division would create the park on the premises of Raj Bhavan on the directions of governor Anandiben Patel, who wishes that more children visit Raj Bhavan. In February, an allocation of Rs 1.2 crore was made in the state budget for the project, the construction of which will be completed by April 2021. UP Samaj Kalyan Nirman Nigam Ltd will be the executing agency. The aim of the park would be to make children and other visitors aware of the morals depicted in the stories through sculptures and 3D models of the characters such as Pingalaka the lion, crows, tortoises, red-faced monkeys, four types of deer, and exotic birds not regularly found in the Indian subcontinent. Light and sound effects would add to the experience. The presentation on how the concept would be implemented was made on December 3 at Raj Bhavan in a meeting with senior officials from Raj Bhavan and other agencies. “It was decided in the meeting that no tree at Raj Bhavan would be cut to create the van,” said DFO Awadh Ravi Kumar Singh. A footpath, water fountain, entry gate, lighting and music system would also be made. Informative placards on birds and animal kingdom would add to the attraction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-children-can-learn-moral-values-from-characters-of-panchtantra-van-at-raj-bhavan/articleshow/79748868.cms||Neha Shukla
December 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu elections: Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam to hit campaign trail in January||CHENNAI: Anticipating assembly election in April 2021, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy, O Panneerselvam will hit the campaign trail in January, around Pongal. “EPS and OPS have made arrangements to source campaign vehicles with additional features from Salem, Namakkal and Coimbatore,” a senior leader said.  Party sources said the leadership hinted at continuing the existing alliance and bringing on board a few fringe outfits in the western belt. “The leaders said they anticipate the election commission to issue notification in March and schedule the assembly election in the third week of April. They said the campaign should begin in January to cover all the areas, just like DMK chief M K Stalin has planned,” said a leader.  The AIADMK’s annual general council and executive committee meeting would be held by December-end when the high-level panels are expected to authorise the leadership to take a call on alliance-related issues. The last executive committee meeting on held in September saw dissent between the EPS, OPS camps before the CM candidature of Palaniswami and setting up steering panels were announced.  In a one-on-one meeting with the district secretaries and zonal in charge for more than three hours on Monday, the leaders took stock of the organisation and its strength in the assembly constituencies with a few functionaries discussing prospective candidates.  A slew of directions was issued in order to put in place the grassroots structures, booth level committees, women committees, Ilaignar Ilampengal Pasarai (young men and women’s wing) in every booth and IT wing teams in each panchayat in rural areas and wards in urban areas by December-end. This would enable systematic micro-management, leaders said.  Even as the churn in state politics is imminent against the backdrop of actor Rajinikanth’s political debut, deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said voters would endorse the AIADMK for its good governance and welfare schemes. “Certainly, people will vote for us as we stand with them. We have not only kept the party together after the demise of our leader (J Jayalalithaa), our government has kept people happy for the last four years. It succeeded in effectively handling Covid for which the chief minister toured the districts,” the AIADMK leader said. With the opposition DMK and allies taking on the ruling camp on alleged corruption, the AIADMK leadership told partymen to counter it by talking about the 2G scam against its arch-rival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-ops-to-hit-campaign-trail-in-jan/articleshow/79746407.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 16, 2020||India||Punjab ‘farm widows’ rally with pics of dead to highlight crisis||JALANDHAR/BATHINDA/PATIALA: The ‘Dilli Chalo’ move by farm groups is attracting farmers and non-farmers alike in Punjab. It is gathering pace even over 20 days since the protest began despite the December chill and deaths of some of the protesters. Farm union leaders said they have been going by a ‘one person from one family’ policy, but people have been flocking to Delhi on their own too. On Tuesday, widows of farmers who committed suicide due to debt or other agriculture-related issues, left for Delhi’s Tikri border carrying photographs of their deceased family members. They will stay for some days in the pandals of farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). District and tehsil units were asked to prepare lists of farm suicide-hit families, asking them to keep information ready on when the farmer committed suicide, the reason and how he took his life. If debt was the reason, families have been asked to collect details of the debt amount, landholding of the family, and whether the family received any compensation. “The governments are portraying a rosy picture of farmers in Punjab though the reality is otherwise. Victim families will narrate their tales of woes at Delhi. We want their voices to be heard,” said farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke. Farm unions claimed that thousands of farmers were committing suicide in Punjab every year, but most of these are not recorded. The National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data shows that nearly 300 farmers and farm labourers have ended their lives in Punjab in four years. To boost the agitation at Delhi borders, the farmers in numerous villages are moving towards Delhi under village-level committees. “Every fifth day, a group of 25 farmers is being sent to Delhi in a bus or van, in which a few of the protesters return after spending a week at Delhi borders,” said Kahlemajra sarpanch Bhupinder Singh. Sukhdev Singh Kokari Kalan, BKU Ekta Ugrahan Punjab general secretary said, “Around six buses carrying families of farm suicide victims from Sangrur, two buses each from Mansa and Barnala, one bus each from Patiala and Moga and three buses and two tractors from Bathinda have already left for Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-farm-widows-rally-with-pics-of-dead-to-highlight-crisis/articleshow/79749847.cms||IP Singh
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Antigen test mandatory for MLAs before assembly session: Speaker||DEHRADUN: The seating arrangements for state legislators were finalised for the upcoming three-day-long winter session of Uttarakhand assembly, commencing from December 21, on Tuesday. As per the arrangements, 29 legislators would take seats in the main hall and 11 would be provided seating arrangements in the three pavilions. The remaining 30 legislators have been given seats in room number 107 of the new building “Prakash Pant Bhawan” in the assembly campus. Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal inspected the arrangements and reviewed the plans with senior assembly authorities. He is scheduled to review the security aspects on Wednesday. “The preparations are underway and we are ensuring that social distancing norms, proper sanitisation, and other coronavirus-related guidelines are strictly followed during the three-day session. A limited number of people would be allowed inside the assembly premises.” All the legislators would have to undergo a rapid antigen test before the session. Those found Covid-19 positive would not be permitted to enter the assembly premises. “These tests would be conducted well before time so that there is hindrance in the smooth conduct of the session. I would like to appeal all the lawmakers to get their tests done,” said Aggarwal. The Speaker also pointed out that the opinion of legislators was sought for virtual connectivity of the assembly proceedings. However, most of the MLAs were in favour of making a physical presence in the assembly. For the three-day session, the Speaker, till Tuesday, received 462 questions. On the first day of the session, tributes would be paid to the four former legislators who passed away in the last few months. Meanwhile, a meeting of the business advisory committee has been called on December 20 to discuss the proceedings of the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rapid-antigen-test-of-all-mlas-mandatory-before-assembly-session-speaker-prem-chand-aggarwal/articleshow/79745625.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 16, 2020||Pune||Police submit list of corrective steps for safe travel on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass||Pune: The city traffic police, after a through study of an accident-prone stretch of the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, have compiled a list of corrective measures to reduce mishaps, especially at Bhoomkar Chowk and Navale bridge. The extensive study covered a 10km stretch from New Katraj Tunnel to Vadgaon Bridge (on Sinhagad Road). The police have submitted their recommendations to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Police have recommended 24 corrective measures, such as digital sign boards at various points, rumbler strips, reflectors, speed limit signs, precautions, realignment of entry and exit points, installation of safety railings, and filling potholes, among others. “These are among primary steps to reduce accidents on the stretch. We are holding discussions with NHAI and hope the measures are implemented soon,” deputy commissioner of police Rahul Shrirame said. Senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke and an NHAI team visited all the spots and discussed these measures on Saturday.The study was commissioned after a major accident near Navale bridge, in which four persons died after a speeding truck ploughed through several vehicles. This spot has witnessed many accidents in the past, primarily because of a gradual slope (from New Katraj tunnel to Vadgaon Bridge), drowsy drivers and poorly maintained trucks, police said.“Right now, we are focusing on reducing the speed of heavy vehicles on the bypass. There are many spots on the bypass where improvements are required — rumbler strips, blinkers, digital sign boards, speed limit boards and others,” Shrirame added.“We have also requested NHAI to install fresh sign boards diverting heavy vehicles to the first lane from the leftmost lane,” he said.NHAI general manager (Pune) S D Chitnis said they have already implemented some suggestions. “Rumbler strips and warning signs are in place. We will implement the other measures soon,” Chitnis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-submit-list-of-corrective-steps-for-safe-travel-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass/articleshow/79746438.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Meerut||Many come forward to adopt rescued homeless boy||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A day after the homeless boy and his dog was traced by police -- after a photo of the two sharing a blanket and sleeping outside a closed shop on a chilly winter night had gone viral -- several families have come forward to adopt the child. The child, who is about 9-10 years, is now under observation of the child and women welfare department. He is being counselled by the CWC committee, and the administration is making all effort to bring him into the mainstream. The police department is planning to induct him into Modern Police School, as private institutions are reluctant to give admission due to lack of previous education. Abhishek Yadav, Muzaffarnagar SSP, has also asked SHO Anil Kaparwan to induct him into Modern Police School, if no one comes to help him. According to Mohammad Mushfakeen, chief officer in the child and women welfare department, "After coming to know that the boy was under the care of the district police, we have taken him under our observation. He is now kept at a shelter home and is being counselled. Some families have approached us and are keen to adopt the child. We can give him to such a family under the policy of the government, called foster care, but first, we have to trace his family." Notably, Ankit doesn’t remember where he belongs to, except the fact that his father is in jail, and that his mother has abandoned him. He knows no one and survives by selling balloons or working at tea stalls. He sleeps on the footpath with his only friend -- Danny, a dog, who stays with him always. Life had been like this for Ankit for the last several years. Whatever Ankit earned during the day, was spent in feeding himself and Danny. A fortnight ago, a person clicked a picture of the sleeping boy and the dog sharing one blanket on a chilly night outside a closed shop. The photo soon went viral, prompting the police to launch a search for the child. The boy was finally found on Monday morning in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/many-come-forward-to-adopt-rescued-homeless-boy/articleshow/79745618.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC dismisses petitions challenging election of five BJP MLAs||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) last week dismissed the election petitions, filed by Congress leaders, challenging the election of five BJP MLAs – Munna Singh Chauhan, Khajan Das, Adesh Kumar Chauhan, Vijay Singh Panwar and Ganesh Joshi. The election petitions were filed by Congress leaders – Nav Prabhat, Raj Kumar, Ambrish Kumar, Godavari Thapli and Vikram Singh Negi — alleging that rigged EVM machines favoured BJP candidates in 2017 assembly elections. The BJP MLAs, however, had been terming these petitions as baseless. The single judge bench of Justice Lok Pal Singh delivered his judgement last Tuesday dismissing these petitions on the grounds of defective verification as the petitioners failed to show any cause of action. “Neither any ground of corrupt practice is found in the election petition, nor any cause of action has been averred in the election petition,” read the judgement. The judgement further said “the election petition cannot be entertained and will have to be rejected at the threshold” unless the petitioners prove the allegation of corrupt practices in election petitions by legally acceptable evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-dismisses-petitions-challenging-election-of-five-bjp-mlas/articleshow/79745599.cms||Prashant Jha
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||No DNA match: Bombay HC frees man given life for rape||MUMBAI: Nearly two years after being sentenced to life imprisonment by a Pocso court for raping a six-year-old girl in 2014, a 28-year-old man was exonerated by the Bombay HC on Monday as DNA of the semen recovered from her dress did not match with the blood sample taken from him. The HC said the child’s inconsistent testimony alone could not be used to convict the accused, reports Rosy Sequeira. The child was sleeping on the pavement with her family on August 21, 2014, when she disappeared between 2am and 6am. Her mother found her crying nearby and brutalised with a broom. The accused was arrested after the mother said he had ill-intention toward her and her daughter. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Makarand Karnik on Monday quashed and set aside the February 5, 2019 conviction. “We find it unsafe to convict the accused only on the basis of the testimony of the victim without there being further corroboration to her testimony showing the complicity of the accused,” wrote Justice Karnik for the bench. His advocate Tanveer Khan argued that the special judge had erred as the possibility of false implication could not be ruled out. Prosecutor F R Shaikh said evidence on record showed beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused was responsible for the offence. The judges said the child’s testimony about the identity of the accused appeared inconsistent. She identified him as her father’s friend, but also deposed that she had not seen him prior to the incident. She also said he used to come to meet her father and that she knew him well. The trial court disregarded that she could have been tutored by her mother as the child had been staying at an ashram. But the HC judges said the victim’s evidence was recorded on November 26, 2019, and it is “improbable” her mother would have not met her all these years. The judges then considered the forensic evidence. The forensic report revealed that the DNA profile of semen on her frock and blood sample of the appellant was not from the same paternal progeny. The trial court had “brushed aside” the DNA profile saying evidence of the victim, the medical officer and the injury report clearly prove the heinous act was committed by the accused. “The evidence of the victim, the medical evidence firmly establishes the brutality of the assault, but the forensic reports do not support the case that the appellant is the perpetrator...It is therefore not possible to uphold the conviction..,” the judges concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-dna-match-hc-frees-man-given-life-for-rape/articleshow/79748878.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Before moon, Raja Jon Vurputoor Chari to fly NASA's SpaceX crew to ISS||HYDERABAD: Days after being chosen by Nasa for the moon mission in 2024, Indian-American astronaut with roots in Telangana, Raja Jon Vurputoor Chari, has now been selected for another space mission. Chari will be among three astronauts selected by the Nasa and European Space Agency (ESA) to serve as crew members for the NASA’s SpaceX Crew-3 mission to the international space station (ISS). The launch is scheduled for next year. “Excited and honoured to be training in preparation for the trip,” Chari said in a tweet. He will train with two other astronauts — Rom Marshburn and Mathhias Maurer — who have been selected for the mission to the ISS. Nasa announced that Chari will serve as a commander, Marshburn as pilot and Maurer as mission specialist. Another crew member will also be selected later. “This will be the first space flight for Chari,” the Nasa said. It will be Maurer’s first trip to spaceIt will also be Maurer’s first trip to space. “When Raja Chari, Marshburn and Maurer arrive at the orbiting laboratory, they will be made expedition crew members for the duration of their six-month stay,” Nasa said. For more than 20 years humans have lived and worked continuously aboard the ISS advancing scientific knowledge and demonstrating new technologies, making research breakthroughs not possible on earth. As a global endeavour, 242 people from 19 countries visited the unique microgravity laboratory that has hosted more than 3,000 research and educational investigations from researchers in 108 countries and areas, Nasa said. Raja Chari’s father Srinivas Chari from Mahbubnagar pursued his studies in Osmania University in Hyderabad and later migrated to the US in the 1950s. Chari was recently selected as one among the 18-member ‘Artemis team’ of Nasa which has planned a lunar exploration programme for a human to stay on the moon. The mission also includes, as Nasa said, ‘going around the moon’. Chari, who was born in Milwaukee, is a colonel in the US Air Force with 2,500 hours of flight time and became a Nasa astronaut in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/before-moon-raja-jon-vurputoor-chari-to-fly-nasas-spacex-crew-to-iss/articleshow/79749281.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sub-inspector held while accepting Rs 20,000 bribe||MUMBAI: Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday caught a sub-inspector red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000, and another person. Bharat Dhembre (39), attached to Charkop police station, had demanded Rs40,000 and a bottle of whisky to return an assault case accused’s phone, CCTV footage, DVR and for excluding his father’s name from the case. An ACB source said the complainant worked for a firm which had a contract for clean-up marshals from BMC. The firm’s workers are told to spot people not wearing masks and take action. Few days back, the complainant fined a person for not wearing a mask at Mahavir Nagar, Kandivili. The person fined and his family went to the ACB complainant’s residence and had an argument, which allegedly turned into a fight and the person fined sustained head injuries. He approached Charkop police and lodged an assault case against the ACB complainant and his brother. Police arrested the ACB complainant and his brother, seized his phone, CCTV footage and DVR. They were later released on bail. When the complainant approached Dhembre to get his phone and other items, Dhembre told him to get it from court. The complainant spoke to a man and told him to get the seized material. The person later told the complainant he will have to give Rs20,000 and a whisky bottle Dhembre for the seized items, and another Rs20,000 for excluding his father’s name. The amount was reduced to Rs20,000 after negotiations. The complainant then approached ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sub-inspector-held-while-accepting-rs20k-bribe/articleshow/79747117.cms||Mateen Hafeez
December 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another endangered cat in Gujarat safe haven||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat seems to have emerged as one of the last safe havens for yet another endangered cat in India — the Asian caracal. The semi-arid region of Kutch is one of the only two homes in India for the cat species. According to a research report the caracal’s presence has been noted in only three states, with merely two possible viable populations. The report was titled ‘Historical and current extent of occurrence of the Caracal in India’ and was published on December 14 in Journal of Threatened Texa. These two viable populations are found in the marshy areas of Kutch district — the higher areas closer to Kalo Dungar with grassy scrubland; and in Rajasthan’s Sawai Madhopur, Karoli, and Dholpur districts.  The paper, authored by Dharmendra Khandal, Ishan Dhar, and Goddilla Vishwanath Reddy focuses on the historical and current extent of the occurrence of caracals in India between 1616 and April 2020. The researchers have collated 134 reports covering this period. Historically, the cat was reported in 13 Indian states. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists caracals as species of ‘least concern’, mainly due to their large numbers in Africa. But in India they are considered ‘endangered’. “This could be our last chance to save the species before it is wiped out from India like the cheetah,” said Khandal, a conservation biologist at Tiger Watch. “It is difficult to say how many caracals survive in the wild today, but their numbers are very low.” Khandal said that in Kutch, special efforts need to be taken to ensure the conservation of the caracal habitat. “Studies on the impact of human settlement, infrastructure development, and depleting scrubland on the species need to be carried out,” Khandal said. According to the study, in Gujarat 19 reports of sightings of caracals were found, all in Kutch district. Nine were authenticated by photographs. In Gir, the success story of Asiatic lions has already become a model for conservation, with constant patrolling against poachers as a feature. In the past, it was believed that there were as many as eighteen sub-species of caracals. But currently researchers believe there are only three, said Khandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-endangered-cat-in-guj-safe-haven/articleshow/79747857.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 16, 2020||Lucknow||Patients at KGMU disregard protocols, pose risk for all||LUCKNOW: Safety measures are taking a back seat not only in markets and public places but in hospitals too. In a reality check on Tuesday, TOI found that Covid-19 safety protocols such as social distancing and masks were missing in the triage area, outside the OPD building and around the Covid testing facility of King George’s Medical University (KGMU). Patients and their attendants were standing close to each other and in groups. Though some were wearing masks, many were spotted without face cover or wearing it in an improper manner. Some were also found moving freely on the campus. “All people coming to the Covid testing facility are suspected. Only after the test is it confirmed whether they are positive. However, if anyone of them is infected, she/he can easily spread to others. Hence, it is important for all of them to follow protocols while standing in queue,” said a professor. Emergency cases have to report to the triage area after arrival where they are screened and sent to the holding area where samples are taken for tests. If the test is positive, the patient is sent to a Covid treatment facility and if negative, the patient is shifted to the department concerned, depending on the ailment. “Till the test report arrives, all patients and attendants need to be careful, because if anyone of them is positive, she/he may transmit infection,” said another professor. KGMU has made arrangements to check overcrowding inside the OPD building. Patients are sent one by one as per the appointment time allotted. Only those with Covid negative reports are allowed in. “However, overcrowding outside the building poses a risk,” said a resident doctor. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said, “Guards will be given instructions to check overcrowding and ensure that people stand on the circles made on the floor to maintain distance and wear masks in a proper manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patients-at-kgmu-disregard-protocols-pose-risk-for-all/articleshow/79748883.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 16, 2020||Agra||‘Muslim League’ will not be allowed to take birth and will be crushed if it happens: BJP Aligarh dist chief||AGRA: BJP's Aligarh district president Chaudhary Rishi Pal Singh has said that ‘Muslim League’ will not be allowed to take birth in the country again and will be crushed if it happens. Singh was talking to reporters on Monday on the first anniversary of December 15 violence on the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus last year following students’ protests over CAA, which left over 70 persons, including students and security forces personnel, injured. “Teachers and students of AMU, who are following the Communist ideology, will have to change their mindset. Now, the country will not be run the way they want,” he said, adding “Muslims League will be crushed if it takes birth in the country.” Reacting to a candle march being taken out by AMU students on the campus on Monday to observe ‘black day of democracy’ on December 15 to “remember the night of terror, blood and brutality”, Singh said that this is not a nationalist approach. Since the Modi government came to power, riots and such disruptive powers have been controlled, he added. Meanwhile, a heavy police force was deployed outside the varsity campus to maintain law and order. The police force was directed not to use “force” without orders from seniors. Later, a small gathering was also organised by students on the campus, where the students who were injured or detained by the police, were invited to share their experiences of the day of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/muslim-league-will-not-be-allowed-to-take-birth-and-will-be-crushed-if-it-happens-bjp-aligarh-dist-chief/articleshow/79745628.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 16, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Drones for delivery of vaccines in remote hills?||DEHRADUN: With talks of vaccine roll-out in the country shortly, trials are underway in Uttarakhand to see if the shots can be delivered to remote hilly areas in Uttarakhand using drones. In the first trial, a fixed-wing drone carried a box of medicines in an ice box from Dehradun to Mussoorie in November. The to and fro journey took an hour. Speaking to TOI, director of Uttarakhand Drone Application and Research Centre (DARC) Amit Sinha said, “This can be a time and cost effective way to deliver vaccines. Transporting vials of vaccine across short distances and to inaccessible and treacherous zones are the first among many targets.” To recall, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was used to transport blood samples for over 36 kilometres from a remote primary health centre (PHC) in Tehri district to the district hospital in June 2019. It would have taken 70 to 100 minutes to cover the distance by road. The drone managed it in 18 minutes. However, vaccines need to be stored at temperatures as low as -5 to -80 degrees Celsius. “We are working on ways to control the temperature. So far, we have managed to get it down to 5 to 7 degrees Celsius. Technical guidance has been sought from experts,” he said. Sinha added that the state will need permission from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) before the process starts. “The payload will be heavy, so a go-ahead from the DGCA is a must,” he said. Uttarakhand has sent a list of 94,000 healthcare workers to the Centre for inoculation. It includes nurses, doctors, paramedical staff, medical students, ASHAs, ANMs and other health department employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-plans-to-transport-vaccines-to-remote-areas-using-drones-experts-say-maintaining-extremely-low-temperature-to-preserve-the-shots-will-be-a-task/articleshow/79745630.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 16, 2020||Pune||Bike-borne crooks snatch gold chains||Pune: Three gold chains, collectively worth Rs1.2 lakh, were snatched from women in the Pimpri Chinchwad area over the past three days. Around 6.30am on Monday, a 46-year-old woman was on her daily morning walk on Bijleenagar Road in Chinchwad when a man snatched her gold chain and sped away on a motorcycle with his accomplice. Around 5am on Saturday, a 75-year-old resident of Nigdi Pradhikaran, out on morning walk, was plucking flowers when two men on a motorcycle snatched her gold chain worth Rs30,000 and drove away. About two hours later, a 57-year-old woman was walking to her workplace when two bike-borne men snatched her gold chain worth Rs35,000 from near Morwadi Chowk in Pimpri, police said. “We have asked our crime units to patrol the roads early morning,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bike-borne-crooks-snatch-gold-chains/articleshow/79746478.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Pune||SC sets aside National Green Tribunal order against Pune realty firm||PUNE: The Supreme Court has set aside a November 17 order by the National Green Tribunal’s principal bench in Delhi, which imposed a hefty penalty on a city realty firm and stopped the construction of a residential-cum-commercial complex in Chikhali. The order, directing the firm — Chinchwad-based Sai Baba Sales Private Limited — to pay an interim environmental compensation of Rs2 crore, was issued in response to an application alleging the absence of environment clearances and violation of various green norms for the project. “... (we) remit the matter back to the tribunal with a direction to give an opportunity of hearing to the (realty firm) and pass appropriate order afresh,” a bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi said on December 11. The SC also took note of a submission by the firm’s lawyer, Huzefa Ahmadi, that “the appellant shall not proceed with the construction without complying with statutory norms”. It directed the parties to appear before the NGT in the second week of January. Lawyer Saurabh Kulkarni, who assisted Ahmadi, told TOI, “We moved the SC stating that NGT did not issue a notice before constituting a committee to inspect the project site, nor did it give us an opportunity to respond the committee’s report before passing the (challenged) order.” In the matter before the NGT, applicant Tanaji Gambhire had called for the demolition of an “illegal” structure by the firm at its ‘Sai Exotica’ project in Chikhali. He contended that 29,000sqm was already constructed on, and that there was a proposal to increase the capacity to 49,012sqm. He pointed out that all constructions of over 20,000sqm need clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA). On July 9, the NGT constituted a three-member panel comprising representatives of SEIAA, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the Pune municipal commissioner. The Panel submitted its report on August 24, based on which NGT directed remedial steps, imposed the interim compensation, and directed that no further construction shall take place without compliance. It is the firm’s case that it came to know about NGT’s order only through newspapers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sc-sets-aside-ngt-order-against-pune-realty-firm/articleshow/79746464.cms||Vishwas Kothari
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||Minor among 4 held in Dumka gang-rape case||DUMKA: Four more accused, including a juvenile, were arrested in connection with the December 8 gang rape of a mother of five allegedly by over two dozen culprits, police said on Tuesday. So far, five people were arrested in connection with the crime, which police said was committed by 13 culprits as opposed to 17 claimed by the survivor. Dumka SP Ambar Lakda said, "Three of the arrested culprits were identified as Bodilal Hasda, Santosh Hembrom, Manoj Hasda, all in their early 20s, while the other is a 16-year-old minor. They were arrested from their hideouts near Ghasipur village under Muffassil police station and forwarded to jail after producing them in a court here. The minor is sent to a juvenile home." He further said, "After cross-checking the statement of the 35-year-old survivor, we have concluded that 13 people and not 17 raped her. The undergarments of the arrested persons were seized for forensic examination and raids are on to nab the remaining culprits." The incident happened last week when the culprits waylaid the survivor who was returning home with her husband from a local weekly market. In her statement before a first class judicial magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC, the survivor had narrated the details of the horrific incident and how she was subjected to immense brutality. She also said the culprits raped her even after she lost consciousness. Ladka said a report regarding the incident and the subsequent police investigation was yet to be sent to the National Commission for Women (NCW) which took suo-moto cognisance of the incident. "We have been reporting the progress of the investigation to the police headquarters regularly," the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/minor-among-4-held-in-dumka-gang-rape-case/articleshow/79746582.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 16, 2020||Jamshedpur||RT-PCR test mandatory in Jharkhand for those with symptoms||RANCHI: Acting on the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the state health department issued an order on Monday making it mandatory for people with Covid-19 symptoms to undergo RT-PCR test even if their results are negative through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). The order, issued by health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, also asked private laboratories to conduct the RT-PCR test on the symptomatic patients and allows them to charge extra Rs 200 above the Rs 800 fee to collect samples from the patients' home, if needed. Health minister Banna Gupta said the move will ensure that positive people do not go undetected. Talking to TOI, state IDSP cell head Dr Praveen Karn said, “Covid-19 testing will continue with Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) kits but we also have to ensure that people with symptoms and whose results are negative when tested with those kits should get themselves re-tested by the RT-PCR method.” On being asked about the necessity of the re-test, Dr Karn sad: “ICMR has already directed all states for the re-test with RT-PCR after finding some sensitivity issues with the RAT kits on a few occasions. We have also issued an order in this regard to cross-check the RAT results.” The order also directed private lab owners to ensure proper reporting of re-testing and asked them to ensure that the test results are reported to the state IDSP unit daily. “We have asked the private laboratories to provide the test results to the patients within 48 hours of sample collection through mail/Whatsapp and report the same to the authorities,” Karn added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-in-jharkhand-for-those-with-symptoms/articleshow/79756804.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||Govt apathetic towards forest, wildlife conservation: Forester||Ranchi: An officer serving in the state forest department has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against his seniors and the state chief secretary in the Jharkhand high court, accusing the government machinery of being apathetic towards forests and wildlife conservation. In the PIL, Anil Kumar Singh, a forest range officer posted in Pakur district bordering West Bengal, said the absence of a divisional forest officer (DFO) has crippled forest management activities. He also accused the authorities of not paying any heed to his numerous appeals apprising them of the financial and resource crunch in his division, which is causing hardships to 250-odd daily wagers who have not received their salaries for nine months amid the pandemic. In every division, the DFO is the authorized signatory for withdrawing funds from the state treasury. In Pakur, the post is vacant since September. At the state level, the post of the chief wildlife warden, the overall guardian of wildlife, is also vacant. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Singh said he was forced to approach the judiciary against his own government despite being a public servant because his appeals to several quarters did not yield any results. Highlighting some of the problems, he said, “The daily wagers of the department, key for day-to-day forest management works, have been without pay for nine months. While we, as officiers, are getting our salaries on time, no one is bothered about the marginalized persons on the brink of penury and barely able to run their homes. I have to face them daily being their first point of contact here.” Singh added that Pakur, the border between Jharkhand and Bengal, is a hub of coal and timber smuggling and the role of the forest department assumes importance to curb the theft to safeguard government resources and losses to the state exchequer. “However, the situation is such that we don’t have the money to refuel our vehicles for field tours. I am somehow managing affairs in my jurisdiction,” he said, adding that the department also owes compensation to several victims of man-animal conflict here. According to Singh, safeguarding forests and wildlife and their scientific management are in public and national interest for the maintenance of overall ecology and Indian Forest Service (IFS) was set up as a separate cadre on the lines of other central administrative service cadres for this very reason. “Non-appointment of officials on such crucial posts leads to violation of the assigned mandate of a public servant. Hence, I am forced to approach court to press for setting things in proper direction. Despite being a government servant, it is also my duty to red-flag wrongdoings in the interest of saving forest and wildlife,” he said. State forest department secretary A P Singh and principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) P K Verma didn't respond to TOI’s calls. Another department official however said things are under process for filling vacant position of DFOs. “Along with Pakur, a few other posts of DFOs are vacant and filling them are under process. A proposal has already been forwarded to departmental minister-cum-chief minister Hemant Soren week ago," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-apathetic-towards-forest-wildlife-conservation-forester/articleshow/79746317.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||Task forces formed to evict street vendors in Steel City||Jamshedpur: Acting on long-pending demands from residents and authorised shopkeepers to remove encroachments and free footpaths of vendors, the East Singhbhum district administration has constituted task forces to evict the illegal hawkers and appointed special magistrates to oversee the process. The district authorities said the task forces comprise officials from Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, Mango Municipal Corporation and Jugsalai Municipality. In large parts of the Steel City, food vendors and makeshift stall owners encroached upon roads and pavements, resulting in traffic snarls during peak hours and accidents. As part of the eviction process, DC Suraj Kumar instructed all top officials of the three civic bodies to take up the encroachment drive seriously and said the special magistrates were appointed so that there is no breakdown of law and order during the process. Since the illegal vendors had put up stiff resistance when the authorities tried to remove their stalls and carts earlier, Kumar instructed officers-in-charge of respective police stations to be extra vigilant and seek additional forces, if required. While a large section of the residents welcomed the move, the vendors said they have incurred huge losses during the lockdown and they will now lose their bread and butter if their stalls are removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/task-forces-formed-to-evict-street-vendors-in-steel-city/articleshow/79746342.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Surat||Surat: Cop booked in 2018 graft case||SURAT: The Surat Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) have booked police constable Anil Dambhelkar, for allegedly demanding Rs 25,000 in the 2018 bribery case in Tapi district. According to ACB officials, they have booked the constable, now posted at Vyarat police station, under various Sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and have launched a probe. As per the case details, in 2018 when Dambhelkar was posted at the Local Crime Branch unit of Tapi district, he had demanded Rs 25,000 from transporters ferrying sand in his jurisdiction. The complainant did not want to give this bribe and had approached the ACB. After the complaint, the Surat ACB team laid out a trap on June 29, 2018 but the accused did not accept the bribe amount. Later, the Surat ACB police inspector, K J Chaudhary, conducted a primary investigation in this case and found some incriminating evidence against the accused police constable and he formally lodged a complaint against the constable. Further investigation in this case is being carried out by Tapi ACB’s police inspector, V A Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cop-booked-in-2018-graft-case/articleshow/79744994.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Vadodara||SPU convocation a ‘traditional’ affair||VADODARA/ ANAND: At a time when majority of universities in the state are organising their convocation ceremonies online, Vallabh Vidyanagar based Sardar Patel University (SPU) organised its 63rd annual convocation the traditional way on Tuesday. A total of 108 received 119 gold medals during the convocation ceremony that was held in the forecourt of humanities and social sciences building. “Motto of education should be holistic development of students to turn them into able citizens that can contribute towards nation development,” said Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat, chancellor of the state university, who had joined the function virtually. “Your degree will be with you, but most importantly, the knowledge and the values which you learned so far will keep guiding you wherever destiny will be taking you,” said Dr Shekhar Mande, director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, New Delhi who as chief guest delivered the convocation address. During the ceremony, a compilation of 43 articles and research papers titled ‘Covid-19 impact: multidisciplinary academic perspective’ was also released while industrialist Devang Patel donated a cheque worth Rs 50 lakh. With 17,862 degrees being conferred on Tuesday, the total number of degrees that SPU has awarded since its inception has reached 3,25,528.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/spu-convocation-a-traditional-affair/articleshow/79744760.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Jamshedpur||Educational institutes in Jharkhand to reopen, notification soon: Banna Gupta||RANCHI: The state government has decided to reopen educational institutions soon in a phased manner, starting with centres of higher learning and schools for Class X and XII students appearing for board exams. Talking to TOI, state health minister and disaster management department Banna Gupta said a formal notification with detailed guidelines will be issued soon. Gupta said, "All medical, dental, nursing institutes and the likes will be allowed to open along with training institutes of higher education. All schools will recommence for higher classes in view of upcoming board exams. We have also increased the cap on number of people allowed to gather indoors to 200 while 300 can be together in open spaces. At religious places, gatherings of 200 people will also be allowed," he said. “A formal notification along with the dos and don’ts will soon be issued from chief secretary’s office in a day or two for recommencement of academic establishments starting from the higher classes, but only with due consent of the parents,” said an official. With new infections on downward trend, the government had started assessing possibilities of reopening of educational institutions that have been closed for nine months. “On Tuesday evening, chief minister Hemant Soren chaired a review meeting with the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and discussions were held at length with regard to the Centre’s October guidelines regarding unlocking educational institutions,” an official statement from the state IPRD said. As part of Unlock 5.0, GOI in its advisory allowed reopening of schools post October 15 in a graded manner but left it on the states and union territories to take a final call taking local situations into considerations. Parents’ organizations had also appealed to the state government to allow offline classes for board aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/edu-institutes-in-state-to-reopen-notification-soon-banna/articleshow/79754149.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||RT-PCR test mandatory in Jharkhand for those with symptoms||RANCHI: Acting on the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the state health department issued an order on Monday making it mandatory for people with Covid-19 symptoms to undergo RT-PCR test even if their results are negative through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). The order, issued by health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, also asked private laboratories to conduct the RT-PCR test on the symptomatic patients and allows them to charge extra Rs 200 above the Rs 800 fee to collect samples from the patients' home, if needed. Health minister Banna Gupta said the move will ensure that positive people do not go undetected. Talking to TOI, state IDSP cell head Dr Praveen Karn said, “Covid-19 testing will continue with Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) kits but we also have to ensure that people with symptoms and whose results are negative when tested with those kits should get themselves re-tested by the RT-PCR method.” On being asked about the necessity of the re-test, Dr Karn sad: “ICMR has already directed all states for the re-test with RT-PCR after finding some sensitivity issues with the RAT kits on a few occasions. We have also issued an order in this regard to cross-check the RAT results.” The order also directed private lab owners to ensure proper reporting of re-testing and asked them to ensure that the test results are reported to the state IDSP unit daily. “We have asked the private laboratories to provide the test results to the patients within 48 hours of sample collection through mail/Whatsapp and report the same to the authorities,” Karn added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rt-pcr-test-mandatory-in-jharkhand-for-those-with-symptoms/articleshow/79746352.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||Educational institutes in Jharkhand to reopen, notification soon: Banna Gupta||RANCHI: The state government has decided to reopen educational institutions soon in a phased manner, starting with centres of higher learning and schools for Class X and XII students appearing for board exams. Talking to TOI, state health minister and disaster management department Banna Gupta said a formal notification with detailed guidelines will be issued soon. Gupta said, "All medical, dental, nursing institutes and the likes will be allowed to open along with training institutes of higher education. All schools will recommence for higher classes in view of upcoming board exams. We have also increased the cap on number of people allowed to gather indoors to 200 while 300 can be together in open spaces. At religious places, gatherings of 200 people will also be allowed," he said. “A formal notification along with the dos and don’ts will soon be issued from chief secretary’s office in a day or two for recommencement of academic establishments starting from the higher classes, but only with due consent of the parents,” said an official. With new infections on downward trend, the government had started assessing possibilities of reopening of educational institutions that have been closed for nine months. “On Tuesday evening, chief minister Hemant Soren chaired a review meeting with the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) and discussions were held at length with regard to the Centre’s October guidelines regarding unlocking educational institutions,” an official statement from the state IPRD said. As part of Unlock 5.0, GOI in its advisory allowed reopening of schools post October 15 in a graded manner but left it on the states and union territories to take a final call taking local situations into considerations. Parents’ organizations had also appealed to the state government to allow offline classes for board aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/edu-institutes-in-state-to-reopen-notification-soon-banna/articleshow/79746625.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||Anti-national forces behind farmers’ agitation: Raghubar||Ranchi: Former chief minister Raghubar Das on Tuesday said that the ongoing stir by farmers along the borders of Delhi was being orchestrated by anti-national elements in connivance with the Congress and other parties opposed to the BJP, echoing sentiments expressed by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar recently. While addressing the Ranchi leg of the kisan sammelan held in Sukurhuttu in Kanke block, organised as part of BJP’s statewide campaign in favour of the newly implemented farm laws by the Union government, Das said that farmers in Jharkhand and several other states were happy with the new laws. Two other former BJP chief ministers — Babulal Marandi and Arjun Munda — also participated in similar programmes held in Deoghar and Seraikela, respectively, while former MP Ravindra Rai addressed BJP workers in Dhanbad and another senior party leader, Dineshanand Goswami, did so in Palamu. Das, who is currently BJP’s national vice-president, said, “The Narendra Modi-led government has brought new laws to empower farmers and protect them from middlemen. However, opposition parties and anti-national elements are misleading certain sections of farmers by claiming that the new laws will end minimum support price (MSP) and weed out agricultural mandis. The reality is exactly the opposite. In the new laws, along with existing provisions, farmers will now have the liberty to sell their produce in places of their choice.” “They (opposition) are upset because they mostly acted as middlemen to dupe farmers,” Das said, adding that the Congress and the Left parties, among others, were hand in gloves with anti-national forces. “They have been doing so for many years. This time, they are misusing farmers,” he said, adding that farmers in Jharkhand were happy with the new laws. Hailing the NDA government under Modi’s leadership, he said that the Centre was working towards empowering the marginalised, farmers and the poor in the last six years. “As far as farmers are considered, the rate of MSP has been increased 1.5 times, and for the first time, the Union government began giving direct benefit transfer to farmers through the Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme. In Jharkhand, too, we began CM Krishi Ashirwad Yojana to give financial assistance to farmers during my tenure but the mahagathbandhan government discontinued it soon after coming to power. Tell me, who is anti-farmer?” Das said. He later also had lunch with the farmers. The Congress, which is a part of the ruling alliance, termed BJP’s kisan sammelans as a sign of nervousness. “If the Centre is really serious about the welfare of farmers, they should speak with the latter and address their problems. However, rather than doing so, they are trying to defame farmers by calling them anti-nationals,” state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon said. Attacking state BJP leaders, Oraon added, “BJP MPs and MLAs should question their leadership at the Centre rather than trying to defend the act of bringing laws without consultation with the state in violation of cooperative federalism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/anti-national-forces-behind-farmers-agitation-raghubar/articleshow/79746252.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City Sikh groups rue tepid response from other communities, ask them to join protest||Jamshedpur: Leaders of the Sikh community in Steel City have appealed to the members of the other communities to join their protest against the farm laws passed by the Union government. “Farmers don’t belong to any particular community and all of us should stand with them at a time when their future is at stake,” Jharkhand State Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (JSGPC) president Shailendra Singh said on Tuesday. Appealing to the members of other communities to join their stir, the JSGPC functionary said they have invited prominent citizens across communities to participate in the special prayers to be organised at the Sakchi gurdwara on Friday. The Bihar and Jharkhand unit president of the All India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF), Satnam Singh Gambhir, said the protest by farmers was not against any political party but against the farm laws of the Centre. “The tone and tenor of the protest would have been the same if the Congress or any other political party at the Centre would have brought the contentious farm laws,” Gambhir added. He said that farmers irrespective of whether they were from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh or some other state were equally hit by the decisions of the Narendra Modi-led government. The head of the Sakchi Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Inderjeet Singh, said residents of the industrial town were not directly involved in agriculture and hence they were not realising the consequences of the three farm laws. “A handful of people from other communities have joined our agitation till now, but we expect encouraging response from the citizens in the near future,” Inderjeet Singh added. In the past 20 days, Sikhs here have organized dharna thrice at different places, conducted special prayers twice, observed a one-day fast and took out a protest march, among others. The Sikh leaders have warned that they would intensify the agitation if the Centre did not repeal the laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-sikh-groups-rue-tepid-response-from-other-communities-ask-them-to-join-protest/articleshow/79746300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||India||Kisan unions reject the Centre’s ‘clause by clause’ discussion offer, vow protests at villages, blocks, districts||NEW DELHI: A day after agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar expressed the government’s willingness to discuss farm laws “clause by clause”, farmers’ unions on Tuesday once again rejected the outreach and instead announced plans for protests in several cities. The unions’ protest plans for the next 14 days include organising rallies against the farm laws in Kolkata on Wednesday, Manipur on Saturday, Mumbai on December 22 and Patna on December 29. They also said they will hold protests at village, block and district levels in different states and while unions claimed the December 14 protests a success, the disruptions were largely in the Delhi-NCR region. “The government is saying it won’t repeal these laws, we are saying we will make you do it,” farmer leader Jagjeet Dallewal said, signalling the unions’ resolve on the 20th day of their protests. “We are not running away from negotiation, but the government has to pay heed to our demand of repealing the laws,” he said while addressing a joint press conference with other leaders at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border. On Tomar’s proposal that talks would happen once the unions gave their opinion on the government’s proposals, the leaders said they had rejected these the day they had received them last week. “If the government wants our written opinion, we’ll send our rejection to those proposals in writing as well,” they said. Emphasizing that their fight has reached a stage where they are determined to win at any cost, the farmer leaders said they decided to observe a ‘Shraddhanjali Diwas’ (Homage Day) across the country on December 20 for all the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest. “You can well imagine the reaction of people if photographs of those who died during the protest reach their villages,” said Dallewal, hinting at involvement of more farmers in the protests in coming days. The stand of farm unions was also elaborated by leader of All India Kisan Sabha and former CPM MP, Hanna Mollah, who, while addressing a separate press conference, said there was nothing in the laws which could be discussed “clause by clause” when the farm representatives told the government in as many words that only repeal of the laws would be acceptable to farmers. Asked whether at any point of time the government side had shown willingness towards considering the demand of repeal of laws, Mollah claimed home minister Amit Shah had agreed to consider this but corrected himself. “I think it was just a slip of tongue on his part. So, in a way, we had never heard anything on repealing the law from the government side,” he said. On a question whether the farm unions would consider talking to the government over the proposal of legal guarantee to purchase at minimum support price (MSP) as demanded by different farm organizations, Mollah emphasized the demand of repealing the central farm laws needs to be addressed first. He said, “Anything would come on the agenda only after addressing the first demand of repealing the central farm laws.” On the other hand, more farmer organisations are coming out in support of farm laws. One such group from Uttar Pradesh, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kisan), met Tomar and submitted a memorandum on suggestions for strengthening the farm laws and their demand that the “MSP should be made legal and there should be a penalty if anyone sells produce below MSP”. Thanking them for their support for farm laws, Tomar said the government was willing to continue dialogue with “genuine farm unions” and was willing to find a solution with an open mind. He, however, said, “The MSP is an administrative decision and will continue as it is” – an indication that any assurance for law on giving legal guarantee to MSP would not be possible. After meeting the minister, the BKU (Kisan) leaders announced their decision to stay away from the farmers’ protests. They said they would rather visit villages and try to make farmers aware of the benefits of the farm laws. Reacting over these meetings of pro-farm laws groups with Tomar, the protesting farmers' groups said the “meetings with so-called farmer leaders are illusory and diversionary tactics to draw attention away from farmers’ problems because people whom the minister was talking to neither represented the struggling farmers nor did they articulate their demands”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kisan-unions-vow-protests-at-villages-blocks-districts/articleshow/79749850.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Marginal dip in child marriage, teenage pregnancy rate climbs in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Underage or child marriage continues to be a prevalent practice in Andhra Pradesh, according to data from the recently-released fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5). While the percentage of underage marriage for girls (between the ages of 20 to 24 during the survey but married before 18 years of age) has come down from 33% to 29.3% compared to NFHS-4 (2015-16), the social evil is still widespread in all districts. Among boys, 14.5% married before the legal age of 21, a marginal decrease from 15.8% since the last survey. The prevalence of child marriage is higher in rural areas (32.9%) compared to urban areas (21.7%). The proportion of girls between the ages of 15 and 19 years who were already mothers or pregnant at the time of the survey stood at 12.6 %, slightly higher than in NFHS-4 (11.8 %). Rural AP accounts for 14.1 % of underage pregnancy and urban AP 9.3 %. Among the four southern states where the NFHS-5 was conducted, AP has the dubious distinction of ranking highest in underage marriage among girls. It tops the four states in underage pregnancy, with Kerala at 2.4%, Karnataka, 5.4% and Telangana at 5.8%. It is also the only state among the four to register more underage pregnancies compared to the last survey. Kerala records the lowest rate of child marriage (6.3% for girls and 1.4% for boys). In fact, in some districts, cases of child marriage and underage pregnancy have escalated since the previous survey. A comparative analysis of the two surveys shows that in four districts, namely Anantapur, Chittoor, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram, child marriage among girls has gone up while in seven districts, namely Anantapur, Kadapa, Chittoor, Krishna, West Godavari, Nellore and Guntur districts, there has been an increase in underage pregnancy since the 2015-16 survey. In Anantapur, child marriage among girls shot up from 29% to 37.3% since the last survey while underage pregnancy increased from 5.2% to 13.6%. On the other hand, Nellore registered a 15% decrease in underage marriage among girls (23.8%, compared to the earlier 38.7%). Except Nellore and West Godavari, in all other 11 districts, more than 25% of girls were married off before they turned 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/marginal-dip-in-child-marriage-teenage-pregnancy-rate-climbs/articleshow/79745707.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Guntur agri committee branches out into chilli powder processing||GUNTUR: In an effort to promote the cultivation of high quality chilli, the Guntur agriculture market committee has decided to enter the processing sector. The market committee is setting up a chilli processing unit to manufacture chilli powder. The move is aimed at adding value to agricultural produce and will help growers reap high dividends on production of quality stock with organic standards. Though Guntur market yard has been handling the highest volume of dry red chilli in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the decision to enter the processing sector is likely to be a boon to local farmers. The market committee has already set up a quality testing laboratory in the market yard and plans to procure high quality stocks from farmers starting next season. Chilli powder produced by the yard will be marketed by AP Markfed after securing trade licences. The chilli powder is likely to be marketed under the brand name ‘Guntur Karam’. While some FMCG firms, including tobacco-to-agro-products giant ITC, already produce and market high quality chilli powder in the market, “we are not worried about the competition in the market because there is huge demand for end consumer products from agricultural produce. We are confident of creating our own market base after the launch of the products,” said agriculture market committee chairman Chandragiri Yesurathnam. The chilli powder plant is being set up to create a bigger market for chilli products in the market yard and prevent fluctuations in price, Yesurathnam said. Among commercial crops, chilli cultivation is a cost-intensive business as farmers invest nearly Rs 1.2 to Rs 1.5 lakh per acre. Yields range anywhere between 15 to 25 quintals. Even after getting a good yield, farmers are guaranteed profit only when prices are around Rs 8,000 per quintal. Farmers usually get between Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per quintal in three out of four seasons and over Rs 10,000 per quintal in one season. “A few chilli powder plants are there in and around Guntur city. We might need more players in the field to stabilise prices in the market and help farmers get good returns,” said Lanka Kranti Sekhar, a chilli exporter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-agri-committee-branches-out-into-chilli-powder-processing/articleshow/79745713.cms||Samdani MN
December 16, 2020||Amaravati||AP: With 63% C-sections, private hospitals outstrip norm||VISAKHAPATNAM: Data in the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) point to a staggering 42% caesarean deliveries in Andhra Pradesh. The international healthcare community considers 10 to 15% as the ideal proportion of C-section deliveries . An alarming 63% of all deliveries at private health facilities were via C-section compared to 26.6% at government health facilities. The percentage of C-section deliveries was 40% in NFHS-4 (2015-16). Urban areas accounted for a higher number of C-section deliveries—66% in private hospitals and 31% at public hospitals compared to their rural counterparts (61.4% in private hospitals and 25.2% in government hospitals). Institutional births as per NFHS-5 increased to 96.5% from 91.5% during the NFHS-4. Of the 96.5% institutional deliveries, about 50% were carried out at public health facilities. Meanwhile, around 31% children in the state under the age of five are stunted (height-for-age), implying impaired growth and development, as per NFHS-5. Nearly 16% children under five years are wasted (weight-for-height) while around 29% are underweight and 3% are overweight. Stunted growth, associated with poor nutrition, has several long-term consequences, such as decreased cognitive and physical development and poor school performance and health. In adulthood, stunted mothers may also face pregnancy-related complications which in turn may affect their offspring. Undernourishment or being overweight also undermine the capacity of millions of children to grow and develop to their full potential. Several studies have also shed light on the triple burden of malnutrition/undernutrition co-existing with obesity and hidden hunger. The triple burden is primarily attributed to inappropriate child feeding practices, worm infestation, junk food, lack of physical activity and a high-fat diet, apart from local factors. Speaking to TOI, Dr Satish Reddy, a general physician, said stunting or wasting is generally caused by long-term insufficient nutrient intake. “However, recurrent infections due to lack of access to safe drinking water, hygiene and sanitation facilities, absorption problems or other underlying medical conditions may also lead to malnutrition among kids. Addressing these problems at an early age is crucial to improve the health of children. Improving maternal nutrition and reproductive care and providing food security to the kids are also key to address this problem,” said Dr Satish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/with-63-c-sections-pvt-hosps-outstrip-norm/articleshow/79751340.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: With 63% C-sections, private hospitals outstrip norm||VISAKHAPATNAM: Data in the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) point to a staggering 42% caesarean deliveries in Andhra Pradesh. The international healthcare community considers 10 to 15% as the ideal proportion of C-section deliveries . An alarming 63% of all deliveries at private health facilities were via C-section compared to 26.6% at government health facilities. The percentage of C-section deliveries was 40% in NFHS-4 (2015-16). Urban areas accounted for a higher number of C-section deliveries—66% in private hospitals and 31% at public hospitals compared to their rural counterparts (61.4% in private hospitals and 25.2% in government hospitals). Institutional births as per NFHS-5 increased to 96.5% from 91.5% during the NFHS-4. Of the 96.5% institutional deliveries, about 50% were carried out at public health facilities. Meanwhile, around 31% children in the state under the age of five are stunted (height-for-age), implying impaired growth and development, as per NFHS-5. Nearly 16% children under five years are wasted (weight-for-height) while around 29% are underweight and 3% are overweight. Stunted growth, associated with poor nutrition, has several long-term consequences, such as decreased cognitive and physical development and poor school performance and health. In adulthood, stunted mothers may also face pregnancy-related complications which in turn may affect their offspring. Undernourishment or being overweight also undermine the capacity of millions of children to grow and develop to their full potential. Several studies have also shed light on the triple burden of malnutrition/undernutrition co-existing with obesity and hidden hunger. The triple burden is primarily attributed to inappropriate child feeding practices, worm infestation, junk food, lack of physical activity and a high-fat diet, apart from local factors. Speaking to TOI, Dr Satish Reddy, a general physician, said stunting or wasting is generally caused by long-term insufficient nutrient intake. “However, recurrent infections due to lack of access to safe drinking water, hygiene and sanitation facilities, absorption problems or other underlying medical conditions may also lead to malnutrition among kids. Addressing these problems at an early age is crucial to improve the health of children. Improving maternal nutrition and reproductive care and providing food security to the kids are also key to address this problem,” said Dr Satish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/with-63-c-sections-pvt-hosps-outstrip-norm/articleshow/79751342.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: With 63% C-sections, private hospitals outstrip norm||VISAKHAPATNAM: Data in the fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5) point to a staggering 42% caesarean deliveries in Andhra Pradesh. The international healthcare community considers 10 to 15% as the ideal proportion of C-section deliveries . An alarming 63% of all deliveries at private health facilities were via C-section compared to 26.6% at government health facilities. The percentage of C-section deliveries was 40% in NFHS-4 (2015-16). Urban areas accounted for a higher number of C-section deliveries—66% in private hospitals and 31% at public hospitals compared to their rural counterparts (61.4% in private hospitals and 25.2% in government hospitals). Institutional births as per NFHS-5 increased to 96.5% from 91.5% during the NFHS-4. Of the 96.5% institutional deliveries, about 50% were carried out at public health facilities. Meanwhile, around 31% children in the state under the age of five are stunted (height-for-age), implying impaired growth and development, as per NFHS-5. Nearly 16% children under five years are wasted (weight-for-height) while around 29% are underweight and 3% are overweight. Stunted growth, associated with poor nutrition, has several long-term consequences, such as decreased cognitive and physical development and poor school performance and health. In adulthood, stunted mothers may also face pregnancy-related complications which in turn may affect their offspring. Undernourishment or being overweight also undermine the capacity of millions of children to grow and develop to their full potential. Several studies have also shed light on the triple burden of malnutrition/undernutrition co-existing with obesity and hidden hunger. The triple burden is primarily attributed to inappropriate child feeding practices, worm infestation, junk food, lack of physical activity and a high-fat diet, apart from local factors. Speaking to TOI, Dr Satish Reddy, a general physician, said stunting or wasting is generally caused by long-term insufficient nutrient intake. “However, recurrent infections due to lack of access to safe drinking water, hygiene and sanitation facilities, absorption problems or other underlying medical conditions may also lead to malnutrition among kids. Addressing these problems at an early age is crucial to improve the health of children. Improving maternal nutrition and reproductive care and providing food security to the kids are also key to address this problem,” said Dr Satish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-63-c-sections-pvt-hosps-outstrip-norm/articleshow/79745738.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||All beds vacant at Covid care centres in Srikakulam||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following a sharp decline in Covid-19 cases and most patients opting for home quarantine, all beds in Srikakulam’s Covid care centres are now vacant. The last 16 patients were discharged on Tuesday. At the pandemic’s peak, between September and October, these centres treated nearly 3,000 patients. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said, “We have noticed that the beds in the Covid care centres are lying empty. We will wait a few more days before closing them down.” Srikakulam has five Covid care centres: two at Chilakapalem and once each at Patrunivalasa, Tekkali and Kotabommali. The Patrunivalasa Covid care centre has the highest number of beds—2,100. “Patients with mild symptoms and whose oxygen levels were above normal, but did not have space to isolate at home were admitted to these centres,” said Tekkali assistant supply officer Vamsi Krishna Reddy. Reddy further said that nearly 99% of patients admitted to these centres recovered well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-beds-vacant-at-covid-care-centres-in-skulam/articleshow/79745757.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tenders for four medical colleges in Andhra Pradesh to open soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The national-level tenders received by the tender committee of Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) for establishment of four medical colleges in the state will be opened on or after Wednesday (December 16). The state government, in September, announced the establishment of a medical college in each of the 25 parliamentary constituencies. To achieve this, the government, in the first phase, has accorded sanction of Rs 2,050 crore for four medical colleges, one each at Paderu in Visakhapatnam, Machilipatnam in Krishna, Pulivendula in Kadapa and Piduguralla in Guntur. Speaking to TOI, APMSIDC executive engineer for the Paderu medical college project, A Umesh Kumar, said that the tenders would be opened on December 16 and the works would most probably start after Sankranti in January. “Since, it’s a national-level tender. We hope that more than 10 interested bidders have so far competed in executing the prestigious project of the state government. We don’t have access to know who applied for the project till we open the tenders. The last date of submission is December 16,” said a senior APMSIDC official. New Delhi-based M/S Arcop Associates Pvt Ltd was entrusted the task of architectural and engineering consultancy services for the college at Paderu, which has an intake of 100 MBBS students and 60 nursing students per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tenders-for-four-medical-colleges-in-ap-to-open-soon/articleshow/79745762.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag admin gears up for house sites distribution||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam district administration is gearing up for house sites distribution from December 25. Around 1.16 lakh house sites in rural areas, 72 square yards to each beneficiary, would be given. Around 2.03 lakh house sites, including 25,000 Tidco houses, have been identified in greater Visakhapatnam. The government has identified land and formed layouts in the district, said tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, after conducting a review with officials. Around 900 layouts have been formed in the district. A few cases have been filed against the land acquisition. The district administration has identified alternative land and formed layouts as well. “In some areas, alternative land is very costly as each square yard comes to around Rs 20,000. We are distributing around 72 square yards (per beneficiary) in rural areas, which has a value of around Rs 15 lakh,” the minister said. Visakhapatnam district joint collector M Venugopal Reddy said that a special officer has been posted in every assembly constituency to monitor the patta distribution process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-admin-gears-up-for-house-sites-distribution/articleshow/79745771.cms||Siva G
December 16, 2020||India||TRP scam: CEO of Republic TV in judicial custody||MUMBAI: Vikas Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV arrested in the TRP manipulation scam, was produced before the magistrate’s court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. His bail plea will be heard on Wednesday. He has been sent to Taloja jail. “Among the grounds seeking bail, we have cited that his arrest is a gross misuse of power and abuse of process of law. He is neither named in the FIR nor the chargesheet,” his counsel Niteen Pradhan said. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeMeanwhile, during the anticipatory bail plea hearing of S Sundaram, CFO of ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, the prosecution said no coercive action would be taken against him until December 21 when the matter is scheduled to come up for hearing again. Read AlsoRepublic’s TRPs high from 1st month, used to get revenue: CopsMUMBAI: A forensic audit into ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd’s accounts showed TRPs (TV rating points) and viewership of its Hindi channel, Republic Bharat, were high from the very first month of its launch in 2016, police probing the TRP manipulation scam said. Increased TRP resulted in giving ARGKhanchandani was arrested on Sunday. At the time of his arrest, his anticipatory bail plea was pending before the sessions court. Pradhan said even the sessions court had questioned the probing agency’s urgency in arresting him when his pre-arrest bail plea was due to be heard on Monday. Read AlsoSenior Republic TV executive held in fake TRP scamRepublic TV's distribution head Ghanshyam Singh was arrested on Tuesday in connection with the alleged TRP rigging scam. Singh is also assistant vice president of the Republic Media Network. The latest arrest has taken the number of people held by the Crime Intelligence Unit of the crime branch inPolice on Tuesday recorded the statements of six cable operators as part of the probe. “We have asked them to appear before investigators on Wednesday and to bring certain documents,” said an officer. The Mumbai police is probing the role of six channels — Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow channel — for inflating viewership figures, which media-buying houses consider before placing advertisements. The channels are accused of paying money to households to keep their shows on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-ceo-of-republic-tv-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/79749859.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Another border dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even before the border dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha at Dumbriguda mandal of Visakhapatnam Agency could be resolved, another dispute has broken out at Tutangi panchayat of the same mandal. Residents of five villages under Tutangi panchayat limits have alleged that Odisha forest officials have encroached upon over 100 metres land on the Andhra Pradesh side by removing signboards and other demarcations. K Surendra, a tribal activist said, “We don’t know the reason for this, but people living on the Andhra Pradesh side are worried about illegal activities and losing rights over their land.” It may be recalled that, a few weeks ago, some villagers from Koraput district in Odisha, accompanied by officials and politicians, had allegedly encroached upon 600 metres of land on the Andhra Pradesh side by removing demarcations. Speaking to TOI, Paderu revenue divisional officer L Siva Jyothi said that officials from Andhra Pradesh and Odisha will set boundaries to mitigate further disputes. Speaking about the incident at Tutangi panchayat, she said that officials need to visit the location and verify details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/another-border-dispute-between-ap-and-odisha/articleshow/79745783.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Possibility of truth bails out 'sexual harasser'||MUMBAI: Granting bail to a 41-year-old man who has been in jail for over a year on charges of sexually abusing a 9-year-old girl, Bombay high court said there was a possibility of truth in his defence. The accused had said the child was playing near electric meters and he only tried to keep her away. "Photos annexed... show there were electricity meters below the staircase... there is a possibility that his defence could be true. In that case, it would be unjustified to keep him behind bars till conclusion of trial," the high court said. Advocate Ninad Muzumdar who appeared for the accused had submitted that the child was hiding behind the staircase while playing. "...the accused only tried to keep her away from those meters. This act on his part was misconstrued by the victim and her mother...," Muzumdarsubmitted. The accused was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Pocso Act. Earlier, the special Pocso Act court had rejected his plea for bail. He then moved Bombay high court. The prosecution opposed the bail plea by relying on the child's statement. It said that the child had alleged that the accused had touched her inappropriately. He had touched her chest, stomach and private parts. The child revealed this to her mother. While granting bail to the accused, the court said that maximum punishment under the sections is 7 years imprisonment. "The trial is likely to take long. There is substance in the possible defence... It can be taken into consideration for granting him bail," the court said. Imposing conditions, the court said the accused is not enter the child's society till conclusion of trial. "...shall not cause harassment to the victim or her family."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-possibility-of-truth-bails-out-sexual-harasser/articleshow/79749866.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 16, 2020||India||Panel gets more time for Arnab, Kangana notices||MUMBAI: The legislative assembly on Tuesday extended the time for the privileges committee to submit its report on breach of privilege notices against Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut till the end of budget session, which may be scheduled in February or March 2021. While clearing the privilege motion, assembly speaker Nana Patole said that to disrespect the chief minister on television and to defame Mumbai by comparing it with Pakistan-occupied Kashmir is an insult to the state. BJP members opposed the breach of privilege, but Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis said he did not endorse Goswami’s and Kangana’s statements. BJP’s Sudhir Mungantiwar said that many messages are posted online against the PM and the pposition leader and wondered if they could also be breach of privilege.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/panel-gets-more-time-for-arnab-kangana-notices/articleshow/79749868.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Two members of vehicle-lifting gang held||GHAZIABAD: Two members of an inter-state vehicle lifting gang were arrested on Monday night and two cars and 900 Alprazolam tablets were recovered from them. The men have been identified as Aleem and Shehzaad, both belonging to Meerut. Mahipal Singh, circle officer of Sadar, said around 10pm, when police were doing checking on the city border, two people coming in a swift car were stopped and when a cop asked them to show the driving licence, they failed to produce it and other documents for the car. The accused pushed the cop and tried to flee. “But other police officers present at the spot arrested them after a small chase,” he said.“On questioning the accused, police learnt that the car was stolen from Delhi. They also told that they were going to sell the car and the tablets in Meerut,” he added. The men have been booked under IPC sections 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) and under the NDPS Act at Masuri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/2-members-of-vehicle-lifting-gang-held/articleshow/79745853.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government sends new death law for review||MUMBAI: Faced with demands for more time from the Opposition and a major outcry from women's groups, the Maharashtra government decided to refer the Shakti bill, which proposes death penalty for rape and acid attacks on women and the sexual assault of children, to a joint select committee. The stringent bill patterned on the Disha Act of Andhra Pradesh was in the pipeline for almost a year and was tabled in the assembly on Monday. It has been referred a 21-member panel led by state home minister Anil Deshmukh. A new draft is to be presented in the budget session in March 2021. While the Opposition sought time to discuss the bill, more than 30 women's groups and 70 activists and lawyers had written to the government against it. They said it was draconian (see graphic), negated the very definition of rape by allowing the accused greater chance of using the consent plea to escape prosecution. It also penalised with imprisonment those who filed a false case. Women's groups said this would discourage women from filing cases. They also said that timely investigation was a stronger deterrent in rape cases than the death penalty. "We decided to defer the bill after consultation with the Opposition. The joint select committee will have a majority of women members," said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The committee will have 15 members from the state assembly and 6 members from the state council. "We welcome this decision. This is an important bill and needs to be discussed in detail," said BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. The Shakti legislation included two bills -- Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020 and Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law 2020 -- and proposed amendments to the Indian Penal Code 1860, Code of Criminal Procedure1972 and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act 2012. The Shakti law was under discussion for almost a year. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had visited Hyderabad earlier this year to study the Disha Act. Later, a committee headed by Ashwathi Dorje, director, Maharashtra Police Academy, was formed to prepare the draft of the Bill for Maharashtra. A Cabinet sub-committee headed by Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan was set up in March to finalise the drafts of the Bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-government-sends-new-death-law-for-review/articleshow/79749872.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 16, 2020||India||No CBI court relief for Gupta in Agusta case||NEW DELHI: A special CBI court on Tuesday refused to cancel the non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against the former managing director of realty major Emaar MGF, Shravan Gupta, observing he did not join the probe despite summons and was trying to evade the investigation on one ground or the other in the case related to the Rs 3,600-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper money laundering case. Special CBI judge Arvind Kumar said, “Even during present proceedings, the applicant did not express intention to appear before ED to join probe. He also did not appear before court when the application was taken up for hearing. It only shows that the applicant is not willing to cooperate in probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-cbi-court-relief-for-gupta-in-agusta-case/articleshow/79749873.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Belagavi hospital faces shortage of volunteers||BELAGAVI: Jeevan Rekha hospital here, which has been conducting clinical human trials of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, is facing a shortage of volunteers in the third phase. Around 300 volunteers have so far received the first dose in the third phase that commenced on December 12. The hospital is now looking for more volunteers as they want to vaccinate at least 1,000 persons, the number mandated by ICMR jointly with vaccine maker Bharat Biotech. The hospital released advertisements on multiple platforms to get volunteers. In the first phase, Jeevan Rekha conducted trials on four individuals and in the second phase, 50 men and women above 18 years received booster shots. Volunteers in the trials are said to be fine with many developing good antibodies. In the third phase, 300 persons got their first shot and after 28 days, the next shot will be administered. However, the timeline for volunteers will differ as vaccinations were done on different dates. Although 1,000 people had enrolled in the beginning, those registered are now withdrawing from the trial due to safety concerns. Dr Paritosh Desai, in-charge of the trial process, told TOI the centre is facing a challenge to enroll volunteers. In the initial days, about 2,000 persons asked about the trial and 1,000 were sure of participation. However, after the trial began on Saturday, the number of people turning up has dwindled. Desai thinks certain negative reports about foreign vaccines concerning safety and Haryana health minister turning positive after attending a trial may have influenced volunteers. “Now, we’re convincing people who didn’t turn up. We hope things will change soon. We have to complete another 700 and the task is challenging. Covaxin is very safe and no volunteers in Belagavi experienced any adverse impact. There are no side-effects apart from pain at the site of injection and the spot turning red,” he said. A source said the hospital is tapping health workers, those in the drug control department and pharmaceutical industries. Other centres chosen by ICMR were also given a target of over 1,000 candidates each and across the country, there are 25,000 volunteers in around 25 centres. Hospital director Amith S Bhate denied any shortage and said the advertisements in media, social media and other platforms are helping them reach the target. “Every day, 70-100 people are turning up for the trials,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/belagavi-hospital-faces-shortage-of-volunteers/articleshow/79749875.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||‘I use science and technology as catalyst for social change’||When she was just four, Gitanjali Rao got a chemistry kit from her uncle. It was just the kind of gift she would love. Beakers, test tubes, colourful liquids, and a gateway to what would become her world. “I think it changed my life forever,” she told TOI from Denver, Colorado. In the 11 years since then, she has come up with a device to detect lead in water, another to help diagnose opioid addiction and an algorithm to identify cyberbullying. “I don’t think there was one aha moment where everything came together. It was a combination of going to the science museum, constantly learning new things,” she said. “And that chemistry kit.” It made sense, perhaps, that it was at a museum that she got to know she was first ever TIME Kid of the Year. “It was the Museum of Ice Cream in New York. I was told through a surprise reveal with TV show host Trevor Noah. He let me know I was TIME Kid of the Year and it was beyond amazing. This was just in October,” the 15-year-old scientist said. Then she was told, just a week before her interview, that she would be speaking with Hollywood actor and philanthropist Angelina Jolie for the profile. “I was so excited! She is a delight to talk to … She is a great actor and her work — empowerment towards education and students — is awesome.” Leading up to each innovation has been a deep engagement with the problems around her. “A family friend of ours got into a car crash … When you get into a car crash, it changes everything. He (the person who was driving) used to take prescribed drugs for pain management. But he ended up getting addicted,” she said. “I saw the family fall apart. That should not happen to anyone.” So, when she was 13, she came up with Epione, a device which takes a bodily fluid sample, looks at the protein production of a gene and assesses if someone is addicted to opioids. And when she was 11, she had read about people in Flint, Michigan who were “drinking essentially poison” every day. “It caused lifelong damage to their mental capacity, vital organs and normal growth. Just because they were drinking water. It seemed so unfair,” said Gitanjali. It took about five months to put together Tethys, a device to detect lead in water (another Greek myth reference, to the goddess of freshwater — like Epione is a call-back to the Greek god of medicine Asclepius’s wife, a symbol of recovery). Gitanjali at the Denver Water Lab, testing her lead detection toolThere was also a time in India, where she visits her family every year, when she was just three or four years old that water problems came up. “My cousin and I walked a mile to get to this well. We had to fill the water and my grandma had to boil the water so I could drink it. I thought of taking the risk and drank the water. My cousin drank too … Both of us were sick for the next week and a half,” she recalled. “Even though I joke about it now, it is so unfair that so many kids don’t get clean water to drink.” So, she is working on ways to detect biocontaminants in water right now. “I am looking at parasitic compounds, especially crypto-sporidium, which affect a lot of kids across the world.” And then, in a completely different direction, Kindly is her online service that detects and blocks insensitive messages before they are sent out. So, if a teenager tries to send a message saying, “I’ll smash your face,” AI will detect its tone, flash a warning and not allow any more edits. “It adapts to the evolving dictionary to identify phrases and words that could be bullying,” she said. “The idea came out of the fact that I have changed schools so many times. Cyberbullying is a fear I have.” Gitanjali launching Kindly, an online service to counter cyberbullyingSo, she insists, she thinks of herself as an innovator more than a scientist. She runs workshops for students (33,800 so far), and has been advocating for girls in STEM. Eventually, she sees herself getting into genetic engineering and product design for healthcare. “I use science and technology as a catalyst for social change to create an impact on the world.” At the moment, it’s a world under siege by a virus. “I am looking at the Covid-19 vaccine distribution next. I’ll get to it in a couple of months. I want to look at updating data and take an analytics approach to identify prioritisation for distribution of vaccines … I want this to be an app or device,” she said. “We can all expect pandemics to be more frequent in the future. I think we should take steps to see how we can prevent them. I don’t think any of us wants to sit through this again."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-use-science-and-technology-as-catalyst-for-social-change/articleshow/79749879.cms||Priyanka A Chokhani
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||I was a minor: Murder convict in jail for 10 years||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Juvenile Justice Board, Mumbai, to conduct an inquiry into the claim made by a convict serving a life sentence for murder that he was a juvenile at the time of committing the offence. The convict, who has been jailed in Nashik Central prison for 10 years, said when he was out on parole in 2017, he visited his native place in UP and came across certain material which indicated he was below 18 years of age. Convict shows docus to support his age claimThe direction by a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Justice Makarand Karnik came on a petition by Khar (west) resident Arvindkumar Sahu (27), who has been in custody since October 2009, and has undergone imprisonment of 10 years in Nashik jail. His petition said that the documents Sahu obtained show that he was born on July 7, 1992 and when the crime occurred—October 6, 2009—he was 17. His date of birth was mentioned in the school register and transfer certificate, his marksheet for a 2005-06 exam and in the family register from the office of the development officer of gram panchayat of his village near Allahabad. His advocate urged that he be treated as a “juvenile in conflict with law” under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000. The judges noted that the Act defines a “juvenile in conflict with law” as one who is alleged to have committed an offence and has not completed 18 years on date of commission. “In these circumstances, it would be expedient to refer to the matter to Juvenile Justice Board for an inquiry as regards juvenility of the petitioner...,” the judges said, directing that a report be submitted within 14 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-was-a-minor-murder-convict-in-jail-for-10-years/articleshow/79749882.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 16, 2020||India||SC rejects Kerala’s plea for a new judge in actor’s trial||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday threw out a Kerala government petition seeking a new judge for trial of the sexual assault case against actor Dileep, who is accused of being the mastermind in a case of alleged rape of an actress in 2017. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari refused to buy senior advocate Ranjit Kumar’s argument on behalf of the Kerala government that the survivor and the prosecution both apprehended that fair trial would not be possible given the bias of the woman trial judge, which was reflected in several statements made by her during the proceedings. The bench chided the Kerala government for alleging bias against a judicial officer and said if it felt that the judge was not following certain procedures mandatory for trial of sexual assault cases, it could move HC. Alleging bias against a trial judge by state would be detrimental to judiciary, it added. The bench said it was aware of the charged atmosphere deliberately created in courtrooms during trials to force judges to make certain observations. “It does not behove a state government to pick a few observations and allege bias against the trial judge. The Kerala HC has rightly rejected the state’s application for transferring the case out of the present judge. If the trial judge passes any order or records statements in breach of established procedure, the state can always challenge it before the HC,” Justice Khanwilkar said. “The HC has examined the issue thoroughly and said no bias is made out against the trial judge,” the bench said and dismissed the Kerala government’s petition. The actress was allegedly kidnapped and sexually abused by a gang of men in a moving car while travelling to Kochi for work in 2017. Dileep was accused of being the mastermind of the criminal conspiracy to kidnap and assault her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-rejects-keralas-plea-for-a-new-judge-in-actors-trial/articleshow/79749889.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Vidyagama is back in Karnataka, now for private schools too||BENGALURU: Vidyagama, the continuous learning programme for schoolchildren, will be relaunched with lessons being held on campuses, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said on Tuesday. Besides government schools, the programme can now be held in aided and unaided (private) schools — in what is being seen as a halfway measure before they can be reopened. Children will be divided into groups of 15-20, depending on the number of teachers and classrooms available. They will be allowed to come to campuses for half a day, wearing masks and following Covid protocols. Three classes of 45 minutes each will be held according to a detailed timetable issued. “We are relaunching Vidyagama in a modified version, keeping in mind the safety of students and teachers. Vidyagama is not reopening of schools. There will be sessions for a small number of students as it’s the responsibility of the government to reach out to all sections of children,” said the minister. TOI had reported on Tuesday that the government is keen on implementing Vidyagama with a few modifications. “The education department must ensure that private schools are not disadvantaged in any manner... Vidyagama will be a success to ensure continuity of education if it throws open equal opportunities even for private schools and is not biased. If it is implemented with all the fair guidelines, we have no problem with it,” said D Sashi Kumar, secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vidyagama-is-back-in-ktaka-now-for-private-schools-too/articleshow/79749692.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Surat||Indigenously-built interceptor boat for ICG commissioned||SURAT: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) commissioned an indigenously built interceptor boat at Hazira on Tuesday. The boat was commissioned by Surat police commissioner Ajay Kumar Tomar in presence of ICG inspector general Rakesh Pal, commander, Indian Coast Guard (NW Region) and other dignitaries. “This boat built by L&T and is capable of a high speed of 45 knots having capability to operate in shallow waters. It is fitted with latest navigation and communication equipment designed for high-speed interception, close coast patrol, low intensity maritime operations, search and rescue and maritime surveillance,” said an ICG statement. The boat will operate from Gujarat under administrative and operational control of the Commander Coast Guard Region (NW) .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/indigenously-built-interceptor-boat-for-icg-commissioned/articleshow/79745090.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Third FYJC list cutoffs up to 10% higher than in 2019||MUMBAI: The third merit list for first-year junior colleges announced on Tuesday brought little respite to students as cut-offs remained above 90% at most popular institutions across streams. The cut-offs were up to 10% higher than the third merit list in 2019. Of the 1.1 lakh students who applied for the online admission process in the third round, 45,402 were allotted a seat. Of these, only 6,179 students were allotted a seat in the college they had listed as their first preference and it would be mandatory to secure admission or be out of the process. At most colleges, the cut-offs were the same or even higher than the second merit list. For instance, in the arts stream, the minimum entry scores at K C College and Jai Hind College at Churchgate and Mithibai College at Vile Parle were above 90%-higher than the previous list-and 2%, 7% and 4% more than the cut-offs in the third merit list in 2019, respectively. At St Xavier's College, Fort, there were no seats for the open category in the third list. Similarly, in the commerce stream, while R A Podar College, Matunga, had no seats on offer in this round, the cut-offs at H R College, Churchgate, Ruparel College, Matunga, and V G Vaze College, Mulund, saw a marginal increase. "Considering the pandemic was in play this year and the FYJC admissions were stalled for this long, we had expected non-state board students to continue in their schools and not wait for this process to resume. However, that doesn't seem to have happened. This year, there was also a big jump in the number of students who scored above 90% across boards, thereby increasing the cut-offs," said Ashok Wadia, principal, Jai Hind College. Cut-offs in all three streams at the college were around 90%. While cut-offs in the science stream saw a slight dip at most colleges, they too remained high. Principals say a further dip in cut-offs is expected in the next round with quota seats being surrendered for students from the open category. "While seats at most popular colleges aren't vacant in plenty, the pool for open category students will definitely be bigger in the next list. We have a few seats across streams which have found no takers under the quotas," said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, V G Vaze College. Colleges are allowed to surrender minority and constitutional reservation seats for the open category only after the third round. Students have until December 18 to confirm the seats allotted to them in this round. Several colleges are preparing to begin the academic session online after admissions in this round conclude. The education department will conduct a special round of admission to allow all students to participate. This year, though, there would not be a first-come-first-served round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-third-fyjc-list-cutoffs-up-to-10-higher-than-in-2019/articleshow/79749901.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
December 16, 2020||India||Contract farming will benefit farmers with lesser means: Nitin Gadkari||The farm reforms initiated by the Centre are intended to increase incomes of farmers and can be improved if unions agitating against the new laws agree to resume discussions with government, BJP veteran and minister for highways, road transport and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari tells TOI . Excerpts from the interview:Some sections of farmers have intensified their stir against the farm laws and the stalemate continues. What’s the way forward?We have said time and again that the government is ready for talks and we are open to dialogue. The government will address their concerns and is open to accommodate suggestions that are good for farmers. Communication and dialogue must continue. We can go for clause-byclause discussion on all three laws with farmers’ leaders. How do you look at the next rounds of talks?As I said, dialogue must continue. If we talk and understand each other’s concerns, we will be able to find a solution. I am hopeful of a positive outcome from the talks and we are committed to protecting the interest of farmers. The protesters have been claiming that those who made the laws do not know about farmer issues. What’s your response?In a democracy, people have the right to express their views. But let’s consider our track record in addressing the concerns of farmers. In the past six years, we have continuously increased the Minimum Support Price and procurement of crops has gone up. We have taken several decisions, such as increasing irrigation of farmland, providing crop insurance and financial assistance to farmers. This government has taken maximum steps that benefit farmers in independent India. At the same time, we are open to new ideas for improvement. The agitators have claimed that the government introduced these laws to benefit corporate houses. What’s your view?The core of all these laws is to protect the interest of farmers, to increase their income. The farmer now has more options to sell his product. He can sell his produce in the APMC or outside and it’s his choice to sell his produce to get a better price. Getting better price benefits farmers or corporates? I have come across several questions on farmers’ apprehensions of corporates taking over their land if they go for contract farming. Let me ask a question. When you book a cab of Ola or Uber for a ride, there is also a contract between you and the service provider to transport you from point A to B for a price. But do you become the owner of that cab? Second, contract farming has brought good results in many states. This will help farmers who have no capital to invest in farming. There is a view that elements with ulterior motives are trying to hijack the farmers’ protest.I saw some of the photographs and video clips on TV channels. I am surprised to see such photos and videos. What is the link of such people and the demand to release them with the farmers’ protest? How are they impacted due to the farm laws? Farmers’ organisations should be aware of such elements. We are concerned about farmers and are ready to resolve the issues through dialogue. Others are trying to push their own agenda and farmers should be aware of this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/contract-farming-will-benefit-farmers-with-lesser-means-nitin-gadkari/articleshow/79749912.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 16, 2020||Delhi||AIIMS nurses call off stir after Delhi HC orders them to||NEW DELHI: AIIMS nurses called off their strike on Tuesday, following an order by the Delhi high court restraining their union from carrying on with their indefinite stir call. The nurses had gone on strike on Monday over demands relating to the Sixth Pay Commission and against contractual appointments. Acting on an urgent plea by AIIMS, Justice Navin Chawla passed the order against the strike. The court also issued notice to the nurses’ union and listed the matter for hearing in January next year after AIIMS said it was considering their grievances. The premier hospital has 5,000 nurses and a majority of them participated in the strike. They have threatened to protest again if their demands aren’t met. “We want the anomaly in the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations rectified. Also, hiring of nurses on contractual basis should be stopped,” a senior nursing officer said. AIIMS told the court that it had no role to play in the resolution of the demand pertaining to the pay commission and the strike was a pressure-building tactic. Stir will bring AIIMS to halt, HC toldIn the absence of nurses, resident doctors were asked to put extra hours of work for patient management. Other hospital staff, including technicians and final-year MBBS students, were called in to manage patients, some of whom were critically ill and recovering from major surgeries. AIIMS argued in court that in view of the prevailing pandemic, if the strike continued, the institute would come to a standstill, which would not be in the public interest. It contended that the strike was illegal and in violation of the Industrial Disputes Act and an earlier order passed by the court prohibiting any such action. AIIMS has about 2,400 beds, of which approximately 15% are in the ICU. Nearly all of them were occupied on Monday when the strike was called.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-nurses-call-off-stir-after-delhi-hc-orders-them-to/articleshow/79749898.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Noida||Three die as truck crashes into SUV on Yamuna expressway||GREATER NOIDA: Three persons, including two women, died while two others were seriously injured after a speeding truck travelling on the Noida-Agra carriageway jumped the divider and crashed into their Scorpio on the other side of the Yamuna expressway in the early hours of Tuesday. The accident happened around 2.30am when Subhash Gupta (55), his wife Suman, their daughter Rinky, and two others — Suman’s sister Anita Gupta (35) and the SUV driver Pawan Dubey (38) — were travelling towards Delhi to visit a relative who recently underwent a kidney transplant at a private hospital in Saket. Police suspect the truck driver dozed off behind the wheel and lost control of the vehicle on the high-speed corridor, leading to the fatal crash. While Pawan, Anita and Rinky died on the spot, Subhash and his wife sustained serious injuries. In fact, Pawan died of a serious head injury, while Anita’s head got crushed resulting in inner parts coming out and Rinky succumbed to serious injuries in her chest, ribcage and head. The three were seated on the right side where the truck had hit, police said. Subhash’s son Ankit told TOI that they got information about the accident around 2.35am, after which they reached Jewar and went to the hospital where Suman and Subhash were rushed to. Subhash is a mandal in-charge of the Hindu Yuva Vahini unit of Shoharatgarh in Siddharthnagar district. “The truck was travelling on the Noida-Agra carriageway of the Yamuna expressway and the driver possibly fell asleep. The speeding truck jumped the divider and landed on the Agra-Noida carriageway crashing into the right side of the SUV being driven by Pawan,” Jewar SHO Umesh Bahadur said. He said that the exact reason for the accident would be ascertained only after the truck driver is caught. “The truck driver fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind. Efforts are on to track him down. Subhash and Suman too are in a serious condition,” the SHO said. Police are, however, yet to lodge an FIR. “A case will be filed as soon as a complaint is received from the family members. The truck has been seized,” Bahadur said. The accident took place on a day when will the speed limit on the Yamuna Expressway was brought down from 100kmph to 80kmph. For heavy vehicles, the maximum speed had been reduced from 80kmph to 60kmph. Yamuna Expressway sees a high number of accidents. During winter, speed reduction is a usual procedure on the expressway. With the dense fog these days, the current restrictions will remain in place till February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/3-die-as-truck-crashes-into-suv-on-e-way/articleshow/79748546.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 40% government engineering seats vacant after round 1||More than 40% of government quota engineering seats have gone unfilled after the first round of admissions. Data from the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) shows that students and parents are more choosy while selecting the course and college, perhaps impacted by implications of Covid-19 on industry and job opportunities. The demand for mechanical engineering, for instance, has dipped, say academics, as the manufacturing sector has taken a big hit. About 1.6 lakh students were allotted engineering ranking this year, according to KEA, including those who cleared II PUC in the supplementary examination. As many as 64,577 government quota engineering seats were available for selection in the first round of seat allotment. This included 7,008 additional seats surrendered by private college managements to KEA over and above the seat matrix finalised through a consensual agreement. Over 10k seats may remain vacant: OfficialIn the first round, only 49,201 students were allotted seats in various colleges; the others bypassed engineering at the time of option entry. Among those who were allotted seats, 37,308 have reported at colleges and completed the admission process.“If the trend continues, over 10,000 government quota engineering seats may remain unfilled,” said a technical education department official. Visvesvaraya Technological University VC Karisiddappa said the admission trend is similar to last year’s. “Colleges in tier-3 cities and rural areas are worst affected. Due to Covid-19, more students are picking colleges near their home. Another thing we observed is poor demand for mechanical engineering as the manufacturing sector is hit by Covid. Preferences of students and parents have changed nationally. Even elite technical institutions are facing student shortage,” he said, adding, “We are confident that in the second round, more seats will get filled.” College managements said a clear picture may emerge after the end of the second round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-40-govt-engineering-seats-vacant-after-round-1/articleshow/79749869.cms||Shrinivasa M
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Winter’s coldest day & night as hill chill sweeps into Delhi||NEW DELHI: Memories of last year’s bitterly cold December returned to haunt Delhiites as both maximum and minimum temperatures plunged five notches below normal on Tuesday, leading to “cold day” as well as “cold wave” conditions in NCR as icy northwesterly winds from snow-clad hills swept the region. Delhi’s Safardjung station recorded a minimum temperature of 4.1 degrees Celsius while some other parts of the capital were even colder. Jafarpur reported 3.6 degrees C and Ayanagar 3.8 degrees C. The maximum at Safdarjung, the city’s base station, was 18.5 degrees C. The maximum as well as the minimum temperature were the lowest of the season. Last December had seen the longest “cold day” spell ever for the month running for 18 straight days, with the maximum temperature falling to an all-time low of 9.4 degrees C for the month. That spell had started around the same time, on December 14, a day after heavy rain. This year, too, there was light rain on December 12. Cold wave likely till December 18: MetMet officials said the current cold spell could continue for at least the next three days. “Just like last December, ‘uplifted fog’ has appeared over the region, which is partially screening out sunlight, making day conditions colder,” an official said. ‘Uplifted fog’ is fog that gets lifted to a higher-than-usual elevation. It came prominently into play during the record “cold day” spell last December, with uplifted fog seen across north India. This year the fog is not that dense or widespread yet. “Cold day” conditions are declared when the maximum temperature is below 20 degrees and at least 4.5 degrees below normal. A cold wave occurs when the minimum is less than 10 degrees C and at least 4.5 degrees below normal. Both conditions were met on Tuesday, giving Delhiites no respite from the cold through the day. In 2019, the lowest minimum temperature recorded in December was 2.4 degrees Celsius on December 28. The alltime record of lowest minimum temperature was recorded on December 27, 1930 at 0 degree Celsius. “There has been sudden dip in maximum and minimum temperatures in the last two days due to cold winds blowing from western Himalayan region to Delhi,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. IMD forecast says that the minimum temperature may fall to 3 degrees Celsius on Wednesday while maximum temperature may be around 19 degrees Celsius. Cold wave and cold day conditions at isolated places are likely till December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/winters-coldest-day-night-as-hill-chill-sweeps-into-delhi/articleshow/79749922.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Students with OCI card can get state quota: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Students holding Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards should be treated as Indian citizens for the purpose of admission to professional courses and they are entitled to admission under the state quota, the Karnataka high court has stated. The court observation came while disposing of a batch of petitions by students and a writ appeal by the state government. A division bench comprising Justices BV Nagarathna and NS Sanjay Gowda has pointed out that when the issue pertains to citizenship, the state law must yield to the Citizenship Act, the central legislation enacted by Parliament. The high court has said the petitioners were minors at the time of filing of petitions and had the benefit of a dual citizenship. Petitioners have dual citizenship benefit: CourtThe court said the petitioners had the benefit of a dual citizenship being conferred on account of their birth in a foreign country (citizenship of that country where the birth had occurred) and also citizenship of India as per section 4(1A) of Citizenship Act, a right particularly conferred on minors so as to safeguard and protect their interests until they attain full age. “We would like to remind ourselves of the ancient Indian thought – ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, which means ‘the world is a family’. Therefore, the minor children of Indian citizens born overseas must have the same status, rights and duties as Indian citizens, who are minor,” the bench said. The court quashed Section 2(1)(N) of the Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission & Determination of Fee) Act, 2006, (amended in 2017) to the extent it sought to include OCI cardholders within the definition of nonresident Indian category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/students-with-oci-card-can-get-state-quota-karnataka-hc/articleshow/79749867.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Now, RT-PCR rates cut to Rs 850 in hospitals, Rs 980 at home||MUMBAI: The state government slashed the rates for RT-PCR, rapid antigen as well as antibody tests further on Tuesday. Now, getting an RT-PCR test in a hospital or a laboratory will cost Rs 850 and home collection Rs 980 in Maharashtra. The public health department on Tuesday issued a notification announcing the reduction in test prices. From the initial cost of Rs 4,500, the price of RT-PCR was cut to Rs 1,600 in September and then to Rs 1,400 in October for walk-in tests. The home collection charge has reduced from Rs 2,000 in September to Rs 980 now. The rate for bulk testing has been fixed at Rs 700, down from Rs 980. The state has also revised the rates for rapid antigen tests. An individual will pay Rs 500 at a lab or a hospital for it. An antigen report test is available in less than 30 minutes but is considered less accurate than RT-PCR. The same test would cost Rs 600 if carried out in a kiosk, at an airport or a station. Its home collection rate has been fixed at Rs 700. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said it was another measure to benefit citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-rt-pcr-rates-cut-to-rs-850-in-hospitals-rs-980-at-home/articleshow/79749937.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||Give breaks to Covid warriors: SC to govt||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s exclusive bench dealing with Covid-related cases on Tuesday asked the Centre to work out guidelines to give rotational breaks to doctors and health workers engaged in treating Covid-19 patients for the last eight months and said working continuously in high-risk zones could give rise to mental health issues among corona warriors. Times ViewDoctors and other healthcare workers have been at the frontline in the long-drawn war against Covid-19. It has been 10 months and fatigue, both physical and mental, is inevitable. A break would certainly help them restore their bodies and rejuvenate their minds. Let us not forget the war could last many more months.The bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah told solicitor general Tushar Mehta to look into the mental health aspect of doctors, health workers and even students of medicine, who have been pressed into service to treat Covid-19 patients for months without a break, and work out a schedule for giving them some free time. “Doctors on Covid-19 duty have been working continuously for the last eight months without a break. The government should earnestly consider giving them a break. Otherwise, many will suffer mental health issues. Many MBBS students are also working for months in Covid-19 hospitals. They should also get a break to prepare for their exams,” Justice Shah said. The bench was examining the fire safety of hospitals, especially hospitals exclusively treating Covid patients, after two fire incidents in Gujarat hospitals claimed the lives of 12 patients. The bench said it would pass comprehensive orders on this issue on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/give-breaks-to-covid-warriors-sc-to-govt/articleshow/79749920.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 16, 2020||Goa||‘Restore water or will camp at PWD office’||Valpoi: The village of Panshe-Pissurlem in Sattari was connected to piped water lines for the first time 15 years ago. However, villagers say that they receive water only during the monsoon and that their taps run dry for rest of the year. The villagers, on Tuesday, marched in protest to the office of the public works department’s (PWD) water supply division at Valpoi. The residents of Panshe have threatened to camp outside the PWD office along with their families, including children, if the water supply is not restored within the next few days. When they reached the PWD office, the villagers were furious to find the assistant engineer and the junior engineer unavailable. An elderly villager, Kalu Gawade, said that whenever he had visited the PWD office over the years with his complaints, officials only ask for a written complaint, but the issue goes unresolved. “We come here to plead before them to give water to us, but they reply so rudely and only keep asking for written complaints. This is hurtful. Despite giving the complaints in writing, as asked of us, the issue remains unaddressed till date,” Kalu said. Deputy sarpanch for Pissurlem panchayat, Laxman Gawade, said the water pipeline laid in the village 15 years ago has proven useless as they do not receive water supply for most part of the year. “We receive water supply only in the rainy season. We don’t know where this water goes during the other seasons, and the question arises in our minds as to who robs it,” Laxman said. An elderly woman from the village said, “I pay my bills without fail, even then I don’t get a single drop of water.” Ramnath Panshekar, another resident of Panshe village, said the entire village is dependent on water tankers for their supply. “Till when should we rely on tanker water? It is a difficult task for us to line up with our utensils outside the house and get it filled with the tanker water,” Panshekar said. Some villagers said they have already stopped paying their water bills over the last five years or so as they are being cheated by not being supplied any water in return. Officials at the water supply office assured the villagers that they will convey their grievances to the assistant engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restore-water-or-will-camp-at-pwd-office/articleshow/79747326.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Rs 25k ‘fee’ irks vintage vehicles owners||Nagpur: Owners of vintage vehicles across the country will have to shell out Rs25,000 for registration of vintage motor vehicles, as per the draft notification by ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). The ministry has invited suggestions and objections before it amends the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989, which also proposes Rs5,000 for re-registration and renewal certificate for vintage vehicles. The draft proposes special letters ‘VA’ in registration mark for vintage vehicles, with state code, two-letter series and four-letter numbers allotted by state registration authority. The government will also appoint state and regional-level Vintage Motor Vehicle State Committee (VMVSC) to decide on issuing a digital certificate of inspection. Cent Ind Vintage Automotive Association (CIVAA) has opposed the Rs25,000 fee and also made other suggestions. Anjan Chatterjee, secretary, CIVAA, wrote to director of MoRTH that a new category of classics be created for 30-49 year old vehicles, which are feeder automobiles for vintage category. Chatterjee said some 600 people own vintage vehicles (200 odd four-wheeler and 400 odd two-wheeler owners). He has urged change in definition of vintage motor vehicle as a 50-year-old vintage, based on date of manufacture and not date of first registration. CIVAA also opposed the VMVSC, as the committee would act as super regulatory authority, with possible misuse of discretionary powers over and above the RTO authority. The association also said that the Rs25,000 registration fee is very high, and not affordable for many vintage owners from the middle and upper middle classes. This astronomical fee may lead to many vintage owners avoiding compliance with registration process. CIVAA said the aim of the draft notification is to be inclusive and help preserve vintage beauties for posterity, but the proposed fee is a deterrent. It was also pointed out that the registration fee for a luxury car and a modest two-wheeler moped is the same, and many old two-wheeler may not even fetch resale value of Rs20,000. The owners organization has suggested fitness tests after 10 years with reasonable charge for different categories of motor vehicles ranging from Rs500 to Rs2,000 at the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-25k-fee-irks-vintage-vehicles-owners/articleshow/79746225.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 16, 2020||Goa||Shack operators ask Goa govt not to cancel licences||PANAJI: Beach shack operators who have not set up shacks even two months after the tourist season commenced are facing an uncertain future as their licences stand to be revoked as per the beach shack policy. Some have not paid the licence fees and also face the risk of losing their licences. The Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) has requested the tourism department to consider the case of such operators sympathetically. “Let them pay the licence fee, but don’t compel them to set up shacks for the season, we told tourism director Menino D’Souza,” president of SOWS, Cruz Cardozo, said. The beach shack policy mandates that shacks have to be erected within a stipulated time frame. Cardozo said that since footfalls are less, the operators will not be able to cover the operation cost. Majority of the staff employed by shacks are from north India and the north eastern states and many have not returned even as the season has started. During a normal season about 340 to 350 beach shacks come up along the 105km coastline. Due to the pandemic, the season has been particularly dull. “We have crowds on Fridays and Saturdays, but on weekdays there are hardly any tourists. The beaches look deserted,” secretary of SOWS, John Lobo, said. Even otherwise, Lobo said, domestic tourists are known to visit on weekends. So, while the trend is not a new one, the void during the weekdays is being felt now. Cardozo said that though they are expecting footfalls to rise during the Christmas week, they are still worried that few or no tourists visit the state on weekdays. “I don’t know how long we will be able to sustain in this fashion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shack-operators-ask-govt-not-to-cancel-licences/articleshow/79747344.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Fewer than 10 deaths (7) in Mumbai for second straight day||MUMBAI: For the first time since April, the city has reported Covid-19 deaths in single digits for two days in a row. The city saw seven Covid deaths on Tuesday after reporting the same number of casualties on Monday. Mumbai's Covid toll touched 10,991. The city saw daily deaths in single digits till mid-April before the daily toll began to climb to double digits and even touched three digits in June. Cases in the city though saw a marginal rise from Monday. On Tuesday, it reported 521 cases after seeing a 28-day low with 477 cases on Monday. Mumbai's Covid tally is now 2,91,634. The BMC said in its report that the city currently had 8,812 people under active treatment, although the state pegged the number of active cases at 14,096 for Mumbai. State officials didn't clarify the discrepancy. After months, the city also has fewer than 1,000 critical patients (800), an official said. Cases in the state on Tuesday saw a marginal rise, although they remained under 4,000 for the third consecutive day. The state reported 3,442 cases, taking the overall case tally to 18,86,807. A total of 70 deaths were reported on Tuesday, taking the toll to 48,339. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said in the lower house on Tuesday that though new cases are declining, safety measures cannot be ignored completely. "There is some relief with decline in cases. However, people still need to be careful," he said. He added that the state was not among the 14 states with the highest growth rate on the Central government's portal. "The daily rate of infection has reduced to 0.21," Tope said. About vaccination, Tope said the campaign will be carried out as per guidelines of the Centre and through setting up of booths like the election voting process. He added that the recruitment process for vacant posts in the health department will start soon. The minister said the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana has been implemented for all during the pandemic, which helped many to avail of free treatment. He reiterated that the state will provide free blood to patients in all government hospitals. According to the state health bulletin, Mumbai circle that has been the biggest contributor of Covid cases has been reporting below 1,000 cases. On Tuesday, Mumbai circle, including the MMR, reported 978 cases and 13 deaths. Pune region came second with 657 cases and 24 deaths. This region has been recording the highest deaths among all eight administrative divisions. Within MMR, Thane city reported 90 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of infected people there to 53,617, while two Covid deaths took the toll to 1,214. There were 52 cases from within NMMC areas on Tuesday, taking the Covid count there to 49,767. Of these, 97% of patients have successfully recovered. Three deaths were also reported, taking the toll there to 1,019. The PCMC areas reported 30 fresh cases and one death. (Inputs by Vijay Singh, B B Nayak and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-fewer-than-10-deaths-7-in-mumbai-for-second-straight-day/articleshow/79749982.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Fewer than 10 deaths (7) in Mumbai for second straight day||MUMBAI: For the first time since April, the city has reported Covid-19 deaths in single digits for two days in a row. The city saw seven Covid deaths on Tuesday after reporting the same number of casualties on Monday. Mumbai's Covid toll touched 10,991. The city saw daily deaths in single digits till mid-April before the daily toll began to climb to double digits and even touched three digits in June. Cases in the city though saw a marginal rise from Monday. On Tuesday, it reported 521 cases after seeing a 28-day low with 477 cases on Monday. Mumbai's Covid tally is now 2,91,634. The BMC said in its report that the city currently had 8,812 people under active treatment, although the state pegged the number of active cases at 14,096 for Mumbai. State officials didn't clarify the discrepancy. After months, the city also has fewer than 1,000 critical patients (800), an official said. Cases in the state on Tuesday saw a marginal rise, although they remained under 4,000 for the third consecutive day. The state reported 3,442 cases, taking the overall case tally to 18,86,807. A total of 70 deaths were reported on Tuesday, taking the toll to 48,339. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said in the lower house on Tuesday that though new cases are declining, safety measures cannot be ignored completely. "There is some relief with decline in cases. However, people still need to be careful," he said. He added that the state was not among the 14 states with the highest growth rate on the Central government's portal. "The daily rate of infection has reduced to 0.21," Tope said. About vaccination, Tope said the campaign will be carried out as per guidelines of the Centre and through setting up of booths like the election voting process. He added that the recruitment process for vacant posts in the health department will start soon. The minister said the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Yojana has been implemented for all during the pandemic, which helped many to avail of free treatment. He reiterated that the state will provide free blood to patients in all government hospitals. According to the state health bulletin, Mumbai circle that has been the biggest contributor of Covid cases has been reporting below 1,000 cases. On Tuesday, Mumbai circle, including the MMR, reported 978 cases and 13 deaths. Pune region came second with 657 cases and 24 deaths. This region has been recording the highest deaths among all eight administrative divisions. Within MMR, Thane city reported 90 cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of infected people there to 53,617, while two Covid deaths took the toll to 1,214. There were 52 cases from within NMMC areas on Tuesday, taking the Covid count there to 49,767. Of these, 97% of patients have successfully recovered. Three deaths were also reported, taking the toll there to 1,019. The PCMC areas reported 30 fresh cases and one death. (Inputs by Vijay Singh, B B Nayak and Manoj Badgeri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-fewer-than-10-deaths-7-in-mumbai-for-second-straight-day/articleshow/79749960.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 16, 2020||India||Vice-Admiral dies due to Covid-related complications||NEW DELHI: Vice-Admiral Srikant, the senior-most serving submariner in the Navy, passed away due to Covid-related complications at the Military Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment early on Tuesday. Vice-Admiral Srikant, who was slated to retire on December 31 from his current post of director-general of Project Seabird, was admitted to the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on December 4. “He was treated for pneumonia in both lungs with plasma therapy and non-invasive ventilator support. Subsequently, he required mechanical ventilator support, even though he had tested negative for Covid. But he passed away at 1 am on Tuesday,” said an official. Vice-Admiral Srikant had earlier served as the Inspector General of Nuclear Safety and Commandant of the National Defence College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vice-admiral-dies-due-to-covid-related-complications/articleshow/79749965.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Now, a job portal focused on local talent||NAGPUR: Starting this weekend, business establishments of Nagpur region will have a special platform to recruit talent. A Nagpur region focused job portal is set to go online from December 18 with the aim of providing both employers and potential recruits an opportunity to ‘stay local’. An initiative by ‘Nagpur First’, the portal will be launched during their Global Nagpur Summit 2020 (GNS) starting December 19. Only jobs based in city or nearby areas will be posted on the website. The link will go live on www.nagpurfirst.org site. Sachin Jahagirdar, treasurer of Nagpur First, said, “The idea is to bring talent back home. We have been coordinating with multiple companies across sectors in Nagpur region and the response was good as even they wanted to hire skilled talent from the region.” The web site, which part of a campaign called “Bring ’em Home”, will assist Nagpurians find suitable jobs in the city and region. An official statement goes on to say they shall ensure ‘experienced’ resources with at least five years experience are available in the talent pool. Jahagirdar said, “Right from information technology to pharmaceuticals to healthcare, Nagpurians with employable skills shall have access to potential employers. Companies will route their requirements to us and we will post it online here.” GNS 2020 will be held virtually from December 19-20. Jahagirdar said, “The theme for this seventh edition is about connecting the world with Central India, using Nagpur as the gateway. Hence we are calling it Nagpur- The Global Gateway of Indian Heartland.” He added that while job postings will be from Nagpur, they will also try to ensure jobs seekers have local roots. “Initially we will push for the Nagpur region connection. Our entire focus is working and promoting this region, so no point in bringing non-local talent. That’s the unique aspect of this portal,” said Jahagirdar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-a-job-portal-focused-on-local-talent/articleshow/79746258.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 16, 2020||Goa||Goa electricity department asks consumers to stop throwing waste near transformer centres||PANAJI: The Goa electricity department has appealed to consumers to refrain from throwing garbage or foreign materials within a two-metre radius of the department’s distribution transformer centres and feeder pillars installed for underground cabling. “The presence of such materials cause inconvenience to the line staff of the department to attend to fuse calls and undertake regular maintenance activities. This could also lead to hazardous circumstances like ignition of a fire hazard leading to destruction of departmental property,” the department’s chief electrical engineer Rajiv Samant stated. He added that this causes interruption in the power supply to areas that would require replacement of burnt or damaged equipment in the process. There have also been instances where miscreants have dumped garbage in the transformer enclosures. The transformers in isolated areas, along road sides and market areas have been the most affected due to this dumping the department has found. “The distribution transformer centres and the ring main units are installed at locations for the control and switching of power supply and hence clear access to these structures are a must for efficiently providing service to consumers and public at all times,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/electricity-dept-asks-consumers-to-stop-throwing-waste-near-transformer-centres/articleshow/79747383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 16, 2020||Bengaluru||MLCs manhandle dy chair, scuffle at 1-day special session||BENGALURU: The BJP government’s bid to remove Prathap Chandra Shetty as legislative council chairman by convening a special one-day session on Tuesday led to pandemonium and ugly scenes with members of the ruling party and Congress creating ruckus. The no-confidence motion plan of the government ran aground, with Shetty adjourning the house sine die barely 35 minutes after it convened. With the ruling party short of a majority in the upper house, BJP has been leaning on JD(S) to pass bills. The move to oust Shetty was part of a BJP-JD (S) plan to take posts of council chairman and deputy chairman and facilitate easy passage of bills and smooth conduct of the house. Trouble started when Congress members found deputy chairman SL Dharmegowda in the chair soon after the council met at 11am. Some of them ran to the podium and forced Gowda out. In the melee, Gowda stumbled and fell, leading to a scuffle between members of Congress and BJP. The Congress members contended that it was unconstitutional for Gowda to chair the proceedings when the chairman was present. Chaotic scenes in legislative councilTo lend legitimacy to its plan of installing Gowda in the chair for the one-day session, BJP members said Shetty has lost the confidence of the house and tried to prevent his entry by blocking the door. The party members swarmed the podium in support of Gowda, claiming the government asked him to chair the proceedings. Party sources said BJP asked Gowda to chair the proceedings since Shetty did not list the no-confidence motion on the agenda. Shetty argued that since he had already turned down the notice seeking introduction of the noconfidence motion, the subject cannot be listed on the agenda for the one-day session. This triggered off a duel, and members of both parties started pushing and shouting down each other. At this point, Congress members led by Naseer Ahmed and Narayanaswamy dragged Dharmegowda out of the chair. Gowda fell in the melee, leading to a second round of scuffle. Congress MLC Chandrashekhar Patil immediately occupied the chair. Narayanaswamy was seen trying to throw the glass table. BJP and Congress members came close to exchanging blows when Congress members tried to open the door behind the chair to allow Shetty into the house. The BJP members tried to stop Congress members. Congress MLC Naseer Ahmed was seen kicking the door. Amid the bedlam, Shetty entered the house and adjourned the house sine die much to the anger of BJP and the JD(S) members, who had reportedly joined hands to remove him from the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mlcs-manhandle-dy-chair-scuffle-at-1-day-special-session/articleshow/79749865.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||ICMR excludes MBBS+PhDs from posts of scientists||Nagpur: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar National Students Federation, an organization of medical students, has claimed the medical student who has done PhD after completion of MBBS degree cannot apply for the post of the Scientist E, F, G H, Director and DG of the Indian Council of Medical research (ICMR). Remarkably, a person completing PhD after traditional post graduation degree in science (MSc) can apply for the same posts. “MBBS is considered equivalent to the MSc/Master level as per the academics are concerned. So, MBBS plus PhD holders must get an opportunity to become scientists in ICMR,” said Dr Siddhant Bharne of the federation. ICMR has advertised several vacancies for scientists’ posts. The advertisement clearly states that the posts ae for MD/MS in medical field which means they are not accepting MBBS plus PhD. “MSc with PhD is acceptable even though MSc degree holders are non-medicos,” said Dr Bharne adding that ICMR being a medical research institute, many doctors were willing to join after MBBS and PhD. Though MBBS is an undergraduate degree, medicos are allowed to go for PhD without doing post-graduation. “Other scientific institutions like CSIR and government departments like DBT, DST consider MBBS and PhD eligible for all scientific positions even up to level of directors and DGs. Even ICMR Scientist requirements in 2007 and 2012 had included MBBS-PhD qualifications as eligible for all positions,” said Dr Bharne. The current advertisement excludes them for the positions from Scientists E onwards. The federation has written to ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava and Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, both medical doctors, on this issue. “We need more doctors in medical research. After MBBS, many who are interested in research complete PhD instead of going for MD or MS that are mainly for practising doctors,” said Dr Kamlesh Meshram. Notably, out of 27 institutes of the ICMR only nine directors are medical doctors (33%). Rest all are MSc-PhD. ICMR is yet to reply to the federation but members who talked to the officials there on phone said that they were positive in making changes and consider applications from MBBS and PhD candidates for these posts. Official notification is still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/icmr-excludes-mbbsphds-from-posts-of-scientists/articleshow/79746297.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 16, 2020||Delhi||Take Delhi Metro if you want to keep pollution exposure to minimum||NEW DELHI: If you wish to reduce your exposure to polluted air, travelling by the Delhi Metro or an air-conditioned car may be your safest bet, a study analysing the inhalation and exposure of PM 2.5 in various modes of travel across the city has found. Exposure to PM 2.5 was highest in an autorickshaw. Track the pollution level in your cityThe study, carried out by researchers from Northumbria University (Newcastle), IIT Madras, CSIR-NEERI and Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) among others, recorded real-time data monitored through an 11-km long stretch from IIT Delhi to Connaught Place. It used a portable TSI SidePak Aerosol Monitor AM520 and collected the ambient air quality readings of the area as well as the possible exposure inside the vehicle. It found walking to be the most dangerous, with the highest respiratory deposition per kilometre occurring while walking, followed by a rickshaw ride. The study states the highest PM 2.5 exposure was recorded through autorickshaws, which resulted in a mean PM 2.5 concentration of 266 g/m3 (± 159 g/m3), followed by walking 259 g/m3 (± 102 g/ m3). The lowest readings were recorded in the Metro (72 ± 11 g/m3), followed by an air-conditioned car (89 ± 30 g/m3). Exposure was moderate in buses (113 ± 14 g/m3 ) and non-AC cars (149 ± 13 g/m3 ), however, open windows and local factors caused a surge in PM2.5 concentration for both these modes of transport, the study says. All readings were collected in February 2018. “Closed, air-conditioned transport modes were shown to be the best modes for avoiding high concentrations of PM2.5, however, other factors (e.g. time of the day, window open or closed in the vehicles) affected exposure levels significantly,” said the study. Per kilometre, the study said, the highest respiratory deposition doses (RDDs) were highest for walking, followed by a rickshaw. While the RDD value for walking was estimated at 84.7 ± 33.4 g/ km, it was 15.8 ± 9.5 g/km for rickshaw, followed by 9.7 ± 0.9 g/km for a non-AC car. “Different modes of transport were analysed during the winter period when pollution levels are at their peak and their impact on the respiratory system is much more. While closed environments are considered equally challenging, we found air-conditioned cars and the Delhi Metro to both be faring extremely well and the airconditioning here plays a key role in reducing the impact of PM 2.5, while also allowing ventilation,” said Kamal Jyoti Maji, co-author and researcher at Northumbria University. The study noted slight route deviations were taken for rickshaw and buses. “The region from Prithviraj Road to Janpath Road is less populated and comprises key government offices and embassies. The area between Janpath Road to Connaught Place is mainly of government authorities’ structures, small retail infrastructures with a large hotel. The final part of the route, Connaught Place, is a series of ring roads. It is surrounded by a central park and markets and is often congested due to large number of rickshaws and cars using the area,” said the study. Maji says the PM 2.5 exposure during walking and rickshaws was also much higher than the ambient PM 2.5 concentration in the surrounding, which was around 146 ± 53 micrograms per cubic metre. Anil Namdeo, another coauthor, says the study aims to encourage the implementation of integrated and intelligent transport systems while also educating commuters on ways to reduce exposure levels. “The impact on the health of a commuter and the exposure levels, especially during winters, can create both short-term and long-term problems,” said Namdeo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/take-delhi-metro-if-you-want-to-keep-pollution-exposure-to-minimum/articleshow/79749974.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||15 startups to work on solutions for tackling pandemic challenges||Nagpur: Project Covid-19, organized by Lemon School of Entrepreneurship (LSE) along with Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GIZ), a German development agency with India headquarters at New Delhi, was inaugurated on Tuesday. Total 15 startups from across India, which are working on innovative solutions to tackle the daunting challenges posed by the pandemic have been selected for this cohort.Saurabh Shah from LSE, the host for the inauguration ceremony, said, “The objective of the proposed intervention is to identify, support and handhold innovations that promote smart and local solutions for the production of equipment, devices or services required for Covid-19. The expected outcome of this cohort is to provide commercialization support to selected startups.”Shah said training and mentoring programme will include workshops on self-awareness, idea to reality, entrepreneurship attributes, and other spaces to shape the entrepreneurial skills of the members. He also noted that the top startups selected for immediate upscale and commercialization would be chosen for further technical and financial assistance by GIZ.Lemon Ideas CEO Deepak Menaria said, “This programme was conceptualized just a week after the lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Since we were already in the innovation space, we thought that the simplest way in which we can contribute was by providing a platform to present ideas on how to tackle the pandemic. We received nearly 150 ideas from across the country which made us feel inspired and motivated. We even received a number of references from TOI.”He added, “We have a wide representation of startups working to resolve Covid challenges. Whatever solutions they are working on will make the world a better place to live in amid the pandemic. The wide range will open up space for a collaborative environment as the idea is to upscale and commercialize.”GIZ advisor Shankar Kumar said, “GIZ is a not-for-profit organization owned and funded by the government of Germany. We work in areas of energy, environment and private sector development. The goal is to work with innovative startups in 4 verticals of identification, mentoring, help with certification and networking.”LSE director Mukesh Ashar said, “We’ll be helping startups to march ahead and scale up. The post-Covid scenario can prove to be a great opportunity for the ecosystem of entrepreneurs.”The startups selected for this programme were Aristavault, Co-protect, Medicfibers, Nivid, Upcyclabs, Carbon Hubs, Sani Shooter, Duraprot Plus, Coviprotect, Nirog India, Robo San, 3Not, Aparoksh Tech Pvt Ltd, Invenzee and Trip Mungo.Ashwin Korde and Neha Singhania were the programme co-ordinators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-startups-to-work-on-solutions-for-tackling-pandemic-challenges/articleshow/79746302.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Coast Guard commissions 2nd offshore patrol vessel||Vasco: The Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday morning commissioned Sujeet the second in the series of 105m offshore patrol vessels. The vessel has been designed and built indigenously by Goa Shipyard. Sujeet was commissioned at the hands of secretary (defence production) IAS Raj Kumar. Sujeet means auspicious victory. “I feel so proud to state that the ship is indigenously built under ‘Make in India’ programme enhancing the concept of self-reliance and indigenisation. The steering gear, gear box, and communication equipment have been designed and manufactured in India thereby meeting the design expectations of Coast Guard,” Raj Kumar said. He said that the maritime environment necessitates reinforcing maritime security and surveillance at sea. The ship will be based at Goa and she will be deployed extensively for Exclusive Economic Zone surveillance and other duties. ICGS Sujeet is commanded by deputy inspector general Harinder Jit Singh and manned by 12 officers and 110 men. The vessel is fitted with a 40/60 Bofors gun and will be fitted with two 12.7mm SRCG guns. It is also equipped with an integrated bridge system (IBS), integrated platform management system (IPMS), power management system (PMS), and high power external fire fighting (EFF) system. It can carry one twin engine helicopter and four high speed boats, including two inflatable boats for boarding operation, search and rescue, law enforcement and maritime patrol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coast-guard-commissions-2nd-offshore-patrol-vessel/articleshow/79747447.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Air-conditioned locals between CSMT-Kalyan may start this week||MUMBAI: Three years after air-conditioned locals started on the western line, the railway board has granted approval to start AC locals on the main line, between CSMT and Kalyan. Services are likely to start this week. Central railway ran its first air-conditioned local on the trans-harbour line connecting Thane to Panvel on January 30. However, fearing commuter ire, it had avoided running the AC train on the main line and harbour line as the services would have been at the cost of regular non-AC services. A senior CR official said, "We will run 10 services between CSMT and Kalyan. Of these, at least two each will be in the morning and evening peak hours. Services may start this week." Another official said though the tentative plan is ready, the path and timetable for these services is yet to be formalised. "The train may run six days a week, excluding Sunday." The first AC local arrived in Mumbai in February 2016, but it began running on the suburban network on Western Railway between Churchgate and Virar on December 25, 2017. Explaining the rationale behind starting the AC locals on the main line, an official said though 90% suburban trains were back on track, long-distance train services were not yet running at full strength. "We now have margin to run additional AC trains without antagonising regular train commuters." The fare for the air-conditioned train will be 1.3 times the fare for first class travel. The minimum fare will be Rs 65, and the maximum Rs 220 for a single-ticket journey. A CR official said the decision on running air-conditioned trains on harbour line will be taken at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-air-conditioned-locals-between-csmt-kalyan-may-start-this-week/articleshow/79749980.cms||Manthan K Mehta
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||ACC Cement, CSTPS get notice for pollution||Chandrapur: The regional office of Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MPCB) here has served notices to ACC Cement Company in Ghugus and Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS), for violation of pollution norms and asked them to give their explanation within a week. ACC Cement has been served notices following a complaint by Kisan Congress regarding damage caused to crops due to pollution affecting surrounding crops at its Ghugus cement plant. A complaint was also filed by Sanjeevani Paryavaran Shamajik Sanstha for causing hazardous pollution leading to adverse health impact on Ghugus residents. CSTPS has been served notice for recent detection of oil traces in Irai river at Datala point. The notice also mentions heavy dust emission during vehicular transportation at the approach road leading to coal gate in plant and dilapidated condition of this approach road. The notice also highlights heavy black emission observed on December 3 from generation unit no. 8 and 9 of the power plant. The board has warned it will forfeit the bank guarantee and even go on to close the plant, and has sought an explanation in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acc-cement-cstps-get-notice-for-pollution/articleshow/79746319.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||State sets up 4 sub-panels to identify critical wildlife habitats||Nagpur: The state government on Tuesday set up four sub-committees of the state board for wildlife (SBWL) members to identify critical wildlife habitats (CWHs) in protected areas (PAs). One more seven-member committee has been constituted to prepare an action plan for the conservation of endangered pangolins.CWHs are such areas of national parks and sanctuaries that are required to be kept ‘inviolate’ for the purpose of wildlife conservation as per provisions of the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006. At present, not a single CWH has been notified in the country though area equivalent to the state of Assam has been distributed under the FRA. There are 55 PAs including 6 national parks in Maharashtra for which these committees will identify CWHs.The committees have been formed division-wise for Nagpur, Amravati, Konkan-Nashik & Pune-Aurangabad. Poonam Dhanwatey, Kundan Hate, and Bandu Dhotre have been included in Nagpur, Kishor Rithe and Yadav Tarte for Amravati, Anish Andheria, Bittu Sahgal, Vishwas Katdhare and BNHS representative for Konkan-Nashik, and Suhas Waigaokar & Anuj Khare for Pune-Aurangabad.The sub-committees will look into the proposals whether these are as per the guidelines issued by the MoEFCC and see whether the rights of locals have been protected while identifying CWH. The sub-committees have been set up after the issue was raised by Rithe in the 15th SWBL meeting held on August 7, 2020. On Tuesday a GR was issued to form committees.This is not for the first time that committees have been set up to identify CWH. The six-member panel was set up on May 14, 2008, when the first guidelines were issued. In 2011, CWH guidelines were withdrawn after opposition from FRA activists. Since then the process has been stalled.The MoEFCC issued fresh guidelines on January 4, 2018, giving powers on CWH to SBWL and NBWL. The state government had also set up expert committees for 55 PAs in Maharashtra but barring Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), the process was not started for any other PAs.The setting up of four sub-committees has not augured well with the experts as they feared there should not be a mismatch between committees while dealing with the issue. Rithe, who has been involved in the CWH process since 2008, said, “It would have been better if one single committee accommodating all these members had been set up. All these committees will have to bring a common understanding while dealing with the complex issue. I have urged the state’s chief wildlife warden to address the issue.”Meanwhile, the seven-member committee to suggest an action plan for pangolin conservation will be headed by conservator Ramesh Kumar (Pune), DyCFs BS Hada (Satara) & Deepak Khade (Chiplun), NGOs Nitin Desai, Vishwas Katdhare, Dr Varad Giri, and Rohan Bhate, former honorary wildlife warden. The group will study measures to curb pangolin poaching and its body parts trade, conservation, and habitat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-sets-up-4-sub-panels-to-identify-critical-wildlife-habitats/articleshow/79746333.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 16, 2020||India||Direct states to take care of edu of kids in shelters: Govt to SC||NEW DELHI: Hit by open defiance of its orders by some states, the Centre on Tuesday requested the SC to add judicial weight to directions to all states to take care of educational infrastructure requirements of kids lodged in child care institutions (CCIs) and give financial assistance to those kids repatriated from CCIs to parents during the pandemic. Amicus curiae Gaurav Agarwal suggested to the court that the children lodged in CCIs must be prepared for their final exams in March/April and for that, there has to be proper infrastructure at the CCIs. He said there were around 2.3 lakh children lodged in CCIs before the pandemic. Of this, nearly 1.5 lakh kids were restored to their parents. He said the parents needed to be compensated Rs 2,000 every month so that the education and food requirements of the kids did not suffer. When SG Tushar Mehta, appearing for National Commission for Protection of Child Rights said all suggestions of the amicus were acceptable, a bench of Justices L N Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi said, “If the central body has the power to do it, it would be better that it issued directions and monitored its implementation.” But recent incidents of some state governments defying the Centre’s orders appeared to have played on the SG’s mind as he said, “We are ready to do it but it’ll be better if the SC makes the directions so that states implement them without demur. Otherwise, there’ll be some challenge.” The SC directed states to provide necessary infrastructure and other equipment required for online classes within 30 days. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/direct-states-to-take-care-of-edu-of-kids-in-shelters-govt-to-sc/articleshow/79749983.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 16, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda civic body scraps tender, says lowest bid too low||Chandrapur: The decision of BJP-ruled Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) to scrap entire tender process for garbage collection contract citing that the lowest bidder has quoted far too less than the base rate by the civic body and later awarding the contract to the same bidder at higher rate has provided fresh ammunition to the opposition Congress. City Congress president and corporator Ramu Tiwari has alleged corruption in awarding the contract, whereas mayor Rakhi Kancharlawar termed the charges as baseless. One M/s Swayambhu Transport, Pune, has been allotted the work of garbage lifting at the rate of Rs2,552 per tonne. Interestingly, the same company was among the 3-4 companies that had bid in the earlier tender. In the previous tender, M/s Swayambhu Transport’s bid — Rs1,700 per tonne for door-to-door garbage lifting, its transportation to compost depot and transportation of garbage after cleaning of drains — was termed as less than the base rate of Rs2,300 fixed by the CMC. The civic body had scrapped the entire tender process and re-invited bids. In the second tender, M/s Swayambhu Transport quoted Rs2,552 per tonne and the CMC found it to be the lowest and hence awarded the company the contract. Tiwari, in a press conference on Tuesday, charged the mayor and standing committee of making underhand deal to award the tender at Rs800 higher rate. He claimed that the tender process lacks transparency and demanded thorough inquiry. Kancharlawar and standing committee chairman Rahul Pawde too held a press conference on Tuesday and explained that the earlier tender process was cancelled as the lowest bidder had quoted Rs1,700 per tonne, which was less than the base rate of Rs2,300 per tonne calculated by the CMC. Pawde said the earlier rates were not viable and the contract workers of the company would not have got the minimum wages. The new contractor has agreed to accommodate all 325 contract sanitary workers of the previous company on the same work and ensure mechanized lifting and transportation of garbage. Kancharlawar claimed that the decision was taken in consultation with all members of the standing committee, including those from the opposition. The matter was presented before the general body and it was approved without any opposition. The mayor also claimed that she had not received any formal complaint from any corporator over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-civic-body-scraps-tender-says-lowest-bid-too-low/articleshow/79746343.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Curb services to protect motormen, guards' union tells railway authorities||MUMBAI: The railway union has demanded authorities scale down services during late night and early morning hours to prevent the spread of Covid among motormen and guards of suburban trains. National Railway Mazdoor Union said more than 60 motormen have tested positive in the past one week, raising questions about the sanitary practices in trains and running rooms. General secretary of NRMU, Venu Nair, said, "Covid-19 protocol has not been followed as it was in the earlier days. As a result, guards and motormen are more prone to contracting the virus. This may end up affecting operations, hence, railways should cut down services when demand is low."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-curb-services-to-protect-motormen-guards-union-tells-railway-authorities/articleshow/79749990.cms||---
December 16, 2020||India||India sees 26k fresh Covid cases, 383 deaths||After falling to a 161-day low on Monday, the tally of fresh Covid-19 infections in India rose slightly on Tuesday to a little over 26,000 even as active cases continued to drop. India recorded 26,239 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall caseload to 99,32,818, as per data collated from state governments. On Monday, the daily count had decreased to 22,273. There were 383 deaths from the virus in the country, up slightly from 338 and 360 recorded in the last two days, respectively. The total toll from the pandemic so far stood at 1,44,090. Overall, both fresh cases and fatalities have been steadily dropping over the past many weeks, and the trend seems to be continuing into the present week. Active cases in the country fell by more than 8,000 on Tuesday and stood at 3.3 lakh, while recoveries had risen to nearly 94.6 lakh. The rise in cases from Monday’s count mainly came from Kerala, which recorded 5,218 fresh infections, up sharply from 2,707 reported a day earlier. Marginal increases were also seen in Maharashtra (3,442 new cases), Bengal (2,289), Delhi (1,617) and Karnataka (1,185). In most other states, cases either remained more or less flat, or declined marginally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-26k-fresh-covid-cases-383-deaths/articleshow/79750000.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Gurgaon||GMDA may take over 3 more blocks||GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is likely to take over development work in Pataudi, Farrukhnagar and Sohna blocks, said officials on Tuesday. “There were demands from political leaders to bring Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar under GMDA. We had mulled over the idea and proposed it to the chief minister during the recent meeting,” said a senior GMDA official, requesting anonymity. He added a final decision on the matter is yet to be taken. The committee will be formed for the same under the GMDA chief, VS Kundu. The panel will comprise members from various government departments. Once the committee has done the study, it will be placed before the authority and then sent to the state government for approval. With the authority already staring at a financial crisis, it will be essential to sort out the funding before the matter is finalised, said the official, adding: “The funds will be sanctioned by the state government depending on the development works.” One of the main reasons behind the decision is to avoid a Gurugram-like situation in these blocks. “In Gurugram, the residential projects came before the development of essential services such as water lines and roads,” said the official. The residents in the new area claim to be suffering because the settlements preceded development work. It must be mentioned that the development plans for Sohna, Farrukhnagar and Pataudi are already in place. However, there is no single agency for the execution of these development plans. Once GMDA takes them over, “we can allocate the land and resources required for the basic amenities and the development of residential and commercial projects can be done accordingly”, the official said, However, being unable to provide basic services in the new sectors, this would be a challenge for GMDA to cater to additional areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gmda-may-take-over-3-more-blocks/articleshow/79747703.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 16, 2020||Goa||‘ZP poll mandate not for Mollem projects’||Margao: Anti-coal protesters have taken exception to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that the ZP election results were a mandate for the government to go ahead with the three contentious infrastructure projects passing cutting through Mollem forest. “People definitely didn’t vote for the projects,” Royla Fernandes of Goencho Ekvott, who is among those who are spearheading the anti-coal protests, told TOI. Fernandes, who had contested as a Congress candidate in the zilla panchayat elections from Benaulim constituency, lost to AAP’s Hanzel Fernandes. Sawant, in an interview to TOI after the results were announced on Monday, had said that the mandate was for development and that the government would go ahead with the projects. Sawant had said that as BJP won in both Davorlim and Guirdolim constituencies, the heart of the protests, “this clearly shows that people are not against development. People who are opposing are a specific group of people who will always oppose everything.” Countering Sawant’s view, Fernandes said that the low polling percentage for the ZP polls meant that “people were upset with the government’s decisions.” “People felt that staying away from the election was a means to express resentment, however this led to BJP being voted at ZP elections,” she said. Stating that only a referendum would decide the need of the projects, Fernandes maintained that the government should not consider the ZP poll results as people’s endorsement for the “disastrous” projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-poll-mandate-not-for-mollem-projects/articleshow/79747776.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Youth group writes to President seeking revocation of permissions for infra projects||Panaji: Youth of Goa under the Save Mollem campaign have written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention to revoke permissions granted for the three linear projects proposed to pass through the protected area in Mollem. The youth group said their future looks bleak if the projects are allowed by felling thousands of trees, which will lead to water scarcity and other ecological disasters for Goa. They have also sought for an appointment with Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel, who is expected to be in Goa on December 19 for the Liberation Day event. “In Vasco, we have suffered Covid and the effects of coal pollution and now to increase our burden, the state government wants to take away Goa’s green heart and lungs which defies all logic,” Joshua Pereira, a citizen who supported the Amche Mollem movement, said. The youth of Goa who have been actively opposing the three projects in Mollem have now questioned the government’s decision to spend Rs 100 crore for the 60th year of state liberation. They said that spending Rs 100 crore translates to 25,000 PPE kits, salaries for 950 Goans and a year of primary education for 1,660 Goan children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youth-group-writes-to-president-seeking-revocation-of-permissions-for-infra-projects/articleshow/79747825.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||Lifeguards begin ‘fast unto death’ at Mapusa||Saligao: Goa Trade Union Confederation, affiliated to the All Goa Marine Lifesaving Guards Union, on Tuesday began their fast unto death protest at Mapusa, demanding regularisation of services for lifeguards. All Goa Marine Lifesaving Guards Union President Ajitsingh Rane said their demand is that the decades-long service of all trained lifeguards should be regularised by the state government. He said lifeguards are sons of the soil. “Their services should be protected and regularised in accordance with the Supreme Court mandate, which calls for regularisation of services that are of a perennial nature and where service of 240 days or three years has been completed,” said Rane. The lifeguards said they have been going on strikes frequently to draw attention to their demands for the last 15 months and it was time the state government arranged for negotiations with the striking lifeguards. “We should be absorbed by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation from where we began our career. As an alternative, at least we should be granted a temporary status at par with that granted to workers in government departments. This will at least protect our services till the age of our superannuation. Our own lifesaving guards society can be formed for this purpose,” said a protesting lifeguard. Drishti Marine said that gratuity and other dues will be cleared by Drishti in accordance with the rules and laws of the land and after they have returned the company property and adjustments have been made against loans taken by the former employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifeguards-begin-fast-unto-death-at-mapusa/articleshow/79747846.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Goa||MMC to shift roadside vendors under one roof||Vasco: The Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) has begun work of renovating its old municipal market complex, where it plans to house all the roadside vendors spread across the town area. Repair work is being taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 18 lakh. “I had proposed this market renovation work around one-and-a-half year ago under the 14th finance commission and it was approved. The work has begun now and will be complete within a month’s time,” said former councillor Krishna ‘Daji’ Salkar. Under the renovation works, the old market structure, located next to the beef centre, will get new roofing, proper ventilation and exhaust, new tiling, tubelights and fans, besides other structural and facility improvements. It will have all the necessary facilities and will bring relief to vendors, who are forced to sell by the roadside at present. “Except for vegetable and fruit market vendors, others are seen sitting by the road side, occupying roads and hindering vehicle movement. Now, all these vendors who sell local products like coconuts, oil, fruits and tender coconuts will be placed under one roof,” Salkar said. Around 25 years ago, this market complex housed fish vendors. When they were shifted to a new structure at Khariawada, the local sellers occupied the old market, but gradually they moved out and began selling their wares along the roadside at different locations across the town area. The old market complex in recent years was being used as a godown. When the pandemic struck, the issue of tackling rampant activity of roadside vendors emerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mmc-to-shift-roadside-vendors-under-one-roof/articleshow/79747886.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Amartya Sen, Visva-Bharati VC spar over university town hawkers||SANTINIKETAN: Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen on Tuesday responded to Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty’s reported comments about him, made at an online faculty meeting last week, calling the remarks “absurd”. Chakraborty, according to some VB faculty members, said Sen did not want hawkers to be evicted from his Santiniketan neighbourhood but would do nothing to help them if they were evicted by the university authorities. Some faculty members wrote to Sen about the allegations levelled against him, prompting Sen to deny the charges. Chakraborty addressed faculty members at an online meeting on the evening of December 9 and reportedly spoke of his unfinished task at VB (primarily consolidating the university’s assets by removing encroachments). He then spoke about a call from Sen, in which the latter had purportedly introduced himself as “Bharat Ratna Amartya Sen” and gone on to express his displeasure at the eviction of hawkers from the vicinity of his house, Pratichi. Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA) president Sudipta Bhattacharyya mailed Sen after the meeting, informing him about the allegations levelled against him by the VC. Sen, in a reply sent through Harvard University faculty assistant Chie Ri, expressed surprise about what Chakraborty said at the faculty meeting, including the phone call. “I do not think I have had such a conversation with him. I should also mention that I have never referred to myself as ‘Bharat Ratna’. I also think I could not have referred to my daughter buying vegetables from the hawkers and that being a reason for keeping the hawkers undisturbed.... Finally, there are no hawkers outside my house,” Sen wrote. The Nobel laureate, who spends four-six weeks at his ancestral home in Santiniketan in two or three tranches each year, went on to add: “I do think, however, that VB often interferes too much in normal life of ordinary people, of which setting up walls to interfere with ways and passages of people is a good example... My mother, who lived in our home Pratichi, did try to help hawkers from eviction, not outside my house, but near Pearson Palli. All this is, of course, quite unrelated to the absurd statement that the VC has allegedly made.” TOI messaged VC Chakraborty for a response on the issue and a VB spokesperson said the conversation had happened between Sen and Chakraborty in June, when the latter was returning from Kolkata airport to Santiniketan after taking a flight back from Delhi. “The VC received the call. Prof Sen started criticising and questioning the VC for demolishing the illegal shops that had mushroomed along the road on which Pratichi was located. He insisted these shops had been there since the days of Tagore and they were part of VB. He illustrated the convenience of having these shops around by giving the example of how he could easily buy vegetables or get his daughter’s cycle’s flat tyre fixed. The VC was subject to this kind of criticism because the administration had, under him, recovered the university’s rightful land by removing illegal businesses,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amartya-vb-vc-spar-over-univ-town-hawkers/articleshow/79748927.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu hits out at ‘outsider’ tag, hints where he is headed||Haldia/Midnapore: Rebel Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari hit out at the “outsider” narrative in Bengal politics — something his party has been using to target the BJP — and “party hegemony and lack of democracy” in Bengal at an “apolitical rally” on his East Midnapore home turf on Tuesday. Adhikari, who resigned from the state cabinet on November 28, did not once name Trinamool but his strong words and a four-minute “birthday greeting call” that he got from BJP Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya on Tuesday left few in doubt that he may have firmed up his plans to quit the party. His loyalists, too, hinted that their “Dada” would leave the Trinamool and resign as an MLA on Wednesday before leaving for Delhi to join BJP. The BJP, too, made a change on Tuesday in Union home minister Amit Shah’s Midnapore weekend itinerary. Shah will now address a public rally instead of holding a workers’ meet on the Midnapore College grounds this Saturday. This added to the speculation around Adhikari’s next course of action. Hours after Adhikari’s Haldia rally, Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee led a blistering attack from a Jalpaiguri dais on fence-sitters in her party but did not name Adhikari. “There are some who stayed with our party and the government for the last 10 years and took all the benefits. Now they are in touch with others. I will not tolerate them. I bank on those Trinamool workers who have been with the party for 365 days every year. I urge you all to take the pledge of driving the BJP out of Bengal, just like Arjuna targeted the fish’s eye,” Banerjee said. The Trinamool rebel, while addressing the audience on the Haldia helipad ground, said: “I do not make personal attacks though people in high positions are doing so against me. They will face the music when people vote. Their plight would be like that of Lakshman Seth, Anil Basu and Benoy Konar (all CPM leaders).” Adhikari used the 120th birth anniversary of freedom fighter Satish Chandra to debunk the Trinamool’s “outsider” tag for BJP leaders. “Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru used to hold Satishbabu in high esteem. Satishbabu did not ever think that Nehru was an outsider. This is India. Whatever posts we may hold, we are Indians first and then Bengali,” the Trinamool rebel said. Adhikari then spoke against “party hegemony” in Bengal, a common complaint of the BJP, and held that democracy in the state was on the slide. “We will work together to create job opportunities for the unemployed youth and give farmers their rights in a democratic environment. Why should a system for the party, of the party and by the party prevail? We have to work for common good and bring back democracy — for the people, of the people and by the people — in Bengal,” Adhikari said. The Trinamool rebel took a dig at a section of party leaders, accusing them of conspiring against him. “Those who are conspiring against me should know I am witness to many battles. There have been 11 attempts on my life. I am where I am because of people’s blessings,” he added. Adhikari has been keeping in touch with a host of Trinamool leaders, some of whom — like Trinamool old guard and founding member Bani Singha Ray — have spoken out against election strategist Prasant Kishor and his team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-hits-out-at-outsider-tag-hints-where-he-is-headed/articleshow/79749144.cms||Suman Mandal
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Tears & adulation welcome Mukti Joddhas to Kolkata||Kolkata: A perfect hush descended on the gathering at the Dalhousie Barracks ground inside Fort William on Monday evening as Bangladeshi parliamentarian and professor Md Ali Ashraf mentioned how December 14 is observed as a ‘Black Day’ back home in memory of the intellectuals murdered by Pakistan Army and Al-Badr militia in 1971. On that day itself, barely hours before the Pakistan Army in the east surrendered to India, nearly 200 intellectuals, including poets, writers, professors, journalists, doctors and engineers, were brutally murdered to ensure that nobody of worth remains to run the government of Bangladesh. There were several moist eyes at the venue already, thanks to the screening of a well-produced documentary by the Army’s Eastern Command on the 1971 Indo-Pak War in the East that led to the independence of Bangladesh Hard-hitting visuals of the kind of torture meted out to the population of East Pakistan by the Pakistan Army, well before the war began, had had their impact and people paid rapt attention as Prof Ashraf spoke about how three million lives were lost and two lakh women raped over a span of nine months till Indian Army captured Dhaka. But, the evening was not only about tears. It was also about adulation. “There are no words to express gratitude. Indians gave their lives for Bangladesh. India fed and sheltered 10 million refugees. There was no discrimination. No wonder, we consider India as our greatest friend in the world. Even after the Liberation War, Pakistan kept on conspiring and succeeded in assassinating Bangabandhu Sk Mujibur Rahman. It was India who provided asylum to his family, including his daughter and our Prime Minister Sk Hasina,” the professor, who was a 25-year-old college teacher in 1971, said. What is of significance about the 13-day war, resulting in the surrender of nearly 93,000 Pakistani troops to a force less than a tenth of their size, was the fact that there was no report of any torture or human rights abuse against a single officer or other personnel of the Indian Army. No wonder, Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, was beaming as he greeted the Mukti Joddhas and their families from Bangladesh. Prof Ashraf is leading the delegation. Maj Gen Shahnul Haque, leading the military delegation from Bangladesh, also acknowledged India’s contribution. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was the chief guest. Lt Gen Chauhan and Lt Gen J S Nain, chief of staff, Eastern Command, spoke about the aspirations of the Bengali-speaking people of East Pakistan and the efforts of the Indian forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tears-adulation-welcome-mukti-joddhas-to-kolkata/articleshow/79748949.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||The Dhaka connect when Eastern Army chief greeted Bangladeshis||Kolkata: On Monday, there was a Dhaka connect when Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, greeted members of the Bangladeshi delegation, including Mukti Joddhas, visiting Kolkata for the Vijay Diwas celebrations. No, the general did not participate in the 1971 Indo-Pakistan War. He was in school at that time. The connection with Dhaka had something to do with his attire. The cap he wore is known as the Dhaka cap. Most people believe that the traditional cap worn by people from Nepal is black. The Gorkhas normally have a pin with crossed ‘khukris’ on this cap. But it is not the most popular. A similar headgear made of printed cloth is more fashionable. This is known as the Dhaka cap. “What Lt Gen Chauhan wore on his head on Monday was part of his uniform. The general is from the Gorkha Rifles, hence the cap. During the day, all personnel from the Gorkha Rifles were wearing the cap. The name Dhaka Cap goes back several generations when fine quality cloth from Bangladesh (then a part of undivided India) used to move to Nepal. This fabric was used to make dresses as well as caps, primarily worn during special occasions,” an official said. The Dhaka cap is considered a sign of respect and gifted during festivals. Wearing of the cap is also a mark of respect for Nepalese culture and tradition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-dhaka-connect-when-eastern-army-chief-greeted-bangladeshis/articleshow/79748982.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Deadline for release of IPS officers passes, govt awaits Centre’s response to its letters||Kolkata: The Bengal government is likely to be on a “wait-and-watch” mode till the Centre responds to its “explanatory” letters on the twin issues of the state’s top two officials being summoned for a meeting with the Union home secretary in Delhi and the central deputation of three Bengal-cadre IPS officers. Senior officials on Tuesday reiterated their “unwillingness” to release the three IPS officers, arguing that while the IPS (Cadre) rules of 1954 stated that the Centre’s word would be final in a dispute between the Union and a state government, the rules were open to interpretation. So, unless the Centre specified the grounds for its action, the state would not respond, the officials indicated. The Centre calling officers on central deputation without consulting the state was “rare”, they said. The three IPS officers, who were requisitioned by Delhi last week, went about their “routine official work” on Tuesday, the deadline for joining their “central deputation”. The government maintained it had already expressed its inability to release them because of several factors, including the pandemic and the January 2021 Gangasagar Mela, but was yet to receive a response from the Centre. Besides, the state was already making do with fewer IPS officers than its quota of 347, the officials said, adding the government was consulting legal experts to bolster its case. None of the three IPS officers in the middle of the tussle — IGP South Bengal Rajeev Mishra, DIG Presidency Range Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Diamond Harbour SP Bholanath Pandey — commented. “Bengal-cadre officers cannot take up central deputation without being relieved by the state. Tamil Nadu had initiated disciplinary proceedings against an IPS officer, who was appointed by the Centre as CBI’s additional director-general on central deputation. In that case, the officer’s name was in the IPS offer list for central deputation. The officer was also willing to take up the central assignment. The issue still led to protracted legal battles, both in the Delhi High Court and the Supreme Court,” said a senior officer. Senior lawyer Milon Mukherjee also said that the IPS rules were interpretative. “It does not clearly spell out a situation: if both the officers concerned and the state government are unwilling to take up a central deputation, can the Centre force the issue just because it is the cadre-controlling authority?” While the twin flashpoints are believed to be the fallout of the same incident — the attack on BJP national president J P Nadda’s convoy on December 10 — the Central action followed in two separate letters. A letter by a deputy secretary in MHA’s internal security division referred to the alleged security lapses towards a Z-category protectee and asked the chief secretary and DGP to meet the Union home secretary on Monday. The second letter didn’t refer to this incident but requisitioned the three IPS officers for central deputation. All three were involved with law-and-order arrangements for Nadda’s programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/deadline-for-release-of-ips-officers-passes-govt-awaits-centres-response-to-its-letters/articleshow/79748943.cms||Debasish Konar
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Try imposing President’s rule in Bengal, Mamata Banerjee dares BJP||JALPAIGURI: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday dared the Narendra Modi government to impose President’s rule in Bengal, raising the anti-Centre pitch in the state’s ongoing tussle over three Bengal-cadre IPS officers called to Delhi for central deputation. “Ekhane rashtrapati shason kore dekhao (Try imposing President’s rule here). It will make my workload less. I will hit the streets, hold meetings and rallies all through the year and take away all their (BJP) votes,” the CM said, quoting Tagore: “Bhoy na pele bhoy dekhabe kake (Who will you scare if no one is scared)?” Tuesday was the first time that Banerjee spoke directly about “President’s rule” after the Union home ministry move to requisition three Bengal-cadre IPS officers: South Bengal inspector-general of police Rajeev Mishra, Presidency Range deputy inspector-general Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Diamond Harbour superintendent of police Bholanath Pandey. All three were overseeing BJP national president J P Nadda’s security during his Diamond Harbour visit last Thursday, when his convoy was attacked on Diamond Harbour Road. “What is going on? These police officers requisitioned by the Centre are under the state administration,” she said. “We do not want to throw stones at a VIP convoy. But why should a VIP convoy of 50 cars have a convict in its midst, someone accused of vandalising a Vidyasagar statue in central Kolkata? They are giving transfer threats to police and openly saying they will start burning our party offices,” she said, constructing a counter-case against the Centre’s intervention in Bengal’s law-and-order situation. The BJP was targeting Bengal because this was the only government that had not buckled under the Centre’s pressure, Banerjee said. “Many states — Rajasthan, Delhi — have gone silent. Their (the BJP’s) target is to break Bengal’s spine and turn it into a Gujarat. We will not let that happen,” she said, reminding the BJP that she grew from the ranks fighting for people’s causes. “I have injuries all over my body. Don’t forget that I went on a 26-day fast for farmers’ rights,” she added. Banerjee said she felt let down by the fact that her party did not get a single Lok Sabha seat from north Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “What wrong have we done? RSS outsiders reached households and asked residents if they wanted books for their children or money to marry off their daughters. The state government has all these schemes. You can avail yourselves of them. Don’t rely on RSS gundas. They are not from the Ramakrishna Mission or the Bharat Sevashram Sangha. They are not the followers of Swami Vivekananda. They practise a hated religion of dividing people,” the CM added. Banerjee also spoke at length on the BJP’s divisive politics, alluding to the AIMIM’s attempts to enter Bengal politics. “They (the BJP) have now brought a party from Hyderabad. They have asked them to reach out to Muslims and speak against Hindus so that the BJP gets the Hindu votes and that party (the AIMIM) bags the Muslim votes. It happened in Bihar and elsewhere in the country. Teach them a lesson,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/try-imposing-prez-rule-in-bengal-mamata-dares-bjp/articleshow/79749143.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Asansol civic chief doesn’t attend meet with TMC seniors||Asansol: Asansol Municipal Corporation administrator and Trinamool MLA Jitendra Tiwari didn’t turn up for the meeting with party leaders, who had called him to Kolkata on Tuesday to thrash out problems he had with state urban development minister Firhad Hakim over central grants under the Smart City Mission Project for development of Asansol. Tiwari is waiting for talks with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on December 18 after she returns from north Bengal. The Asansol administrator said he would tell Banerjee, and no one else, about his problems. “I have a meeting with Didi on December 18. I will tell her whatever I have to say and give her some proposals. Good if she listens to me; else I will come back and keep silent for a month before I take a decision. Didi is the head of the party. I will speak to her,” Tiwari said. The MLA wrote to party senior Hakim on Sunday blaming the state government for depriving Asansol residents of central funds to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore allotted for the city’s development. Trinamool insiders read more into Tiwari’s “discomfort” beyond the contents of the “confidential” letter. They felt that the Asansol administrator got upset soon after Tiwari was made Trinamool district chairman while minister Moloy Ghatak took over reins of the party’s booth-level organization in Asansol. Tiwari’s detractors hinted that he was uneasy following a CBI inquiry into the coal scam in Bengal. Tiwari loyalists debunked the view, saying Asansol’s development was the administrator’s “topmost priority”. Hakim wondered how Tiwari’s “confidential” letter could reach BJP leader Amit Malviya on Monday before it reached his desk. What struck a section within Trinamool was the appearance of Suvendu Adhikari’s posters in pockets of Asansol on Tuesday, on the occasion of the Trinamool rebel’s birthday, a day after Tiwari’s letter became public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asansol-civic-chief-doesnt-attend-meet-with-tmc-seniors/articleshow/79748905.cms||Mohammad Asif
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||BJP moves EC for central forces in Bengal||Kolkata/Malda: A day before deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain is scheduled to visit Kolkata, a BJP delegation on Tuesday moved the Election Commission for early deployment of central armed forces in Bengal “in the wake of violence ahead of the assembly polls”. The four-member team, including Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta, met chief election commissioner Sunil Arora and demanded that members of West Bengal State Government Employees’ Federation be not placed on poll duty because “they won’t be non-partisan”. BJP leader Sabyasachi Dutta, who was part of the delegation, alleged that names of deceased voters and those who had shifted out had not been deleted from the draft list published on November 18. In Malda, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh criticised CM Mamata Banerjee for making “false promises” to tea garden workers. He also punched holes in the Swasthya Sathi scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-moves-ec-for-central-forces-in-bengal/articleshow/79748932.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 16, 2020||Kolkata||Siliguri gets new police commissioner||Siliguri: Devendra Prakash Singh, Kolkata Police’s additional commissioner, will be the new Siliguri police commissioner. Singh will replace incumbent Tripurari Atharv, who will be the new inspector-general of police (traffic). Singh, a 2002-batch IPS officer, has been the Howrah, Barrackpore and Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner. A notification issued by the state police directorate on Tuesday said these transfers would come into effect immediately. The Bengal government had on July 18, 2019 appointed Atharv as the Siliguri police commissioner. Atharv had replaced Bharat Lal Meena, who is now IGP (Burdwan range). Singh had worked in north Bengal as the Darjeeling police superintendent. The transfer orders came when chief minister Mamata Banerjee was in north Bengal. On December 8, BJP’s Uttar Kanya Abhiyan had snowballed into a major law and order issue in Siliguri with one person dead and several others injured. Several policemen too were injured, and government vehicles were set ablaze by protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/siliguri-gets-new-police-commissioner/articleshow/79748896.cms||Roshan Gupta
December 16, 2020||Business||India has potential to become No. 1 eco in 30 yrs: Goyal||Kolkata: India has the potential to become number one economy in the world in the next 25-30 years, said Union commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal. Goyal was interacting with the members of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) through a webinar at the latter’s annual general meeting (AGM). He feels that India will be $10 trillion economy in the next 7-8 years. He urged industrialists to come forward to make India the factory of the world. “We have already become pharmacy of the world. Now, we can be factory to the world,” he added. According to the minister, Atmanirbhar Bharat is the module to make not only India self-sufficient but also to make India manufacturing hub of the world. A lot of multinational companies have already announced base shift base from China following the pandemic. “The whole world wants a robust alternative supply chain and we should grab the opportunity,” he added. Goyal also hailed the role played by industrialists during pandemic by saying that all the items related to Covid 19 — from PPE to ventilators — are being manufactured here. The webinar was attended by ICC president Mayank Jalan, RP-Sanjiv Goenka group chairman Sanjiv Goenka along with others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-has-potential-to-become-no-1-eco-in-30-yrs-goyal/articleshow/79747915.cms||---
December 16, 2020||Noida||‘If we have demands, why are we seen as anti-nationals?’||NOIDA: Perturbed over links drawn with the ‘tukde tukde gang’ and ‘anti-national elements’ to the farmers’ agitation, outfits heading the protest at the Noida-Delhi border on Tuesday called it a ploy to weaken their movement, saying protesters who had come from their farms had no links to any such outfits or individuals. One of the groups, Bharatiya Kisan Union-Lokshakti, said in a statement, “BKU-Lokshakti does not support anti-national forces at any cost and neither lets such forces share space during our protest. We are totally apolitical and don’t support any parties whether in power or in opposition. We only have to raise the voice of the poor farmer-labourers and we are appealing to other outfits too that wherever protests are on, their leadership doesn’t allow anti-national forces to share space because this weakens the agitation and this should be taken special care of.” Talking to TOI, BKU-Lokshakti president Shyoraj Singh said there had been incidents where miscreants had been caught by farmers and beaten up. “A video is doing the rounds where a person called Umesh Singh has been caught raising some controversial slogans at a protest site. He was caught and beaten up by farmers, who handed him over to police. Such miscreants are trying to weaken our protest. What should we make of it? It seems that they are planted by those in power. We have alerted our supporters so that politicians don’t enter our protest. We voted for BJP and now want our demands to be fulfilled by the elected government. Why should we be seen as anti-nationals?” Singh said. The BKU-Bhanu group made a similar point. “In my understanding, the government is trying to break the struggle of farmers by misleading people,” BKU-Bhanu state president Yogesh Pratap Singh said. “The government is trying to defame our struggle, especially over the past two-three days. The media should introspect and correctly reveal the facts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/if-we-have-demands-why-are-we-seen-as-anti-nationals/articleshow/79749203.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 16, 2020||World||US ramps up vaccine drive as 2nd Covid shot nears approval||Hundreds more US hospitals geared up to vaccinate their workers on Tuesday as federal regulators issued a positive review of a second Covid-19 vaccine that’s likely to soon boost the nation’s largest vaccination campaign. The FDA said its preliminary analysis confirmed the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine developed by Moderna and the National Institutes of Health, bringing it to the cusp of US authorisation. A panel of outside experts is expected to vote to recommend the vaccine on Thursday, with a final FDA decision coming soon thereafter. The positive news came as hospitals ramped up vaccinations with the shot developed by Pfizer and BioNTech, which the FDA cleared last week. The Moderna vaccine uses the same technology and showed similarly strong protection against Covid-19. Both consist of genetic material called mRNA encased in a bubble made from a mixture of fats. The two companies use different fats. Packed in dry ice to stay at ultra-frozen temperatures, shipments of Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine began arriving at 400 additional hospitals and other distribution sites, one day after the nation’s death toll surpassed a staggering 3,00,000. The first 3 million shots are being strictly rationed to frontline health workers and eldercare patients. Pentagon chief Christopher Miller was one of the first Americans to receive the vaccine on Monday, on camera to encourage the rest of the country to follow suit. The US’ daily death count continues to top 2,400 amid over 210,000 new daily cases. The devastating toll is only expected to grow in coming weeks, fuelled by holiday travel, family gatherings and lax adherence to basic public health steps. That projection assumes swift authorisation of the Moderna vaccine, which also requires two shots for full protection. Sources said FDA is likely to grant it emergency authorisation for use on Friday. In scrutinising early results of a 30,000-person study, the FDA found the Moderna vaccine is highly protective for adults and prevents severe Covid cases. The review by the FDA also confirmed Moderna’s assessment that its shot had an efficacy rate of 94.1% overall at preventing Covid-19 illness. Side effects, including fever, headache and fatigue, were unpleasant but not dangerous, the agency found. The FDA looked carefully for signs of allergic reactions and found no serious allergic reactions. About 1.5% of vaccine recipients and 1.1% who got dummy shots reported possible “hypersensitivity” reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-ramps-up-vaccine-drive-as-2nd-covid-shot-nears-approval/articleshow/79750057.cms||---
