December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC allows Amnesty India to withdraw Rs 60 lakh||BENGALURU: Indians for Amnesty International Trust, the Indian arm of international human rights organisation Amnesty International, can now withdraw Rs 60 lakh from two of its bank accounts for expenses. The high court on Wednesday passed the order, partly allowing the petition filed by the organisation. Justice PS Dinesh Kumar also directed the Enforcement Directorate to complete ongoing proceedings in the case in 45 days. Last week, the judge had reserved verdict after the ED said it is not possible to consider the court’s suggestion to allow the petitioner to use its five frozen bank accounts and withdraw Rs 40 lakh for settling statutory dues like payment of salaries, tax. The organisation had challenged the ED’s August 25 communication to banks asking them to freeze the organisation’s accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-allows-amnesty-india-to-withdraw-60l/articleshow/79766862.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Kengeri expected to get Metro link by April||BENGALURU: If things go as per plan, Kengeri residents may be able to enjoy Metro rides from early next year. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) plans to begin operations on the 6km Mysuru Road-Kengeri Metro corridor by April 2021. The south-western extension of Namma Metro’s Purple Line is expected to bring huge relief to thousands of Kengeri residents. “We hope to complete work and testing by March. Next will be an inspection by the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS) and commissioning may happen in April, though we are still aiming for March,” BMRCL managing director Ajay Seth told TOI. The elevated section will have seven stations — Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattanagere, Mailasandra and Kengeri bus terminal and Challaghatta. The Challaghatta section, which lies across NICE Road, is likely to be operational only in 2023. Many commuters on Mysuru Road say the project is already delayed. “BMRCL always misses deadlines. They should at least ensure that they meet this one. It will be a relief for thousands of passengers in southwest parts of Bengaluru,” said Anand T, a Kengeri resident. While BMRCL awarded the Mysuru Road and Pattanagere section to IL&FS Engineering in April 2015, Soma Enterprises received the contract for Pattanagere to Challaghatta depot in March 2016. Till October, 96% of civil work between Mysuru Road and Pattanagere was completed, while 94% of Pattanagere to Challaghatta depot is over. Sources say track and electrical cable-laying works between Mysuru Road and Kengeri have been completed. However, BMRCL has missed multiple deadlines for this corridor: December 2018, March 2019, November 2019, October 2020 and February 2021. “In 2018, IL&FS ran into a financial crisis which slowed down work between Mysuru Road and Pattanagere. We have been working with subvendors and contractors of IL&FS to complete the work. The Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown caused a reduction in workforce, which further delayed the project,” said a BMRCL official. In 2019, the state government approved construction of a new station and multi-level parking at Challaghatta at an estimated cost of Rs 140 crore. Some15,500 daily passengers are expected to use the station once it is operational. In January, BMRCL awarded a Rs 4.4 crore contract to STUP Consultants Pvt Ltd as the detailed design consultants for Challaghatta depot and inter-modal integration hub (IMIH).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kengeri-expected-to-get-metro-link-by-april/articleshow/79766867.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Isro launches space-object tracking centre in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Wednesday formally declared its Space Situational Awareness (SSA) Control Centre in Bengaluru operational. The new facility will track space objects, including debris, and help protect Indian assets. In view of the ever-growing population of space objects and the recent trend of mega-constellations, SSA has become an integral and indispensable part of safe and sustainable space operations, Isro said, adding it has been carrying out SSA activities, mainly focused on safeguarding India’s space assets, for the past few decades. “...Recognising the need for dedicated efforts to tackle emerging challenges of operating in an exceedingly crowded and contested space domain, the Directorate of SSA and Management has been set up to engage in evolving improved operational mechanisms to protect space assets through effective coordination among Isro centres, other space agencies and international bodies, and establishment of necessary supporting infrastructure,” Isro said. The supporting infrastructure includes additional observation facilities for space-object monitoring, and a control centre for centralised SSA activities. “The NEtwork for space object TRacking and Analysis (NETRA) project has been initiated as a first step towards meeting this goal. Its main elements are radar, an optical telescope facility and a control centre. The SSA Control Centre, NETRA, is within the ISTRAC campus at Peenya,” Isro added. The new centre is envisaged to function as a hub of all SSA activities within India, it said. Concurrent processing of data from upcoming observational facilities for space objects’ orbit determination, correlation and catalogue generation will take place here. There will be provision to schedule and remotely operate observational facilities from the control centre. “...Other core SSA activities will comprise close approach analysis between Isro’s satellite and launch vehicles, timely dissemination of advance alerts on upcoming critical conjunctions for collision avoidance of operational assets and prediction of atmospheric re-entry of derelict satellites and rocket bodies,” the space agency said. Dedicated labs to come upDedicated labs will also be set up in this control centre for space debris mitigation and remediation, compliance verification of international guidelines and various R&D activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/isro-launches-space-object-tracking-centre-in-bluru/articleshow/79766885.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Shivajinagar to be cleared of black spots||BENGALURU: In the coming days, mosques, temples and churches at Shivajinagar will not just talk about theological matters, but also deliver sermons on sanitation, garbage disposal and hygiene. This new initiative will be part of a larger campaign called #ProjectShivajinagar, which will be launched this Saturday at ward number 92 (Shivajinagar). The ward is currently at the bottom of the ranking list as far as garbage segregation and disposal are concerned. The initiative will subsequently be scaled to all seven wards in Shivajinagar assembly constituency. The campaign spearheaded by Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad aims at creating a people’s movement to transform the black spots in the city’s commercial hub into garbage-free places. Arshad told TOI the project will involve residents. The aim, he said, is to drive a largescale change in mentality. The drive will start with basic arrangement for door-to-door garbage collection in the ward, said Arshad. “Without a proper collection system, residents end up throwing garbage on roads. My priority now is to fix this,” he said, adding that the cost of the project will be borne by Rizwan Arshad Foundation. “In each ward, we will create 14 blocks and set up a garbage block committee for each. Every committee will handle 750 households. There will also be one garbage-collection autorickshaw for each block and it will be fitted with GPS. This will help monitor work in the designated area,” said Arshad. In addition, each committee will also have a WhatsApp group with a representative from the office of the MLA. The group will deal with related complaints. To kickstart the campaign, the foundation has organised a training session for 200 volunteers, garbage contractors, helpers, drivers and BBMP officials and marshals on Thursday. The attendees will be taught about cleanliness, how to coordinate with the Palike and be sensitised about encouraging each other. The model will be replicated across other wards. Arshad said The Ugly Indians, a citizen volunteer group, is being roped in to beautify 10 black spots across the constituency this weekend. “Artists and residents will be painting walls in their neighbourhoods. This will inculcate a sense of belonging and ownership,” he added. Volunteers will go door to door in the constituency to spread awareness and hand out 10,000 dustbins to households. The MLA also plans to hold meetings with commercial establishments like restaurants, tea stalls and pan shops in the area. He said every tea stall will be held responsible for the litter around it and owners will need to have a dustbin in place for them to be allowed to function. “The next three months will be about transforming the area into a garbage-free zone,” added Arshad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shivajinagar-to-be-cleared-of-black-spots/articleshow/79767007.cms||Farheen Hussain
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drugs meant for New Year bash seized; four held||BENGALURU: Busting another drug-peddling racket in the city, sleuths from Central Crime Branch (CCB) arrested four men and recovered 5kg of hashish oil and 3kg of ganja worth Rs 1.1 crore from them. The accused are M Tirupal Reddy, 32, of Hebbal, Ezaz Pasha, 45, of RT Nagar, K Kamalesh, 31 and S Sateesh Kumar, 27, both from Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu. Police said Reddy and Pasha procured hashish oil from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, while Kamalesh and Sateesh brought ganja from Tamil Nadu. “The suspects wanted to the sell them during New Year celebrations in the city. Though we arrested the accused for the first time, they have a strong network of sub-peddlers and consumers. We received a tipoff that the accused were trying to contact young professionals and students, saying they could supply hashish and ganja. Based on this information, we raided Reddy’s home in Kempapura, Hebbal and seized the materials. We arrested the rest based on Reddy’s statement,” said Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime). During probe, police seized a weighing machine, a car and a motorbike, four mobile phones and Rs 5,500 cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/drugs-meant-for-ny-bash-seized-4-held/articleshow/79767048.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man held for cheating govt job aspirants; 100 cheques seized||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch sleuths arrested a 55-year-old man on charges of cheating aspirants for government jobs and contracts by boasting of his ‘strong political connections’. Cops seized around 100 cheques to the tune of Rs 91 crore from him. The accused is Nagarabavi resident Yuvaraj. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said Yuvaraj was nabbed on charges of cheating many job aspirants. “We arrested him on the basis of a complaint filed by a person, who claimed Yuvaraj had taken Rs 1 crore after promising to get him a top government post,” Patil said. However, there is more in the case, CCB sleuths said. “The accused had taken Rs 10 crore from a well-known educationist-turned-politician from North Karnataka by promising to get him a party ticket to contest parliamentary polls. When that did not happen, the educationist demanded his money back. But Yuvaraj claimed he had given the cash to different people in the state and central governments and could not return it. The educationist then decided to file a complaint through a third person,” an investigating officer said. CCB said Yuvaraj had taken money from several people by promising them jobs, government tenders, projects and other facilities. Yuvaraj’s car driver, identified as R Umesh, had in February filed a complaint, accusing him of assault. “He had opened a bank account in my name without my knowledge. When asked, Yuvaraj attacked me,” the FIR read. Umesh came to know about the account when the income-tax department sent him a notice seeking an explanation on transactions amounting to Rs 80 lakh. “Umesh, who earned a monthly salary of Rs 15,000, was shocked. He filed the complaint with Annapoorneshwarinagar police and told IT officials the account was not his,” sleuths said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-held-for-cheating-govt-job-aspirants-100-cheques-seized/articleshow/79767053.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Nursing student dies, youth detained||BENGALURU: A 22-year-old pharmacy student has been detained in connection with the mysterious death of a girl — a nursing college student — in his house on Wednesday. Police said both were from Assam. The youth and the girl’s brother were friends and the latter’s family had sought his help to get her admitted to a nursing college in the city. “The admission process was completed on Tuesday and she was staying at the college hostel. The girl wanted to buy a few things and went to the youth’s house on Magadi Road, asking him to accompany her for shopping. She, however, collapsed in his house and was taken to hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead,” a police officer said. The student told police they had consensual sex and the girl died a few minutes later. “We have not found any external injuries on her body. Autopsy will reveal the exact reason for her death,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nursing-student-dies-youth-detained/articleshow/79767056.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Subcontractors cut cables, eight lakh mobile subscribers hit||BENGALURU: An official from Vodafone Idea Ltd filed a complaint against two subcontractors, who were maintaining optical fibre cables, for allegedly cutting the cables and disrupting service for a few days. Deputy general manager of VIL, Saifullah Khan identified the accused as Deepu Balakrishna and Manu. Investigating officials from Sampigehalli police station said the accused are residents of Jakkur and yet to be arrested. “Knowing that a police complaint has been lodged against them, they fled their homes. However, we will trace them soon,” said police. According to Khan, the accused were upset because their contracts were not being renewed. “Their contracts were about to end this month and sensing they wouldn’t be renewed, the two decided to defame our firm by cutting the cables. The act has affected customers and caused financial loss to our firm. When our team was repairing the damaged cables, the accused claimed they are the ones who had cut the cables. We seek legal action against the suspects,” reads the FIR. Khan told TOI that at least eight lakh subscribers were affected since December 12 midnight due to the incident. “The accused had cut the cables in 20 different places, including Nagavara flyover, Thanisandra and Telecom Layout. This affected subscribers between Mehkri Circle, Devanahalli and KR Puram. The suspects started cutting the cables on December 12 night. We filed the complaint on Tuesday,” he said. According to a VIL spokesperson, repeated instances of fibre cuts in few areas partially disrupted the company’s services over the last couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/subcontractors-cut-cables-8l-mobile-subscribers-hit/articleshow/79767057.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Tiger count starts at Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary||BENGALURU: Karnataka could soon have another tiger reserve. The camera-trap method for counting tigers took off in Male Mahadeshwara Wildlife Sanctuary, which is likely to be upgraded into a tiger reserve. This comes after field staff reported movement of big cats in new areas in the sanctuary, including tiger cubs. Based on information by ground-level staff, the authorities initiated the tiger census to compare the big cat count with the numbers of previous census.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tiger-count-starts-at-mm-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/79767059.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Rising land cost is driving investment out of Karnataka||BENGALURU: Spiralling cost of land acquisition is proving to be a major hurdle for Karnataka to convert investment proposals into projects, and investors are now looking beyond the state’s borders for land that’s available at nearly half the rate. The spotlight is back on high land cost for industries in Karnataka with Bengaluru-based cab aggregator Ola recently deciding to invest Rs 2,400 crore to set up a factory to manufacture electric two-wheelers in Hosur, Tamil Nadu, reportedly because it found land cheaper there. According to government sources, land rates in Hosur are nearly 50% cheaper than in districts around Bengaluru. Around 20% of the project cost used to be spent on acquisition of land in Karnataka. Now, it has worryingly shot up to 30%-40% of the total project cost, particularly in districts around Bengaluru, according to industries department officials. For perspective, one acre of land in Bidadi costs between Rs 2.5 crore and Rs 5 crore; in Devanahalli, in the vicinity of KIA, the rate ranges between Rs 6 crore and Rs 10 crore. The per-acre land rate in Hosur is in the range of Rs 3 crore to Rs 5 crore — on par with Bidadi. As far as industrial land is concerned, an acre of land around Hosur is about Rs 70 lakh against Rs 2.8 crore around Bengaluru. According to the government, the State High-Level Clearance Committee and State-Level Single-Window Clearance Committee have cleared investments worth Rs 3.7 lakh crore from 2015 to 2020, which together require 43,000 acres of land. 7,311 acres approved for 21 industrial areas: Govt dataThe state said it has so far acquired 14,585 acres of land. However, government records said 7,311 acres have been approved for 21 industrial areas in Karnataka. The rest is under the acquisition process, a KIADB official said. Another problem is that most of these land parcels are in north Karnataka. The state’s efforts to lure investors with incentives to tier 2 and 3 cities have met with little success as most investors prefer their projects closer to Bengaluru since it also acts as a gateway to TN and Andhra Pradesh. According to industry department officials, Karnataka faces the threat of flight of capital only because of high land cost. An officer admitted the state’s policies and incentives are almost negated by the land issue. The state has now pinned its hopes on the new land reforms Act, which has removed cap on buying agriculture land. “This will help industries buy land directly from farmers, and it may work cheaper,” said FKCCI president Perikal M Sundar. “There is no dearth of land in Karnataka, which continues to be a preferred investment destination. We’ll see more traction in the coming days,” said industries commissioner Gunjan Krishna. President of Karnataka Employees’ Association BC Prabhakar said: “Industries still prefer to invest around Bengaluru because of its favourable atmosphere. However, other states have been attracting industries with land at affordable price. The government needs to absorb part of the land cost if it wants investors to remain within the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rising-land-cost-is-drivinginvestment-out-of-ktaka/articleshow/79767213.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Auctioning of gram panchayat seats gets bigger; parties mum||BENGALURU: Barely a week is left for the first phase of gram panchayat polls, but reports of seats being auctioned for hefty sums continue to do the rounds, making a mockery of the democratic process at the grassroots level besides paving the way for moneybags to purchase power. Till Wednesday, at least two dozen incidents of seat auctioning had come to light. Many more haven’t been reported. Some came to the fore after videos of the auctioning process went viral on social media, following which the State Election Commission (SEC) slapped cases. Polls for over 5,670 GP seats will be held on December 22 and 27. According to reports, seats were auctioned for anything between Rs 5 lakh and Rs 50 lakh, depending on the village size. A seat in Tumakuru reportedly went for Rs 1 crore. However, all parties, including BJP, Congress and JD(S), have maintained a studied silence on the issue. “Though the village panchayat system doesn’t officially work on party lines, parties’ silence shows they are indirectly involved,” said an organisation working for local governance. Activists also held the SEC responsible for failing to create awareness about local governance. “It is not the people’s fault. The onus of making them aware lies on the SEC and parties,” they said. According to officials from the rural development and panchayat raj department, auctioning of seats must have happened in over 100 villages and the trend will continue closer to polls. “Such auctions are not uncommon in GP elections. They are only coming to light in a big way because of social media,” said a senior department official. Experts say the practice doesn’t augur well for democracy and needs to be curbed. “When a person buys a seat for a hefty sum, voters will be under his or her mercy. There is also a possibility of improper use of government funds by such people. The election commission must put an end to it,” said DR Patil, former MLA from Gadag, who has been working to strengthen panchayat raj institutions.  Some villagers said GP polls created an unnecessary rift between villages and this was a chance for them to select a single candidate, thereby burying the hatchet. How the process worksVillage elders gather around a common courtyard or temple community hall, and in IPL-style bidding, call out the amount that runs into lakhs of rupees. The highest bidder gets the post. Caste and gender play a vital role. Since there are reserved constituencies, dalits and women ought to get leadership positions. In the case of reserved seats for women, most of them are dummy candidates with the actual power resting with their spouses or sons. In villages where GP polls haven’t been held for decades, seniors will choose candidates on rotation basis and ensure they are elected unopposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/auctioning-of-gram-panchayat-seats-gets-bigger-parties-mum/articleshow/79767318.cms||Anil Gejji
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Wistron revises losses to Rs 43 crore, says Basavaraj Bommai||BENGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said losses in the violence at Wistron’s Narasapura plant near Kolar are only 10 per cent of what the company had claimed earlier. The company in its first FIR reported losses of Rs 437 crore. Bommai tweeted on Wednesday: “Police have taken prompt action and arrested 164 persons. The Wistron company which said Rs 437 crore loss earlier, has now in writing that loss is Rs 43 crore, therefore, some international media is blowing out of proportion (sic).” The tweet came in response to BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh tagging Bommai, deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and CM BS Yediyurappa while citing a Chinese claiming there was a “potential risk” when manufacturers consider moving their production lines out of China. ‘Clerical error in first FIR’ Kolar police said Wistron representatives filed an amendment to their complaint and said there was a clerical error of an additional zero in the first FIR. The damage to “assembly production floor machinery and related equipment” was earlier said to be Rs 4,12,50,00,000. With the correction, actual loss in that category is Rs 41,25,00,000 (Rs 41.2 crore). Overall losses, as reported by Wistron to the Taiwan exchange, are Rs 52 crore. There was no official comment by the company. Chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar had another round of meetings with the company head and government officials. Sources said the meeting was to take stock of the situation and see how soon the case could be resolved. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade advised the government to “complete the inquiry soon, identify the culprits, look into the wages and labour related matters ”. The government added that it’s working closely with Wistron to ensure workers’ woes are addressed. It said the state administration will provide security to the project, employees and property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wistron-revises-losses-to-43cr-says-home-minister/articleshow/79767325.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Former MLCs, experts bat for council reforms to avoid ruckus||BENGALURU: The unpleasant scenes witnessed in the council on Tuesday have again sparked a debate on the need for an Upper House of the state legislature. Karnataka has the oldest-functioning council in the country. It came into existence in 1881 as Mysore representative assembly, became the legislative council in 1907 and has played a significant role as a “house of review” chamber. But of late, the council which is supposed to put in place checks and balances for hasty decisions taken by the assembly, is being criticised for being a back-door entry point for politicians who couldn’t win an election. In 2015, JD(S) MLA MT Krishnappa first initiated this debate when he tabled a private member’s bill in the assembly calling for abolition of the council. But it evoked strong protests and was dropped. Krishnappa, while moving the bill, had lamented the quality of members entering the Upper House and stated it had become a rehabilitation centre for those who could not win polls. He had dubbed it a white elephant as the government was spending Rs 300 crore every year. While many still endorse Krishnappa’s views, former council members from different political parties and experts suggest introduction of council reforms to encourage productive debates and avoid unruly scenes. “This unsavoury trend can be easily arrested by changing the composition of the House and some rules,” said BL Shankar, former chairman of the council. “The Upper House has become a carbon copy of the Lower House since the last decade or so, largely because the ruling parties are increasingly nominating defeated MLAs and moneybags for political reasons defeating the very purpose of the House,’’ he added. Former law minister MC Nanaiah, who retired from the council in 2014, said: “Democracy works best where there is synthesis of various shades of opinions, where there is dialectical debate and discussion. Therefore, the legislative council should be made mandatory by amending the Constitution. Nanaiah said in the US, members of the Congress used to say that senators ‘pour the legislation into the senatorial saucer for cooling’. It’s true with our council too.” For the success of parliamentary democracy, quality of debates should be healthy, Nanaiah said, adding, “We need to ensure that bills which are in public interest do not get stuck due to the ruckus in the House. We have to agree to disagree and respect views presented by members. Debates should be cordial and graceful and not personal attacks. This is what is missing.” Both Nanaiah and Shankar batted for re-composition of the council. For instance, legislative councils have a reservation for graduates and teachers besides provisions for nominations. These categories may have had relevance at a time after Independence when they were a small minority. But today, reservation can be brought in for other groups such as farmers, scientists or software engineers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/former-mlcs-experts-bat-for-council-reforms-to-avoid-ruckus/articleshow/79767326.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Kuruba campaign seen as bid to erode Siddaramaiah’s clout||BENGALURU: Assembly polls in Karnataka are over two years away but political rumblings have already started with an eye on the Kuruba vote-bank. A massive campaign, driven by Kuruba politicians across party lines with the support of community mutt heads, has been chalked out from January to step up pressure on state and central governments to get their demands fulfilled. It’ll continue till February. It’s seen as an attempt by BJP to undermine the influence of former chief minister Siddaramaiah, widely perceived as the undisputed community leader for two decades. He has stayed away from this campaign, dubbing it RSS agenda to divide the community. Kuruba faces in the BJP led by RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa backed by formerly disqualified MLAs AH Vishwanath, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar will steer the campaign with the support of HM Revanna (Congress) and Bandeppa Kashempur (JDS). The state’s attempts under different governments to include Kurubas under the ST category have been rejected by the Centre twice in the recent past. Kurubas comprise the fourth-largest caste group in Karnataka after Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Muslims. The community, which is 8-9 per cent of the state’s over 6.5 crore population, forms a critical vote-bank. It is now in the backward classes category, sharing 15% reservation with 104 other castes. From pre-Independence till 1977, the community enjoyed the ST status. According to Vishwanath, who heads Shepherds India International, of the 12 crore Kurubas across India, Karnataka accounts for 50 lakh. “The demand for ST label is not a political agenda, but has cultural, social and economic reasons. The way out is to increase the ST quota from the present 3% to accommodate us,” he added. However, Revanna and Eshwarappa insist it’s an apolitical movement. “When the entire community is joining the movement, some people (Siddaramaiah) are keeping away for being not invited. This is not something for which invitations are sent. People should join themselves,” Eshwarappa said. BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel said Siddaramaiah has neglected communities which promoted him in politics. “All the Ahinda communities supported him in his agitations and made him the CM. But after becoming CM, he deserted them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kuruba-campaign-seen-as-bid-to-erode-siddaramaiahs-clout/articleshow/79767327.cms||Anil Gejji
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Upper House becoming a chamber for defeated leaders||BENGALURU: The Upper House has a utility and purpose in a federal system. It represents the local government’s voice at the state level. It is also a revising chamber and opportunity for a second debate on issues passed by the Lower House. It’s another matter that the Upper House is turning increasingly irrelevant as it is fast becoming a chamber for defeated and defecting leaders to be accommodated and those loyal to the leader to be rewarded||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/upper-house-becoming-a-chamber-for-defeated-leaders/articleshow/79767332.cms||Sandeep Shastri
December 17, 2020||Hubballi||Man protests atop tree to bring back wife in Karnataka's Kudligi taluka||BALLARI: A 40-year-old man climbed a coconut tree and sat on the top for about eight hours in Dasobanahalli Gollarahatti village of Kudligi taluk, demanding that his wife be reunited with him. Villagers said the woman had left him five years ago after frequent quarrels. Doddappa climbed the tree around 3pm on Tuesday and refused to come down, chastising villagers for failing to resolve the family dispute and bring his wife home. He said it has been difficult for him all these years, taking care of the house and three sons. Over the next eight hours, villagers and Doddappa’s sons stood below, requesting and coaxing him to relent. Doddappa, however, insisted that he would come down only if his wife returned. Video | Karnataka: A man on Tuesday climbed a coconut tree and sat on the top for about eight hours in Dasobanahall… https://t.co/3qUsFapbMG— TOI Bengaluru (@TOIBengaluru) 1608180335000Villagers said Doddappa had married twice and it was his second wife who left him. His first married a cousin who went to her maternal home 20 years ago as she was not able to conceive. “His second wife left for her mother’s home in Shivapura Gollarahatti five years ago after repeated fights with him,” a villager said. As their requests fell on deaf ears, villagers informed Kanahosahalli police in the evening.  PSI H Nagaraj rushed to the spot by 8pm and assured Doddappa that his wife would be brought back. Police managed to bring Doddappa’s wife three hours later and convinced him to come down with the help of fire and emergency services personnel. Nagaraj said police did not receive any complaint. “We conducted a meeting late night in the presence of village elders and convinced both husband and wife to live together. Both have agreed to reconcile in the interest of their sons,” he said. Watch Watch: Karnataka man climbs atop coconut tree to demand meeting with wife||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-protests-atop-tree-to-bring-back-wife/articleshow/79767336.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Noida||24,000 hearings online: How UP-Rera cleared major backlog||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) has been able to clear major backlogs through virtual hearings this year, despite the Covid-19 lockdown. Of the 30,956 complaints registered so far, the regulator has already heard 24,026 cases till December 15. And of these, some 5,115 complaints were filed by buyers in Gautam Budh Nagar in 2020 and 1,454 have been disposed of this year itself. The new year is supposed to start with 6,930 pending cases to be heard from previous applications, officials said. In fact, UP-Rera started hearing cases from September 4, 2018. At the end of that year, the regulator had registered 9,601 cases and disposed of 7,089 in 2019. In 2019, the numbers increased exponentially. By mid-December 2019, UP-Rera had 21,848 total registered cases and had disposed of 14,876 cases. The regulator opened 2020 with 6,972 pending cases. The Greater Noida office of the regulator formally started their online hearing process from May 18. “Since May 18, we have conducted hundreds of hearings online. Virtual hearings helped us speed our work and we have received positive feedback from applicants.,” Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-Rera, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/24k-hearings-online-how-rera-cleared-major-backlog/articleshow/79767515.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 17, 2020||India||Congress mulls committee for golden jubilee celebrations of 1971 win over Pakistan||NEW DELHI: To stress the importance of the 1971 war for the liberation of Bangladesh and the leadership of Indira Gandhi during it, the Congress may form a committee for year-long celebrations of the golden jubilee of the victory over Pakistan. Sources said Congress would observe the 50th anniversary of the war across the country through a variety of programmes culminating in December 2021. There were suggestions from within the party that since the government has already announced year long celebrations on 1971, the party should drop the idea of its commemorative programme as it would give the impression of parallel celebrations. The war between India and Pakistan concluded with the fall of Dhaka and surrender of Pakistan Army chief General Niazi with 93,000 of his troops on December 16, 1971. It marked the birth of Bangladesh as a nation and its liberation from Pakistani rule. Senior Congress leaders, including those from the defence background, are being drafted in the panel to draw up the anniversary plan, sources said. The panel may be headed by senior leader Meira Kumar, daughter of Jagjivan Ram, who was the defence minister in 1971. Congress is looking to project the 1971 war as an achievement of its government and the leadership, eager to contrast it with what it calls is a crisis on the national security front under the Modi government. On Vijay divas on Wednesday, Congress lauded the leadership of late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi while also using the anniversary of Pakistan’s surrender in Bangladesh to take aim at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the continued standoff with the Chinese forces that have intruded into India in Ladakh. Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “In celebration of India's historic victory over Pakistan in '71, I greet the countrymen and salute the valor of the army. It is about a time when India’s neighbours respected the Prime Minister of India and were afraid of violating our national borders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-mulls-committee-for-golden-jubilee-celebrations-of-1971-win-over-pakistan/articleshow/79767402.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 17, 2020||India||J&K DDC Polls: Over 57% turnout recorded in 7th phase||JAMMU: The seventh phase of the ongoing District Development Council (DDC) election in J&K on Wednesday saw by far the highest voter turnout of 57.22%. Addressing a press conference here, J&K state election commissioner (SEC) KK Sharma said polling was by and large peaceful in all 31 DDC constituencies —13 in Kashmir division and 18 in Jammu division. Polling was held in 1,068 stations in Kashmir division and 784 stations in Jammu division, he said. The SEC further informed that Jammu division recorded an average voter turnout of 71.93%, with Poonch district registering the highest percentage of 80.12, followed by Reasi (76.75%) and Udhampur (75.63%). The lowest turnout in Jammu division was recorded in Doda district (58.82%). “Kashmir division recorded 39.52% average voter turnout, with Bandipora district registering the highest polling at 70.47% followed by Baramulla (59.53%) and Kupwara (59.23%),” Sharma said. Giving district-wise details, the SEC said that in Kashmir Division, polling percentage recorded in Budgam was 45.11, Ganderbal 53.69, Anantnag 22.46, Kulgam 17.98, Pulwama 11.06 and Shopian 6.55. Similarly, in Jammu division, poll percentage of 74.38 was recorded in Samba, 72.85 in Kathua, 67.75 in Ramban, 73.10 in Rajouri, 69.89 in Kishtwar and 68.66% in Jammu. Sharma said that 3,93,200 people (2,10,479 males and 1,82,721 females) exercised their right to franchise across the Union Territory. The eighth and final phase of polling will be held on December 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-ddc-polls-over-57-turnout-recorded-in-7th-phase/articleshow/79768138.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
December 17, 2020||World||Texas and nine other US states sue Google for abusing market power||WASHINGTON: Texas, backed by nine other states, filed a lawsuit against Alphabet Inc-owned Google on Wednesday, accusing it of breaking antitrust law in how it runs its online advertising business. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton had joined the US Justice Department's lawsuit against the company in October. "Google repeatedly used its monopolistic power to control pricing (and) engage in market collusions to rig auctions in a tremendous violation of justice," Paxton said in a Facebook video. Google "eliminated its competition and crowned itself the king of online advertising," he added. The Texas lawsuit is the fourth in a series of federal and state lawsuits aimed at reining in what is alleged to be bad behavior by the big tech platforms that have grown from nothing to titans in the past two decades. The lawsuit was filed in the Eastern District of Texas. The nine states that joined Texas are Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Mississippi, South Dakota, North Dakota, Utah and Idaho. Alphabet shares added slightly to losses to trade down 0.5% on Wednesday afternoon after news of the new lawsuit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/texas-and-nine-other-us-states-sue-google-for-abusing-market-power/articleshow/79768200.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Business||Texas and nine other US states sue Google for abusing market power||WASHINGTON: Texas, backed by nine other states, filed a lawsuit against Alphabet Inc-owned Google on Wednesday, accusing it of breaking antitrust law in how it runs its online advertising business. Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton had joined the US Justice Department's lawsuit against the company in October. "Google repeatedly used its monopolistic power to control pricing (and) engage in market collusions to rig auctions in a tremendous violation of justice," Paxton said in a Facebook video. Google "eliminated its competition and crowned itself the king of online advertising," he added. The Texas lawsuit is the fourth in a series of federal and state lawsuits aimed at reining in what is alleged to be bad behavior by the big tech platforms that have grown from nothing to titans in the past two decades. The lawsuit was filed in the Eastern District of Texas. The nine states that joined Texas are Arkansas, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri, Mississippi, South Dakota, North Dakota, Utah and Idaho. Alphabet shares added slightly to losses to trade down 0.5% on Wednesday afternoon after news of the new lawsuit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/texas-and-nine-other-us-states-sue-google-for-abusing-market-power/articleshow/79768197.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Business||Facebook accuses Apple of anti-competitive behavior over privacy changes||PALO ALTO/NEW YORK: Facebook Inc accused rival Apple Inc of engaging in anticompetitive practices on Wednesday, firing another shot in a monthslong standoff between the two tech giants over Apple's planned privacy changes for iOS14. "Apple is behaving anti-competitively by using their control of the App Store to benefit their bottom line at the expense of creators and small businesses. Full stop," Facebook Vice President for Ads and Business Products Dan Levy told reporters. The world's biggest social media company ran full-page ads in major newspapers criticizing Apple's plans, which will limit apps' ability to gather data from people's phones that can be used for targeted advertising. It said in a blog post that Apple's own personalized ad platform would be exempt from the new prompt requirement the iPhone maker is planning to impose on other companies. Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Apple said in June that such activity will require a pop-up notification asking iOS users for "permission to track you across apps and websites owned by other companies," which digital advertising firms expect most will decline. Levy said that although Facebook disagreed with Apple's approach, it would comply with the new rules and display a prompt. "We don't have a choice if we want our app to be available in the App Store," he said. He declined to say whether Facebook would take any action to push back against the policy. Facebook and Apple have also tangled over commission fees the iPhone maker charges apps listed on iOS devices, with Facebook again aligning itself with small developers most affected by the policy. Opposition against Apple continued to grow on Wednesday as Digital Content Next, a digital media trade association representing members such as The New York Times and The Washington Post, said it has joined the Coalition for App Fairness. The nonprofit, which includes members like Epic Games and Spotify, is calling on regulators around the world to fight "anticompetitive" app store practices such as Apple's 30% revenue cut on purchases made within apps. Facebook previously tried to push a notification to its users about Apple's fees but said Apple rejected its "transparency notice." Facebook said in a blog post that it was "committed to providing relevant information" in a federal antitrust lawsuit filed by Epic Games challenging the commission fee rules but declined to specify how it would participate in the litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/facebook-accuses-apple-of-anti-competitive-behavior-over-privacy-changes/articleshow/79768434.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||Modi to be 1st PM at Aligarh Muslim varsity event since 1964||AGRA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at celebrations marking 100 years of Aligarh Muslim University, one of the country’s oldest varsities, on December 22. “A centenary is a landmark in the history of any university … The entire AMU community and I are grateful to the PM for accepting our invitation,” vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor told TOI on Wednesday. “The PM’s presence at this historic event will be immensely helpful to the growth and development of the university and placement of our students.” Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will also be attending, he added. The last time a sitting PM attended an event at the university was in 1964, when Lal Bahadur Shastri delivered the convocation address. It does come with a change of plans though. AMU officials had earlier told TOI that President Ram Nath Kovind would be attending the centenary celebrations. Now, however, he has deferred his plan and will be attending in February 2021. All events will be held online, given the Covid-19 restrictions in place. A senior AMU official told TOI that the PM’s presence would “send a strong message to BJP functionaries who keep attacking the institution.” AMU protests against CAA had led to a backlash last year. Its scholars have been vocal against cases of violence against women in UP and in favour of the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. The VC did not share the itinerary for December 22, but sources said the PM may inaugurate the newly constructed campus gate, release a postal stamp and a commemorative coffee table book, and attend the burial of a ‘time capsule’ with AMU memorabilia. Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College was set up in 1875 by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, along the lines of what he saw at Oxford and Cambridge. In 1920, it was renamed Aligarh Muslim University and was formally inaugurated as a university on December 17 by then VC Mohammad Ali Mohammad Khan, the Raja Saheb of Mahmudabad. Watch PM Modi to be first Prime Minister at AMU event since 1964||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-be-first-pm-at-amu-event-since-1964/articleshow/79769414.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 17, 2020||World||Trump Twitter account hacked, no charges: Dutch prosecutors||THE HAGUE: Dutch prosecutors Wednesday said a man had cracked US President Donald Trump's Twitter account in October despite denials from Washington and the company, but added that the so-called "ethical hacker" would not face charges. The man, named as Victor Gevers in Dutch media, reportedly hacked into Trump's account @realDonaldTrump by guessing his password on October 16, Dutch media reports said. Both the White House and Twitter have strenuously denied reports that the account had been hacked. Gevers, 44, disclosed the hack immediately, saying the password he guessed was "maga2020!", referring to the Trump slogan "Make America Great Again." "We believe the hacker has actually penetrated Trump's Twitter account, but has met the criteria that have been developed in case law to go free as an ethical hacker," the public prosecutor's office (OM) said. It added that hacking was a criminal offence in the Netherlands. But "special circumstances, also referred to in practice as 'responsible disclosure'," could stop prosecutors from taking steps, the OM added. Dutch prosecutors made their findings based on an investigation by police's specialist cyber unit called Team High-tech Crime. "Both the hacker and the American authorities have been informed of the outcome of the investigation," prosecutors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-twitter-account-hacked-no-charges-dutch-prosecutors/articleshow/79769436.cms||---
December 17, 2020||World||UK Punjabis angry at being labelled Khalistani for supporting Indian farmers||LONDON: A group of 25 British business leaders, professionals and councillors, mostly of Punjabi-origin, have sent a letter to the High Commissioner of India to the UK Gaitri Kumar condemning the way anyone who attends a kisan rally in Britain is being tarnished as a Khalistani. Titled ‘Descendants of farmers and soldiers, not terrorists’, the letter states “ordinary families did take part in UK-wide peaceful protests in huge numbers to show their support and solidarity for the farmers. This does not make all of them anti-India.” It criticises the “negative role” that “some sections of the Indian media and Indian government supporting groups” have played, saying “their sole objective has been to portray an incorrect picture and damage the image of the entire hard-working Punjabi diaspora in the UK by labelling us all as Khalistani separatists or anti-India.” It states that the December 6 car rally in London attracted very large numbers of ordinary families, elderly and youth “who have nothing to do with the separatist agenda but all have been labelled as Khalistani-supporting people. This is not acceptable.” The letter calls on the High Commission to “take swift action to stop any further polarisation in the UK” to avoid causing irreversible damage to the High Commission’s relationship with the Punjabi diaspora. It requests the Indian government to resolve the grievances of farmers, condemns the use of force against protesters and condemns “any groups linked to the Khalistani agenda or any political parties who are trying to use farmers protest for their own agendas.” “Congress, Khalistanis and Communists are using the farmers’ protests to show their own opposition to the BJP government in India which is creating lots of confusion and damaging the real cause of the farmers,” said chairman of the British Sikh Association Lord Rami Ranger. Lord Ranger has been forced to file a complaint with the police after being targeted by what he believes are Khalistani activists who he says have been circulating fake posters and letter purporting to be by him and simultaneously set up a petition to get him removed from the House of Lords. The petition has since been taken down. The fake poster urges people to attend the farmers rally. Labour Sikh MP Tan Dhesi, who is sympathetic to the farmers' cause, has been forced to call out on Twitter “some in the Indian media” for “misinformation” by “labelling peaceful farmers, or those speaking up for them, as separatists or terrorists”. Tweeting examples of defamatory stories in which he was falsely labelled as “closely connected with Khalistani elements” and even as the organiser of the December 6 rally in London, misleadingly described as a “Pro-Khalistan” rally in those articles, Dhesi said “Can’t take credit for attending a protest, let alone organising one. Please stick to the facts, rather than weakening one of the key pillars of a democracy.” Some Khalistani groups have though jumped on the farmers’ protest bandwagon. On December 10, Sikhs for Justice, the illegal outfit organising the 2020 Punjab referendum, held a farmers’ rally in Birmingham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-punjabis-angry-at-being-labelled-khalistani-for-supporting-indian-farmers/articleshow/79769448.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 17, 2020||World||Pak Covid-19 death toll crosses 9k||ISLAMABAD: With 105 deaths in 24 hours, Pakistan on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day toll since the country saw the peak of the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in June. Pakistan is currently fighting a new wave of coronavirus cases, with a total of 4,45,977 infections and more than 9,000 deaths reported since the start of the outbreak earlier this year. Of the 105 deaths, the southern Sindh province reported the highest number of fatalities as 58 people died of Covid-19 in 24 hours, followed by 30 deaths in Punjab, 12 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, two each in Islamabad and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, and one in Balochistan. Despite a severe second wave of coronavirus, Pakistan has yet to fully utilize its claimed testing capacity of 75,303, with daily testing significantly below numbers proposed by global health experts. According to the World Health Organization, Pakistan’s testing policies likely only record the most symptomatic patients while ignoring the spread among asymptomatic carriers, which studies suggest comprise the majority of infections nationwide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-covid-19-death-toll-crosses-9k/articleshow/79769449.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
December 17, 2020||Business||Citing national security, govt set to bar Chinese telecom gear||NEW DELHI: In a first, the government on Wednesday decided to issue a National Security Directive for the telecommunication sector to mandate scrutiny of telecom equipment and sources, in what is seen as its latest economic offensive against Chinese equipment vendors, amid heightened tension at the Ladakh border. The action, finalised by the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), will result in a list of trusted sources and products from the government, which will also amend the licence norms for telecom companies. Although the government refrained from specifying the country that will be impacted, it was clearly aimed at India’s aggressive neighbour, with companies such as Huawei and ZTE likely to face enhanced scrutiny, and even rejections, to ward off any covert operation and possible threat to the telecom infrastructure. Huawei counts Airtel, Vodafone-Idea and other enterprise customers as its key clients in India, while ZTE is a major supplier to BSNL and other state-owned enterprises. Read AlsoUS to offer loans to lure developing countries to shun Chinese telecom gearThe US government is making efforts to persuade developing countries to stop using Chinese telecommunication equipment, offering financial assistance to use alternatives that Washington deems safer.While it will not impact equipment that has already been deployed, going forward all telecom gear, especially those used for 5G services, will be kept under strict watch. “The methodology to designate trusted products will be devised by the designated authority, the National Cyber Security Coordinator. Telecom service providers (mobile operators) are required to connect new devices that are designated trusted products,” communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, adding that the policy was framed keeping in mind the country’s security needs. Chinese equipment suppliers are already under the scanner globally, with countries such as Australia, the US and the UK banning their access, especially in the 5G space, while others like Germany increasing scrutiny. Apart from the equipment vendors, some telecom operators which have been sourcing products from Huawei and ZTE, are also nervous, especially after the government stepped in to restrict Chinese products for state-owned BSNL and MTNL. Some of the mobile operators fear that any further escalation between India and China will mean that network support and upgradations from Chinese providers may come to a halt. It may benefit European players such as Nokia and Ericsson, American Cisco and South Korean Samsung, especially when it comes to the deployment of 5G services and infrastructure. In recent months, India has banned the import of equipment from China for use in sectors ranging from telecom to power, citing national security. Some of the bans were driven by concerns such as spyware or malicious software — known as ‘malware’ — being embedded in the imported equipment. Also, there has been widespread action against Chinese apps like TikTok, PubG, UC Browser, WeChat and CamScanner, most of which have been banned due to national security concerns. Speaking about the decision, Prasad said, “The list of the trusted source and product will be decided based on approval of a committee headed by the deputy national security advisor. The committee will consist of members from relevant departments, ministries and will also have two members from the industry and independent experts. The committee will be called the National Security Committee on Telecom.” The government will create a list of designated sources from whom no procurement can be done. “The present directive does not envisage mandatory replacement of the existing equipment already inducted in the network of TSPs,” the minister said. Last year, the government had banned imports of Chinese handsets without the International Mobile Equipment Identity, or IMEI, number, again citing security reasons such as the use of stolen handsets to make terror or hoax calls. The IMEI number of a mobile phone is a 15-digit number unique to every handset. It prevents stolen handsets from making calls and allows security agencies to track down a specific user. Prasad said the directive would not affect annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment already inducted in the network as on the date of effect of the directive. Watch Government set to bar Chinese telecom gear citing “National Security”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/citing-national-security-govt-set-to-bar-chinese-telecom-gear/articleshow/79769475.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SCTL bags award for e-auto project||Thiruvananthapuram: Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited (SCTL) received Elets Award of Digital Excellence at the 10th Elets Knowledge Exchange Summit & Awards, which was held through video conference on Sunday. SCTL’s project for promotion of e-mobility through e autos was selected for the award under the category ‘innovations in smart cities’. SCTL had procured 15 e-autos to promote better electric mobility in the city. The cost of each vehicle is around Rs.2.95 lakh and an AIS compliant GPS has been installed in all vehicles as per direction of motor vehicle department. Fixed transparent separation between driver and passenger has been provided considering Covid-19 protocols. The operational cost of a conventional auto is Rs.2.5 to Rs.3 for covering a distance of 1km whereas the cost is around Rs.0.5/km for an e-auto. The electric vehicle has an automated transmission system which makes it easy for anyone to drive it. The driver can charge the vehicle at the comfort of his/her home and it can be operated for around 85 km on a single charge which takes about 3.5 hours. The vehicle is powered by a lithium ion battery (which is maintenance free) and it is equipped with a battery management system (BMS). The vehicles are being driven by women beneficiaries shortlisted by Thiruvananthapuram municipal corporation based on applications received. This project is meant to have socio-economic benefits for citizens and therefore women beneficiaries under the BPL category without any full-time job have been short-listed for operating these vehicles, said P Balakiran, SCTL CEO. The real-time location of the vehicles could be tracked using the GPS system. On an average, beneficiaries make Rs.10,000 a month (Rs.400 per day). SCTL is also installing charging stations at various locations across the city which will facilitate top-up charging. Apart from Gandhi park, SCTL, in the first phase, will also install charging stations at taluk office road (outside Sri Chithra park), parking outside Putharikandam Maidanam and RKV road. The charger would be connected to integrated command and control centre being planned at corporation. The charger will transmit key information to ICCC like details of vehicle and driver who has used the facility, amount of charging done, payment made on digital mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sctl-bags-award-for-e-auto-project/articleshow/79760443.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Business||Startup launches almost halved this year||Chennai: The pandemic’s unpredictable nature made entrepreneurs take a breather in 2020, and startup launches almost halved compared to previous year. Only 6,769 startups launched in the year 2020 compared to 12,352 in 2019 and 11,845 in 2018, as per data from research firm Tracxn. Tracxn uses companies’ founding year as a proxy for considering them as startups. While new business launches in healthtech and edtech remained fairly insulated due to the digital revolution, segments like retail, agriculture, food tech and auto tech registered declines as high as 68% in the number of new startups launched. 208 retail startups launched in 2020 compared to 523 last year. New tech startups in the real estate space slumped from 173 last year to 77 this year. Food tech and agriculture also faced headwinds, as new companies in the segments dipped 67% and 68% respectively. Deepak Gupta, founding partner of early-stage fund WEH Ventures, calls 2020 a year of ‘polarisation’ for startups. While mobility, travel, and entertainment were worst-hit, the damage was everywhere in the early days, he said. “Not surprisingly, new business launches were muted in 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. As VCs, we were all engaged in protecting our investments till September, and only deals discussed earlier were closed,” an early-stage investor, who wished to not be named, said. With a vacuum created by TikTok’s ban in June, social video category gained action during the year with Mitron and others launching short videos app. Online learning boom also made entrepreneurs eye the edtech space. New startups in this space included tutor management software Teachmint and e-learning platform FrontRow. “Edutech, healthtech, essential consumertech, SaaS/cloud automation and cybersecurity startups had a good year while startups catering to travel, leisure & hospitality had a tough year,” Jatin Desai, managing partner, Inflexor Ventures, said. Asset management firm MPowered, which launched amidst the pandemic, believes crisis situations are good for startups. “Although the market took a huge hit during the pandemic, we envisioned this as an opportunity to focus on tech development,” Sudeep Singh, Founder & CEO, Mpowered, said. The startup also raised $21 million in a pre-series A round from a group of US-based HNIs. However, VC firm LetsVenture believes the pandemic did not really affect startup funding. “Calendar year 2020 saw almost 3300 startups applying to our platform for funding and purely in terms of numbers this is on par with previous year trends,” Shanti Mohan, co-founder & CEO, LetsVenture, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startup-launches-almost-halved-this-year/articleshow/79767147.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 17, 2020||Patna||Experts lay stress on climate resilient agriculture||PATNA: Experts from six different countries have laid stress on the need to develop climate resilient agriculture at a three-day international webinar that will conclude on Thursday. Organized by Samastipur-based Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, the virtual event is based on the theme ‘Building Climate Resilience in Agriculture through Agrometeorology and Other Technological Interventions’ and being attended by researchers and academics from Brazil, Switzerland, England, Australia and Bangladesh. Many of them have presented their papers and thrown light on topics like climate change, extreme weather and impact assessment, climate resilient agriculture, crop modelling and risk management. Inaugurating the webinar, Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University vice-chancellor R C Srivastava talked about the unpredictable nature of monsoons. “Farmers should choose the cropping system on the basis of the flood situation,” he said. Organizing secretary of the webinar, Abdus Sattar, pointed out that climate change was a “harsh reality” as its impact was being witnessed all over the world. “The challenges facing agriculture are enormous and should be tackled with modern technologies, innovative research and development approaches that are eco-friendly,” he said, adding that agrometeorological and other technological interventions could play a decisive role in tackling climate change. Director (research) Mithilesh Kumar spoke about the proactive measures to support agriculture keeping in mind climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-lay-stress-on-climate-resilient-agriculture/articleshow/79766837.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman fights with conductor over Covid rules||Ahmedabad: A 33-year-old woman from Vejalpur, Shreya Shah, allegedly refused to get off an AMTS (Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service) bus even though it was full to capacity. When the conductor told her to get off, along with eight other passengers who had got on at a bus stand at Asarwa Civil Hospital and were standing on the bus, she said she had been waiting for a bus for an hour and would not get off. She then dared the conductor to do what he could. The conductor then called the police. Based on his FIR, the cops booked Shah under Section 186 of the IPC and Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, as she allegedly breached Covid-19 rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-fights-with-conductor-over-covid-rules/articleshow/79766720.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Sardinha blames Cong brass for loss||Margao: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Wednesday blamed the party leadership for the Congress debacle in the just-concluded zilla panchayat elections. Sardinha said that senior leaders were not taken into confidence over selection of candidates for the elections. “Political novices have taken decisions. Seniors were not taken into confidence, calling them godfathers. For any organisation to run, there needs to be a combination of juniors and seniors,” Sardinha said. Referring to statements by BJP leaders that the zilla results were a mandate for three contentious infrastructural projects, Sardinha said it was wrong to construe the result in that sense. “There is no connection between the projects and the elections,” he said. Over the beef shortage issue, Sardinha urged CM Pramod Sawant to talk to his Karnataka counterpart and getit resolved. “Otherwise, open the abattoirs (which have been banned) if you cannot ensure steady beef supply,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardinha-blames-cong-brass-for-loss/articleshow/79767896.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Six tourists rescued from drowning||Calangute/Saligao: Six tourists, including four from Karnataka, were rescued from drowning by lifeguards in three separate incidents on Wednesday. Drishti Lifeguarding stated that at around 2.40pm, a group of nine tourists from Karnataka entered the water for a dip at Calangute beach.  Two of them ventured into deeper waters and appeared to be drowning. Spotting them in distress, lifeguards rushed into the water and pulled them safely ashore. Two more tourists from Karnataka who got caught in rip currents and began drowning were saved later in the afternoon. Similarly, a man from Patna and another person from Jharkhand were also rescued on Wednesday at Vagator beach by Drishti lifeguards. The tourists ignored several warnings by a lifeguard of the presence of a rip current in the deep sea. In a second incident that occured along the Vagator coast, a 25-year-old man from Jharkhand entered the sea in a rocky area at about 5pm. The victim found himself in a precarious situation and called out for assistance. Drishti lifesaver Suhas Gawas immediately rushed to secure the victim and brought him ashore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/six-tourists-rescued-from-drowning/articleshow/79767906.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Business||RBI guv calls for schools and industry to step up financial literacy||Mumbai: RBI governor Shaktikanta Das called upon education institutions, industry bodies and research institutions to promote financial literacy to build trust in formal financial services among the hitherto excluded population. According to Das, financial literacy was needed to address the issues relating to cybersecurity, data confidentiality, mis-selling, customer protection and grievance redressal. Speaking at a webinar organised by the National Council of Applied Economic Research, Das said that many measures are being taken to universalise digital payments. A key project is one where one district in every state will be made 100% digitally enabled by March 2021. “Financial education plays a vital role in creating demand-side response by enabling greater awareness and access to appropriate financial products and services through regulated entities,” Das said. He added that intervention in financial education would have to be customised for local languages and settings. “The scaling up of centres for financial literacy project across the country at the block level would be the cornerstone of community-led participatory approaches in our journey towards greater financial literacy,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-guv-calls-for-schools-and-industry-to-step-up-financial-literacy/articleshow/79768284.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Patna||Traffic snarls continue to haunt motorists||CHHAPRA: Saran range DIG Bijay Kumar Verma will soon launch a drive to put an end to frequent snarls and snatching incidents on roads. He has also decided to keep footpaths and roads free of encroachment. “A drive will be conducted regularly to end the menace of traffic congestion and snatching cases,” the DIG told this newspaper. The worst hit area of the town is Pankaj Cinema Road where three establishments — an SBI branch, a diagnostic centre and a cinema hall — attract a large number of visitors. There are several hotels, shops and furniture marts in the locality. As a result, commuters, especially elderly people, are unable to walk or even use four-wheelers due to the lack of proper parking lots. Vikramditya Sahay Path resident M K Sharan, who is a retired principal, claimed that it was difficult to drive a car in the area because the 21-foot wide road had been encroached upon by small shopkeepers. Another major reason for the frequent traffic congestion is the construction of a double-decker flyover that has restricted the movement of vehicles in the area. A resident of Sadhana Puri, Sushil Sharma, narrated his ordeal, saying, “The ongoing construction work disrupts traffic movement regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/traffic-snarls-continue-to-haunt-motorists/articleshow/79766735.cms||H K Verma
December 17, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav’s second warning: Fulfil poll promise of 19 lakh jobs or face agitation||PATNA: Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday issued a second ultimatum to the month-old NDA government led by Nitish Kumar to keep its poll promises of providing 19 lakh jobs among others in the next one month or be ready to face a state-wide protest by the main opposition party RJD. Earlier on November 23, Tejashwi had said his party would launch a statewide agitation if the Nitish-led coalition government failed to provide 19 lakh employment opportunities, as promised in their manifesto, in one month. “I am giving one more month to this new government, so that it could take some solid steps to end the ‘record-breaking’ unemployment, fulfil the demands of youths, students, contractual workers and farmers as well as take necessary steps to control the incidence of crime, in the next one month,” Tejashwi said in a statement on Wednesday. Tejashwi also took a dig at the CM saying if he didn’t want to give a reply to the logical questions of the opposition parties, he should at least listen to the issues being raised by the ministers and MLAs of his biggest ally the BJP. “Bihar government today completes one month. Two deputy chief ministers and the maximum number of ministers in the Nitish government are from BJP. The ministers, MPs and MLAs of BJP are raising questions on the style of functioning of the state government almost every day. CM Nitish Kumar never gives a reply to logical and factual genuine questions of the opposition leaders. He (the CM) should now at least reply to the question being raised by the leaders of all BJP,” Tejashwi said. Earlier on November 23, Tejashwi had said that around 1.56 crore people have trusted RJD on the issues of education, irrigation, medication and employment and the RJD won’t let that trust be broken. “We will launch a strong fight against the state government on the issue of government jobs,” Tejashwi had said. The recently-concluded assembly polls in Bihar saw a tough fight between the two major alliances—the NDA and the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, with the RJD’s promise to provide 10 lakh government jobs being the biggest poll issue. While Tejashwi had promised 10 lakh government jobs to be approved at the first cabinet meeting, the BJP promised the creation of 19 lakh employment opportunities. The NDA was voted to power with 125 seats, and Nitish became the CM for the fourth consecutive term. Now, Tejashwi does not want to leave any chance to corner the Nitish-led government on the issue of providing government jobs to youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwis-2nd-warning-fulfil-poll-promise-of-19l-jobs-or-face-agitation/articleshow/79767388.cms||Madan Kumar
December 17, 2020||Patna||Link all hamlets in state with all-weather roads: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday directed officials of the rural works department (RWD) to conduct physical verification of road connectivity to all ‘tolas’ (hamlets) and habitations across the state and link those still connected with an all-weather road on a priority basis. Nitish gave the instructions at a review meeting of the department held at the ‘Sankalp’ hall of the CM residence. In fiscal 2016-17, the state government had decided to connect all habitations with a population between 100 to 249 people, with a good all-weather road under the Gramin Tola Sampark Nischay Yojana GTSNY, a component of the Nitish government’s first ‘Saat Nischay’ (seven resolves) programme. In the run-up to 2020 assembly polls, the CM had announced to provide ‘additional road connectivity’ in rural areas under “Saat Nischay Part-2” programme. He had announced that all rural roads would be connected with nearest state highways and national highways. An RWD official said, though the majority of habitations were connected with all-weather roads under the yojana in the past four financial years, some habitations are still not connected with pucca roads, hence the CM asked RWD engineers to conduct a physical verification and connect them with a good all-weather road. The RWD constructs and maintains rural roads under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, the Mukhya Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana and the GTSNY. The CM further asked officials to ensure the maintenance of all rural roads regularly by the engineers of the RWD. “The RWD engineers should take the task of road maintenance with all seriousness and expedite the maintenance work,” the CM said. “Many rural roads have been badly damaged either by floodwaters or rain waters in many districts, especially in north Bihar. The CM gave instructions for maintenance of such damaged roads on a priority basis,” an RWD official, who didn’t want to be identified, told TOI on Wednesday. During the review, Nitish asked RWD officials to prepare a work plan for providing additional road connectivity in rural areas and expedite the works. Earlier RWD secretary Pankaj Kumar Pal gave a detailed presentation before the CM on the current status of the construction of rural roads, status of road connectivity to habitations, road maintenance work and new maintenance monitoring policy and the works executed by the department in the recent months. RWD minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and state’s chief secretary Deepak Kumar also were present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/link-all-hamlets-in-state-with-all-weather-roads-cm/articleshow/79766638.cms||Madan Kumar
December 17, 2020||Patna||Congress seeks ‘review’ of prohibition policy||PATNA: A political war of words has started over the implementation of the prohibition policy in Bihar with the state unit of the Congress seeking its review. The demand came from Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma a day after a report was published in the TOI making startling revelations about prohibition. According to the published report, Bihar has higher percentage of men drinking liquor than Maharashtra. The report, however, quoted the NFHS data to substantiate its claim. Ajeet Sharma, the MLA from Bhagalpur, wrote a letter to chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Tuesday, requesting him to reconsider his decision in the larger interest of the state and the people. The prohibition law was enacted in April, 2016 by the JD(U)-RJD-Congress Grand Alliance (GA) government, led by Nitish Kumar on the persuasion of women, who were the most harassed lot due to the sale of liquor. Nitish quit the GA in 2017 and formed the NDA government. Sharma, in his letter, however, said CM and JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar’s intentions behind imposing the prohibition were “good”. “But after four and a half years, the loopholes in the implementation have led to a rise in the liquor mafia and the officials making a fast buck,” the letter said, hinting at a well-knit liquor mafia-police-political nexus. He added that the situation had deteriorated to such an extent that liquor was being served at home. The JD(U) quickly reacted to the Congress leader’s demand for review of the prohibition policy. The party’s spokesperson, Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, said on Wednesday, “By demanding review of the existing prohibition policy, the Congress has hurt the sentiments of half of the state’s population.” Prasad also claimed that the implementation of prohibition was a revolutionary step. “The incidents of crime and road accidents have declined after prohibition. It has also played a pivotal role in the field of women empowerment,” he said, adding that people would not forgive the Congress for making such a demand. In reply to a query, the JD(U) spokesperson said even if the Congress insisted on its demand, it’s their choice. “Agar unko hansi ka patra hona hai to kaun rok sakta hai,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-seeks-review-of-prohibition-policy/articleshow/79766652.cms||Ramashankar
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Dengue cases dip in Bidhannagar area after post-Durga Puja spike||KOLKATA: After a sudden spike last month, the number of dengue cases in Bidhannagar appears to slowly coming down. According to figures available with the civic body, around 200 people have been affected by dengue in Bidhannagar this year, but no death has been reported yet. The number in itself is quite low compared to last year’s 2,000. There has, however, been a huge surge in mosquitoes in Salt Lake and the surrounding areas in the last few weeks, especially in the blocks of Salt Lake near Kestopur canal and the Eastern Drainage Channel. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation started cleaning the Kestopur canal stretch from Tuesday. “There has been massive spike in mosquitoes over the past couple of weeks. We cannot even keep the windows open,” said Sankhadeep Roy Chowdhury, a resident of AE Block whose son suffered from dengue a few years ago. Most of the local residents said they did not see the civic authorities to carry out any mosquito-prevention drive this year. In the last few years, the civic authorities had sprinkled bleaching powder and sprayed larvicide, which was not seen much this year. The manholes have allegedly not being cleaned for a long time and have become potential breeding spots for mosquitoes, locals said. “Instead of short-term measures, like spraying larvicide, there is a need to have a long-term solution to what has become an usual affair this time of the year,” said Tamal Pal, a resident of HB Block. The civic authorities said there was manpower crisis this year to conduct vector-borne disease prevention drives across all 41 wards of Bidhannagar. However, they said, some measures had been taken. Civic officials said that the mosquitoes that have lately surged in number were not aedes aegypti, which transmit dengue. “Dengue cases have been very low this year except for the two months after Puja. We have been taking all kinds of preventive measures round the year, including cleaning up empty plots,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dengue-cases-dip-in-bidhannagar-area-after-post-durga-puja-spike/articleshow/79766503.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Skeleton case: Accused sent to a week’s police custody||KOLKATA: The mother-son duo — Geeta and Vidur Mahensaria — arrested for allegedly killing and cremating 25-year-old businessman Arjun, Geeta’s older son, in their Salt Lake home, were remanded to another week of police custody on Wednesday after cops pleaded before the court for more time to gather evidence and track Geeta’s daughter. “The primary reason behind the prayer for extension of the police custody was the need for further reconstruction, which was half completed. Further, the accused are not cooperating with the investigating agency about the location of the woman’s daughter,” said state counsel Sabir Ali. The counsel added that cops have found that a number of outsiders from different states frequented the house to conduct puja rituals. “Their statements will be crucial in this investigation and cops are trying to trace them,” the counsel said. The defence counsel initially didn’t oppose the police custody plea but sought for a magistrate’s discretion to summon material witnesses from the investigators under CRPC Section 311 and Section 165 of Indian Evidence Act before seeking bail at the end of the submission. The court refused the bail plea but set a hearing date for next Saturday regarding the summoning of witnesses. “I had only raised a few questions before the magistrate. The cops claim the forensic report of the skeleton to confirm identity has reached them. Then why didn’t they produce it in court? The cops have also written about the presence of three CCTV cameras at the Salt Lake house. Where is the footage that can justify the presence of outsiders and prove the crime? The seizure list of 328 items mostly lists spices and daily use materials found in every Indian household, but has no mention of cellphones of the accused. The court should ask the cops these questions,” said defence counsel Zakir Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/skeleton-case-accused-sent-to-a-weeks-police-custody/articleshow/79766630.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 17, 2020||Business||New public holding rules for companies under insolvency||MUMBAI: The board of Sebi on Wednesday said that when a company under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) resolution is re-listed, it should have at least 5% public shareholding. Currently, there is no such regulation. The markets regulator also said the company should achieve 10% public holding within 12 months of re-listing, and 25% within 36 months. At present, all listed companies should have a 25% public holding to continue to remain listed. The regulator’s board also decided to do away with the minimum promoter contribution in case of follow-on offers, a Sebi release said. It relaxed profitability criteria to become a sponsor for a mutual fund (MF), which is expected to facilitate expansion in the fund management sector. It added that all the assets and liabilities of every MF scheme should be segregated and ring-fenced. In relation to Corporate Insolvency and Resolution Process (CIRP), the Sebi board said that the lock-in on equity shares allotted to the resolution applicant under the process should not be included to achieve the 10% public holding limit (set to be attained within 12 months under the new rule). In most cases under CIRP, the incoming investors are allotted shares through the preferential allotment route with a lock-in clause of at least one year. These companies will also be required to make additional disclosures, the release said. Relating to eligibility of MF sponsors, Sebi said those who do not fulfil profitability criteria at the time of applying to set up a fund management business will also be considered as a sponsor. Under current rules, a prospective MF sponsor should have net profit in three out of the past five years, including in the fifth year. However, all sponsors should have a net worth of at least Rs 100 crore and this should be maintained till the time the asset management company (AMC) makes profit for five consecutive years. Industry players feel this will prompt innovation and attract new players to sponsor fund houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/new-public-holding-rules-for-cos-under-insolvency/articleshow/79768427.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Jagan seeks Union home minister’s help in shifting high court to Kurnool||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is believed to have requested Union home minister Amit Shah to help the state government in shifting the principal seat of AP high court from Amaravati to Kurnool at the earliest. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said Jagan told Shah about his government’s plans to move the executive to Visakhapatnam and judiciary to Kurnool, while retaining the legislature in Amaravati. He also apprised Shah about the pending cases in AP high court on the issue. The cief minister also reminded Shah about the BJP’s Rayalaseema declaration and asserted that shifting the judiciary to Kurnool is as per the declaration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jagan-seeks-union-home-ministers-help-in-shifting-high-court-to-kurnool/articleshow/79765733.cms||Gopi Dara
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta high court seeks CID report on missing newborn case||KOLKATA: The state controls CID, the Centre controls CBI, the Calcutta High Court observed on Wednesday, adding that while both agencies have competent officers, they are unable to work properly. A division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee also said that government is not a body of a political party but a body for the welfare of people. The HC made this observation while asking the state CID to give a detailed probe report in a missing newborn case by December 22. The HC said, “Though the court does not intend to influence the investigating agency one way or the other, it is astounding that in this day and age, a newborn child would go missing, that someone would claim to have thrown the lifeless body of the child into a flowing river and no clue in such regard would be available with the investigating agency several months down the line.” The HC also took note of the child’s paternal grandfather’s letter to the CID on November 28. The HC said, “To allay the court’s misgivings as to the extent of the investigation, careful attention should be paid to the points made out in the said letter.” The HC also said, “It is equally possible that the child may have been made over to some third party and has been sold or trafficked and may still be alive,” adding that the probe agency appears not to have investigated this angle till now. On December 9, the HC had said if the probe agency was unable to report on the whereabouts of the missing child the probe can be handed over to another agency. The HC is hearing a CBI probe plea petition in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/court-seeks-cid-report-on-missing-newborn-case/articleshow/79766518.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC judge likely to be Madras HC CJ||KOLKATA: The Supreme Court Collegium on Monday recommended the appointment of Calcutta High Court judge Sanjib Banerjee as the Chief Justice of Madras High Court. The collegium also proposed to transfer Justice Joymalya Bagchi as a judge to Andhra Pradesh High Court. Acting Chief Justice of Jammu and Kashmir High Court Justice Rajesh Bindal’s transfer to Calcutta High Court has also been proposed by the collegium. Both Justice Banerjee and Justice Bagchi are Calcutta University alumni and had started their career practising as lawyers in the Calcutta High Court. Justice Banerjee had become a Calcutta High Court judge in June 2006. The same day, along with him, two other judges, Justice Biswanath Somadder and Justice Dipankar Datta, also CU alumni, took office. Justice Somadder is now the Meghalaya High Court Chief Justice and Justice Datta is now the Bombay High Court Chief Justice. Supreme Court judge, Justice Indira Banerjee, was another Calcutta HC judge who became the Madras High Court Chief Justice before being elevated to the Supreme Court. Justice Sanjib Banerjee, incidentally, did his BSc with honours in economics before studying law. Justice Bagchi became a Calcutta High Court judge in 2011. A Calcutta Boys’ School ex-student, he is also a CU alumnus. As a lawyer, before becoming a judge, he had successfully argued against a ban imposed by the state government before a Calcutta High Court special bench on Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasreen’s book, ‘Dwikhondito’. Justice Bindal, who is likely to join the Calcutta High Court, is a Kurukshetra University alumnus and joined the legal profession in the High Court of Punjab & Haryana in September 1985. He later became a judge in the same court in 2006. Calcutta High Court has a sanctioned allocation of 72 judges. There are 35 judges at present with 37 vacancies. When the transfers are affected, Calcutta High Court will have 34 judges. “It is a loss for Calcutta High Court. Madras High Court and Andhra Pradesh High Court will stand to gain by the experience and knowledge of both Justice Banerjee and Justice Bagchi,” said senior lawyer Sekhar Basu. The SC collegium, along with Justice Banerjee, had recommended the appointment of the chief justices in Odisha, Telangana, Jammu and Kashmir and Guwahati high courts. Along with Justice Bagchi, the collegium also recommended the transfer of eight more judges, including chief justices. The last time transfers were implemented was during the lockdown. Justices Somadder and Datta drove a total of around 4,000km to take up their new posts. After receiving the order from President Ram Nath Kovind, Justice Somadder started the almost 800km journey from Allahabad to Kolkata. While his chauffeur drove part of the way, Justice Somadder took turns to ensure that the distance was covered in time. Justice Datta started for Mumbai from Kolkata — a distance of around 2,200km — accompanied by his son, with whom he shared driving duties to avoid exertion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cal-hc-judge-likely-to-be-madras-hc-cj/articleshow/79766616.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||AAP wants probe into bamboo board’s affairs||Nagpur: The AAM Aadmi Party (AAP) has alleged large-scale irregularities and diversion of National Bamboo Mission (NBM) funds received by Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB). Addressing a press conference, AAP Sangathan Mantri Pratap Goswami and other leaders alleged that overall irregularities run into nearly Rs33 crore. The MBDB is the nodal agency for implementation of the NBM in Maharashtra “but badly failed to achieve the set goals”. Under NBM, the bamboo board received Rs33.12 crore in 2018-19 and Rs38.49 crore in 2019-20. In 2020-21, Rs8 crore has been earmarked. In 2018-19, NBM had set a target to implement 39 projects worth Rs19.70 crore with the involvement of the private sector. The government was to give Rs7.15 crore subsidy. It included the promotion of bamboo treatment and preservation, product development and processing, and development of infrastructure for bamboo market. “Not a single project was achieved, “ said Goswami. In 2019-20, the target was to set up 40 projects worth Rs20.50 crore under which government subsidy was Rs9.74 crore. The above targets included two bio-energy extraction units, two activated carbon product units and two ethanol gasifiers. “These units were advocated by union minister Nitin Gadkari. However, none of these targets were achieved by the MBDB,” said Goswami. In reply to a question raised by Narayan Rane in the Rajya Sabha, union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had informed that all the targets set for Maharashtra in 2018-19 have been met. “In reply to a RTI query, MBDB has itself stated that it has not funded a single private sector unit in Maharashtra. We too found the same. The funds were diverted for other purposes. MBDB also issued ‘fake’ fund utilization certificates to the NBM,” said Goswami. The AAP leader informed MBDB also implemented a scheme for bamboo plantation under NBM. The maximum limit per beneficiary is Rs50,000. There is a provision for 600 saplings per hectare. Beneficiaries are required to purchase saplings and furnish invoices to MBDB for claiming subsidy. MBDB is required to do direct benefit transfer to their bank account. “However, MBDB violated all the rules and regulations and directly procured bamboo saplings for over Rs4.29 crore,” he said. The bamboo board provided bamboo saplings to the forest department in violation of guidelines. The plantation is to be done only on agricultural lands and non-forests lands “but over 2.20 lakh saplings worth Rs55 lakh were provided to Gondia forest division and over 1 lakh saplings worth Rs25 lakh to one Rajshekhar Patil, both free of cost”. Goswami said, “Section 2(7) of the Indian Forest Act (IFA) was amended in 2017 to exclude bamboo from the definition of forest produce. This was done to encourage bamboo plantations by farmers in order to double their income by 2022. However, the MBDB failed miserably.” “On December 15, we filed a complaint with the Gittikhadan police station against MBDB managing director TSK Reddy. A detailed probe should be ordered by the crime branch and economic offences wing of state police,” said Goswami. The AAP leader said Reddy has also violated the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980, by starting units in Gorewada reserve forest under the garb of research & development unit. “However, FCA has no such exemption. There are no scientists and laboratory either to carry out research. The chemical treatment of bamboo is a tried and tested technology vetted by the Bureau of Indian Standards and it is a mystery as to what kind of research is being conducted by the MBDB,” said Goswami. TOI has already reported how MBDB violated various pollution control Acts leading to the closure of all units. Yet, there is no action from the PCCF office. Reddy did not respond to TOI calls nor did he replied to queries despite giving sufficient time. The AAP has warned of an agitation if action is not taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aap-wants-probe-into-bamboo-boards-affairs/articleshow/79766716.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 17, 2020||Business||Piramal hikes deal for DHFL depositors||MUMBAI: Piramal Group, one of the key contenders for DHFL in its insolvency proceedings, has offered to pay fixed deposit (FD) holders 10% over and above what they are awarded during the resolution. The group has also informed lenders that they intend to acquire the company as a going concern and retain employees and customers. Banking sources said that they were keen on achieving a resolution by January 2021 and the committee of creditors would meet to consider the bids made by Piramal, Oaktree and Adani Group. When contacted, a Piramal spokesperson said, “An integral part of Piramal’s DNA is the importance we place on the social contribution each of our businesses makes. DHFL has over 75,000 retail FD holders, most of them from humble backgrounds who have invested their hard-earned savings into small deposits here. We have explicitly stated in our bid that in addition to whatever consideration the committee of creditors decides to offer the FD holders, we will top it up by another 10 %.” However, this amount will not be construed as part of the bid. “While this doesn’t give us any points, it is an attempt to share in the pain of those most affected by the decline of this franchise,” the spokesperson said. The Reserve Bank of India-appointed administrator of the company has admitted close to Rs 4,800 crore of claims submitted by nearly 55,000 FD holders. Given that creditors will be taking a large haircut under the insolvency process, FD holders are also unlikely to get their full money back. With the Adani Group stepping down in its bid, the resolution process is turning out to be a two-horse race between Piramal and Oaktree. While Oaktree has outbid rivals with a total amount of Rs 39,600 crore, Piramal’s total bid, which is around Rs 1,000 crore lower, has a higher upfront cash component of Rs 12,700 crore — about Rs 1,000 crore higher than Oaktree. Lenders said they would factor in the upfront cash and the net present value of the bids before taking a decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/piramal-hikes-deal-for-dhfl-depositors/articleshow/79768467.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 17, 2020||Business||Rupee may rise as US puts India back on currency watch list||MUMBAI: The US has for the third time placed India on its currency manipulator watch list after the Reserve Bank of India’s relentless dollar purchase that resulted in forex reserves rising by $100 billion this fiscal. The move was disclosed in the US Treasury’s semi-annual currency manipulation report. It labelled Switzerland and Vietnam as currency manipulators, and added Taiwan, Thailand and India to the seven others already in the watch list. Those already under watch are China, Japan, Korea, Germany, Italy, Singapore and Malaysia. The US Treasury has three criteria to label countries as currency manipulators. These are: (1) A significant bilateral trade surplus with the US that is at least $20 billion over a 12-month period. (2) A material current account surplus that is at least 2% of the gross domestic product (GDP) over a 12-month period. And (3) persistent, one-sided intervention when net purchases of foreign currency are conducted repeatedly, in at least 6 out of 12 months, and these net purchases total at least 2% of an economy’s GDP over a 12-month period, according to the US Treasury department. The threat of a manipulator tag comes even as India has been arguing that its intervention is only to manage the tidal wave of capital flows triggered by actions of central banks like the US Fed. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had last year called for greater understanding on the need for reserves rather than stigmatising countries with a ‘manipulator’ tag. “A question that crops up is why has labelling become a bilateral prerogative when a multilateral institutional architecture exists for the purpose,” asked Das, speaking at an event in New Delhi in 2019. Das had also indicated that such actions might prompt emerging markets to move away from the dollar as a reserve currency. India had been removed from the watch list last year. According to bankers, the tag could lead to the rupee appreciating as the RBI might step back from its dollar purchases. “I hope this triggers a rethink in the central bank’s forex intervention strategy, particularly considering that forex reserves were already enough to cover more than a year’s imports when they were at $500 billion,” said DBS India head (treasury) Ashish Vaidya. He pointed out that India is one of the few countries that continues to build dollar reserves post-2015, thereby funding US growth. “Holding either the currency or rates for too long can cause imbalances like the one at hand where sterilisation of dollar inflows has resulted in the creation of rupee liquidity and the consequent need to mop up the surplus,” said Vaidya. The US Treasury report said India’s deep domestic demand contraction and slower recovery relative to its key trading partners contributed to the economy’s first four-quarter current account surplus since 2004 (0.4% of the GDP over the year to June 2020). India for several years has maintained a significant bilateral goods trade surplus with the US, which totalled $22 billion in the four quarters through June 2020. Based on the central bank’s regularly published intervention data, India’s net purchases of foreign exchange accelerated notably in the second half of 2019, and following sales during the initial onset of the pandemic, India sustained net purchases for much of the first half of 2020. This pushed net purchases of foreign exchange to $64 billion, or 2.4% of the GDP, over the four quarters through June 2020. “Treasury encourages the authorities to limit foreign exchange intervention to periods of excessive volatility, while allowing the rupee to adjust based on economic fundamentals. By further opening the economy to foreign investors, India can also support economic recovery and bolster long-term growth,” the report said, referring to India’s inclusion in the watch list. India has historically argued that it is an outlier when it comes to currency intervention as it is the only country with sizeable reserves and historically a large current account deficit. The argument against manipulators is that they have an unfair advantage in trade by manipulating the exchange rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rupee-may-rise-as-us-puts-india-back-on-currency-watch-list/articleshow/79768340.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Business||Multivitamin tops drug sales for first time in October||MUMBAI: Call it the Covid effect. Popular health supplement Zincovit, which provides essential vitamins and minerals, catapulted to the top spot in the domestic pharma retail market for the first time ever in October by becoming the largest-selling brand. Interestingly, this would also be the first instance of a multivitamin supplement overtaking sales of drugs for lifestyle ailments such as diabetes, including Human Mixtard (Novo Nordisk), Glycomet-GP (USV) and Lantus (Sanofi), which dominate the retail market. A 30-year-old brand manufactured by the little known Apex Labs, Zincovit registered sales of Rs 50 crore during October, dethroning the largest-selling brand Human Mixtard (insulin) with sales of around Rs 47 crore. A multivitamin supplement topping retail sales assumes significance as it comes alongside an increase in month-on-month sales of Human Mixtard (see graphic), prompted by a strong need to prop one’s immunity amid a raging pandemic, industry experts say. Overall, the market posted a robust 10% growth in October, led by a higher number of prescriptions for anti-diabetics and cardiac drugs, coupled with a strong jump in vitamins and minerals. Zincovit — with sales averaging under Rs 20 crore — touched Rs 50 crore in October, witnessing a huge 60% jump during the six-month period of April-October, according to data culled from pharma research firm AIOCD Awacs. Sales went up sharply over the last six months from April onwards when it was ranked 30th, then it hit the 11th position in June with sales of nearly Rs 30 crore, and was ranked second in September. In November, it dropped to the fourth position. That compares with the 53rd rank it had in January in the organised pharma retail market. “We believed in the concept of immunity about 30 years ago and have been building the brand over the years. The category witnessed an unprecedented jump and, for us, has doubled over the 12-month ended November to Rs 340 crore. Zinc, a vital supplement, is also part of therapy for Covid-19 patients,” the Chennai-based manufacturer’s head (marketing) Venkatesh Mallo told TOI. Overall, the vitamins and minerals segment — with sales of around Rs 12,700 crore (for the 12-month period ended October) — jumped nearly 23% last month, as against 16% in September. Immunity boosters continued their upward trend in purchases across India. Vitamin C and zinc -containing brands were the most in demand. These include Zincovit (Apex Labs), Bevon (Zuventus), Limcee (Abbott), Celin (Koye) and Citravite XT (Pharmed), according to research firm Pronto Consult’s founder and MD Hari Natarajan. A substantial growth was also witnessed in sales of other multivitamins which contain zinc, sold by Zuventus (Emcure) and Alkem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/multivitamin-tops-drug-sales-for-1st-time-in-oct/articleshow/79768560.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 17, 2020||Business||Exports from Tirupur surge to record levels||CHENNAI: It’s a perfect Christmas gift that garment exporters from the knitwear capital Tirupur were looking for, as exports for the October-December quarter may be among the best quarters ever, with a 15% increase in exports. “We expect exports to grow at least 15% (by volume) and 10% by value for this quarter,” said Raja Shanmugham, head of Tirupur Exporters Association. The demand pull has been so strong that exports for the current fiscal may top last years’ Rs 25,000 crore even though more than two months were lost due to lockdown and production impairment due to labour shortage. A combination of factors: Pent up demand, anti-China action from buyers,, favourable Euro and inherent business resilience will all make Christmas 2020 a cheerful one. October exports were up 8%, November was up 1% and December is showing a strong trend. “Exports are back, with a bang. The growth that we are seeing is here to stay,” said Apparel Export Promotion Council’s head A Sakthivel. Shanmugam however is keeping his fingers crossed. “There are some issues which I am not comfortable with. While most migrant workers are back, restart of long-distance train services bring back more. Besides, some European countries are witnessing a second wave of Covid and have announced partial lockdowns which could impact Christmas buying,” he said. Not just exports. Stocking up by domestic brands has been high, driving business. “Domestic demand is matching exports. We expect domestic supplies to overtake exports, if the present demand continues,: Shanmugam added. Tirupur usually exports 60% of its merchandise and the rest is despatched to the domestic markets. Sakthivel however is bullish. “Most of the Christmas buying happens online. Shipments for Christmas are over and it has been very good,” he said. American embargo on exports of cotton from China and knitwear made using Chinese cotton is helping Indian exporters. “Several brands are now avoiding China and coming to Tirupur,” he said. The INR/Euro which was at 78.97 last year is now 89.47. This is a leg up considering European Union is the largest importer of Tirupur garments. Garment exports from Tirupur dropped to Rs 25,000 crore for the year ended March 2020, from Rs 26,000 crore in the previous year as Covid pandemic wiped away most of March exports. The target was to export garments worth Rs 28,000 crore. Domestic sales were flat at Rs 25000 crore for the fiscal. The town employs 6 lakh workers, half of whom are guest workers from other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/exports-from-tirupur-surge-to-record-levels/articleshow/79767130.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Citizen scanner brings down New Town biomass-burning||Kolkata: The frequency of biomass-burning in New Town seems to have reduced in the past few days. Last week, New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), along with local resistance groups and forest department’s wildlife wing officials, had intensified vigil and awareness drives to prevent the nuisance. NKDA officials said that till last week they were receiving five to six cases a day, which has now come down to one or two. “We are sending a water tanker to the spots before the fire can spread,” said an official. The New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO, has also been keeping vigil and conducting awareness drives. “We are regularly conducting campaigns in the neighbourhood,” said NTFN chairperson Samaresh Das. “Despite the incidents decreasing in number, there are still some spots, like a concrete factory beside Bagjola bridge, from where fumes can be seen throughout the day,” said Deben Bhagat, a local resident. Officials said drone surveillance has revealed some unauthorized waste collectors who are burning non-recyclable dry waste on the roadside. “We are appealing to everyone to only allow the NKDA waste disposal team to collect trash,” an official said. Other reasons of biomass-burning that have been identified include burning bush to clear an area for a playground, and accidental fire resulting from open-air cooking by construction workers. NKDA has set up a control room to keep watch. The security staff of Eco Park has also been asked to keep watch outside areas of Action Area II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizen-scanner-brings-down-new-town-biomass-burning/articleshow/79766680.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Marks allotment for project-based subjects||KOLKATA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has disclosed the marks distribution in subjects, including English, mathematics and Indian languages, where project work has been introduced for the ISC (Class XII) 2021 exams. The suggested project topics have also been revealed in 10 subjects. The council will soon send specimen question papers that show the pattern based on the curtailed syllabus. The heads of schools will now inform students. In the subjects in which project work has been introduced, 80 marks have been allotted to theory and 20 to the project, which includes viva-voce. “The council has curtailed the syllabus. Now, the new question pattern will help students understand the method in which they will have to prepare for the board examinations,” said principal of Rammohan Mission School Sujoy Biswas. He added that in mathematics, the syllabus is divided into three sections — A, B and C. “Section A is compulsory for all candidates, but candidates will have a choice of attempting questions from either section B or section C,” he said. “In Indian languages, suggested project work includes writing a short story based on a poem, writing a poem based on a story, providing an alternate title to a given text and giving a justification for the same,” another principal said. “The council will mention all the suggested project work for the subjects in which the component has been introduced,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/marks-allotment-for-project-based-subjects/articleshow/79766643.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Patna||ART centre saw HIV+ migrants register during lockdown||GAYA: At least 350 HIV positive people have been added to the list of patients at the Anti Retroviral Therapy (ART) centre at the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) here. These new HIV positive patients are migrant workers, who had returned home during the nationwide lockdown from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ludhiana and other places. While some of them have returned to their workplaces, others are still collecting medicine from the ART centre. Around 5,500 HIV positive patients get medicine from the ART centre regularly. A senior medical officer at ART, Mahmood Alam, said, “An HIV positive patient has to get registered at the centre to get medicine. In case of a change, the patient has to get referred from the ART centre from where he or she is getting the medicine regularly. Some of the migrants have completed the formality of getting referred but we are providing medicine to those who are yet to get referred to other states.” Alam added, “National AIDS Control Society (NACO) and the Bihar State AIDS Control Society (BSACS) makes available the medicine here. We have several patients who have improved to stage one from stage four. To ensure that those tested HIV positive take the medicine regularly, we have two male and one female counsellor.” Senior counsellor Manoj Upadhyay said, "Patients are referred to the ART centre from the integrated counselling and testing centres for counselling. The counsellors at ART do their counselling for regular intake of medicine and follow other necessary precautions".  However, the ART centre here lacks some basic facilities to provide better care to patients. There is a lack of sitting arrangement for counsellors. The centre also needs a waiting room for patients. At the ART centre, CD4 and viral load test of patients are done. CD4 ascertains the immunity level, while viral load test determines the impact of the virus on the body. The viral load test is conducted only on Thursdays. In case the viral load test can’t be conducted the same day, the patients, who come from Aurangabad, Nawada, Jehanabad and Arwal besides Kaimur and Rohtas of Shahabad division, have no arrangements for night stay. Due to social stigma, they cannot stay at the home of any relative or friend. Earlier, a 10-bed Jeevan Jyoti care and support centre run by an NGO was functional at Chandauti block near ANMMCH. But now the centre has been closed. "The patients have no arrangements for stay if the test is postponed. They can not stay with any relative or friends either as they are afraid of ostracization,” said Villa Devi of Gaya unit of Bihar Network of Positive People. “Written correspondence has been made with BSACS so that viral load test is conducted at least twice a week. But a positive response is awaited,” Alam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/art-centre-saw-hiv-migrants-register-during-lockdown/articleshow/79766776.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Patna||Seven Vows, Book 2: CM’s cornerstone for fourth term||PATNA: The Nitish Kumar government has embarked upon on an all-encompassing programme to bring a new era of development to Bihar with the state cabinet sanctioning the Seven Resolves 2.0 and Aatmnirbhar Bihar. The CM had said on Wednesday that the second phase of his signature ‘Seven Resolves’ programme will be the blueprint for the development work to be done by the NDA government in the next five years. The Seven Resolves 2.0 envisages providing water to every plot of farmland in the state, skill development and healthcare for all, support programmes for women and agro-based industries among others for the creation of jobs. It also involves maintenance of development work executed in the first edition of the Seven Resolves, including Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal and Pakki Nali- Gali Yojna among others. TOI takes a peek into the second edition of the Seven Resolves of the NDA government: Yuva Shakti-Bihar Ki Pragati: With a focus on youth power, the government has resolved to provide technical and vocational training for the youth to help them seek suitable jobs with confidence apart from showing them the path of start-up entrepreneurship. Mega skill centres would be opened in all districts along with tool rooms at the block-level. At ITIs and Polytechnics, high-level training in sectors like solar, drone technique, optical fibre and networking, transformer manufacturing, information technology would be provided to students Sashakt Mahila-Saksham Mahila: To encourage women to become entrepreneurs, special schemes will be introduced under which women entrepreneurs will get a grant of 50% of their investment up to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh and interest-free loan up to Rs 5 lakh. Education minister Ashok Choudhary said the CM has kept his promise of increasing the incentive for girls’ education. “The state government will now give Rs 25,000 for girls passing class XII and Rs 50,000 to those graduating,” he said. Har Khet Tak Sichai Ka Pani: The government will provide water for irrigation to every field in the state using separate feeders that are being installed. Agriculture director Aadesh Titarmare has directed officials to conduct a plot-wise survey across the state. Swachch Gaon-Samriddh Gaon: Solar street lights will be installed in every village. Solid and liquid waste management practices will be introduced in the villages as well. Solid waste will be collected from each household and disposed of scientifically. Use of advanced technology for milk production, poultry and fisheries will be promoted. Fisheries will be promoted to allow fish to be sold in other states. Swachha Shehar, Viksit Shehar: Solid and wet waste management will be done in all cities through appropriate technology. Electric crematoriums will be set up. To make Bihar Swachh (clean), desilting of manholes and sewage lines will be done in every ward. Sulabh Samparkta: New roads will be constructed for connecting villages to each other and further to main the roads, state and national highways as well as markets. Bypass and flyovers will be constructed in urban areas for ensuring smooth vehicular movement. Sabke Liye Atirikt Swastha Suvidha: Door-step availability of veterinary services through call centres and mobile application along with a veterinary college in every eight to 10 panchayats. Use of telemedicine along with mobile veterinary units to provide the required treatment to the cattle at home. All veterinary services will be free. Under health services for people till village level, healthcare centres will be operated in an improved manner and equipped with telemedicine facilities to connect them with primary health centres (PHCs) or community health centres (CHCs) and other bigger health establishments. Arrangements will be made for the collection of samples at the village level for pathological tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seven-vows-book-2-cms-cornerstone-for-fourth-term/articleshow/79766624.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Varanasi||Chandauli’s famed organicblack rice shipped to Oman||Varanasi: The global market of black rice, one of the finest quality scented varieties from Chandauli, is growing further as a consignment of the famous variety left for Doha, the capital of Qatar, from here on Wednesday. The consignment, comprising 12 metric tonne of black rice and 520 metric tonne of another variety Samba, produced in Chandauli, left for Gujarat in three trucks. From Gujarat it will go to Doha by sea route. Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) chairman Dr M Angamuthu and divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal flagged off the consignment at a function in Harahua. Angamuthu said various measures are being taken for increasing export of agriculture produce from east UP by using Varanasi as a hub. Flowers from this region will also be exported, he said adding that these steps will help in doubling the income of farmers. Commissioner Agarwal said the good quality of farm produce of the region is increasing exports to new markets. “In June 2018, chemicals-free black rice was cultivated for the first time in Chandauli by 30 farmers in 10 hectare and 300 quintal was produced. More farmers were trained in cultivating black rice without chemical fertilizers and pesticides and in 2019-20, 400 farmers cultivated it in 250 hectares producing 8,000 quintals of black rice,” said commissioner. In June, a consignment of black rice grown in Chandauli, known as the rice bowl of east UP, had been procured by a firm for export to Australia. “Black rice from Chandauli is being purchased in bulk by export firms. The minimum support price announced by the government for rice is below Rs 2,000 per quintal, while in the open market it gets upto Rs 2,500 as per demand. But, the export firm purchased black rice for Rs 8,500 per quintal, which is almost four times than the MSP of last kharif crop, said Agarwal. Samba rice was purchased by an export firm through a farm producer organisation on MSP. The export of agricultural produce from the east UP region has started in the last nine months. On April 23, despite Covid-19 lockdown, a consignment of four tonne green vegetables, including chillies, cucumber and gourd, was exported to London, said APEDA AGM CB Singh. Besides, mangoes of Banarasi Langda, Dussehri and other varieties were exported to Dubai and London in May, he added. “Oman government’s logistics company, Asyad, has also taken stock of many farms to see the quality of vegetables for procuring them. APEDA office will become operational in Varanasi from Thursday,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/chandaulis-famed-organicblack-rice-shipped-to-oman/articleshow/79766090.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Panchayats, ZPs will now be able to spend more||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday passed a proposal listing expenditure heads of panchayats and zilla panchayats — including rent and purchase of two-wheelers and stationery — for which the upper spending limit has been enhanced. These expenditure heads form part of the schedule attached to the Goa Panchayat Rules, 2015, which governs the expenses. A local body will now also be able to pay higher compensation to victims of a calamity. Panchayats will be able to pay Rs 10,000 per family as against the earlier limit of Rs 3,000 per family. A zilla panchayat can pay Rs 20,000 per family while earlier it could pay Rs 10,000. Panchayats and ZPs will even be able to pay a maximum relief of Rs 50,000 per family with prior permission of the government. Previously, they could not pay more than Rs 30,000 a family. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that the government would also delegate more powers to zilla panchayats, even as he said that the existing powers are not fully utilised by them. Incidentally, zilla panchayat members have constantly been demanding that they be given more powers. “We will discuss the delegation of more powers to zilla panchayats. It must be remembered that Goa is a small state,” panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho, said. He was responding to queries that zilla panchayats are not delegated as much powers as those in other states. Explaining the government’s decision to allow panchayats and zilla panchayats incur more expenses, Godinho said the local bodies have often complained that they have been unable to cover their total expenses. “You can’t get a labourer to work for daily wages of Rs 500. The local bodies are unable to carry out various jobs. Daily wages to be paid to labourers have been increased to Rs 800 per day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panchayats-zps-will-now-be-able-to-spend-more/articleshow/79769086.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Business||Sensex nears record high of 47,000 pts||Mumbai: Strong buying in financials and IT stocks lifted sensex 403 points on Wednesday to a new life-high closing at 46,666 points with the intraday peak at 46,705. The rally also lifted BSE’s market capitalisation to Rs 185 lakh crore, a new all-time high figure. Supported by foreign fund buying, mainly on the back of a global rally due to expected roll-out of several Covid-19 vaccines and increasing chance of a Brexit deal, helped the sensex break out of the three-day sideways movement. After opening 300 points higher, the sensex remained in the positive territory through the session and closed a tad off its lifetime-high mark. End-of-the-day data on the BSE showed a net foreign fund buying figure of Rs 1,982 crore, while domestic funds continued to remain net sellers at Rs 1,718 crore. Most commentators feel that with foreign fund managers proceeding on year-end leave during this time of the year, the market will remain less volatile till about the second week of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nears-record-high-of-47000-pts/articleshow/79768377.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Patna||Will decide on cabinet expansion when need arises: BJP||PATNA: A day after CM Nitish Kumar said there is no proposal yet for cabinet expansion, state BJP chief Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal on Wednesday parried media queries on his party’s tardiness in deciding on its list of ministers for the cabinet expansion. “The BJP has its style of functioning. The list of the names (of the likely ministers from the BJP) will be prepared when the time comes,” Dr Jaiswal said on Wednesday. He said this on the sidelines of the function held at the state BJP headquarters here to celebrate the bravery and martyrdom of soldiers who fought in the 1971 India-Pakistan war. On Tuesday, giving his opinion on the expected cabinet expansion, Nitish had said, “When BJP will feel the need for cabinet expansion, we will hold a talk over it. So far, no proposal has been received (from the BJP).” Earlier, addressing the function organized by the ex-servicemen cell of BJP to celebrate the country’s 1971 victory over Pakistan, Dr Jaiswal said Indians have always been proud of our soldiers who showed exemplary bravery and martyrdom during the 1971 India-Pakistan war that brought victory. The state convener of the ex-servicemen’s cell Ashutosh Kumar Shahi presided the function. The party also honoured the soldiers who had participated in the 1971 war and also the war widows, the state BJP media incharge Rakesh Kumar Singh said. On the occasion, Dr Jaiswal also said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has been consistently addressing the demands and concerns of the soldiers. In this regard, he mentioned the grant of one rank one pension, provision of bulletproof jackets, the introduction of modern weapons and equipment and also other facilities. Speaking on the occasion, the party’s state general secretary (organization) Nagendra recalled the role of the soldiers during the Kargil war, and also the Balakot airstrikes inside Pakistan territory that destroyed the terror base across the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-decide-on-cabinet-expansion-when-need-arises-bjp/articleshow/79766681.cms||Abhay Singh
December 17, 2020||Vadodara||MSU PhD scholar helps nari gruh inmates||Vadodara: She could not carry out field work for her ongoing PhD due to lockdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. But Rinku Agrawal, a teacher and mother of two, took it up as an opportunity to train other women in subject of her expertise. Agrawal, a temporary faculty at the Institute of Fashion Technology of M S University’s Faculty of Family and Community Sciences, has trained nearly 15 inmates of government-run Nari Sanrakshan Gruh, women shelter in Nizampura. The orphans and destitute women of the shelter run by state government’s women and child development department have already learned the art of creating masks both with and without sewing machines with decorative embroideries on it. As a PhD student at the Department of Clothing and Textile, Agrawal is pursing ‘an exploratory study on usage of running stitch as structural and decorative ornamentation for reversible garment’ under guidance of professor Madhu Sharan, head of the department. “When the lockdown was imposed, I had immediately made a mask for my seven-year-old daughter. I realised that I could extend my knowledge to empower other women so that they can use the same skills to turn into entrepreneurs whenever they come out of the shelter,” said Agrawal, who is proud that her “small initiative” is in line to Prime Minister’s call for ‘vocal for local’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. Agrawal got support from Rotary Club of Baroda Sayajinagari which donated fabric, needles, embroidery threads, scissors and other such items to train the inmates. “These inmates do not have access to mobile, machineries or other technologies through which others can learn. They have learnt making the first products – reversible, re-usable, designers masks. And now they are curious to learn to make other utility products like water bottle covers, ‘potli’ purses, pen drive cases, coin pouches and accessories like earrings among others,” said Agrawal, who is preparing a proposal so that former inmates of the shelter can launch their own start-up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-phd-scholar-helps-nari-gruh-inmates/articleshow/79765312.cms||Prashant Rupera
December 17, 2020||Patna||Speaker meets new House panel chiefs||PATNA: Assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said on Wednesday that the centenary celebrations of the state legislature building would be held on February 7 and the nitty-gritty of the event in view of the coronavirus pandemic will be discussed and decided early next year. Sinha said this during his introductory meeting with the newly nominated chairpersons of the various House committees. The Speaker had nominated them recently after the respective political parties sent the names of their MLAs. Among those who participated in the introductory meeting were the chairpersons -- Prem Kumar, Hari Narayan Singh, Ram Narayan Mandal, Bhai Birendra, Surendra Prasad Yadav, Damodar Raut, Anita Devi, Ajit Sharma, Shashi Bhushan, Shamim Ahmad, Sudama Prasad, Afaq Alam, Aruna Devi and Chandrahas Chaupal. The assembly secretariat secretary Raj Kumar Singh, along with other officials, were also present. The Speaker asked the chairpersons of the 22 House committees to attend to the matters on their agenda with utmost sincerity, as the committees by way of the legislature convention functioned as mini-assembly when the House is not in session. Sinha said the matters that they would take up during the meeting of the committees would be in the interests of people, and, therefore, the manner in which they tackle them should also reflect the interests of people. Further, he asked them to function as per the parliamentary\legislative conventions and also use new technologies in their work, besides creating a positive atmosphere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speaker-meets-new-house-panel-chiefs/articleshow/79766705.cms||Abhay Singh
December 17, 2020||Business||In a first, auto parts industry becomes export surplus: ACMA||Chennai: Contraction of auto industry due to Covid induced lockdown, orders from global corporations for supply for parts helped the auto component industry to turn export positive — for the first time ever. Data from Automotive Components Manufacturers Association (ACMA), the auto component industry’s exports for H1FY21 were $5.2 billion (Rs 39,003 crore) whereas its imports were at $5 billion (Rs 37,710 crore) turning the sector net forex positive. Auto component imports were down nearly 33% from $8.2 billion and exports contracted 23.6% from $7.4 billion in FY20.However, the industry contracted 34% in the April-September period at just under $16 billion (Rs 1.19 lakh crore). “Many countries stayed open while India went into lockdown which helped export to contract less. Also this H1 domestic industry has contracted -- auto component supplies to vehicle makers is down from $22billion last H1 to $11.6 billion this year -- so imports contracted accordingly. In a couple of years auto components will be sustainably export surplus as a sector,” said ACMA president Deepak Jain. US continues to be India's top export partner with 28% share followed by Germany (8%), Thailand and Turkey (4% each). While Europe, which accounts for 31% of exports was down 28%, North America and Asia, accounting for 30% and 29% respectively were down 28% and 30% respectively. In terms of imports China is still the top with 27% though imports were down 36%. Germany with 13% share was down 40%, South Korea with 12% was down 46% and US with 9% was down 27%. In domestic terms with some segments recovering component companies are back to looking at capex and expansion of capacity. “After peak investment of $57 billion in FY18-19, only incremental investments were needed but some companies are already looking at fresh investments with some segments hitting 85% capacity utilisation though others are still at 50%,” said Jain. The ACMA PwC survey showed ‘companies have mostly recovered and are back to moderate financial health’ and the more healthy ones are “actively focusing on capex and merger and acquisition opportunities,” added Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-auto-parts-industry-becomes-export-surplus-acma/articleshow/79767162.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chennai||Ex-MLA files PIL for DVAC to probe ministers||Chennai: A former MLA from the DMK has moved the Madras high court alleging there has been a multi-crore scam in distribution of 5kg free rice to ration card holders during the lockdown. The ex-legislator, Appavu, claimed that the state food and civil supplies minister R Kamaraj has diverted 2,100kg of such subsidised rice procured from the Food Corporation of India to private rice mills and wanted the DVAC to probe the minister for offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. He moved another PIL alleging Rs 500 crore scam in replacing 23.7 lakh streetlights with LED lights in village panchayats and sought a DVAC probe against local administration minister S P Velumani for it. When the pleas came up for hearing on Wednesday, senior advocate N R Elango submitted that the petitioner’s complaints have been forwarded to the principal secretary of the public department, based on a GO, for action. Since the secretary is a subordinate of the ministers, he argued that the governor was the appropriate authority to act and sought time to move to amend the GO. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam posted next hearing to January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-mla-files-pil-for-dvac-to-probe-ministers/articleshow/79767899.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Patna||Five Afghan nationals held in Katihar||PATNA: Five foreign nationals, purportedly hailing from Afghanistan, have been arrested from Katihar on charges of staying in India for over five years based on forged citizenship documents, a senior police officer said on Wednesday. The foreigners, stated to be residents of Paktika province in Afghanistan, were booked for forgery and under the provisions of the Money Laundering Act among others. A cache of documents was seized from their rented accommodation in the heart of the town. Katihar SP Vikas Kumar said one Ghulam visited the town police station on Monday for some work. During interaction with the police officials, he divulged that he originally belonged to Afghanistan but was staying in Katihar for business purposes. On Tuesday, a police team searched the Choudhari Tola rented house of Ghulam where four others were staying. “They were brought to the police station for interrogation. They showed their documents like Aadhar card, PAN card, bank passbook etc to prove their Indian citizenship,” the SP said. "During verification, the documents turned out to be fake. Surprisingly, they had obtained birth certificates from the local municipality, driving license from DTO office, PAN card, ATM card, and bank passbooks based on ‘fake’ documents," he added. The raiding team also recovered Rs 5.2 lakh in cash from their possession. The investigating officers also detected transactions of money from abroad, which raised suspicion over their activities. The owner of the house Aftab, however, managed to escape. The SP said the arrested foreigners were found to be involved in money lending during the investigation. Katihar deputy SP Amar Kant Jha said an FIR was lodged against seven people, including six foreign nationals, with the town police station. Five of them were arrested and produced in court, which remanded them in judicial custody for 14 days. Earlier this month the district headquarters town in Seemanchal region hogged the limelight when posters were pasted at the district collectorate and other places purportedly of the Popular Front of India (PFI) recalling demolition of the Babri mosque at Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. One person was arrested after an FIR was lodged. The police had seized the posters having pictures of the demolished shrine. “The district is considered to be very sensitive from the security point of view,” a senior police officer posted at the police headquarters said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-afghan-nationals-held-in-katihar/articleshow/79766727.cms||Ramashankar
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Jagan seeks Union home minister’s help in shifting high court to Kurnool||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is believed to have requested Union home minister Amit Shah to help the state government in shifting the principal seat of AP high court from Amaravati to Kurnool at the earliest. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said Jagan told Shah about his government’s plans to move the executive to Visakhapatnam and judiciary to Kurnool, while retaining the legislature in Amaravati. He also apprised Shah about the pending cases in AP high court on the issue. The cief minister also reminded Shah about the BJP’s Rayalaseema declaration and asserted that shifting the judiciary to Kurnool is as per the declaration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jagan-seeks-union-home-ministers-help-in-shifting-high-court-to-kurnool/articleshow/79776336.cms||Gopi Dara
December 17, 2020||Surat||Farmers’ stir takes toll on Surat textile business||SURAT: With the farmers protests in Punjab and Haryana spilling over to the third week with no end in sight, its repercussions have been felt in Surat’ wholesale markets. Traders in Surat have received cancellation of orders to the tune of Rs 100 crore in the last 20 days from their counterparts in Punjab and Haryana which is by far the biggest market for dress materials. The textile transporters in Surat have stopped taking transport orders towards Punjab and Haryana following the farmers’ agitation. The two northern states are the biggest consumer of dress material, duppata and kurtis manufactured in Surat. The daily business with these states is about Rs 5 crore. Narendra Saboo, president of Surat Mercantile Association (SMA) said that the dress material and duppata supplied to the wholesale markets in Punjab is re-supplied to Kashmir, Afghanistan and Pakistan. This trade too has been hit, he added. Champalal Bothra, secretary, Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) told TOI, “The traders were hopeful of doing good business in the northern states including Punjab in December. Lohri is the biggest festival there, which comes around Makarsankranti (mid-January). However, the farmers’ agitation has failed the season for the traders in Surat.” “The traders in Punjab have cancelled orders to the tune of Rs 100 crores in the last 20 days due to the farmers’ agitation. Majority of the orders were placed through Whatsapp as buyers are unable to come to Surat,” he added. Lalit Sharma, a textile trader dealing with Punjab traders said, “In the last fortnight, about 30 traders have cancelled their orders of dress material with our firm.” Yuvraj Deshle, president of the Surat Textile Goods Transporters Association (STGTA) said, “Transporters are wary to send their trucks towards Punjab and Haryana fearing damage. We have cancelled taking the supply orders towards Punjab and Haryana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/farmers-stir-takes-toll-on-surat-textile-business/articleshow/79765584.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||As it is hard to find help these days, employers skip verification: RWAs||Ludhiana: The involvement of domestic helps in crimes is not a new thing in Ludhiana. Recently, the driver of hotelier Pankaj Gupta of SBS Nagar kidnapped his 2.5 years old son and sought Rs 4 crore ransom. Earlier also several cases have been reported in which the domestic helps have executed major thefts, sometimes by giving food laced with sedatives to the family and at times by keeping them hostage. One common thing in all such cases is that the employers do not get their police verification done. TOI talked to a few resident welfare associations (RWA) about why employers skip this crucial step in recruitment of household staff, knowing the risks. Varinder Bhakoo, president of Kitchlu Nagar Resident Welfare Association, said, “I know the horrifying kidnapping incident of SBS Nagar. Pankaj Gupta’s father was a close friend of mine. I agree the police verification of domestic helps is utmost importance in the view of security and safety of the family. But often people don’t get the verification of their help done.” For Bhakoo, the main reason is because getting help is not very easy these days. “It is a struggle to get good help in the house. So, when we ask them for the ID proof etc for police verification, it offends them and they refuse to work. We all have become so dependent on the help that we cannot say anything to them that may offend them. Majority of the help either don’t have their ID proofs with them or pretend to not have one,” he added. According to Bhakoo, many agencies have come up these days, which promise verified staff. “But if we hire the help through agencies, then we have to pay a hefty amount as commission, which not everyone is willing to pay.” Ajay Shahi, president of Dugri Resident Welfare Association, said, “The shortage of help is certainly the main reason why nobody wants to broach the topic police verification, afraid that the help may get offended and refuse to work. Labourers working in factories are being registered. Similarly, the administration should make it mandatory for the help to get registered.” Additional commissioner of police (ACP), crime, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said, “It is a request to all city residents to get their help verified, as it would ensure their safety and security. Besides, the Ludhiana police are already working on the entire concept to come up with better solutions.” According to her, the city police are willing to collaborate with a recruiting agency who can train the help to work and police will check their antecedent. “Through recruiting agency those who are verified, can be hired. Any recruiting agency willing to pitch in can approach the Ludhiana police” said ACP Bhatti. Box- Major crimes by helps December 1- A 2.5 years old son of hotelier Pankaj Gupta of SBS Nagar was kidnapped by their driver Harjinder. Harjinder took the toddler for a ride in the car and kidnapped him. The accused and his accomplices had sought Rs 4 Crores ransom however the police managed to nab the accused and recover the child. After the arrest of Harjinder it was identified that he was a habitual criminal who has criminal cases like kidnapping, murder, robbery etc on him. October 8- A major loot was reported in the city in which a domestic help Khem Bahadur, hired two months ago, with the help of their two accomplices, executed a theft at employer’s house in Gurdev Nagar. The accused held the elder parents of the employer captive, injured another, helped Munish who was minor and gave sedatives to the security guard to execute the loot. At the time of the incident, the rest of the family members had gone for an outing. According to police the accused have escaped with a large quantity of gold jewellery and cash. August 24- Harish Jindal, a hosiery businessman had lost Rs 2 Lakh in cash and gold jewelery when their domestic help gave the food laced with sedatives and escaped with cash and jewelry. In that case, the domestic help Sunita had joined two days before and meanwhile the family kept asking for her ID proof for verification but the accused kept delaying it. December 28, 2019- A domestic help Kajal along with her three accomplices have tied up the elderly employer Kavita Thakur, 64 in a house in Model Town and escaped with Rs 2 Lakh in cash and 150 gm gold jewelry. However, the employer managed to get herself free and raised an alarm and with the help of neighbours the help was nabbed. Nov 4, 2019- Hired a month ago without police verification, a domestic help Soni Devi along with two unidentified minor girls’ accomplices have executed burglary at employer Naveen Kumar’s house in Sita Nagar near Bharat Nagar Chowk on Tuesday. According to cops the employers reportedly have incurred the loss of Rs 4 Lakh. August 5, 2019- Hired a week ago, a domestic help Arjun of Nepal, along with his three accomplices have escaped with cash and jewelry worth rupees Lakhs form a house in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, when the house owner Hapreet Singh with family had gone to a relative's place in Amritsar. The accused first gave food laced with sedatives to other domestic helps including one security guard, then called his aides and executed the theft. According to officials the family has not got the police verification of domestic help done.  June 7, 2019- Two domestic helps Mann and Sarita have escaped with cash and jewelry from the employer’s house in Gurdev Nagar. The accused tied up the employer Reeta Dhand, 56 after giving her sedative and escaped. While fleeing the accused also took the CCTV recording and mobile of the employer in which she had kept the scanned copy of ID proofs of the accused. The theft was stated to be around Rs 90 Lakh. Both helps were hired by family without their police verifications a week before the incident. Box- Fraud recruiting agencies In August 2019 Ludhiana had arrested the accused for running fake domestic help providing companies. A gang was busted with the arrest Ajit Soring, 48 and Lal Mukhiya, 37 of Baba Mohanram Colony, Mukandpur, Delhi, Karan Kumar Jha, 22 of Bheem Colony, village Aali of New Delhi and Yogita Hagorika, 22 of Basant Kunj, Kishangarh, Delhi, who run an online service of providing domestic helps and dupe people of cash. They used to provide domestic help and before verification they would escape from the house with gold and cash. Box- Availability of form for police verification The forms are available online also on the website of Ludhiana police ' ludhianapolice.in ' . On the website there is an option of 'download forms' in which the forms are available for both local or other district/state. Besides, the person can approach the nearest Sanjh Kendra for the same. The police charges Rs 50 for the verification. Box- Days taken for verification For local person's verification- 20 Days For interstate verification- One month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-it-is-hard-to-find-help-these-days-employers-skip-verification-rwas/articleshow/79765716.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ACB seizes investment of IMS fraud accused||HYDERABAD: ACB sleuths seized Rs 1.99 crore investment made by Ch Devika Rani, who is the key accused in the multi-crore Insurance Medical Services (IMS) fraud case, in a private chit-fund company. During the investigation into the disproportionate assets (DA) case registered against Devika, a former director of IMS, the ACB team has found out that she and her family members have invested in monthly chits of a private chit fund company in Telangana and Tamil Nadu. The ACB team seized Rs 1.99 crore investment in the form of demand drafts from the chit fund firm and furnished the same in the ACB court in relation to the DA case. Earlier in the case, the ACB had seized Rs 4.47 crore and Rs 2.29 crore investments made by Devika Rani, her family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acb-seizes-investment-of-ims-fraud-accused/articleshow/79767937.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Security guard returns bag containing Rs23.86 lakh cash, gets Rs1 lakh award||NAGPUR: A commerce graduate — Shivraj Chamat – working as a security guard at a private firm set an example by returning Rs23.86 lakh cash and a cheque of Rs89.89 lakh to a private firm’s accountant, who had lost his bag on way to the bank on Tuesday. Nagpur city police feted Chamat and three of his colleagues for returning the money. The security firm where Chamat works too rewarded him with a cheque of Rs11,000, while the firm which owned the money rewarded Chamat with a cheque of Rs1 lakh. Sitabuldi police said Chamat works as a security guard at Great Sherlock Ex-Servicemen’s Facility and Security Management Services Pvt Limited. Managing director of the security agency Gopal Wankhede said Chamat was working as a security guard with the firm for eight years. Wankhede said Chamat guards the cash van which works for various banks in the city to fill cash in ATMs across the city. At around 4pm on Tuesday, it was a routine day at work for Chamat, who was at Munje Square with his colleagues to deposit cash at an ATM unit of Bank of Maharashtra. There he noticed an unattended green bag on the busy road. “I immediately took the bag and stood there for at least five minutes to try and find the bag’s owner. After no one turned up, I went to the ATM. There, I along with three other colleagues searched its contents and found it full of money, cheques and some vouchers,” Chamat told TOI. Together with his colleagues, Sunny Yeole, Shubham Gharde and Atul Chaturkar, he quickly informed Sitabuldi police about the bag in an effort to locate the owner, who thankfully was traced in the evening. “I just thought that this money might be intended for something really important like a hospital bill payment or whatever it is for,” said Chamat and felt that the owner must have worked hard for it. The senior PI said as soon as the four brought the bag full of cash, police personnel searched the bag and with the help of some cash voucher traced the firm Shreeram Wines. Police said the firm’s accountant Ravi Dharawar was going to deposit the amount in the bank and while on the way the bag containing the cash fell from his two-wheeler. After reaching the bank, Dharawar found the bag missing and he searched all along the road from the bank to the firm but in vain. He then returned to the office and informed his seniors. Later in the late evening, Dharawar along with his seniors reached Dhantoli police and lodged a complaint in this regard. Dharawar and his seniors heaved a sigh of relief after Dhantoli police informed that Sitabuldi police had got back the firm’s bag containing the cash, cheques and vouchers. The police later handed over the bag to the firm and also felicitated Chamat and his three colleagues for their honesty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/security-guard-returns-bag-containing-rs23-86-lakh-cash-gets-rs1-lakh-award/articleshow/79766730.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 17, 2020||Goa||For Make in India to succeed, need to invent in India, underscores Mashelkar||Panaji: For India to become self reliant and shed its dependence on China, invent in India is the key said, said eminent scientist and former director general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Dr Raghunath Mashelkar as he stressed on the need for fresh focus on research and innovation. Indian nuclear physicist and former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission of India Dr Anil Kakodkar, who shared the same opinion, said that keeping pace with China’s growth and scientific progression remains a major challenge for India. “Atmanirbhar is fine, but if we want Make it India, it has to be invent in India. Without that, we will be vulnerable and that is where science, innovation, risk taking comes in,” said Mashelkar. The two were speaking at The International Centre Goa’s (ICG) 2020s Development Dialogue, which was moderated by vice-president of ICG Dattaraj Salgaocar. For India to attain self reliance and compete with China, a renewed thrust on education, technology and robust policy framework is required, they said. “Matching China’s prowess is a major challenge and I believe that we need to start with policy issues. If you compare industry, scientists, workers between India and China, then it is an uneven field. Our approach has to begin at the policy level,” said Kakodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-make-in-india-to-succeed-need-to-invent-in-india-underscores-mashelkar/articleshow/79767924.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Target No.3 busts Bodakdev Casanova||Ahmedabad: A man who crafted his love life like a twisted Bollywood story, marrying twice and pursuing affairs, faced ‘the end’ after a woman he was targeting unravelled the plot. The woman who was being wooed by the Bodakdev Casanova came to know about his first wife. She contacted the wife and the sequence of events ended with police booking the man for cheating and forgery. The second wife of the accused had no idea about the first or about his latest love interest. The man’s first wife, a 40-year-old mother of two, on Tuesday filed a complaint with the Vastrapur police. “I married him in 1999 according to the wishes of my family and at the time a dowry of Rs 6 lakh and ornaments were given to him,” she said. “But he kept demanding more from my parents and in all took Rs 10 lakh from them.” She added that he hit her over petty issues. She said that two years after their wedding, he stopped staying with her and visited her twice or thrice a month. On November 12, a woman from Madhya Pradesh called the complainant and asked about the accused. The complainant told the MP woman that he was her husband. The MP woman told the complainant he was posing as a bachelor on a matrimonial site and had approached her for marriage. The MP woman also discovered that the man had forged government papers to adopt a new identity for his second marriage. The second wife was also from MP. When the first wife eventually brought up the topic of dodgy government documents with him, he explained them away saying that he used them to get liquor permits in Gujarat. But when she confronted him about his second marriage and other relationships, he left their home and did not return for about a month. In the end, she approached police and filed the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/target-no-3-busts-bodakdev-casanova/articleshow/79766728.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Ward # 68 area councillor urges people to fix water, sewage connections before laying of new road||Ludhiana: For avoiding wastage of public money and early breakage of roads, Congress councillor Baljinder Singh from ward number 68 has put up boards in the New Model Town for public that in next few days new roads will be made in the locality and if any person wants to take new water supply or sewerage connection then he or she should take it before road work. He has warned the residents that after the road is laid, nobody will be allowed to damage it. After a gap of 15 years the roads in new Model town are going to be constructed at the cost of Rs 2 crore. Along with road work, footpaths will also be constructed and other civil work will also be done. According to the councillor, the residents in the area were demanding for the construction of roads for a long time and now that the civic body has finally complied, residents should support in maintaining them as well. Nearly 1.5 years ago, roads were constructed in Jawahar Nagar camp with a similar kind of instructions. The councillor claimed that nobody has damaged the road till now. The councillor said, “People had taken new connections before road work and till date roads did not get damaged there.” He said they spend lots of money on road construction work and after roads are constructed if people damage the road for taking new water supply and sewerage connections, it proves to be a wastage of money. He said he will not allow anybody to damage the road and FIRs will be registered against anyone who damage the road. Councillor Baljinder Singh has also planned to introduce door-to-door garbage collection through A2Z Waste Management Company. “At first, awareness will be created among the residents for segregating waste then A2Z will take over.” But this is subject to how the local garbage collectors, who used to lift garbage from households earlier, would react.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ward-68-area-councillor-urges-people-to-fix-water-sewage-connections-before-laying-of-new-road/articleshow/79765729.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Kadapa cops bust gang involved in betting, ganja sale||TIRUPATI: Kadapa police arrested 31 persons who were into cricket betting and seized laptops, mobile communicators, cash and other materials from the possession of the accused, in Proddatur town on Wednesday. Kadapa SP K K N Anburajan said raids were conducted at multiple locations in the town following credible information about cricket betting and ganja sale at those places. “The arrested bookies have links with kingpins operating out of Bengaluru, Hyderabad and other major cities across the country. The gang’s turnover from betting during the IPL was Rs 34 crore. The accused were also involved in the sale of ganja and other drugs,” said Anburajan. Police seized seven laptops, two mobile communicators, one lakh rupees in cash, six kg of ganja, two four-wheelers and other materials from the accused. Investigation is on to nab the kingpins involved in the cricket betting racket, the SP added. He also appreciated the efforts of Proddatur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kadapa-cops-bust-gang-involved-in-betting-ganja-sale/articleshow/79765753.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Goa Dairy delivery operators go off road||PONDA: Many parts of the state witnessed a shortage in milk on Wednesday after Goa Dairy tempo operators refused to undertake supply in protest of e-tendering of routes. Of the 28 operators plying on 36 routes, only six tempos of three operators and three vehicles of Goa Dairy could manage to supply 29,350 litres of milk. Goa Dairy had a total demand of 57,000 litres on Wednesday. Every year, Goa Dairy would undertake physical tendering of routes. However, this year, the dairy had issued e-tenders for the routes. Sources said that except one operator from Collem, Dharbandora, no one had responded to the e-tender. Fearing that the routes may be allotted to new operators, around 25 operators protested the dairy’s move by not plying their vehicles laden with milk on Wednesday. The move affected supply to Aldona, Bicholim, Calangute, Mapusa, Marcel, Divar, Panaji, Porvorim, Siolim, Canacona, Margao, Ponda and Vasco leading to a loss of Rs 14 lakh as sale 27,650 litres of milk was halted, Durgesh Shirodkar, chairman of Goa Dairy’s administrative committee said. Rupesh Rohidas Naik, a tempo operator from Veling-Priol, said that he along with two other operators - Umesh Gaude and Damodar Narayan Naik, from Veling, managed ensure supply on six routes, while Goa Dairy had sent its three vehicles to three routes to avoid a major shortage of milk in the retail market. Naik said that the agitating operators have called off strike after cooperation minister Govind Gaude assured them that no route will be allotted to the e-tendering bidder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-dairy-delivery-operators-go-off-road/articleshow/79767949.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Medical mop-up round from December 18||AHMEDABAD: The mop-up round for medical and dental courses will be held from December 18 to 23 across 11 colleges in the state. The admission committee will hold the mop-up round for about 1,000 vacant seats. Two rounds of admissions have been conducted so far. The mop-up round will be organized through video-conferencing due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation. The 11 colleges include BJ, NHL, and GCS in Ahmedabad; GMERS in Gandhinagar; Government Medical College in Vadodara; Government Medical College and Surat Municipal Institute of Medical Education & Research in the Diamond City; and Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Medical College in Rajkot. As many as 293 seats are vacant in medical colleges and 710 in dental colleges. The choice-filling exercise was held from December 6 to 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-mop-up-round-from-dec-18/articleshow/79766731.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||If farmers’ rights not protected, there will be no sustainable development’||Even as the farmers gather in Delhi, with no clear solution on sight, the support for them grow strong and steady too. Mehak Jain speaks to some of the supporters... “We all are post graduate and some of us are even doctorates, so how can the government say we cannot understand these laws? We reached Singhu border on November 27, and we are here against the farm laws. As there is no assurance on MSP, state APMC's will be dismantled, which in turn will affect rural development. Secondly, there is no provision in the bill that in case of dispute between parties in the contract, either of the aggrieved party can take due course of law to settle the dispute. Farmers have been denied their basic right of approaching the judicial courts.” Gurjot Malhi | Student, PAU Being a student of agriculture and a farmer, I can say these laws are not for the welfare of farmers, but for corporates. Essential commodities act allows corporates to store enough to influence the prices and they would keep the level just below the threshold limit that it appears that prices are not being violated against the laws. Other laws allows free trade to other states that is not feasible for small and marginal farmers. Third law is for contract farming and farmer cannot fight for their rights with big corporates. I went to Delhi to support and farmers are protesting peacefully. We need to be aware these are not just anti farmer, but will affect the whole society. Navdeep Singh | Student, PAU The three farm laws that have been passed unconstituionally have triggered a rift between farmers and the Modi government. After going through the farm laws, I can conclude that empowering farmers through them seems more ostensible. I see them as an attempt to dilute the very nature of the previous safeguards provided to the farmers, be it MSP or other infrastructure. There are some certain economic logics being provided to farmers to justify the laws, but what ruins the actual position of the government is the previously implemented government schemes that were started for the help of farmers but have proved already as goldmines for the private companies. This has made farmers community distrustful of government. I urge the government to immediately repeal these laws not just because these are anti farmers, but the way these are put forward into the legislature by the government was absolutely undemocratic. This will ruin India's position in the global ranking of democracy index .” Bikrampal Singh | Farmer Human rights are at the heart of the sustainable development goals ( SDGs). In the absence of human dignity, we cannot hope to bring about sustainable development. We all must stand up for human rights. The whole of Punjab stands up for farmers rights as their demands are genuine and democratic in nature, which must be addressed to maintain dignity and honour of farmers who feed the whole country. If rights of the farmers are not protected, then it is hard to dream about sustainable development. Rather than protecting the interests of corporates, the interests of hardworking Indian farmers should be protected. Farm struggle has created history and this struggle is based on the democratic rights of the farmers. Education, peace and development could flourish only with the preservation, protection and the propagation of human rights. Davinder Singh Chhina | President, Khalsa College Amritsar Global Alumni Association||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-farmers-rights-not-protected-there-will-be-no-sustainable-development/articleshow/79765737.cms||Mehak Jain
December 17, 2020||Goa||At 838 girls, Goa’s sex ratio plunges from 966 in 5 years||PANAJI: Of the births recorded in the last five years, the sex ratio for Goa is unusually skewed at just 838 females born per 1,000 males, as per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) for 2019-20. This is drastically down from the 966 girls per 1,000 boys born prior to the five years for the 2015-16 survey. For the overall population of Goa, the sex ratio is not only healthy at 1,027 females for every 1,000 males, but it is also better than the 1,018 recorded at the last family health survey.  As per the 2019-20 data, the urban population appears to be a contributing factor for the skewed female sex ratio where the figure for the overall population as well as birth recorded in the last five years are concerned. For the overall population, the sex ratio in rural areas stands at a fine 1,092 females per 1,000 males. But the figure for urban areas brings down the female sex ratio at 985 women per 1,000 males. This may not be as alarming as male movement to urban areas for employment may be a contributing factor. But in children born over the last five years, there are 864 female births per 1,000 male births in rural areas. In urban areas of Goa, this figure stood at just 822. When the NFHS results were out for 2015-16, Goa had cheered the improvement in sex ratio to 966 among children born during the previous five years. This was because 966 was a significant improvement over 921 female birth reported by the 2005-06 survey. But in 2019-20, Goa’s figure is much lower than even the 2005-06 figure, which is set to be a cause for concern for the state. Another area of concern for the state is its dropping fertility rate. As per the latest data, Goa’s fertility rate dropped to 1.3 from 1.7 during the last survey. The government of India norm is that every family should have two children or that the ‘total fertility rate’ (TFR) should be 2.1. But the TFR for Goa is lower than this expected figure 1.7. The total fertility rate is the average number of children per woman in the eligible group. The parameters for Goa on most other fronts were encouraging like an improved civil registration of births, higher female population attending school and lowering figure of females marrying before the age of 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-838-girls-goas-sex-ratio-plunges-from-966-in-5-years/articleshow/79769074.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 17, 2020||Goa||School canteens asked to consider using environment-friendly biogas||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools that operate canteens to take benefit of schemes offered by the Goa Energy Development Agency and shift to the use of the environmentally-friendly biogas. The directorate said that this source of energy for cooking is cost-effective and also solves the issue of disposing kitchen and other organic wastes. “Biogas is a renewable, clean source of energy and a substitute to LPG cylinder. The bio-slurry generated during the process can be used as liquid fertiliser in the garden. It is therefore enjoined on heads of government/government aided/unaided secondary, higher secondary and special schools having canteen facility to promote and avail subsidy benefit of the schemes,” director of education Santosh Amonkar told institutions. In order to manage wet waste at source in a hygienic way and to promote utilisation of natural source of energy in the form of biogas, Goa Energy Development Agency has notified the scheme for promotion of biogas plants based on kitchen and organic waste. “Disposal of garbage, including kitchen waste, is an alarming problem in the state. There is need to dispose of kitchen/organic waste at source to encourage disseminated system of disposal and to reduce the use of fossil fuel/LPG for cooking purpose, as biogas being the cost-effective alternative fuel for cooking,” DoE told schools. The Goa Energy Development Agency scheme promises to help one family save on at least 10 LPG cylinders a year. A subsidy of up to Rs 30,000 is available to beneficiaries under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/school-canteens-asked-to-consider-using-environment-friendly-biogas/articleshow/79769026.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP high court rejects plea to adjourn habeas corpus petitions hearing||VIJAYAWADA: Heated arguments took place between the state government counsels and AP high court bench during the hearing on a batch of habeas corpus petitions on Wednesday. The counsels representing the state government told the bench that they have moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s orders to decide whether constitutional breakdown has happened in the state, and sought for adjournment of the hearing. The HC bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi rejected the plea, saying they cannot adjourn the hearing only on the basis of the government moving the apex court. The bench added that they will adjourn the hearing only if the SC directs the same. Taking a serious view on the habeas corpus petitions, the HC bench said the police continue to detain people illegally even after the DGP personally assured the high court that all due procedures would be followed while making arrests. “What is the use of the high court if it cannot protect the rights of people under Article 226 of the Constitution?” the bench asked. Government pleader C Suman said the advocate general had explained during the previous hearing that the question raised by the high court on constitutional breakdown is beyond its jurisdiction. He also presented various judgements in support of his argument but the high court did not consider the AG’s arguments, said Suman. Intervening at this point, the bench said an attempt was made to threaten the court during the previous hearing of the case. Special senior counsel S S Prasad raised objections to the bench’s remarks, and stated that the court cannot make such remarks on individuals, adding that the advocate general was insulted by the court during the previous hearing. The bench said they did not make any observations on individuals but only mentioned what had happened during the previous hearing. They also asked the government pleaders to confine their arguments to the merits of the case without deviating to unnecessary issues. “The court has all powers to raise questions on specific issues. The state government should decide whether they want to present arguments on the question of constitutional breakdown,” the bench said. The bench further stated that they cannot consider illegal detentions and police atrocities as normal in a democratic country. “A person was detained and beaten up for one week and he was released only after a petition was moved in the high court. This might seem normal to you, but not to us,” said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/high-court-rejects-plea-to-adjourn-habeas-corpus-petitions-hearing/articleshow/79765771.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 17, 2020||India||5 hospital beds/10k population: India ranks 155th in 167||India’s scramble to create more beds when Covid struck is not surprising considering the fact that there are only 12 countries which fare worse than India when it comes to bed availability. India has just five beds for 10,000 Indians. The just released Human Development Report 2020 showed that out of 167 countries, India would rank 155th on bed availability. The countries with fewer beds to population ratio than India included Uganda, Senegal, Afghanistan, Burkina Faso, Nepal and Guatemala. Even Bangladesh is slightly better off than India with 8 beds per 10,000 population, though it has only 5.8 doctors per 10,000 population. Yet, Bangladesh has a higher life expectancy of 72.6 and lower infant mortality rate of 26.9 compared to India’s 32 deaths per 1,000 live births. In comparison, 76 countries have fewer doctors per 10,000 population than India, which includes several countries with vastly better health indices. For instance, Thailand and Vietnam have marginally fewer doctors than India, 8.1 and 8.3 doctors per 10,000, respectively, compared to 8.6 doctors per 10,000 population in India. But Vietnam has 32 beds per 10,000 people. The bed availability data for Thailand is not available in the HDR report, but World Bank data shows that it has about 20 beds per 10,000. Not only did Vietnam and Thailand handle the Covid pandemic better than not just India but some of the most developed countries, they also have a higher life expectancy of 75.4 and 77.2 years, respectively. India’s life expectancy is 69.7 years. Countries in the “very high human development” category typically have about 25 to 50 doctors per 10,000 and 25-35 beds per 10,000. In the next category of high human development countries, the availability of beds ranges from 10 to 45 per 10,000 and the availability of doctors ranges from 15 to 40 per 10,000. There are several in this group with a lower doctor-population ratio than India, but none which have fewer beds per 10,000. Most of the countries in the medium human development group, to which India belongs, have fewer doctors per 10,000 population. But only two, Nepal (3) and Guatemala (4), have lower bed availability than India. The number of beds per 10,000 is used as an indicator of health infrastructure in general and the poor bed availability points to India’s failure to expand its health infrastructure in keeping with the growth in population. However, there is greater focus in India on creating more doctors though even doctors have often complained about the lack of infrastructure as the reason why many do not work in underserved areas. Considering the extremely poor availability of beds in India, it is little wonder that people were struggling to find beds during the pandemic. There don’t even seem to be enough for regular health needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-hospital-beds/10k-population-india-ranks-155th-in-167/articleshow/79769527.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||US NRI man sedates wife, subjects her to unnatural sex||AHMEDABAD: A 27-year-old woman from Naranpura has lodged a complaint against her husband, a US NRI, stating that he subjected her to unnatural sex after sedating her. The woman’s husband is a resident of the American state of Florida. She filed a complaint under the sections of the Domestic Violence Act on December 12. Now the women’s police station (west) will seek permission to summon the six persons the woman has named in the FIR. According to a top police official, the complainant was married in January 2020. “She was taken to the US by her husband. The first 15 days there were pleasant for her,” the official said. “Then, she says, her husband started demanding 500g of gold and Rs 25 lakh in dowry.” The official said the woman has alleged that while she was in the US, her husband had taken her to Orlando, a city in central Florida, where he allegedly sedated her with some white, powder-like drug. Thereafter, the woman said, she was subjected to unnatural sex. She said physical and mental torture from her husband, her father-in-law, mother-in-law, and three other in-laws made her come back on September 6 to her parental home in Naranpura. The official said along with the sections of the Domestic Violence Act, Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code has been invoked because the woman has alleged non-consensual and unnatural sex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/us-nri-man-sedates-wife-subjects-her-to-unnatural-sex/articleshow/79766733.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Varanasi||Four kill man over petty dispute in wedding, 2 held||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur police on Wednesday arrested two of the four accused for killing a man over a petty dispute during a wedding in Chiluatal police station area in Gorakhpur. Search is on to nab the other two. Those arrested are identified as Mantu, son of Ramsevak, and Dablu, son of Niranjan, both residents of Uska village under Mirpur police post of Chiluatal police station. They were arrested under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder ), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt ) of IPC, said police. As per reports, Shiva of Uska village joined the baraat of his cousin Raj Kapoor at Dadadih village under Pipiganj police station on late Monday evening. During the jaimaal ceremony, he was clicking pictures when one Shatrughan of Uska village tried to stop him and hurled abuses on him. This led to a heated argument. Earlier, during the wedding, the two had also clashed over dancing. After the wedding, when Shiva was walking with a friend Vishal towards his house, Shatrughan, along with his brother Dharmendra and friends Mantu and Dablu, thrashed him brutlly with sticks. When Vishal raised an alarm, Shiva’s father Ramkishan reached the spot and rushed him to a PHC from where he was referred to BRD Medical college. He succumbed to injuries on Tuesday during treatment. On the complaint of Ramkishan, a case against Shatrughan, Dharmendra, Mantu and Dablu was lodged. “Mantu and Dablu have been arrested, and the other two will soon be under custody,” said SSP Jogendra Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/four-kill-man-over-petty-dispute-in-wedding-2-held/articleshow/79766131.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||US CPA exam to be held in India from Jan 2021||HYDERABAD: Come January 2021, the US certified public accountants (CPA) examination will be held at eight centers across India, paving way for chartered accountancy aspirants to be able to practice in India as well as the US. Earlier, students had to travel to either the US or the Middle East to appear for CPA. In June and September this year, the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA), the US nodal body that conducts the examination, conducted the examination as a pilot test in India. Following the popularity of the examination among Indian candidates, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and NASBA decided to conduct CPA on a regular basis in India. Currently, close to 2,500 candidates write the CPA annually. However, with the NASBA deciding to conduct the examination in India, the move is likely to double the number of candidates that would appear for this exam. “Now that the exam is going to be held in India, we will certainly save a lot of money that is spent on visa, travel, accommodation in foreign country, etc. Not just that, it gives us more time to prepare for the examination,” said Shriya Aradhyula, an aspirant. Considering the rise in number of US-based companies outsourcing their finance, accounting and audits to India, the CPA qualification gives an edge to those who are keen to pursue a career in this field. “After clearing bachelors in commerce, I was not keen to pursue masters in business administration. My stint with Deloitte exposed me to the US practices of finance. Following this, I decided to pursue CPA which only elevated my career,” said Raghav Padmanabhan, who is currently working as an associate with JP Morgan. Experts said that the exam will give candidates an edge over others. "With several US-based companies outsourcing their finance and auditing to India, there is a huge scope for CPA qualified candidates. CPA qualified candidates would have an edge over other candidates in US-based MNCs operating in India. CPA standalone is a great opportunity for BCom, BBA students who are having the interest to explore in US GAAP, US tax and can secure immediate placement in US-based MNCs," said Sripal Jain, co-founder, Simandhar Education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-cpa-exam-to-be-held-in-india-from-jan-2021/articleshow/79767983.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman among 3 held for Ponzi scheme||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Wednesday held three persons, Akhtarhussain Khan, 32, who is from Alwar in Rajasthan, Puja Singh, 27, from Bhopal and Sunil Yadav, 37, from Bijnor in UP, for running a Ponzi scheme. The three were held from their office at Abishree Adroit near Mansi Circle, while the fourth accused and director of the company Victory World Application, Ashish Patel, of Rewa in MP, is absconding. Crime branch sources said the accused opened the office in September, 2020 and offered daily 1% interest on investments. Inspector S M Patel of crime branch said they had no permission from the Reserve Bank of India to run such an investment scheme. “We got the information that the company is getting lakhs of rupees in investment daily and till now they have gathered about Rs 25-30 lakh from several investors. On this information we made a raid and held the three accused. We believe the figure of money cheated will go up as people come to know about the scheme to siphon off their money,” added Patel. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, D P Chudasama said the company offered an array of lucrative schemes to trap investors. “We seized a laptop, 5 mobile phones and documents relating to the schemes from the accused. The laptop will be sent for forensic examination to know the exact amount they cheated. One team will be sent to Reva in MP to trace the main accused,” Chusdasama added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-among-3-held-for-ponzi-scheme/articleshow/79766767.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Track repair work starts at BR Stadium||Guntur: Work on reconstructing the running track at the Bramhananda Reddy (BR) Stadium kicked off on Wednesday. Vexed with official apathy, members of a morning walkers’ association donated funds out of their pockets and procured red gravel to repair the running track. Although the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) has promised to look into the issue of upkeep of the stadium, the association went ahead with repair work on the track in view of troubles faced by athletes. Local legislator Mustafa visited the stadium on Wednesday and appreciated the walkers’ association for coming forward to reconstruct the track. Mustafa said that he had already discussed the issue of development of the stadium with the concerned authorities and sports minister Avanthi Srinivasa Rao had promised to spare funds for development of the stadium. Mustafa said he would also extend his support to the walkers’ association as the repair of the track would help sportspersons till the government launches permanent repair work. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/track-repair-work-starts-at-br-stadium/articleshow/79765779.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Allahabad||Land reclaimed from gangsters will be used to build houses: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||PRAYAGRAJ: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday said that land reclaimed from gangsters in the ongoing drive against the mafia will be used for constructing houses and given to poor, lawyers, teachers and mediapersons on ‘no profit and no loss basis’ and due instructions have been given to development authorities in this regard. The state has become 'bhay-mukt' (without fear), as strict action is being taken against mafia dons and this will continue, he added. He was addressing Uttar Pradesh Adhivakta Samagam, a mega lawyers’ conference jointly organized by Bar Council of UP and Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) at KP Ground here. Govt will ensure all are vaccinated: YogiThe CM said the government would solve all problems faced by lawyers and is ready to set up a hospital in high court compound. He also asked the Bar Council to prepare a roadmap for helping lawyers who suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic and submit it to the law department. The government will find ways to help lawyers in this regard, he assured. Yogi further said that lawyers are symbols of faith as people contact them when they lose a fight even against their own and urged them to maintain this faith. “Lawyers have always led the society, but whenever any institution crosses its limits, public sentiments are hurt,” the CM said. “Our efforts in combating corona pandemic and results have been appreciated by the World Health Organization. We conducted the highest number of tests and have lowest case positivity and mortality rates,” he added. “Once the vaccine is available, the state government will ensure all people are vaccinated,” the CM said. CM also assured that construction of a ‘National Law University’ would start in Prayagraj soon. CM said the ‘one district one product’ scheme will help the state become self-sufficient. Earlier, even idols of Laxmi and Ganesh were imported from China, but this time idols made by our own craftsmen were supplied. Cabinet minister and Allahabad West MLA Sidharth Nath Singh said, “When I was health minister, I had written to the chief minister for establishment of a hospital in the high court compound.” UP has received investment proposals of Rs 53,000 crore during corona pandemic, Singh added. Law minister Brijesh Pathak said, “Lawyers are like my family. We will fulfill all our promises just like we waived the loans of farmers worth Rs 36,000 crore after coming to power.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/land-reclaimed-from-gangsterswill-be-used-to-build-houses-cm/articleshow/79766211.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two otters mistaken for killer of calves||RAJAHMUNDRY: Farmers in East Godavari district tried to kill two smooth-coated otters, mistaking them as animals that recently killed calves in the region. On Wednesday morning, farmers in Penikeru village in Alamuru mandal spotted two smooth-coated otters and not having seen the animal before, gave them chase. One of the otters fell inside an old well while the other managed to flee. Upon receiving the news, assistant director, veterinary department, O Ramakrishna said the animal that fell in the well is a smooth-coated otter and assured farmers that there is no possibility of any harm to calves from this mammal. He added that these animals normally stay in water, flee when they see people and feed on fish, frogs and other small animals. Ramakrishna said it is likely that a golden jackal is behind the killing of the claves and reminded farmers that a jackal was recently killed in Angara village. DFO (wildlife) Selvam said the animal can be found in Krishna, East and West Godavari districts even though their population is not known. They are elusive animals, preferring to stay in water most of the time, he added. Smooth-coated otters are found across the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia and listed as vulnerable in the IUCN Red List.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-otters-mistaken-for-killer-of-calves/articleshow/79765793.cms||Samson Raj
December 17, 2020||Kanpur||Govt approves 235-acre mega leather cluster project for Kanpur||KANPUR: Recently, the Government of India, in principle approved the long pending and much awaited demand of 235 acre mega leather cluster project for the city. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar while welcoming the approval has thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He has constituted a committee for execution of the mega leather cluster project. The first meeting of the committee will be held on December 21. The commissioner said that the mega leather cluster project besides increasing employment would boost export and ensure clean Ganga. The formal communication in this regard is being awaited, he added. The members of the committee are: Commissioner, DM Kanpur Nagar, joint director industries, SPV in-charge, nodal officer UPSIDA and ADM (Land acquisition) Kanpur Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/govt-approves-235-acre-mega-leather-cluster-project-for-kanpur/articleshow/79766408.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||UDISE number banner now mandatory at school gate||Nagpur: Before December 31, every school in Nagpur district will have to put up a board at their entrance gate mentioning their unique registration number. The Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) number is like an Aadhaar card for schools. Chintaman Vanjari, district education officer said, “I have issued the order so that in future a problem similar to that of Narayana e-Techno school never arises.” As reported by TOI on Tuesday, Narayana e-Techno school has been operating without a UDISE number. This effectively puts the school’s legal status under scanner. A local association schools, under the banner of RTE Foundation, brought the discrepancy to the notice of education department. Its president Sachin Kalbande said, “Future of almost a thousand students is now in jeopardy. This school is operating without a legal status since it does not have a UDISE number.” While the education department is probing the issue, Vanjari decided to move ahead and prevent similar things happening in the future. “UDISE number has to be mentioned at the school gate, or building entrance or other prominent places. But it should be placed where everyone entering the campus can see it,” said Vanjari. He added that every media advertisement which schools give will now have to mention the UDISE number. “I want a situation where the parents are able to access all information about a school before taking admission. With UDISE number, all crucial information related to school is available to parents in the public domain,” said Vanjari. CBSE follows a similar method for all its schools. They have to mention the affiliation code below the name of the school. Vanjari’s office has sent a form to schools which has to be filled up by the signing authority. Details of the school’s affiliated board, category, affiliation status and number, UDISE number etc has to be mentioned. Also schools have been given till December 31 to comply with all the directives. Schools are required to submit a proof/undertaking that they have put up the banner/board/notice mentioning their UDISE number at the school’s entry point. Vaishali Jamdar appointed new deputy director of education After a long gap, Nagpur has got a full time deputy director of education (DDE) with Solapur’s Vaishali Jamdar all set to take charge next week. The DDE office is the administrative wing of the education department with the Nagpur office handling Wardha, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Bhandara. Jamdar has been with the education department for just over 25 years and is known as a strict and no-nonsense officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/udise-number-banner-now-mandatory-at-school-gate/articleshow/79766785.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||IIM-Indore on a 3-year mission to make UP top tourist destination||Lucknow: To exploit UP’s tourism potential and make it the most sought after destination in the country, the state government has signed memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Institute of Management, Indore. The three-year-old arrangement primarily aims at drawing an integrated model for promoting UP as an ultimate tourist destination. "Their work would involve strategic planning for branding of various destinations in the state," said principal secretary, tourism, Mukesh Meshram, adding “UP's tourism potential is beyond doubt. But there is a need to see and treat this strength in the light of a business plan… so as to increase tourist footfall, increase revenue generation and create local employment.” Putting things into perspective director IIM Indore, Prof Himanshu Rai said: “UP is a bonanza in terms of tourism – thanks to the diverse basket of choices it offers to those interested. It is home to ultimate spiritual sojourns to eco-friendly getaways and from ancient heritage to rural panoramic treats. This is in addition to the spiritually significant places like Prayagraj and Kashi. However, despite being a full meal in its own way, UP’s potential remains untapped. The MoU aims at translating this latent energy into actionable agenda which aids the state boost local economies and create jobs.” The MoU owes its genesis to the quest for some pertinent questions like why does a foreign tourist leave Agra after visiting Taj Mahal? Or why tourists to Varanasi are not attracted by the natural beauty in Mirzapur and beyond? Likewise, why are Sarnath and Kushinagar the only two most preferred Buddhist destinations when UP is home to six of the eight destinations close to the heart of every follower of Buddha? And why do names of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh come to mind first when it comes to Jain circuits when 18 of the 24 Tirthankaras are related to UP? “Experts from IIM-Indore will brainstorm with UP Tourism officials to initially study major challenges and constraints faced by popular tourist destinations, undertake resource-need analysis for their development, dissect the revenue generation models and reinvent the work culture and bring them in sync with the industry standards,” said Meshram said. Rai’s team would coordinate with director general, UP Tourism, NG Ravi Kumar, and his team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iim-indore-on-a-3-year-mission-to-make-up-top-tourist-destination/articleshow/79768695.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur man kills son for urinating on bed, arrested||KANPUR: A brick-kiln labourer has been arrested for beating to death his three year-old son in Ghatampur area of the city on Tuesday merely for urinating on the bed. The accused was picked up by the police from his native village in Hamirpur where he had escaped with the body. The incident came to light after the boy’s mother and maternal uncle reported the incident to the Hamirpur police who detained and handed him over to the Ghatampur police on Wednesday in Hamirpur. The police said the accused, Santraj, a brick-kiln labourer, after killing the boy also threatened his wife and their other children not to cry or tell anybody. In order to evade police action, he escaped with his son’s body and family to Chaani village of Hamirpur district. Kanpur Nagar SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, “Santraj flew into a rage after the child Ravindra, who was sleeping with him, soiled the bed on Tuesday night. He beat his son mercilessly in front of his wife and children who begged mercy for Ravindra, but in vain. He kept on assaulting him until he died and then escaped with the body to his native village.” “He also threatened his wife and children not to tell anyone,” the SP said, adding “Ravindra was the only son of Santraj who has two daughters.” The deceased’s mother said, “He killed my son brutally in front of us, we begged mercy for him, but he threatened us of dire consequences.” The accused has been booked under relevant sections of IPC, including 302 (murder) while the boy’s body has been sent for postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-kills-three-year-old-son-for-urinating-on-bed-arrested/articleshow/79766358.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Hit-and-run case: Truck traced, driver arrested in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police team probing the death of journalist S V Pradeep tracked down the truck that caused the accident and also took the driver into custody on Tuesday. Police identified the accused as Joy, 60, of Vettikonam near Vazhayila under Peroorkada police station limits. The seized truck was examined and samples were collected by forensic officials. According to police, Joy was transporting M sand from Vattiyoorkavu to Vellayani when the accident occurred. The vehicle was traced by collecting surveillance camera visuals near the accident spot at Karakkamandapam Junction and nearby locations. Police spotted the vehicle again in the visuals captured by two surveillance cameras of shops at Vellayani Junction. They could note down the registration number from one of the visuals and thus, the owner of the vehicle, who resides at Peroorkada was traced by Tuesday morning. From the owner, it was learned that the truck was already out on another trip and it was intercepted at Eanchakkal and confiscated. “The driver claimed that he was someone with 35 years of work experience and had never caused any accident so far. He also claimed that he was not aware of the collision,” said Fort assistant commissioner R Prathapan. The AC dismissed the driver’s claim citing that the rear tyre of the mini lorry had run over Pradeep’s head and it was impossible not to feel its impact. Even after the accident, Joy finished the trip, took the load of M Sand to its destination and returned home via Thrikkannapuram, avoiding the highway. The Fort AC added that at present police have registered the case as a murder, invoking Section 302 of IPC based on Pradeep’s mother’s statement. “However, the section for murder may be replaced by the section for culpable homicide by negligence as our investigation did not find any evidence that suggested the accident to be a pre-meditated one,” Prathapan said. Besides this, sections 134(a) and (b) of Motor Vehicles Act for allegedly speeding away without stopping to help the accident victim will also be invoked against the accused, the AC said. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Divya V Gopinath said police will still seriously look into the conspiracy angle raised by his family as well as various political party leaderships as Pradeep himself had invited the displeasure of many through his many news items. “From the surveillance camera visuals, it appears that the accident occurred when Pradeep strayed dangerously close to the fast lane of the road while attempting to overtake a two-wheeler which incidentally was overtaking another vehicle,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hit-and-run-case-truck-traced-driver-arrested/articleshow/79760618.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Take time-bound action against mafia dons: CM||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked officials to formulate a time-bound strategy against anti-social elements and mafias who have been committing crimes by forming gangs. The CM also issued directives for the review of cases registered for violation of Covid-19 guidelines in the state. Holding a review meeting at the command centre located in home department, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the CM had asked officials to review proceedings against mafia elements. “The CM has called for effective action and review of pending cases under the Gangster Act,” Awasthi said. The ACS (home) also reviewed strategies adopted by the fire department for prevention of fire incidents. “To ensure punishment to the culprits of crimes against women, it is necessary that officers of the prosecution department who fail to pursue cases are identified and action is taken against them,” he said. Awasthi said the CM also issued instructions to carry out works under safe city project in a time-bound manner. “The CM has also directed that installation of CCTV cameras in police stations should be ensured at the earliest. He also emphasized on the modernization of UP 112 and issued instructions to expedite works,” he said. The officer said the efforts being made to control cyber crimes were yielding results. “We are trying to strengthen and equip cyber police stations with modern facilities,” he said, adding that CB-CID, fire and prison departments were more agile due to weekly review meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/take-time-bound-action-against-mafia-dons-cm/articleshow/79768939.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Contract inked for Vad-A’bad stretch||Ahmedabad: The National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) signed a second contract agreement for design and construction for the 88-km stretch between Vadodara and Ahmedabad and construction of the elevated high-speed railway station at Anand/Nadiad, for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Corridor (MAHSR). With this, NHSRCL has awarded civil contracts for construction of 92% of the MAHSR alignment in Gujarat (325km of 352km). This includes five HSR stations, at Vapi, Billimora, Surat, Bharuch, Anand/Nadiad. The NHSRCL also awarded a contract from the train depot at Surat and a 350m mountain tunnel. In November, NHSRCL had signed a contract agreement of the 237-km stretch between Vapi (Zaroli village on Maharashtra- Gujarat Border) and Vadodara, for 508 kms of Mumbai- Ahmedabad High Speed Rail corridor. In an NHSRCL statement, its managing director, Achal Khare, said, “NHSRCL team has signed two big contracts for civil works of the MAHSR project in the last month. As construction works will soon start, besides the steel and cement industries, local industries, manufacturers and allied supply chains will also get a boost. The construction activities will also create jobs, for which NHSRCL has already started providing construction-related training.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/contract-inked-for-vad-abad-stretch/articleshow/79766780.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Nursing assistant arrested for forging Covid-19 test reports||KANPUR: Even as experts have been warning of a likely spike in Covid-19 cases, Unnao police on Tuesday arrested a nursing assistant who used to forge Covid-19 test reports. The accused have been identified as AB Chaudhary, who was attached as a nursing assistant with the district hospital. The police said Chaudhary was nabbed when a video wherein he was assuring someone of preparing a negative report of Covid 19 in lieu of Rs 1,500. “Subsequently an FIR was registered by CMS Dr BB Bhatt at Kotwali police station, and we arrested the accused nursing assistant from district hospital on Tuesday,” said Inspector Kotwali Dinesh Mishra. He added he had been doing this forgery for the past few months and used to charge Rs 1,500 per test. As per hospital authorities, he had been outsourced from a private company and was working as a lab assistant since the past three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nursing-asst-arrested-for-forging-covid-test-reports/articleshow/79766473.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Centres of excellence to be a boostershot for UP’s health, medical infra||Lucknow: To fulfil its commitment of providing best healthcare service to the people, the Yogi Adityanath government has paved way for creation of centres of excellence at apex medical institutes in the state. A center of excellence is like a one-stop solution to all complex problems related to a disease or a category of ailments. In an exclusive interview to Team TOI recently, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had said: “We do not want residents of UP to pack their bags and live like homeless people outside big hospitals in the metropolitan cities. We have invested heavily in health infrastructure.” In the last three and a half years, UP’s medical education department has envisioned and taken forward the plan of setting up centres of excellence. The list includes Advance Diabetes and Child Endocrine Centre (SGPGI), Modern Burn Unit, Centre for Orthopaedic Super-specialties and Center of Excellence for Diabetic Retinopathy (all at KGMU), Advanced Centre of Neurosciences (RML Institute of Medical Sciences) and medical colleges in Prayagraj and Meerut. “A centre of excellence benefits patients by providing them state-of-the-art multi-disciplinary treatment and management facilities. It also challenges clinicians to look at medical conditions in an innovative way and find local solutions besides working for prevention through patient engagement and education,” additional chief secretary (medical education), UP, Dr Rajneesh Dube said. Officials said each center had been approved on the basis of regional needs. An Advanced Diabetes and Child Endocrine Centre will come up at SGPGIMS as according to the ICMR’s Demographical Transition Diseases in India Report (1990-2019), diabetes jumped from rank 14 in 1990 to rank 6 in 2019. Another report said DALYs (Disability Adjusted Life Year) which is a crucial indicator of disease burden has increased by 46% between 2007 and 2017 due to diabetes. “Regional data shows that while in terms of prevalence per lakh UP may not be among the worst states but sheer numbers magnify the extent of the problem. New challenges are appearing on the horizon vis-à-vis diabetes, therefore, a dedicated centre to address deeper issues like local and cost-effective solution to the problem, and also work on a policy for prevention is the need of the hour,” said Prof Amit Agarwal, nodal officer for Advanced Diabetes and Child Endocrine Centre, SGPGI. Likewise, by setting up the Centre of Excellence on Diabetic Retinopathy, the government will give impetus to fight against preventable blindness. Data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare shows that UP is home to about 4% (1.8 million) of the global blind population of 45 million. The worse part is that over three lakh new people join this population every year. Assessments of data from the Registrar General of India suggests that UP could be having over 3.9 lakh people with diabetic retinopathy. Establishment of a Modern Burn Unit at KGMU was also a long pending demand. According to the National Health Profile, “Around 7 million people in India suffer from burns every year with 1.4 lakh deaths and disability to 2.4 lakh people.” According to experts, UP shares 15% of the burden and lack of proper facilities lead to a higher death rate in the state. “Once functional, the Modern Burn Unit will be one of the best in the country which will be equipped with all kind of modular patient care services for diagnosis and management, including micro-surgical interventions,” said Prof AK Singh, former head of plastic surgery department, KGMU, and incumbent vice-chancellor Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University, UP. Officials said the Centre for Neurosciences at RML Institute and Centre for Orthopaedic super-specialties at KGMU will also roll out the best in class treatment. Experts are of the view that these centres of excellence will play an important role in the development of state capital as a mega hub of medical tourism. “While apex medical institutions like SGPGI and KGMU are already big names, the new centres of excellence will cement brand Lucknow as a hub of medical tourism,” said Prateek Hira, a tourism industry commentator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/centres-of-excellence-to-be-a-boostershot-for-ups-health-medical-infra/articleshow/79768736.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Justice Joymalya Bagchi transferred to AP high court||VIJAYAWADA: Justice Joymalya Bagchi of Calcutta high court has been transferred to Andhra Pradesh high court. The Supreme Court collegium recommended the transfer as part of the judicial transfers. The judges’ strength at the Andhra Pradesh high court, however, will continue to be 19 even after the inclusion of Justice Bagchi, as Justice Rakesh Kumar is set to retire this month. Justice Bagchi enrolled as advocate in 1991 and practised mainly in Calcutta high court. He appeared in a number of important cases relating to criminal and constitutional laws at various high courts and also in the Supreme Court. He successfully argued against the ban imposed by the West Bengal government on the book ‘Dwikhondito’ written by Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasreen. He also appeared in various PILs on behalf of human rights organisations and actively espoused their cause for civil liberty and environmental protection. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/justice-joymalya-bagchi-transferred-to-ap-hc/articleshow/79765808.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held with 2 country-made firearms||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS and Special Operations Group (SOG) Morbi nabbed one Ghanshyasinh Vijaysinh Jadeja, 37, of Morbi with two country-made pistols on Wednesday afternoon in a joint operation. ATS sources said on a tip-off, Jadeja was nabbed from Sajanpur-Dhanuda Road. ATS sources said Jadeja, who is a farmer, confessed that he had brought the weapons from Alirajpur in Madhya Pradesh from a man named Jaggu Sardar for his personal use. “Earlier, Jadeja has been caught under sections of Arms Act by ATS and A-division police of Morbi for attempt to murder,” said an ATS source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-2-country-made-firearms/articleshow/79766804.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur Chamber of Industries demands establishment of garment park||Gorakhpur: As ready-made garment has been included as the second alternative for one district one product (ODOP), Gorakhpur chamber of industries has demanded the establishment of a garment park in the district. The chairman of Gorakhpur Chamber of Industries, Vishnu Ajit Saria, and former chairman SK Agarwal met Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA) CEO Sanjeev Rajan, and suggested him to allocate 50 acres of land in Bheeti Rawat area to build a garment park. Saria and Agarwal said the park would attract many industrialists from other places to Gorakhpur. “The chamber of industries has sought the construction of a garment park, and we strive to fulfil their demand in the days to come. I have asked the officials of the chamber of industries to provide the list of garment industrialists, and the details about the requirement of land,” said GIDA CEO. The chairman of Gorakhpur chamber of industries, Vishnu Ajit Saria, said that already a huge number of industrialists are working in the district but the units are scattered. Once all the the units are established in one place, it will benefit both the traders and the customers. He added that the move would help in increasing employment opportunities. The chamber of industries has started making survey to make a list of industrialists in readymade garment industry in the district , general secretary, Pravin Modi said. “We are planning to keep space for small, middle and big industrialists at Ready Made Garment Park,” he said SK Agarwal said that machines of the ready-made garment industry take less space and the garments could be produced in a multistorey building. “Besides, the government is working on developing an industrial corridor along the Purvanchal expressway, and also intends to establish a textile park in it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-chamber-of-industries-demands-establishment-of-garment-park/articleshow/79766121.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Varanasi||Soon, CNG will power boats inKashi, to rid Ganga of pollution||Varanasi: Soon, the Ganga will be rid of unpleasant smoke and noise pollution produced by diesel boats as the existing diesel engines in the boats are going to be replaced by CNG engines. “From its corporate social responsibility fund, the GAIL is bringing a project of around Rs 37 crore, under which the existing diesel engines of the boats operating in the Ganga, will be replaced by new CNG engines. This will significantly reduce pollution and also enhance the scenic beauty of the river,” said divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal. “To make the boatmen stakeholders, a token amount will be charged from them, and the diesel engines will be disposed off completely to ensure that they are not installed in other boats and introduced in the Ganga again,” he added. As per the estimate prepared for this project, around Rs 2 lakh will be spent on each boat to convert them from diesel to CNG-fuelled, informed Agarwal. He added that GAIL would also establish its CNG station near Khidkiyaghat. As many as 40 CNG dispensers will be arranged on a jetty in order to refill the engines of boats. This entire project will be launched and completed in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/soon-cng-will-power-boats-inkashi-to-rid-ganga-of-pollution/articleshow/79768309.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Vijay Diwas: CM pays tribute to martyrs||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat paid tributes to martyrs on the occasion of Vijay Diwas on Wednesday. The CM placed a wreath on the Martyrs’ Memorial in the Gandhi Park in the Rajpur Road area. “It is an extremely important date as the bravery and valour displayed by our armed forces compelled 93,000 Pakistani soldiers to surrender in the 1971 war,” said said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vijay-diwas-cm-pays-tribute-to-martyrs/articleshow/79764944.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Rtd ASI booked in Rs 23L DA case||Rajkot: A retired assistant sub-inspector has been booked under disproportionate assets (DA) case worth Rs 23.46 lakh. According to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) press release, the accused, Haresh Kishor, had retired as the assistant sub-inspector from Morbi district traffic police. It was found that at the time of his retirement, Kishor’s known source of income was Rs 34.29 lakh against which he had made an investment of Rs 57.75 lakh. Kishor was found to have amassed disproportionate assets (DA) case worth Rs 23.46 lakh, which was 75.86% more than his known source of income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rtd-asi-booked-in-rs-23l-da-case/articleshow/79765736.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||ODOP products get e-commerce dais in Sri Lanka||Lucknow: In what could open up another market for goods under the ‘One District-One Product’ scheme, the MSME department is considering a proposal to display ODOP products on a Sri Lankan e-commerce platform, Cord360.com. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh held a meeting with the company’s representatives recently and said that Cord360 is willing to provide space to ODOP products on the e-commerce platform for free. The company has proposed that businesses registered under ODOP can register themselves as ‘free seller’ on Cord360.com. This would provide products with a global reach. It has also said that it would be keen to help ODOP products explore export possibilities with Sri Lanka. For this, it has suggested virtual exhibitions or, if possible, a visit by a delegation for direct interaction with importers. Another suggestion was that companies from Sri Lanka can travel to UP and look at expansion opportunities. As the first step towards this, a webinar may be held with industry organisations and governments of both countries. The UP government already has a tie up with e-commerce platforms like Amazon and Flipkart through which ODOP products have been provided with a domestic and international market. “It is a testimony to the work being done by the government under the leadership of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that we are being approached by companies to showcase ODOP products,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/odop-products-get-e-commerce-dais-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/79768932.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Man, nephew die as bus hits two-wheeler||LUDHIANA: A man and his nephew died after a speeding bus hit their two-wheeler near Pratap Chowk on Wednesday afternoon. While Agnidev Yadav, 35, a hosiery worker and resident of Mahadev Nagar, Giaspura, died on the spot, his nephew Hari Prasad, 25, a plumber, succumbed on way to a hospital. Division 6 police station ASI Balbir Singh said, “Agnidev was driving the two-wheeler and Hari Parsad was riding pillion. When they reached near Partap Chowk, a speeding bus of a private company rear-ended their two-wheeler.” Following the accident, the bus driver fled, leaving his vehicle behind. Passersby called up the police and initiated a rescue operation. A case has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-nephew-die-as-bus-hits-two-wheeler/articleshow/79765810.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kanpur||Five injured in celebratory firing at wedding in Orai||JHANSI: Five people sustained bullet injuries in a celebratory firing at a marriage function in Orai township of Jalaun district on Tuesday night. One of the injured persons was referred to Jhansi medical college while the rest of them are undergoing treatment at Orai government hospital. According to reports, the incident took place when someone opened fire with a 12 bore gun outside a hall where a marriage function was being held, injuring five persons. Luckily all of them sustained injuries below their knees. Police on Wednesday filed an FIR against unknown persons under sections 286, 324, 337 of IPC. SSP Jalaun, Yashveer Singh said, “We are getting the matter investigated in detail and on its basis will take further action. All the injured are out of danger.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-injured-in-celebratory-firing-at-wedding-in-orai/articleshow/79766484.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP Sainik School gets first headmistress||Lucknow: Captain Manoj Pandey UP Sainik School has got its first woman head of teachers in its diamond jubilee year. The defence ministry on Wednesday appointed Col R Raghav as principal of the school and Lt Col Jyoti Singh as headmistress. Both officers will soon take charge. Col Raghav is currently posted at Central Command (Lucknow) and Lt Col Singh is posted at Officers’ Training Academy in Gaya (Bihar) and is a part of equestrian training there. She will be the first woman officer to hold the charge in 60 years of the school’s history. The post of principal in the school was lying vacant since May 30, 2019 and that of headmaster since March 30, 2019. In October 2020, UP Sainik School Old Boys’ Association, consisting of serving and retired officers from the armed forces and other significant alumni, had submitted an appeal to CM Yogi Adityanath for immediate appointment on the two posts as the school was running without a proper head. In the absence of a principal, the school was being managed by registrar Lt Col UP Singh, who acted as officiating principal. “The appointment of a headmistress has added a feather in the school’s cap. This is probably the first Sainik School in the country to appoint a woman in the position. We appreciate the efforts of our CM. The presence of a principal and headmistress would ensure befitting ceremonies to commemorate our diamond jubilee year,” said Amit Jaiswal from the alumni association. Lucknow’s was the first Sainik School of the country, established in 1960. In 2018, the school had opened its gates to girl students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-sainik-school-gets-first-headmistress/articleshow/79768891.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Allahabad||Minor brothers who left home ‘to earn money’ brought back||Lucknow: Two children who had gone missing from the house of a relative in Lucknow on Tuesday with plans of going to Mumbai were recovered safely by police from Shahjahanpur railway station. The boys, aged 10 and 11 years, had come with their mother to a relative’s place in Nilmatha from Assam a few days ago. The mother had complained at Sushant Golf City police station that her sons had gone missing. They were last seen playing outside the house in the evening. “Five police teams were formed to search for the boys. We came to know that the boys had taken an autorickshaw to Lucknow railway station. Working on this information, and with help from Government Railway Police (GRP), we traced the train and the boys were safely recovered from it at Shahjahanpur railway station around 7am on Wednesday,” said DCP south Ravi Kumar. The boys told police that they had taken Rs 2,000 from the house and were heading to Delhi. “The boys said they were inspired by a relative who sells belts in Delhi to earn money. Their plan was to eventually move to Mumbai,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/minor-brothers-who-left-home-to-earn-money-brought-back/articleshow/79768834.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Cow dung products to get MSME boost||Lucknow: MSME will work out a detailed plan to boost marketing of products made from cow derivatives. The products will be exhibited and sold along with that of Khadi Gramodyog. The decision was taken at a meeting between chairman, UP Gau Seva Ayog, Shyam Nandan Singh and additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal on Tuesday. Apart from nominating a senior official to draw a plan, Sehgal said that Khadi Gramodyog will hold exhibitions of products made from cow urine and cow dung in every district. Gomai idols, diyas and other products (which are made of cow dung) were a highlight this Diwali. Lucknow Nagar Nigam and Kanha Upvan together had lighted one lakh ‘gomai’ diyas on the banks of the Gomti on Diwali to bring awareness towards the products. These products are eco-friendly and cost less. But making them needs a little infrastructure which, in turn, needs investment and also training. Gau Seva Ayog wants to make gaushalas and gau ashray sthal in the state self-sustainable. There are 546 gaushalas and 4,500 Gau ashray sthals registered in UP. Sale of ‘gomai’ and other products made from cow derivatives will bring income to these set-ups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cow-dung-products-to-get-msme-boost/articleshow/79768929.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Rina Dhaka, top designers to train Uttar Pradesh’s craftsmen||LUCKNOW: Prominent faces defining India’s haute couture, from Rina Dhaka and Ritu Beri to Manish Malhotra and JJ Valaya, appear keen on lending an oomph factor to UP’s craftsmen by training them in the modern chic in sync with global trends. Dhaka, one of the country’s top designers, met additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal on Wednesday and discussed the possibility of training UP’s craftsmen in latest techniques and the art of packaging, branding and marketing. A government spokesperson said that several designers have already met chief minister Yogi Adityanath also. An official in the MSME department said that Dhaka appreciated the state’s one district-one product scheme as an excellent platform to revive traditional craft. She said that the demand for khadi is witnessing an upward trend. Several companies are manufacturing khadi garments which are being lapped up in the international markets. Fashion shows on khadi are being held regularly, she said. Dhaka identifies crafts with global potentialDhaka even identified crafts that have a potential for global recognition with just a little bit of effort. Apart from the already famous chikankari and zardosi from Lucknow and the Banarsi silk, some promising ones are garments from Ambedkarnagar, Mau, Etawah and Barabanki, the zari-zardosi work from Badaun, Kasganj, Shahjahanpur, Chandauli, Bareilly and Unnao, carpets from Bhadohi, Sonbhadra and Mirzapur, fabric printing in Farukkhabad, readymade garments from Gautam Buddh Nagar, handlooms from Hardoi, woolen carpets from Jaunpur, banana fiber from Kushinagar and zari silk saris from Lalitpur. She said that the products would have a ready international market if only the craftsmen were trained in designs, packaging, marketing and branding according to the latest demands. “She has expressed an interest in working with the UP government on this. She said that there are several other designers who are interested in making UP’s craft the face of the fashion world. On Tuesday, Dhaka also met zari-zardosi artisans in Unnao and discussed with them their working styles, machines and techniques,” said the official. Mentioning that work is being done at multiple levels to upgrade artisans’ skills, Sehgal said, “Guidance from such well known designers from the fashion industry will not just give new recognition to UP’s craft, but will also help artists explore new markets.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dhaka-top-designers-to-train-ups-craftsmen/articleshow/79769000.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: ‘Covid-19 antibodies depleting fast among elderly patients’||LUCKNOW: The antibodies are depeting at a faster pace among Covid-19 survivors above 50 years of age. Further, survivors in all age groups who were symptomatic for just one day had stronger and more lasting antibodies in comparison to those who were symptomatic for more than a day. These are the two interesting results thrown up for further research by a study conducted by the Transfusion Medicine department of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on 800 Covid-19 survivors who came for plasma donation after recovering from the disease. The results of the study released on Wednesday was also revealed that antibodies were not only in a sufficient number, but also strong, when the plasma was donated within 12-53 days post recovery. According to the head of the Transfusion Medicine, Prof Tulika Chandra, the department conducted the study during the course of collecting plasma from Covid-19 patients post recovery for the blood and plasma bank. Of 800 plasma donors, 400 were not found suitable for donation. While 50 of them were anemic or underweight or HIV positive and had other other complications, 70 had contact history but never tested positive through RT-PCR method and 53 were found unfit because they had come after the lapse of three-month post-recovery period prescribed for donation. However, the remaining 227 donors out of 400 'unfit' donors were such who fulfilled all the criteria - confirmed positive, post-recovery period below three months and no other disqualification - but their plasma was not taken because antibodies were either not present or were in insufficient quantity. “A majority of such donors, both male and females, were above 50 years of age. "We don’t know yet whether antibodies were not formed at all or only short acting antibodies were formed in these cases, but the result suggests that the threat of re-infection might be higher in people above 50 years,” she said. Further, the study revealed that `quality and quantity’ of antibodies among 400 fit donors was better in Covid-19 survivors who were symptomatic for a day in comparison to those who had symptoms for more days. This findings, Prof Chandra said, needs more research to explain the phenomenon responsible for it and reach any conclusion. Besides, the study also found that antibodies in the plasma were both `efficient and sufficient’ in the fit donors who had come for donation within 12-53 days after recovering from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-antibodies-depleting-fast-among-elderly-patients/articleshow/79769082.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Army officer held for ‘raping’ wife of Russian friend||KANPUR: A army officer accused of raping the Russiawife of his friend was arrested late on Tuesday evening. He allegedly committed the crime on December 10 and was on the run since then. A local court on Wednesday rejected his bail plea and sent him to jail under 14-day judicial remand. Col Neeraj Gehlot allegedly raped his friend’s Russian wife after sedating him at the Officers’ Mess of Central Ordnance Depot in Cantonment area. “Col Gehlot has been on the run since the incident. He was arrested from Officers’ Mess on Tuesday evening,” said superintendent of police (East) Raj Kumar Agarwal. “Police had been constantly searching for him and his mobile location was traced in the vicinity of the Officers’ Mess on Monday evening, but he had been evading arrest. Earlier, we also raided his room, but it was found to be locked,” he added. An FIR in this regard was filed at the Cantonement police station on December 12 in which the colonel posted at COD was accused of raping his friend’s Russian’s wife. “The Colonel had invited his Lucknow-based friend to the Officer’s Mess for dinner and made him unconscious by giving him drink mixed with sedatives. Later, he dragged his Russian wife to another room where he raped her after assaulting her severely,” said police further. He was produced before metropolitan magistrate Jyotsana Singh on Wednesday. She rejected his bail application observing that serious charges of physical exploitation had been levelled against the accused. "Prima facie, there was no ground for bail," she said. The accused in his bail application had submitted that he was innocent and had not committed any crime and the case against him was fabricated. Therefore, he should be granted bail. The woman’s husband had told the police that Col Gehlot was an old friend and he had invited him and his Russian wife for dinner. He had agreed and on December 10 reached Kanpur from Lucknow. After day’s shopping when they visited the accused, he offered him a drink laced with sedatives. Soon after consuming it, he was knocked out of his senses. Later, his friend had dragged his wife to another room and tried to force himself on her. She had pushed him away and shouted, but the accused had brutally assaulted her. It was when she lost her consciousness, he had raped her. Later, the survivor’s husband had accompanied her to the Cantonment police station to file a complaint on December 12. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/army-officer-held-for-raping-wife-of-russian-friend/articleshow/79766343.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: BJP leader’s nephew pushed in front of train, loses arm||KANPUR: A 28-year-old nephew of a local BJP leader lost his left arm after he was pushed to the path of a speeding goods train in Ghatampur area of the district on late Tuesday night. The injured identified as Lalit Dwivedi has been admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital from where he was referred to KGMU Trauma Centre in Lucknow. Police have detained a few suspects for questioning. Lalit had gone to see a Ramlila in Gopalpur village on late Tuesday night when he got into an argument over something with a group of men. His uncle Umesh Dwivedi, a local BJP leader, intervened, and after pacifying him and the other men, dropped him home. “Lalit, however, went to the Ramlila venue again after midnight, and a scuffle took place between him and the rival group. The group overpowered Lalit, and after brutally assaulting him, pushed him inside a van. They then took him to Banda-Kanpur rail track and pushed him onto the track when they saw a speeding goods train approaching. Following this, Lalit lost his left arm,” said the police. The accused thereafter fled the scene. The incident came to light early on Wednesday morning after local residents spotted Lalit lying near the railway tracks in a pool of blood. They immediately alerted the police. The police rushed to the spot and shifted him to a nearby CHC from where doctors referred him to Lala Lajpat Rai hospital. From there, he was referred to KGMU Trauma Centre in Lucknow. “An FIR has been registered under relevant sections of IPC in this regard . Raids are underway to arrest those named in the FIR,” said Ghatampur circle officer Ravi Kumar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-leaders-nephew-pushed-in-front-of-train-loses-arm/articleshow/79766415.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Allahabad||Health department readies vaccine plan, Allahabad to have 47 centres||LUCKNOW: At least 47 Covid-19 vaccine centres will be opened in various government hospitals and healthcare centres in the city by the end of this month. According to the decisions taken by health officers as part of vaccine roll out plan in Lucknow, vaccinators will be deployed as per the capacity of the centre and a vaccinator will inoculate 100 people daily. The vaccination is expected to start in January. Over 40,000 frontline workers, mainly those providing healthcare services, will be inoculated first. “A centre will have at least three rooms – for waiting area, for vaccination and one for the people to wait for 20 minutes after vaccination to ensure there is no side effect or reaction,” in charge of routine immunisation programme in Lucknow Dr MK Singh said. “All medical help in case of any adverse reaction will be provided at the vaccination centre itself,” he added. All the three rooms at the centres will be properly ventilated and arrangements will be made for the disposal of biomedical waste. “Beneficiaries will be communicated about their vaccination date, time and place through text messages and calls on registered phone numbers. They will also get a certificate after vaccination. Centres will provide a list of beneficiaries in advance,” Dr Singh said. According to officers, a database of people to be vaccinated was being made in order of priority and the schedule of frontline workers is almost complete. Vaccination of health workers of L3 Covid hospitals will be done which will be followed by personnel of L2 and L1 and thereafter at all other non-Covid hospitals. Training of chief medical officers and district immunisation officers has already begun. This will be followed by training of vaccinators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/health-dept-readies-vaccine-plan-city-to-have-47-centres/articleshow/79768815.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Toll mounts to 942 as Covid snuffs out 3 lives||LUDHIANA: Three residents died of Covid-19 and 55 tested positive on Wednesday. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district casualties included a 72-year-old man of Atam Nagar, who had a heart disease; a 60-year-old man of Basti Jodhewal; and a 79-year-old woman of Madhopuri with coronary artery disease. The district toll tally has increased to 942 and that of outsiders to 419. The CMO said on the day, 71 positive reports were received. Of these, 55 were Ludhiana residents and 16 outsiders. The district cases included six contacts of positive patients, two healthcare workers, 16 from OPD, 29 from flu corners and two through tracing process. The district case count has increased to 24,132. To date, 22,563 patients have recovered. As many as 2,470 samples were collected on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/toll-mounts-to-942-as-covid-snuffs-out-3-lives/articleshow/79765817.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Govt to set up e-learning parks in 120 govt colleges||Lucknow: To reach out to rural students, UP government has decided to set up e-learning parks in 120 government colleges located in backward regions which lack modern technological resources. The decision, said deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, is aimed at ending the digital divide. According to Sharma, who holds the education portfolio, students in remote areas are deprived of e-content due to lack of resources. “The government is determined to provide e-learning material to each and every student enrolled in higher education institutions,” Sharma said. Additional chief secretary (higher education) Monika S Garg said that during the Covid-19-induced lockdown, teaching-learning shifted from classroom to online. In UP, the first two phases of unlocking saw 9 lakh students making use of e-content made available by 15,000 teachers. Equity, equality and inclusion, Garg said, were major challenges faced by the government during the lockdown. “While the government was trying its best to reach out to students, we felt that those in rural belts were at the receiving end due to poor internet connectivity,” she said. Figures show that only 25% people in rural UP own a smartphone, laptop or have access to internet. “To end this digital divide, we have decided to develop e-learning parks in 120 government colleges located in rural UP,” Garg added. The parks will be set up in colleges where there is availability of computer, internet connection and Wi-Fi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-set-up-e-learning-parks-in-120-govt-colleges/articleshow/79768925.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Mega leather cluster in Kanpur gets Centre’s nod||Lucknow: Getting a go ahead from the Centre, Uttar Pradesh is ready to set up its first leather park as part of its mega leather cluster in Ramaipur village of Kanpur. The project is expected to bring in investments to the tune of Rs 5,850 crore and will provide employment to about 50,000 people. The proposal, which was pending with the Union commerce ministry, was recently given a green signal. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is expected to lay its foundation in the coming days after which Mega Leather Cluster Development UP Ltd will develop the area. The mega leather cluster is the initiative of additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal Kanpur is known for its leather industry but it has been suffering due to lack of infrastructure development, pollution and other issues. In 2018, several tanneries were closed down ahead of the Prayagraj Kumbh, as these units were allegedly polluting the Ganga. As tanneries remained shut for around five months, the industry suffered massive losses. The leather industry has been demanding better facilities like modern sewage and effluent treatment plants. According to a government spokesperson, 235 acre land has been acquired for the project which will generate 50,000 direct and 1.5 lakh indirect employment. More than 150 tanneries are expected to be set up in the park where products like shoes, purses and jackets will be manufactured and exported. The leather park is expected to bring in investment of about Rs 6,000 crore while the entire mega leather cluster project will attract investments of about Rs 13,000 crore. The park will provide facilities like manufacturing, exhibition areas, hotels and canteens. A treatment plant will also be set up to ensure that there is no pollution of the Ganga due to effluent. Plots ranging from 1,000 sq mt to 4,000 sq m will be available for sale. The project, along with another leather park in Hardoi’s Sandila, was first proposed under the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party government in 2012. The project was supposed to be completed in four years but could not take off. Under the current government, special purpose vehicle has been set up for development of the cluster. According to information available with the NRI department, about 150 acre land has been allocated for Sandila project as well. “We will try and earmark 50% of the land in the project for small and medium units,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mega-leather-cluster-in-kanpur-gets-centres-nod/articleshow/79768931.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Decorating Christmas tree an art passed on through generations||Lucknow: Every Christmas, a 10-foot-tall pine conifer tree decorated with colourful strings of light attracts several visitors to educationist Amrita Dass’s house. The tree, located in Dass’s garden, has survived 12 long years and stands tall along with another 4-foot Christmas tree. Every year, the career counsellor and her brother decorate the tree. Many families in the city have Christmas trees that they have nurtured over the years. “It’s not an easy task to maintain the tree since it dries up in summer and we have to take a lot of care. Every Christmas, we have an open house and bonfire in the garden around the tree ,” said Dass. The tree at Rakesh Chattree’s house has grown so tall in the past 10 years that it now touches the ceiling of his sitting room. Chattree, the principal of Christ Church School, had brought the tree for his children and has been using decorations old and new for the tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/decorating-christmas-tree-an-art-passed-on-through-generations/articleshow/79768795.cms||Aditi Singh
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Asaduddin Owaisi open to alliance with big players from Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday did not rule out the possibility of forging an alliance with any of UP’s main political players for the 2022 assembly polls in the state. He also attacked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for describing AIMIM as a ‘vote katwa’ and ‘advised’ her to look after her partymen who are joining BJP. AIMIM has already announced that it would contest the assembly elections in UP and the party chief was in Lucknow to meet regional players from the state. His party had forged tie-ups with similar smaller players, who had helped his party perform impressively in recently concluded Bihar assembly polls where Owaisi’s party bagged five seats. He met Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar, triggering speculations of a Bihar-like alliance in UP as well. Though AIMIM chief was vocal about his association with the regional and smaller political outfits in UP, he remained non-committal about siding with any of the major players like the Bahujan Samaj Party or the Samajwadi Party. Owaisi said AIMIM was a part of Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha and would chalk out the future course of action in UP in consultation with all the constituents of this front. Asked whether it is necessary for all Opposition parties to unite to defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Owaisi said, “We are trying from our side, this question has to be answered by other big parties.” Talking exclusively to TOI Owaisi clarified that AIMIM had not entered into talks with the BSP for 2022 polls. He said his party’s association with BSP and other regional parties in Bihar was limited to the recently concluded assembly elections in the state and the same may not be applicable to UP. “In Bihar, Kushwaha and Rajbhar sahab had already entered into an alliance with the BSP. We were invited to join that alliance which we did. But that was for Bihar. As of now I cannot predict what will happen in UP,” he said, adding: “Ab aage safar dekhiye … aage badhta hai ... kya hota hai (We will see how things rollout as we move ahead)”. Dismissing allegations that he has been playing BJP’s B team in elections, Owaisi said AIMIM had been contesting elections in UP for long and such charges were politically motivated as election statistics do not support them. About possibilities of a tie-up with Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) Owaisi said: “Shivpal ji is an important figure in UP politics and will meet him when I will come to Lucknow possibly later this month,” he said. Shivpal, one of the founding members of the SP, floated his own political party in 2018 after a rift with his nephew Akhilesh Yadav. Akhilesh is the national president of the SP. About AIMIM contesting in West Bengal assembly polls in 2021 Owaisi said his party was yet to take a final call on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/owaisi-open-to-alliance-with-big-players-from-up/articleshow/79768947.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya mosque’s foundation to be laid on Republic Day||AYODHYA: The foundation of the Ayodhya mosque complex will be laid on January 26 next year — the 71st Republic Day — at Dhannipur village, 20km off the existing Ram Janmabhoomi complex. The mosque is coming up over five acre land given to the UP Sunni Waqf Board as per the directives of the Supreme Court in its November 2019 judgment. The foundation would be laid exactly six months after the Sunni waqf board set up a trust — Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation -- for the construction. “The Trust chose January 26, 2021, for laying the foundation of the Ayodhya mosque as on this day our Constitution came into effect more than seven decades ago. Our Constitution is based on pluralism, which is the leitmotif of our mosque project,” said Athar Hussain, secretary of Indo- Islamic Cultural Foundation. The blueprint of the mosque and other facilities, including multispeciality hospital, community kitchen and library will be unveiled by the mosque Trust on December 19 as per the project plan finalized by its chief architect, Professor S M Akhtar. Talking to TOI, Prof Akhtar said, “the mosque will have the capacity of 2,000 namazis at a time and the structure will be round-shaped " "The new mosque will be bigger than Babri masjid, but won’t replicate the structure which once stood in Ramjanmabhoomi premises. The hospital of course will hold the centrestage on the five-acre land. It will serve people in the true spirit of Islam as taught by the prophet in his last sermon 1,400 years ago. The hospital will be in sync with the architecture of the mosque, replete with calligraphy and Islamic symbols. It will house a 300-bed speciality unit, where free treatment will be given," Akhtar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-mosques-foundation-to-be-laid-on-republic-day/articleshow/79769027.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||‘Govts must use digital space to bridge medical education gap’||Lucknow: Former head and professor of KGMU’s urology department, Dr Diwakar Dalela is flooded with calls from African and Asian countries lacking expertise in the field after he started delivering lectures online. Students, patients and even doctors are connecting with him and engaging in interactive video sessions on their concerns and queries. “Barring a few medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh, majority don’t have super- specialty departments like urology. A similar situation is witnessed in Africa, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Pakistan where UG and PG students suffer a major handicap of lack of super specialists. So, I started the Dalela Academy of Urology, giving free lecturers, demonstrating surgery and interactive video sessions to disseminate knowledge of the field,” Dr Dalela told TOI. He added, “during the lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, viewership of the live sessions and recorded videos has reached millions and proved very productive”. “As patients of kidney stone and prostate cancer have multiplied many times due to a fast changing lifestyle, there is an urgent need of having urologists in every district and urology department in all medical colleges, but the government has not acted on this challenge” said Dr Dalela. “After I started the academy on YouTube, UG and PG students take regular lectures from me, not only from UP and the country, but other parts of Asia and even Africa,” he said, adding that he also conducts interactive sessions and live demos to counsel patients and has already uploaded over 150 video lectures, apart from live demonstration of surgeries, interactive sessions and email inquiries. Dr Dalela said that through TOI he would ask the state government to adopt the same model and exploit digital technology to start online courses and counseling from experts of different super specialty courses and subjects to arm medical students with latest knowledge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govts-must-use-digital-space-to-bridge-medical-education-gap/articleshow/79768964.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Suspecting illicit affair, man chops wife’s body||Varanasi: Expressing doubt that his wife had made him impotent by giving a medicine to make an illicit relation, a middle-aged man allegedly killed and chopped his wife into pieces and dumped them over several hundred meter areas along a nullah on December 10 in Mustafabad area of the city. The crime came to light when police caught the accused, Rajendra Sonkar, on Tuesday evening and he confessed to his crime. After this, police toiled for several hours on Wednesday to search pieces of the body of his wife Asha Sonkar (45). The couple has three daughters, two of which have been married and two sons. SP (rural) Martand Pratap Singh said that Asha was missing since December 10 and after that Rajendra also went missing from December 11. Their son Sahil had lodged a complaint with the police on December 13. After he told the police that his parents used to quarrel frequently, the police started searching for Rajendra. He was caught by Chaubeypur police on Tuesday evening. During interrogation, Rajendra confessed that he killed his wife and chopped her body into pieces on December 10. When asked about the reason for for killing his wife, Rajendra claimed that five years ago she had taken him to her parent’s place where she gave him some medicine to make him impotent. Rajendra further alleged that she did so to have illicit relation with another person, said Singh. Following these revelations by Rajendra, a team of police was engaged in searching the pieces of Asha's body to send for postmortem, said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suspecting-illicit-affair-man-chops-wifes-body/articleshow/79768942.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Atal Smriti Upvan to be on Jail Road||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation has decided to shift the location of Atal Smriti Upvan to be constructed in the memory of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said that the park was earlier proposed to be constructed near Sarojininagar, but now the location has been shifted to Jail Road. The foundation laying of the project is expected on December 25, which is Vajpayee’s birth anniversary. The decision to shift the location near the city was taken so that more visitors can come, he added. The park will be constructed on a 6-hectare land at a cost of Rs 5 crore. Work will start in January and will be completed in two years. The park will have Vajpayee’s statue, a library with all his poems and writings and a board displaying the list of development projects implemented during his tenure as Lucknow MP. The park will also have a seating facility, jogging track, gardens and cafeteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/atal-smriti-upvan-to-be-on-jail-road/articleshow/79768767.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Khurramnagar flyover work to start by March||Lucknow: The construction of a four-lane flyover from Khurramnagar to Indiranagar Sector-25 crossing will start soon after completion of Tedhi Pulia flyover before the end of this financial year. Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari informed defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh that the detailed project report of Khurramnagar flyover has been prepared and the proposal will be approved within this financial year. The cost of the project has been estimated to be Rs 180 crore, Gadkari informed Singh in reply to his queries on the progress. “Two flyovers were proposed at Tedhi Pulia and Khurramnagar. However, as the two areas are located close to each other, starting construction of both the flyovers simultaneously would have caused traffic jams,” the letter stated. Hence, it has been decided to start construction of Khurramnagar flyover after completion of the one at Tedhipulia, it added. Gadkari informed that the total length of IIM-Madiyaon crossing flyover has been increased from 1.7km to 1.9km and the total cost of the project is around Rs 150 crore. The three projects — IIM flyover, Tedhi Pulia flyover and Khurramnagar flyover — will resolve major traffic issues and benefit more than 25,000 commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khurramnagar-flyover-work-to-start-by-mar/articleshow/79768863.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||IIM-Indore to make UP top tourist destination||LUCKNOW: To exploit UP’s tourism potential and make it the most sought after destination in the country, the state government has signed memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Institute of Management, Indore. The three-year-old arrangement primarily aims at drawing an integrated model for promoting UP as an ultimate tourist destination. "Their work would involve strategic planning for branding of various destinations in the state," said principal secretary, tourism, Mukesh Meshram, adding “UP's tourism potential is beyond doubt. But there is a need to see and treat this strength in the light of a business plan… so as to increase tourist footfall, increase revenue generation and create local employment.” ‘Why Kashi tourists not attracted to Mirzapur?’Putting things into perspective director IIM Indore, Prof Himanshu Rai said: “UP is a bonanza in terms of tourism – thanks to the diverse basket of choices it offers to those interested. It is home to ultimate spiritual sojourns to eco-friendly getaways and from ancient heritage to rural panoramic treats.” “This is in addition to the spiritually significant places like Prayagraj and Kashi. However, despite being a full meal in its own way, UP’s potential remains untapped. The MoU aims at translating this latent energy into actionable agenda which aids the state boost local economies and create jobs,” Rai said. The MoU owes its genesis to the quest for some pertinent questions like why does a foreign tourist leave Agra after visiting Taj Mahal? Or why tourists to Varanasi are not attracted by the natural beauty in Mirzapur and beyond? Likewise, why are Sarnath and Kushinagar the only two most preferred Buddhist destinations when UP is home to six of the eight destinations close to the heart of every follower of Buddha? And why do names of Rajasthan and MP come to mind first when it comes to Jain circuits when 18 of the 24 Tirthankaras are related to UP?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iim-indore-to-make-up-top-tourist-destination/articleshow/79769049.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Health panel gives Rs 3 lakh bill relief to Covid victim’s kin||KOLKATA: A compensation of Rs 3 lakh was awarded on ‘humanitarian ground’ to the family of an ophthalmologist who succumbed to Covid in August after being treated at a private hospital that had slapped a huge bill. Responding to an appeal by the daughter of the ophthalmologist — Biswajit Mandal, a resident of Icchapore — the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) observed that the patient’s kin were eligible for a refund of Rs 3 lakh, out of a total bill of Rs 16.2 lakh that they had paid. The commission on Wednesday heard nine other cases and ordered several hospitals to refund excess bill amounts. Biswajit’s daughter Ayantika, in an appeal to the commission, said she had no allegations of overbilling, but sought a discount on humanitarian ground. “She had referred to the case of another doctor — Pradipta Bhattacharya of Shyamnagar — who, like her father, contracted Covid while treating patients and died. In Bhattacharya’s case, not only did the hospital offer a discount, friends and neighbours had paid a part of the bill through crowdfunding. So, we sought the treatment details from the hospital and ruled that Fortis Hospital — where Biswajit was treated — to pay Rs 3 lakh to the family,” said WBCERC chairman Justice (retd) Ashim Kumar Banerjee. In another case, the commission penalized Mission of Mercy Hospital, asking it to pay Rs 8 lakh to a patient’s kin for death due to negligence. A woman who had been admitted to the hospital in 2018, had collapsed on the toilet floor and lay there unattended for half-an-hour. She was later taken to the ICU but died. Her husband Manoj Choudhury demanded a compensation and the commission found negligence on the part of the hospital. Ruby General Hospital was asked to refund Rs 50,000 to a patient who had been treated at the hospital last October. Patient Partha Mitra had alleged that his bed charges were inflated and the condition of his ward was poor. The hospital charged the patient Rs 2.5 lakh, out of which the latter had received Rs 81,000 from insurance cover. The commission also asked for experts’ opinion on a charge of negligence levelled against Disha Eye Care by a patient who lost his vision after treatment. Behala resident Munmun Ghoshalleged that her 60-year-old husband Sanjay was administered an injection at the hospital, which led to an infection. It eventually resulted in complete loss of vision. “We have deferred our judgment till we get the experts’ opinion,” said Justice Banerjee. In three other cases, the commission asked Eco Hospital, Barasat, ILS, Dum Dum and Spandan Hospital to offer discounts to disgruntled patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-panel-gives-rs-3l-bill-relief-to-cov-victims-kin/articleshow/79766850.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||App cab driver flees with passenger’s purse, held||KOLKATA: The police on Wednseday arrested an app-cab driver who allegedly fled with cash and valuables after dropping a passenger at her destination. The driver, Ramashish Kumar (24), had seen the passenger withdraw cash from an ATM on the way and sped away with it when she was distracted, police said. The passenger, Jyoti Sharma (32), a resident of Congress Nagar, later filed a complaint. “Sharma boarded the cab at Chandni Chowk. She withdrew Rs 10,000 from an ATM Near the Rashbehari Gurdwara. When she disembarked, she picked up her articles kept in the boot. But before she could take the purse that was still on the rear seat, the driver drove off,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. The woman had kept around Rs 3,600 in the purse, with which Sharma fled, and the rest on her person. The car was intercepted on Deshapran Sashmal Road near M R Bangur Hospital with the help of the app aggregator that provided the cab’s real-time location. The driver was arrested and the purse with the cash was recovered from the cab’s dashboard. Sharma hails from Gaya in Bihar and lives on Pul Khatick Road, Tangra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-cab-driver-flees-with-passengers-purse-held/articleshow/79766833.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Allahabad||Covid case positivity rate remains 1.1% in first half of Dec||Lucknow: The Covid case positivity rate in the first half of December has been 1.13% while active cases in the state are currently at 17,800 in number. Case positivity rate is the number of positive cases among total tested. However, the number of deaths due to coronavirus in state increased to 8,118 with 15 additions in the past 24 hours. “At present, there are 17,801 active cases in UP and a total of 5,43,344 people have recovered from the disease so far. This indicates that the recovery rate has increased to 95.5%,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. According to the official bulletin on Covid-19, 1,227 fresh cases were reported which included 206 from Lucknow, 92 from Prayagraj, 69 from Varanasi and 67 from Meerut, among others. Prasad, however, warned of two crucial months ahead when the guard cannot be let down. “Though the number of cases appears to be falling, the risk of infections looms large... In fact, it is high in winter,” he said. Prasad informed that the proportion of elderly Covid-19 patients was increasing steadily. “The count of those aged above 60 years among the infected has risen from about 8% two months back to 11% now, while their share in deaths is 46%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-case-positivity-rate-remains-1-1-in-first-half-of-dec/articleshow/79768921.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Celebrations mark 50th year of 1971 Indo-Pak war at Longewala||Jaisalmer: Various cultural programmes were organised on Wednesday to mark the 1971 Indo-Pak war at Longewala entering 50th year. On directions of BSF DIG Anand Singh Takhsat and commandant Arvind Gildiyal, tribute was paid to martyrs at Longewala post on Wednesday. 161 BN BSF Commandant Surendra Kumar, 2IC Shailesh Rana, deputy commandant RLVishnoi along with jawans were present on the occasion. Teachers and students from the government primary school and government senior secondary school of Bhojraj ki Dhani were also present. Jawans of 161st Batallion presented the guard of honour at Shaheed Smarak of Longewala and offered flowers. Saplings were planted during the programme. The students and teachers were taken on a round of Longewala and were showed a short film. At Tanot border outpost on the Indo-Pak border, a wreath-laying ceremony was held at Vijay Stambh, on the occasion of Vijay diwas. The 139 BSF battalion commandant Rajesh Bhandoria led the jawans and officers and laid wreaths. A cycle rally was also organised by sector south which went from Dabla to Sam Road at 56th battalion campus. Patriotic songs and slogans echoed in the rally. BSF 18th battalion organised ‘Ek shaam shaheedon ke naam’ in which family members of the personnel who had showed their valour in 1971 war were felicitated. A cultural programme was also organised. On the other hand in Barmer, Akhil Bhartiya Sainik Seva Parishad and municipal council jointly organised the Vijay diwas at Shaheed Smarak. BSF jawans presented guard of honour and paid tributes by laying wreaths. BSF DIG Gurupal Singh, district collector Vishram Meena and other officers, army jawans, general public and ex servicemen were present. On the occasion, a wreath was laid by Major General Sameer Kalla, Vishisht Seva Medal, General Officer Commanding, Jodhpur Sub Area, war veterans and serving soldiers at Konark Corps War Memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/celebrations-mark-50th-year-of-1971-indo-pak-war-at-longewala/articleshow/79766891.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||5 ‘farm labourers’ hitch a ride, rob Raikot man of car||tnnLudhiana: Five men robbed a Raikot resident of his car after hitching a ride in Dehlon early on Wednesday. Gurmeet Singh, 40, a resident of Tajpur Road, Raikot, had gone to Ludhiana city to get his car, a Maruti Suzuki Dzire (PB 10 ET 2368), serviced.Gurmeet, who is the son-in-law of Raikot Mahila Congress president Balwinder Kaur, said in his police complaint, “I preferred staying in the city as night curfew hours had started. I parked my car outside a taxi stand, near Ludhiana bus stand, and lied down in it. Around 2am, two men came to me and said they were farm labourers and urgently needed to reach Ahemadgarh, Sangrur. They requested me to drop them there and I agreed.”A few metres away, three more men were standing on road, trying to hitch a lift. “The two men said they knew them and they were also farm labourers. They asked me to let them sit in the car and I agreed. We were going towards Ahmedgarh, when one of the men said he wanted to relieve himself and another said he felt pukish,” he added. As Gurmeet pulled over near Jagera Road, close to Pohior, the two alighted. “Within a few seconds, the two pulled me out of the car and sped away. My cellphone and wallet were in the car,” he said.Balwinder Kaur said, “Gurmeet had to walk for over two kilometres to reach Ahmedgarh police station. When he apprised the cops of the incident, they said the spot fell under the jurisdiction of Dehlon police of Ludhiana commissionerate. Gurmeet asked for a phone to call us, but cops paid no heed to his requests. He then asked for a blanket so that he could stay there till morning, but cops refused that too. Thereafter, Gurmeet went to a nearby gurdwara, stayed there for a couple of hours, borrowed someone’s cellphone and called me up.” “Dehlon police scanned the CCTVs installed on the route and saw the car crossing Raikot around 3am. The accused could have been nabbed had Ahmedgarh police acted swiftly,” she added.Dehlon police station ASI Baljeet Singh said, “A case has been registered against the five under sections 379- B (snatching) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The accused have been captured on the CCTVs while crossing Raikot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-farm-labourers-hitch-a-ride-rob-raikot-man-of-car/articleshow/79765827.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite Dec 31 deadline, only 533 register their pets||Ludhiana: In the last around six months' time, only 533 pet dogs have been registered with the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (LMC), even though the deadline to register pets is December 31. After that, if civic body officials find any unregistered pets, their owners will be slapped hefty fines.The officials said they had given six months’ time to the residents to get their pet dogs and cats registered with the corporation and those failing to do the same would have to pay up 10 times the registration fee of Rs 400.The pet registration drive was kicked off in June this year and people can register their pets by paying the fee. On April 1 every year, this registration will have to be renewed. Initially, the pace of registration was fast and by October, 256 dogs were registered. But, gradually it slowed down and till now, only 533 owners have come forward to register their pets. Besides, no cat has been registered with the civic body till now. From January 1, 2021, there will be checking in every area of the city and the civic officials will impose a penalty of Rs 4,000 on the defaulters. There are also provisions for the registration of dog breeders, dog shops and organisers of dog shows, but as of now, the civic officials are focussing on pet dogs and cats. They intend to focus on the other segments later. Senior veterinary officer of MC Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said, “As many as 533 pets have been registered with civic body and almost 70% of their owners have collected the tokens. Once the deadline ends on December 31, we will start checking the households with the help of the animal husbandry department team. If the defaulters do not pay the fine, their pets will be taken away.” The sources revealed that one of the reasons for a poor response to the pet registration drive is that the civic body does not have any data on the total number of pets in the city. Even if the civic officials start checking drive in the colonies, it would not be an easy task for them, because people are unlikely to allow them easy entry into their houses, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-dec-31-deadline-only-533-register-their-pets/articleshow/79765828.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||5 hurt, 2 cows die in mishaps caused by fog in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: With winter setting it, Jaisalmer is in the grip of cold wave. Fog and mist have disrupted normal life in the desert district. The heavy fog resulted in an accident at 2pm on Wednesday, in which a vehicle carrying devotees returning from Ramdeora got off road and overturned, seriously injuring five persons who were referred to Jodhpur. The accident took place near Dedia in Pokhran area and on getting information, 108 ambulance reached the spot and took the injured to the hospital. Similarly, due to fog, a car hit two cows in Khetolai area. Both cows died on the spot but the driver was unhurt. Lathi SHO Achalaram Dhaka said that due to heavy fog, the driver could not see the cows and hit them. A fall in temperatures was witnessed with a minimum temperature of 5.2 degree Celsius. People were forced to keep to their homes due to the cold wave and many could be seen lighting bonfires to keep themselves warm even during the day time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-hurt-2-cows-die-in-mishaps-caused-by-fog-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79766873.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Five pups born to Pragya, grey wolf at Sakkarbaug zoo||RAJKOT: Pragya turned a happy mother with a brood of five pups on Tuesday. The she-wolf is part of the breeding centre at Sakkarbaug zoo. According to the authorities, a record 14 pups were born in the zoo’s conservation breeding centre last year in 2019-20 which they hope to excel by the end of March. Sakkarbaug zoo is designated as the co-ordinating for the conservative breeding programme of grey wolf by the central zoo authority. The programme that started in 2014-15 had only two wolves then, after which six more wolves were brought from Jodhpur, Jaipur and Mysore zoo in 2015-16 under animal exchange programme. These animals were brought in to the zoo to infuse new bloodline. Four more animals were acquired in 2019-20 and now, the current pack count is 30-strong matured wolves in the zoo. Accordion to zoo authorities, three pups were born in 2016-17 for the first time in captivity thanks to the success of breeding efforts. Thereafter four pups in 2017-18, three in 2018-19 and a record 14 pups were born in 2019-20. Chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle), D T Vasavda said, “The period of pups’ birth started after a successful mating season. We are expecting to see more number of births this year than last year, thanks to proper management and breeding as well as nutritional management.” The wolves’ breeding programme is run under proper scientific management including food and health check-ups, animals’ housing and sanitation, vaccination, de-worming and medication, pairing of the breedable animals, 24x7 CCTV camera observation onset of mating, isolation of male and female after successful mating, proper care of pregnant animals among many other parameters. Sources said that no animal has been released in the wild so far, but a decision in that regard will be taken only after proper consultation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-pups-born-to-pragya-grey-wolf-at-sakkarbaug-zoo/articleshow/79765768.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Man booked for opening fire at another||LUDHIANA: The police on Wednesday booked a hosiery trader for opening fire at a yarn dealer at Ferozepur Road in the wee hours of Tuesday. The firing followed an argument between them as the accused was driving on the wrong side of the road, leading to near-collision of their cars. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at Sarabha Nagar police station against Akshit Malhotra, 23, of Mahavir Nagar. Yarn trader Umesh Kumar of Agar Nagar said he and his cousin were returning in his car from a hospital in Model Town. When they reached Ferozepur Road, a speeding car came towards them from the wrong side and nearly hit their vehicle. When he confronted the accused, he came out of the car and fired two shots at him. They, however, escaped unhurt, Umesh said. Sarabha Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala said a case has been registered in this connection and after the arrest of the accused, it would be ascertained whether the weapon was licensed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-booked-for-opening-fire-at-another/articleshow/79765850.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Int’l award for Jodhpur ophthalmologist||Jodhpur: SEE International, a US-based global organisation to provide essential and transformative eye care and surgery around the world has chosen Sanjiv Desai from India for its Humanitarian of the Year 2020 award. Jodhpur-based Desai is one of the three ophthalmologists from across the globe chosen for their outstanding dedication and achievement as volunteer ophthalmologists committed to ending preventable blindness. Other two ophthalmologists for the award include Debra Messina, a traveling US ophthalmologist and Steven Zelko, a Santa Barbara vision care physician. Volunteering as an international host ophthalmologist for SEE International in Jodhpur since 2007, Desai invites doctors to India to train local staff and create a more sustainable eye care system in the area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intl-award-for-jodhpur-ophthalmologist/articleshow/79766940.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Mumbai||Blow to MVA govt as Bombay HC halts work on Kanjur Metro car shed||MUMBAI: In a setback to the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, and a victory—at least in the first round—for former BJP CM Devendra Fadnavis, the Bombay high court on Wednesday stayed the city suburban collector’s October 1 order transferring 102 acres of salt pan land in Kanjurmarg for the Mumbai Metro car shed project. The HC’s interim order also halted all ongoing work on it. The Centre has claimed ownership of the Kanjurmarg land. The collector had transferred the land to MMRDA, which in turn had transferred it on October 8 to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (DMRCL) through which it is building the Metro Line 6 car shed and casting yard there. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government had decided to shift the Metro 3 car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and to build an integrated car shed. The Centre’s salt department recently petitioned the HC to challenge the collector’s order and also a 2018 order of the Maharashtra revenue minister declaring the state to be owner of various salt pan lands and declaring some in the city to be privately held. As interim relief pending final hearing of its petition, the Centre sought a stay on operation of the collector’s order and on DMRCL’s ongoing work. It cited a 1996 order of the Maharashtra OSD (officer on special duty) to show the land belongs to the Centre and not the state. The state in turn cited revenue records of 1959 and a 1981 collector’s order to say it was theirs. The HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni had on Monday asked the state to consider withdrawing the collector’s order as it observed it to be in infirmity with the decision-making process and said that if set aside by it, adverse observations may follow. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni had sought time till Wednesday for instructions from the collector. On Wednesday, Kumbhakoni initially made a proposal that the state would grant a post-decisional hearing to all parties, with the order staying intact in the meantime. This was objected to by additional solicitor general Anil Singh and counsel Rui Rodrigues for the Centre and by senior counsel Shyam Mehta, appearing for the plot’s lessee, Mahesh Garodia. The Central salt department said the collector must withdraw the order and give a fresh hearing. The HC asked the state how the collector could pass an order without following due process and said the order has to be stayed. The AG then said the order may be withdrawn but asked what would be done about possession of land. The Chief Justice said it would be status quo ante, meaning the status as existed before the order was passed on October 1. The AG did not agree to that and said possession of land will not be vacated while hearing is given to all parties. The HC then stayed the collector’s order transferring the land and said a reasoned order would follow. Mehta said the collector’s order had no basis and asked what he would say in a post-decision hearing, which would mean the state takes illegal possession and then puts the burden of proof on him. Activist Zoru Bhathena intervened to say that the previous state government had, in 2016, sought permission from the HC to use the same Kanjurmarg land for the Metro car shed. He said the state’s plea is still pending, despite the state saying it was an urgent public importance matter. Bhathena said last year, he had intervened to seek orders from HC to allot the Kanjur plot for the Metro depot to avoid any delay to Metro line 6. He said the state then nowhere disclosed any claim of the salt department or Garodia. He said now, when the state had found a solution for the car shed, the Centre had created a fresh round of litigation. The HC asked the state how it could pass the transfer order when its plea was pending. On Monday, senior counsel Milind Sathe with advocate Saket Mone for MMRDA said the Kanjurmarg car shed was essential to a project of public importance and therefore no stay should be granted on work on the land which also comes free for the Metro project, else MMRDA may have to spend at least Rs 2,800 crore to secure lands. Sathe had also said that if stay is granted, the entire Metro rail project would be set back by five years. Questioning the state’s argument, both Singh and Mehta said the Metro car shed was permitted to come up at Aarey colony by the high court and it is estimated that Rs 100 crore was already spent on that land. The Centre as well as Mehta termed the collector’s order as “high- handed.” Mehta said no hearing was granted to the Garodias who are lessees of the Central government since 1917 on the plot that was transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/blow-to-mva-govt-as-hc-halts-work-on-kanjur-metro-car-shed/articleshow/79769103.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Goa faces beef shortage, Pramod Sawant says will restore supply from Karnataka||PANAJI: Days before the festive season commences in Goa, beef is slowly disappearing from Goan plates. Shutters of meat stores in Goa continued to be shut for the sixth day on Wednesday with no supply being received from Karnataka. The state received stock last Thursday, and many had closed their shops from Friday with no stock expected thereafter. “After the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed by the assembly there, veterinarians stopped certification of meat and cattle. As a result, meat and cattle cannot be transported. The bill doesn’t permit sale in the market and transportation of cattle for slaughter,” Qureshi Meat Traders Association general secretary Anwar Bepari told TOI. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday assured the meat traders that he would ensure that the supply of beef is restored. “A meeting has been called with the secretary as well as the director of animal husbandry to discuss the issue,” Sawant said. The meat traders had submitted a memorandum to Sawant on Tuesday seeking his intervention in the matter. The state consumes around 15-20 tonne of beef daily. With the state government’s meat complex shut for the past four years, beef traders in the state mainly source the meat from Karnataka to meet demand. “Shops have been shut. There is no income. Workers and families are dependent on this trade. In addition, there are restaurants, hotels and bakeries. There is a lot of demand from tourists during this season and around New Year,” Bepari said. The association is also hoping that their counterparts in Karnataka will take some action. “We’re waiting to see what action the meat traders’ association in Karnataka will take. The Goa government should intervene and solve this problem. Goa is totally dependent on Karnataka for beef supply. We are neither receiving meat nor livestock from Karnataka,” Bepari said. Goa stopped receiving meat from Maharashtra in 2015 after slaughter and consumption of meat of bulls and bullocks came to be banned in addition to the existing ban on meat of cows. This didn’t impact meat trade in Goa as it had Karnataka to rely on. In the representation to the Goa government, the traders stated that a major portion of the population in Goa depends on beef and the act will deprive those for whom beef trade is their sole occupation. In addition to the local population, culinary businesses in Goa as well as those catering to tourists, and cold meat production houses are being affected, the association has stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-faces-beef-shortage-sawant-says-will-restore-supply-from-karnataka/articleshow/79769115.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||3 booked for murder bid on 74-year-old||LUDHIANA: The police on Wednesday booked three men for murder bid on an elderly man in Jagraon a day before. Two of the three accused have been identified as Surinder Singh and Nirmal Singh, residents of Galib Kalan village, here, and the victim as Jaswant Singh, 74. Jaswant, a labourer and resident of the same village, said in his police complaint, “I was walking back home from the village bus stop. When I reached near a government school, the accused intercepted me. They ran their bike into me and when I fell down, they hit me with wooden logs. On hearing my cries, people gathered and the trio sped away.” The attack was a fallout of an old rivalry. Jaswant then approached the police. Sadar Jagraon police station ASI Chhindarpal Singh said an FIR has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 279 (rash driving), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-booked-for-murder-bid-on-74-year-old/articleshow/79765859.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||MC plans to install 15 air quality monitoring systems in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Under the national clean air programme, the civic body has proposed installation of 15 air quality monitoring systems at various locations in the city. These will be in addition to the systems planned by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB). A project report is being prepared by the municipal corporation on the basis of a study conducted by the PPCB on causes of air pollution. The civic body has prepared a project for monitoring 19 pollution-causing factors through these systems and once sites are finalised, it would move ahead with the installation. The censor-based systems will be installed at locations where pollution is severe. The Rs 2.41-crore project will take six months to complete after hiring of an agency. The officials will need a foolproof framework to protect the monitoring systems to rule out chances of theft. For the better implementation of this programme, the civic body has involved other departments, including forest, traffic, industry, transport and remote sensing centre at Punjab Agricultural University. On Wednesday, a meeting of officials from these departments was held at MC Zone D office and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu chaired it. The forest department was asked to join the civic body in growing micro forests within the city. Ashu said, “We will take all steps for improving the air quality and diesel autos will be replaced with e-rickshaws in a phased manner for which the transport and traffic departments have been told to prepare an action plan.” MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We will prepare the project report in a month and look into all factors causing pollution. Pollution will be monitored at 15 locations and then remedial steps will be taken.” PPCB senior environment engineer Sandeep Bahl said, “We will put up four air quality monitoring systems for which eight screens will be installed so that people can also check the data. Rs 26 crore have been sanctioned for the city and if utilized in the right manner, then there is scope of getting more grant.” Bahl said the government of India has sanctioned Rs 10 crore under this scheme for the Punjab Pollution Control Board, of which Rs 6 crore were released by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) for Ludhiana. He said a study was conducted by PPCB, as per which road dust contributed 28% to the air pollution, bio-mass burning 18%, vehicular pollution 16% and the industries 35%. The study presented short, medium and long-term recommendations for improvement of air quality, he added. As per the 15th Finance Commission, funds have been allocated to the urban local bodies for improvement of air quality, under which Rs 52 crore have been given to Ludhiana. Of this, Rs 26 crore will be released to the MC. Apart from this, the MC officials informed the attendees that they have conducted a trial run for purchasing mechanical sweeping machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-plans-to-install-15-air-quality-monitoring-systems-in-city/articleshow/79765836.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Social media-savvy Ludhiana cops’ website not updated for ages||Ludhiana: Even as the Ludhiana city police is quite active in social media, including Twitter and Facebook, the official website of the Ludhiana commissionerate of police remains neglected for want of regular updation.In one such faux pas, the homepage, which carries the pictures and messages of commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal and DCP (Law & Order) Ashwani Kapur, apart from that of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, has no mention of the joint commissioners of police, though they are higher in rank to DCPs. Even the message of DCP Kapur is missing on the landing page.Also, although the website has the links of Facebook pages of the Ludhiana police and the traffic police, and the Twitter handle of the city police, as one clicks the Twitter link, the landing page shows ‘account suspended’ message.Since the joining of Rakesh Agarwal as the commissioner of police, the city police are trying to make the best use of social media to reach out to the residents and to share important information and announcements on these platforms. But surprisingly, there are only 7,226 followers on its official Twitter handle, while the Facebook page has only 77,761 followers, which is quite less, going by the population of Ludhiana.On scanning the website deeper, one discovers that the last order uploaded on the website was on the use of beacon lights atop official vehicles in the year 2012. After that, no official order was uploaded on the website. Even the list of ‘wanted criminals’ has not been updated after 2010. As per the list available on the website, there are only two wanted criminals —Raman Rana of Prem Nagar, Haibowal, who has six FIRs registered against him, and Randeep Topi of Amritsar with five criminal cases.Besides, the list of important officials and the women helpdesk team have names of some cops, who have already been transferred either out of the Ludhiana commissionerate or to other police stations. For example, sub-inspector Kuljeet Kaur has been transferred as in-charge of Ishwar Colony police post, but as per the website, she is posted at Division Number 1 police station. Similarly, sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal and sub-inspector Richa Rani have been transferred out of the commissionerate, but the list still shows them posted at Jodhewal and Division Number 5 police stations, respectively.Further, in the list of contact numbers of officials, the names of ADCP (crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, ACP (cybercrime) Vaihav Sehgal and ADCP-IV Balwinder Singh are missing, while the name of Kanwardeep Kaur is still given as the joint commissioner of police (rural), though she has been transferred out of the commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/social-media-savvy-ludhiana-cops-website-not-updated-for-ages/articleshow/79765872.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 17, 2020||Udaipur||Pali man dies in Udaipur, kin allege custodial torture||UDAIPUR: There was tension in Saira police station after a man picked up by cops for interrogation in an abduction case died after his health deteriorated on Wednesday morning. While his family alleged it was a case of custodial torture & death, police said the deceased was taken to hospital first and referred to Udaipur and died on the way. Lalaram Garasiya, a resident of Sadri at Ranakpur in Pali district, and his relative were brought by Saira police for interrogation in a year-old case of kidnap of a girl. According to sources, the girl had run away with Lalaram’s nephew in November 2019. DSP (Girva) Prem Dhande told TOI that Lalaram and another man were brought to the police station on Tuesday night and questioned. “They were only interrogated. In the morning, Lalaram's health condition deteriorated and was taken to a local hospital where he was examined. The doctor referred him to Udaipur and while cops were taking him, he died. His body has been kept at Saira mortuary and an autopsy would be conducted by a medical board on Thursday,” Dhande said. Sources said additional forces from nearby police stations were called anticipating protests from the Garasiya community. Human rights activists claimed it to be yet another instance of police brutality and demanded suspension of the police station staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/pali-man-dies-in-udaipur-kin-allege-custodial-torture/articleshow/79766986.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Jewar airport’s name, logo may get nod today||LUCKNOW: The ambitious Jewar airport in Greater Noida is likely to get its name, design and official logo on Thursday. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will hold a meeting on the project on Thursday which will be attended by all stakeholders. The details are expected to be finalised on Thursday when the officials of Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle (SPV) of Zurich airport International AG meet UP CM Yogi Adityanath. This would be their first meeting with the CM after the concession agreement was signed between the YIAPL and Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL). CM to meet sr officers today on Jewar airportThe meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday will be attended by Christoph Schnellmann, the CEO of YIAPL, Kiran Jain, COO of YIAPL, Dr Arun Vir Singh, the CEO of NIAL, apart from presence of additional chief secretary, civil aviation, SP Goyal and other senior officers. On Wednesday, the board for development of Jewar airport held a meeting under the chairmanship of Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tewari who directed the officials to coordinate with the Union civil aviation ministry and Zurich International AG which is developing the airport. Informed sources in the UP government said that the board discussed the formalities before giving its final nod to the name, design and logo of the Jewar airport which is proposed to be set up over an area of around 1334 hectares at a cost of Rs 29650 crore. The land for the project has already been acquired by Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority in Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jewar-airports-name-logo-may-get-nod-today/articleshow/79769067.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Karkhana police station in Hyderabad gets a swanky building||SECUNDERABAD: After overcoming several hurdles over the last three years, Karkhana will have a new police station. Home minister, Md Mohamood Ali inaugurated the new four-storied building here on Wednesday. “The police department had spent Rs 4.25 crore to construct this new structure which can accommodate 120 police personnel,” said Karkhana inspector P Madhukar Swamy. The new building was constructed as the old Karkhana police station—which was housed in a century-old building—was unable to accommodate police personnel allotted to this area. Labour minister Ch Malla Reddy, cinematography minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and ward members of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board attended the inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/karkhana-police-stn-gets-a-swanky-bldg/articleshow/79768028.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: AAP accepts challenge for debate upon education reforms||Lucknow: A day after Aam Aadmi Party announced that it would contest the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, a declaration which prompted the BJP government in the state to accuse AAP of day-dreaming and challenged it to a debate on educational reforms, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accepted the challenge and said that he would visit Lucknow on December 22. “Yogi ji, you only seem to be obsessed with the Delhi government at all times. Discussions on our excellent Covid-19 management are taking place in every corner of UP. Unlike you, we do not carry out fake Covid tests. To debate other issues, Manish will be going to Lucknow on December 22 on the invitation of your minister,” Kejriwal tweeted, referring to a recent news article about almost 1,000 fake Covid test registrations in Bareilly. On Wednesday, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia asked the Uttar Pradesh government to provide the location and time for the debate. He said: “I also accept the invitation to see the work done in government schools of Uttar Pradesh. I will visit Lucknow on December 22 and would like to know who will debate with me on behalf of the UP government.” Sisodia said that many UP ministers had reacted sharply to Kejriwal’s announcement of contesting the 2022 Assembly elections in UP, adding that it was clear that AAP had hit the right target. “UP government praising its schools will not improve their condition. Schools improve when the government takes concrete steps like increasing the education budget, training and empowering its teachers and principals, and by providing basic facilities in the schools. The plight of UP government schools is well known,” said the Aam Aadmi Party leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-accepts-challenge-for-debate-upon-edu-reforms/articleshow/79768927.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||20 Ashram system schools for underprivileged soon||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh government will set up at least 20 ashram-based schools in the state to facilitate poor students belonging to SC, ST and general categories. Besides, 45 hostels will also come up for these students. At least 103 ‘ashram paddhati’ schools are already functioning in the state to provide free education, food, residential facilities, books and other requirements to students. Providing details of the work done and schemes implemented in the past four years, social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri on Wednesday said over 21 lakh students got scholarships in 2016-17. In 2019-20, the number of beneficiaries went up to more than 27 lakh, an increase of 28%. Shastri’s press conference was the first in the series of conferences to be held by UP ministers to present the report card of their respective departments. The directive has been issued by CM Yogi Adityanath. Shastri said the monthly pension of beneficiaries of old-age pension scheme also increased from Rs 400 to Rs 500. “Currently, there are 51 lakh beneficiaries of the scheme. In four years, 14 lakh have been added,” he said. “To provide better education to students from weaker sections, a coaching centre is coming up in Gorakhpur at a cost of Rs 8 crore. It will become operational next year,” the minister said. Seven coaching centres are functioning in UP which help students prepare for civil services examination. These centres have produced 51 IPS and PCS officers in four years while 438 candidates got selected in other competitive examinations. “Under Rashtriya Pariwarik Laabh Yojana, more than 5 lakh families have received financial assistance since 2017. There were old-age homes in 22 districts in 2016-17. Now, all 75 districts have old age homes,” he said. Under Swarozgar scheme, nearly 1.1 lakh people were given interest-free loan worth Rs 570 crore, including Rs 108 crore as grant. He said 1 lakh couples had benefited from the chief minister’s Samuhik Vivah Scheme and the expenditure amount per couple had been increased to Rs 51,000. In another major initiative, a tribal museum is proposed in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/20-ashram-system-schools-for-underprivileged-soon/articleshow/79768934.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Land reclaimed from dons to be used to build houses, says CM||Prayagraj: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday said that land reclaimed from gangsters in the ongoing drive against the mafia will be used for constructing houses and given to poor, lawyers, teachers and mediapersons on ‘no profit and no loss basis’ and due instructions have been given to development authorities in this regard. The state has become 'bhay-mukt' (without fear), as strict action is being taken against mafia dons and this will continue, he added. He was addressing Uttar Pradesh Adhivakta Samagam, a mega lawyers’ conference jointly organized by Bar Council of UP and Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) at KP Ground here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/land-reclaimed-from-dons-to-be-used-to-build-houses-says-cm/articleshow/79769068.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 17, 2020||Delhi||How 1.75 lakh craft days restored lost glory of Khan-i-Khanan’s Tomb||NEW DELHI: Modernity has often been harsh on India’s architectural heritage. But there is one example in the heart of the capital where modern intervention has tried to reverse the damage wrought by centuries of neglect — Khan-i Khanan’s Tomb at Nizamuddin. The restoration that began in 2014 was completed on Wednesday. Read the entire story on TOI+Delhi's monument of love has been restored||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-1-75-lakh-craft-days-restored-lost-glory-of-khan-i-khanans-tomb/articleshow/79768056.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Genesis of rent row: No office space of own for south corporation||NEW DELHI: Four years after a new headquarters for South Delhi Municipal Corporation was proposed at IP Estate near Pragati Maidan, not a brick has come up. Meanwhile, controversy rages over the alleged rent of Rs 2,457 crore due from the civic body to its north Delhi counterpart. When the Municipal Corporation of Delhi was divided into three in 2012, no office space was allocated to SDMC and it was instructed to function from the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Civic Centre, headquarters of North Delhi Municipal Corporation. An SDMC official pointed out that post-trifurcation, EDMC was allotted a portion of the DSIIDC building in Patparganj Industrial Area, but SDMC had to shift to the 28-storey building on Minto Road. “We pay maintenance charges for sharing the Civic Centre,” the official claimed. The revenue-starved north corporation has been claiming ownership right to the building. SDMC, on its part, argues that it was constructed with common MCD funds and so no rent is payable. In 2016, the office of the secretary of then SDMC commissioner Puneet Goyal was even sealed by the north body, the rent pending at that point being Rs 810 crore. Since then, the rent has been levied only in the account books. SDMC has faced unending hurdles in constructing its headquarters at IP Estate, though it was prematurely named after former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2018. From ITPO objecting to it on grounds of potential traffic congestion at the redeveloped Pragati Maidan to PWD balking at the project for falling in its East-West Corridor alignment, the proposed civic complex hasn’t got off the drawing board. While Aam Aadmi Party has alleged that the north corporation forewent its rent claims in its recent budget proposals, the civic body’s standing committee chairman, C B Goswami, refuted this. “The budget is at the proposal stage. The standing committee will add the rent dues in the budget once again, like we did last year,” Goswami said. The north corporation reiterated in a statement on Wednesday that the Delhi cabinet itself had allowed SDMC in 2012 to function from the Civic Centre. The statement adds, “…Feeling the financial crunch since 2015, notices for claiming ground rent for sharing/ occupying the premises at Civic Centre were issued by the North DMC to SDMC from 2015 up to 2018, amounting to Rs1,347.59 crore. SDMC had been replying to the said notices from time to time contending that there is no legal basis of claiming the rent for utilisation of space in Civic Centre on the basis of the said cabinet decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/genesis-of-rent-row-no-office-space-of-own-for-south-corpn/articleshow/79768075.cms||Paras Singh
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||As Covid rages, Hyderabadis opt for high insurance covers||HYDERABAD: With the Covid-19 pandemic driving home the importance of being adequately insured, Hyderabadis have raced ahead of their counterparts in other South Indian cities when it comes to buying higher insurance covers, reveals data by Policybazaar.com. As per insurance aggregator platform, which accounts for nearly half of all internet-based insurance purchases in the country, Telangana witnessed a 74% year-on-year (Y-o-Y) growth in terms of new health insurance policies purchased by individuals during April-October 2020. During this period, the sale of health insurance policies in Hyderabad witnessed a 70% jump, whereas in Bengaluru it rose by 62% and 57% in Chennai. Even as more people are now opting for health insurance plans, around 35% of the insurance buyers in Hyderabad bought health plans with a cover of Rs 1 crore and above. This figure stood at 30% in Bengaluru and 26% in Chennai, the data revealed. Commenting on the findings, Amit Chhabra, head-health insurance, Policybazaar.com, pointed out the pandemic has not just affected people’s health but has also had a huge impact on their pockets as well, convincing people to opt for health cover. Bhabtosh Mishra, director underwriting, products & claims at Max Bupa Health Insurance said, “Covid-19 has changed people’s perception regarding health insurance from good-to-have product to must- have product. The rising number of Covid-19 cases and its high treatment costs, along with increased medical inflation in the country have made health insurance a priority purchase today.” Mishra said that people now see health insurance as an effective risk mitigation tool against unforeseen and ever rising medical treatment costs and with Covid-19, there is heightened fear among people, which will continue to push awareness about health insurance in the longer run. As more people queue up to buy health insurance, Vivek Chaturvedi, CMO and head of direct (online) sales at Digit Insurance, said, due to the pandemic, there has been a significant change in consumer behaviour as more people are now comfortable buying insurance products online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-covid-rages-hyderabadis-opt-for-high-insurance-covers/articleshow/79768080.cms||Swati Rathor
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD sarpanch, 7 associates booked for assaulting villager||LUDHIANA: Four days after a Gobindgarh village resident was assaulted, the police on Tuesday booked a Shiromani Akali Dal sarpanch and seven of his accomplices. The FIR has been lodged against sarpanch Jagtar Singh, Jasveer Singh of Friends Colony, Chandigarh Road, and six of their accomplices, who are yet to be identified. On December 12, the accused had assaulted Krishan Lal Sharma, 48, president of All India Sher-e-Punjab National Party. Sharma had contested the sarpanch elections and was defeated by Jagtar Singh. Since then, the two have been rivals. In his statement to the police, Sharma said, “The sarpanch was harassing a family in our locality and I was helping them. Around 9pm on December 12, my friend Naresh Kumar asked me to come to his house, saying Jagtar wanted to talk to me. After his call, I left for his house in my car. But on the way, the accused intercepted me and attacked me.” Focal point police station ASI Jasveer Singh said, “Earlier, Sharma was unfit to give a statement. On Tuesday, we recorded his statement and registered the case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-sarpanch-7-associates-booked-for-assaulting-villager/articleshow/79765884.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||With 1 in 5 workers ‘skilled’, India ranks 129 among 162||Barely one in five Indians in the labour force is “skilled” according to the just released Human Development Report (HDR) 2020. With the figure at 21.2%, India is 129th among 162 countries for which this data is available. The countries closest to India in sharing this dubious distinction are Ivory Coast, Sudan, Liberia and Cameroon, most of which are classified in the low human development category. Others with similar level of skill in their labour force are mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. The United Nations Development Programme’s HDR ranks countries according to a wide range of human development parameters apart from core economic factors like GDP and per capita income. The report defines skilled labour as people who are 15 years or older and have “intermediate” or “advanced” level of education as classified by the Unesco. Nearly all countries at the top of this list are advanced economies with very high Human Development Index. Japan, which tops this list, is ranked 19th in the overall HDI ranking and has 99.9% of its labour force classified as skilled. Belarus, the US, Lithuania and Russia have over 96% of their labour force classified as skilled. Apart from the US, Japan and Canada, most countries at the top of this list with over 90% of their labour force being skilled are from eastern Europe. For advanced economies in western Europe like Germany, Switzerland, Sweden, France and the UK, the proportion ranges between 80% and 90%. In India’s neighbourhood, only Bhutan has a lower proportion of skilled labour than India. In Nepal and Sri Lanka, nearly 40% of the labour force is skilled, while it is 28.1% in Myanmar, 27.8% in Pakistan and 25.8% in Bangladesh. Bhutan’s 19.5% is lower than India’s proportion. Data for China was not available. India’s labour force is also characterised by a high proportion of employment in agriculture and the informal sector with nearly half of its workforce classified as “working poor” — employed people who live on less than $3.20 a day in purchasing power parity terms (about Rs 70 a day at the 2020 rate). While they are above the international poverty line defined at PPP $1.90 a day (about Rs 42), these people are vulnerable to fall below it. According to the report, about 42% of employed people fall in this category in India. Although this is slightly lower than in Bangladesh, all other countries in the neighbourhood have a lower proportion of such employment. The share of agriculture and the informal sector in India’s employed people is comparable with its neighbours, but other large economies have a minuscule proportion. In Japan, for instance, only 3% of the workforce is in agriculture. For the US, Germany, France and the UK, the proportion is even lower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-1-in-5-workers-skilled-india-ranks-129-among-162/articleshow/79769587.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Meerut||Paddy straw, garbage burning instances shoot by 58% in Punjab & 10% in UP; Haryana improves||Slug: Farm fire Strap: From 50,335 burning events in Oct & Nov last year in Punjab, it rose to 79,693 during this yearBijnor: Several awareness programmes, government schemes and thousands of FIRs meant to wean the farmers away from burning paddy straw and garbage failed to make any substantial impact on the ground, a scrutiny from the sky has revealed. According to satellite remote sensing conducted by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) -- an autonomous unit of Union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare-- Punjab recorded 79,693 instances of paddy residue and garbage burning in the period between October 1 and November 30. It was a sharp jump from 50,335 burning events recorded in the northern state during the same period last year, the data says. It is a sharp increase of over 58%.While in Uttar Pradesh, the satellite observation threw 4,659 crop burning incidents till November 30, up from last year’s 4,230-- a jump of over 10%. A little breather came from Haryana, where the crop burning instances fell to 5,678 this year from 6,364 last year, a slip of over 12%.Apart from the air, paddy burning is affecting the soil too.JP Chaudhary, joint director in the agriculture department, said, “Due to the stubble burning, organic carbon or humus is decreasing in the soil. According to soil testing reports, earlier there was above 0.8% humus in the soil, which has dipped to below 0.2%. The health of the soil is also deteriorating with this. We are making the farmers aware about it. Besides, the government is providing subsidized agriculture equipment which are able to destroy crop residue turning it into organic matter. This increases fertility of the soil too.”In Punjab, the maximum number of crop burnings took place between October 26 and November 13. The highest single day crop burnings took place on November 6, when 5,235 events were recorded.In 2016, Punjab had seen 1,02,379 instances of crop burning which came down to 67,079 next year. And in 2018, it was 59,684.Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, UP's cane commissioner, has directed sugarcane officials to sensitize farmers about this serious impact on both air and soil. He has served notices to eight district cane officers -- in Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Meerut, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Kushinagar and Maharajganj -- asking them why they have shown a "reluctance" in checking crop residue burning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/paddy-straw-garbage-burning-instances-shoot-by-58-in-punjab-10-in-up-haryana-improves/articleshow/79765907.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Owing to pandemic, existing fees for private medical, dental colleges retained||HYDERABAD: In view of Covid-19, the ministry of health and family welfare has decided to retain the existing fee structure for private unaided non-minority and minority medical and dental colleges and Army College of Dental Sciences in Telangana for the academic year 2020-21. In 2017-18, orders were issued for undergraduate medical/dental courses increasing 5% tuition fee for B category seats and in respect of C category, the fee not exceeding two times of B category seats for private unaided non-minority colleges. The Telangana State Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee, Hyderabad submitted its recommendations for fixation of fee structure for MBBS, BDS courses for the block period 2020-2023 and requested that necessary orders be issued. In a government order issued on December 14, the ministry of health and family welfare stated: “Government after careful examination of the matter, hereby decides to retain the existing fee structure for the undergraduate medical and dental courses in private unaided non-minority, minority medical and dental colleges and also Army College of Dental Sciences for the year 2020-21 in view of the special circumstances due to Covid-19 pandemic.”  Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS), Warangal and principals of all private medical and dental colleges have been asked to take necessary action in the matter accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owing-to-pandemic-existing-fees-for-private-medical-dental-colleges-retained/articleshow/79768118.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor man sent to jail for ‘love jihad’, 8th case in UP under anti-conversion law||BIJNOR: Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor on Wednesday registered the state’s eighth case under the new anti-conversion law when it booked and sent to jail a 21-year-old man under its provisions, three days after he allegedly eloped with a minor girl of his village and tried to “convert” her to Islam. Shaqib alias Sonu, a resident of Bijnor’s Dhampur area, was also booked under section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of Posco and SC/ST Acts. The accused had eloped with the girl on Saturday and the couple was “recovered” on Tuesday, police said, adding that the girl was a minor, 16 years old, and a student of Class XI. The case was filed on the basis of a complaint filed by the girl’s father, who alleged that the youth had “lured” his minor daughter. “My minor daughter studies in a school in Dhampur. The accused, Shaqib, used to follow her after school hours. He lured her by saying that his name was Sonu, and he was a Hindu. He took her away on Saturday after which I filed a complaint,” the father said. Station house officer (SHO) of Dhampur, Arun Kumar Tyagi, said, “We have recovered the girl. The accused was sent to jail on Wednesday. Medical examination of the girl also is being conducted. The girl said that Shaqib had lured her.” This is the second case under the new anti-conversion law in Bijnor and eighth in the state. On December 12, a 21 years old man was arrested in the district for allegedly trying to marry a 19-year-old girl without “disclosing his religion”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-man-sent-to-jail-for-love-jihad-8th-case-in-up-under-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/79765906.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 17, 2020||Goa||Goa faces beef shortage, Sawant says will restore supply from Karnataka||Panaji: Days before the festive season commences in Goa, beef is slowly disappearing from Goan plates. Shutters of meat stores in Goa continued to be shut for the sixth day on Wednesday with no supply being received from Karnataka. The state received stock last Thursday, and many had closed their shops from Friday with no stock expected thereafter. “After the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was passed by the assembly there, veterinarians stopped certification of meat and cattle. As a result, meat and cattle cannot be transported. The bill doesn’t permit sale in the market and transportation of cattle for slaughter,” Qureshi Meat Traders Association general secretary Anwar Bepari told TOI. Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday assured the meat traders that he would ensure that the supply of beef is restored. “A meeting has been called with the secretary as well as the director of animal husbandry to discuss the issue,” Sawant said. The meat traders had submitted a memorandum to Sawant on Tuesday seeking his intervention in the matter. The state consumes around 15-20 tonne of beef daily. With the state government’s meat complex shut for the past four years, beef traders in the state mainly source the meat from Karnataka to meet demand. “Shops have been shut. There is no income. Workers and families are dependent on this trade. In addition, there are restaurants, hotels and bakeries. There is a lot of demand from tourists during this season and around New Year,” Bepari said. The association is also hoping that their counterparts in Karnataka will take some action. “We’re waiting to see what action the meat traders’ association in Karnataka will take. The Goa government should intervene and solve this problem. Goa is totally dependent on Karnataka for beef supply. We are neither receiving meat nor livestock from Karnataka,” Bepari said. Goa stopped receiving meat from Maharashtra in 2015 after slaughter and consumption of meat of bulls and bullocks came to be banned in addition to the existing ban on meat of cows. This didn’t impact meat trade in Goa as it had Karnataka to rely on. In the representation to the Goa government, the traders stated that a major portion of the population in Goa depends on beef and the act will deprive those for whom beef trade is their sole occupation. In addition to the local population, culinary businesses in Goa as well as those catering to tourists, and cold meat production houses are being affected, the association has stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-faces-beef-shortage-sawant-says-will-restore-supply-from-karnataka/articleshow/79769132.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: 536 new cases, three deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 536 cases of Covid-19 and three deaths as the number of active cases have begun to come down in the state. The total number of cases so far in the state touched 2,79,135, while the toll stands at 1,502. So far 2,70,450 patients have recovered from the virus in the state. The number of active cases in the state has reduced to 7,183 now as compared to 9,627 cases on December 1. The case fatality rate is constant at 0.53%, better than many other states. GHMC had 107 new cases on Tuesday, highest among districts, followed by 43 in Medchal Malkajgiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/536-new-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/79768143.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana floods: Insurance cos get paltry Rs 290 crore claims||HYDERABAD: Despite Telangana suffering extensive damage due to the incessant rains and subsequent floods in October, insurance companies have received claims of a meagre Rs 290 crore so far. Companies say that this is an indication of low insurance penetration in the region amid a rise in the number of extreme weather conditions in recent years. Data procured from the General Insurance Council (GIC) shows that insurance companies have received about 6,400 claims so far. Of these, about 5,500 pertain to motor insurance and the rest are for property and goods-related damages While the number of motor claims are high, their total value is just Rs 80 crore. By contrast the number of property insurance claims is just 400 but the value is around Rs 130 crore. Insurers pointed out that most of the property-related claims were made by small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Insurers had earlier indicated the overall loss in Hyderabad floods could be much lower than those filed for the 2015-16 Chennai floods where over 50,000 claims worth over Rs 5,000 crore had poured in. Sanjay Datta, chief (underwriting, claims and reinsurance), ICICI Lombard General Insurance, said overall claims were lower in Hyderabad because the extent of damages was also much lesser as compared to Chennai. Besides, the flood had impacted not just the city of Hyderabad but adjoining areas as well, as a result of which loss was not concentrated in the urban region but beyond, where the penetration of insurance is low, Datta added. In Hyderabad, many citizens were left with damaged vehicles and properties, but lack of comprehensive motor insurance and home insurance covers saw many people having to spend from their own pockets for repairs. While motor insurance is mandatory and vehicle owners are expected to have at least a `third party liability’ motor cover, the issue with this cover is that it does not offer protection against damages caused by natural calamities. Kshitish Kumar Mohanty, head – corporate planning and product development, Universal Sompo General Insurance pointed out that home insurance accounts for only about 2% of the total premium collected by general insurance companies in India. Most of the home insurance policies are home loan-linked and they generally cover flood-related damages, he said. “India is among the most disaster-prone countries in the world. Additionally, unplanned urbanisation, development within high-risk zones, changing demographics, environmental degradation, and climate change are adding to the risk. Hence, all home owners without exception should opt for home insurance since the rates are not prohibitive,” he added. In October, the state had estimated crop loss at Rs 8,633 crore, loss to roads at Rs 222 crore and loss to GHMC at Rs 567 crore. However, it has not come up with any estimates of total loss to private property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-floods-insurance-cos-get-paltry-rs-290cr-claims/articleshow/79768170.cms||Swati Rathor
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||WB clears first third of Rs 3k cr loan||Ahmedabad: The approval for the first instalment of Rs 1,000 crore of the total Rs 3,000 crore World Bank soft loan was received by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Wednesday. This comes at a time when the city’s critical infrastructure is starved of funds under repeated onslaughts of the Covid pandemic. The loan approval has pumped in the much-needed adrenalin into a number of crucial city projects, especially those related to hygiene. Almost all of the mammoth funding will go into sprucing up the sewerage and storm-water system of the city. The 20-year soft loan will be disbursed at roughly 2% interest which will be charged after a five-year moratorium period. The sector came as a natural choice for the World Bank since the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had laid down quality parameters, guidelines, and timelines for the AMC to ensure proper treatment of wastewater and capacity enhancement of wastewater treatment facilities. In fact, the World Bank has agreed to fund the AMC for wastewater infrastructure that will remain relevant till 2050. But at the same time, the World Bank has demanded certain process and management reforms of the AMC. Meanwhile, the Asian Development Bank has given its approval for the Rs 1,900 crore project in the areas of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority. The World Bank requires that a special project implementation unit (PIU) be set up. The plan is to enhance the sewerage treatment of the city by 30 per cent, sprucing up all STPs, replacing sewerage and storm water trunk lines and replacing many old dilapidated sewerage lines using the micro-tunnelling technique. Nearly 22% to 25% of tertiary treated water will have to be supplied to surrounding factories for reuse. The loan will be disbursed in three parcels of 33% each. The World Bank requires new systems in place for institutional capacity building — this includes raising tax as well as non-tax revenues, start charging citizens for water and drainage services. Owing to the Covid pandemic, the AMC stalled Rs 1,200 crore worth of projects including rollout of 350 electric buses. “We had presented to them all sectors, including roads and bridges, solid waste management, slums. But they chose wastewater. Their next priority is likely to be on health,” said a senior AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/wb-clears-first-third-of-rs-3k-cr-loan/articleshow/79768375.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Patna||Child marriages see a dip in Bihar, says NFHS report||PATNA: In an encouraging social indicator for the state, the percentage of child marriage among girls have seen a dip in Bihar, according to the National Family Health Survey report released recently. The percentage of women in 20-24 year age group, who were married before the legal age, has reduced from 42.5% in 2015-16 to 40.8% in 2019-20 as per the fifth National Family Health Survey report. The cases of early marriage among males have seen a decline too. The Bihar fact sheet of the survey reveals that the percentage of men (25-29 years) married before the age of 21 years has fallen to 30.5% from 35.3%. The decline in cases of child marriage below 18 years has been possible due to the extensive work done by various government agencies and civil society organizations. Dilmani Mishra, chairperson of the Bihar State Women’s Commission (BSWC) told this newspaper that education and social uplift of the marginalised communities played a major role in the decline in child marriages. “Awareness plays an important in the reduction in child marriages. In many cases, child marriages are directly linked to income, they see the girl child as a liability. The more educated and well-off the girl’s family is, the less likely it is to marry the child off,” she said. “Earlier, more cases of child marriages were reported in the state, but now, we get only 4-5 cases in six months or a year. In these cases, the complainant was usually the bride. With the help of local administration, we stop marriages and counsel the girl’s parents and from time-to-time, we also ensure that such incidents do not happen in future with that girl,” said Mishra. The state government is determined to end the practice of dowry and child marriages. Towards this goal, a campaign titled “Baal Vivah Evam Dahej Mukt Hamara Bihar,” was launched in January 2020 by the Women Development Corporation. “The corporation with the help of civil society organisations successfully stopped 37 child marriages last year,” WDC project director Ajay Kumar Shrivastava said. He added, “Through campaigns in Bihar, the social awareness among the masses have increased due to which we are seeing an improvement in the NFHS-5 report.” In rural areas, frontline service providers such as anganwadi sevikas, Asha workers, and auxiliary nurse midwives usually keep a watch on cases of child marriage. The other factor that the UNICEF, Bihar, officials have seen in the past five years is that maximum child marriages that took place in the age 14-15 years are now in the age group of 17-18. It also led to an improvement in the total fertility rate which came down to 3% from 3.4%. Most child marriages result in teenage pregnancy due to societal pressure and lack of knowledge on family planning. Women (in the age group of 15-19 years) who were already mothers or pregnant at the time of the survey is 11 per cent, while in NFHS-4, it was 12.2%. The adolescent fertility rate for women (15-19 years) is 77%. The state government is determined to end the practice of dowry and child marriages. Towards this goal, a campaign titled “Baal Vivah Evam Dahej Mukt Hamara Bihar,” was launched in January 2020 by the Women Development Corporation, a wing of the social welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/child-marriages-see-a-dip-in-bihar-says-nfhs-report/articleshow/79766911.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Trauma, emergency cases up at Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With the resumption of non-Covid services at the state-run Gandhi Hospital over a fortnight ago, the tertiary care health facility is now seeing a large number of trauma and surgical emergencies. Meanwhile, post-Covid patients, who have recovered from the infection, but developed severe complications, are now on the decline. Currently, the hospital has just 40 post Covid cases as compared to over 300 a month ago. Trauma cases have become the main medical emergencies landing up at the hospital, which had remained the nodal centre for Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic till the second half of November. While it is still providing tertiary care for Covid-19 patients, who are pregnant or need to undergo a surgical procedure or a road injury patient, the hospital has now started all departments for regular patients. “We are getting some emergency cases like appendicitis, emergencies related to intestinal obstructions, while majority of the cases coming now are trauma cases. We are getting not less than 10 trauma cases per day, including road accidents, fight injuries and falls from a height,” Gandhi Hospital superintendent Dr M Raja Rao said. Meanwhile, surgical emergency cases like appendicitis, neurosurgical emergencies like stroke, ruptured blood vessels and tumours etc are also on the rise. Patients, especially the ones coming from far-flung places of the state, have delayed seeking treatment since the onset of the pandemic. Many such cases, resulting in sudden emergencies, were now turning up at the hospital. “In cases like internal bleed, tumours etc, the patients may have waited for a long time. As a result, a sudden emergency situation may arise. In many cases, they come to know when a seizure occurs or there is a sudden paralysis,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trauma-emergency-cases-up-at-gandhi-hospital/articleshow/79768196.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||JEE Main to be held from February 23||HYDERABAD: After withdrawing the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main schedule placed on its official website on Tuesday, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal announced that JEE Main first session will be held from February 23 to 26 and the results will be declared within five days from the last date of exams. Second, third, and fourth sessions will be conducted in March, April, and May respectively and students can appear for examinations based on their convenience. “I am glad that the exam will be conducted four times, giving me multiple opportunities to better my score. However, it would be better if the state reopens colleges immediately so that I will be well prepared at least for April or May exam session,” said K Pavan, an intermediate second-year student. Faculty at coaching institutes said that conducting JEE four times is going to motivate students to prepare better and improve performance. “As soon as notification was released yesterday, we received several calls from aspirants enquiring about books and grand tests. Many students become alert and their preparation and performance will improve in the next few months. Students who are genuinely trying to get into IITs will definitely benefit from this move,” said Lalith Kumar, convener, IIT JEE/NEET forum This year, JEE exam will be conducted in thirteen languages including English, Hindi, Telugu, Urdu, Tamil, among others. Students can submit an online application between December 16 and January 16, 2021. Few, however, questioned why the NTA is conducting JEE four times this year, but not other competitive examinations. “If JEE exam can be conducted 4 times a year so that they can better their marks, why can’t NEET be conducted twice in a year,” tweeted Sahithi G with handle @SahithiG58 tagging @EduMinOfIndia and @DrRPNishank.  JEE exam will be conducted in thirteen languages including English, Hindi, Telugu, Urdu, Tamil. Students can submit an online application till January 16, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jee-main-to-be-held-from-feb-23/articleshow/79768225.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Project implementation unit formed by the civic body||Ahmedabad: For the implementation of projects sanctioned under Gujarat Resilient City development programme the AMC has formed a 20-member project implementation unit (PIU) which will be headed by the city engineer and a deputy municipal commissioner.The AMC in a meeting on Wednesday formed the PIU for effective coordination, implementation and supervision of the projects. The projects include drainage and sewage treatment plant-related ancillary works.The city engineer will head the PIU and coordinate with the World Bank and other authorities for the purpose. The PIU will report through the city engineer to the deputy municipal commissioner.The AMC said that projects under the PIU include sewerage treatment plant project with estimated cost of Rs 589 crore. The capacity of the STP will be upgraded from 993 MLD to 1,396 MLD. Storm-water drainage with estimated project cost of Rs 514 crore will be also be taken up by the PIU. The AMC has decided to complete 14km rehabilitation of sewage lines and the work on 19km sewage lines. Two micro-tunnelling projects for civic line works will also be executed and the AMC has appointed consultants for storm water drainage project. Chandrabhaga Development and Kharicut Canal Development Works are part of these projects.In case of the AUDA , the focus was on augmenting drinking water supply and drainage works. In mo-town Sanand, the AUDA has proposed a major drinking water project. The AUDA authorities have also sought Rs 660 crore for putting in place an urban mobility and public transport project on the SP Ring Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/project-implementation-unit-formed-by-the-civic-body/articleshow/79768369.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Maths, English lessons for nomad kids on highway, courtesy CMC||CHANDRAPUR: Tucked away along the busy Chandrapur-Nagpur highway on the city’s outskirts, nomad kids are being tutored under a unique initiative of Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC). The children aged 6 to 14 carry their notebooks and pencils from their makeshift shelters and gather at this impromptu roadside classroom every morning. Two teachers deployed by CMC roll down floor mats under a big tree on a spot cleaned for conducting the open classroom at 8am. Then begin free lessons in basic Maths, English and Hindi on weekdays. The classes started around a fortnight back after CMC education officer Nagesh Neet came across around a dozen nomad kids playing along the road. Neet told TOI, “Their parents, who have come from other states, were busy selling soft toys and other items at the temporary shops along the road. It’s then the idea of providing education to these kids struck me. I presented a proposal to municipal commissioner Rajesh Mohite who immediately approved it.” A team of teachers was asked to immediately contact the parents. “There are around 16 children aged 6 to 14 years. Their families had arrived here looking for some employment after Covid restrictions were lifted. They are likely to stay for a few months till all their goods are sold,” said Neet. “These kids who live in roadside shanties do nothing but play and roam around. Their parents readily agreed for the classes,” said Neet. Six teachers who conduct the open classrooms were given access to necessary material. “Two teachers hold classes for one and half-hour every day,” said Neet. Around a dozen kids promptly attend the classes every day. “We bring mats, teaching board and other teaching accessories from nearby schools. Along with basics in Maths and languages like English, Hindi and Marathi, they are taught about manners, etiquettes, hygiene and good habits,” said one of their tutors, Pravin Atram. Atram said that the children have been provided notebooks, pencils, masks and sanitizers and due care is take to maintain Covid distancing. Neet said it is not possible to enrol these kids in schools here as their parents keep changing location. “We are trying to impart basic education to these kids during their stay here. We are also exploring other sites in and around city and open more such classrooms if nomad kids are staying there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maths-english-lessons-for-nomad-kids-on-highway-courtesy-cmc/articleshow/79767166.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tough mask rule: Drop in cases||Ahmedabad: As the vaccine for Covid-19 is still to be availed by common people, it seems that covering the face with cloth or wearing mask is the only thing which can save a person from the deadly virus infection. The figures of mask offences registered by police and Covid-19 cases reported by the civic body suggest that clamping down on mask rule violations is accompanied by an immediate drop in reported Covid cases. According to the figures of mask rule violations reported in December, as many as 1,363 cases of not wearing masks were reported on December 1. On the same day, 311 cases of Covid-19 infection were reported in the city by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Mask rule violations increased to 3,978 cases on December 15 whereas Covid-19 infection cases decreased to 232 on the same day. Earlier in November, the cases of Covid-19 infection increased when the police did not hold regular drives or showed lackadaisical approach in registering offence against people for roaming in public without wearing masks. On November 1, the city reported 853 cases of mask rule violations and 164 Covid-19 cases were reported on the same day. On November 15, there were just 81 mask rule violations registered and Covid-19 cases were at 202. During Diwali festival as no mask cases were reported on November 17, as many as 202 Covid-19 cases were reported on the same day. When cops gave ‘relief to people’ from booking them, a rapid increase in Covid-19 cases were reported and on an average 300 cases were reported daily in city over last two weeks of November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tough-mask-rule-drop-in-cases/articleshow/79768281.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man gets lifer for sexual abuse of niece||HYDERABAD: A year after a 30-year-old man sexually abused his 11-year-old niece in Mangalhat, a local court in Nampally on Wednesday convicted him of the heinous crime and sent him to life sentence. Awarding the life term, first additional metropolitan sessions judge K Suneetha said: “In view of POCSO Act section of sexual abuse of a minor, the accused is punished and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life and to pay a fine of Rs 10,000.” The convict sexually abused the girl in November 2019. The girl, who lost her mother at a very early age, has been in the custody of her aunt in Mangalhat. On the day of the offence, the aunt had gone out to attend some work when the accused forced himself on the hapless girl and sexually abused her. Anganwadi workers, who came to know about the incident, alerted police about the girl’s ordeal. Later the accused was arrested and sent to judicial remand. The court was convinced by witness’ deposition and scientific evidence and sent the accused to life imprisonment. The convict will be ineligible for remission during his stay in prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-lifer-for-sexual-abuse-of-niece/articleshow/79768271.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court extends Vipul Chaudhary’s remand||AHMEDABAD: A special anti-corruption court on Wednesday granted CID (crime) two more days for custodial interrogation of former home minister and ex-chairman of Dudhsagar Dairy, Vipul Chaudhary, in connection with an alleged financial fraud. Chaudhary was earlier remanded in police custody for four days. On Wednesday, the investigating agency, CID (crime), produced him in court and sought further remand for seven days. The court granted the agency further remand till December 18. The agency sought more time for custodial interrogation to investigate investments in Jainam Industries and to find out how much money was invested in it and why. The agency also sought remand to find the trail of the remainder after Rs 9 crore was deposited by Chaudhary with the dairy, according to directions issued by the cooperatives tribunal, said public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt. The investigators also submitted that a co-accused and vice-chairman of the dairy, Moghji Patel, has been taken into custody in this case. There were efforts to take custody of another suspect, Nishith Bakshi, and the probe agency intended to confront them together on several questions. The court sent Patel to police custody till December 19. In 2014, Chaudhary was accused of causing a loss of Rs 22.5 crore to Dudhsagar Dairy when as a chairman he decided to send cattle feed for free to Maharashtra.  He was held responsible for the loss by the cooperatives registrar. When Chaudhary challenged the registrar’s conclusion before the tribunal, it ordered him in July 2018 to deposit 40% of the total amount, Rs 9 crore. Chaudhary is accused of conspiring with the dairy’s other office bearers to raise this sum. They allegedly hatched a conspiracy and announced that the dairy would give double bonus to employees. The employees were, however, told to deposit 80% of that year’s bonus amount back with the dairy. They allegedly raised Rs 14.8 crore through this exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-extends-vipul-chaudharys-remand/articleshow/79768363.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong opposes Gupta’s active role in Goyal’s poll campaign||Chandigarh: Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday courted yet another controversy as Congress MLAs questioned his move of accompanying BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal on his jeep during the latter’s election procession on Tuesday. Headed by deputy leader of opposition Aftab Ahmed, MLAs Geeta Bhukkal, Bharat Bhushan Batra, Jagbir Malik, B L Saini and Amit Sihag questioned Gupta’s role in Panchkula civic body election. “A speaker is a neutral person. Since Gupta is the speaker of the assembly, he should have restrained from direct association with any political party or candidate when it comes to election campaign or rally. This amounts to violation,” said Aftab Ahmed. B B Batra and Geeta Bhukkal, who maintained that Gupta’s move is questionable, therefore the returning officers as well as the district election officer should have taken cognizance of the issue and acted against him. “The speaker has just acted like a BJP activist instead of maintaining dignity of the institution. This amounts to influencing the voters,” said Batra. Notably, Gupta represents the Panchkula assembly constituency and he had accompanied BJP candidate Kulbhushan Goyal on his jeep on Tuesday. However, BJP’s spokesman has termed it as ‘frustration’ by Congress leaders. “Gupta ji is our local MLA. He did not use his official car or asked his staff to accompany him. Being a local MLA, he has all the rights - politically, socially and morally to accompany the party candidate. He is the head of the institution and knows the rules more than any other member of the assembly,” said Naveen Garg, district media in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-opposes-guptas-active-role-in-goyals-poll-campaign/articleshow/79765984.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Men more prone to Covid infection, says PGI study||Chandigarh: Males were found to have higher incidence and mortality due to Covid-19 as inferred by a recent study done at the PGI. In a preliminary study done by the institute in 271 patients, it was found that 104 patients were reported to be Covid-19 positive, of which 63 (60.6%) were male and 40 (39%) were female. This is one of the first preliminary studies which tells gender role in morbidity as well as mortality of CoV-2 infection. The study, “Demographic Characteristics of Patients with Covid-19: A preliminary report from Northern India” has been authored by Dr Raman Sharma, Dr Arvind Rana, Dr Ashok Kumar and Dr Vipin Koushal from the department of hospital administration, PGI. In the present study, male patients were reported to have been more associated with comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension and smoking, than female patients. Also, deaths were also more skewed among male patients, where death rate was 3.84% when compared to female patients i.e. 2.88%. Most of the deceased were reported to have pulmonary diseases of acute respiratory distress syndrome, respiratory pneumonia leading to respiratory failure, whereas one patient was reported to have refractory shock with ventilator-associated pneumonia. All these patients were on high-flow oxygen concentrations, along with high-end antibiotics and other supportive management. The study highlights gender-specific differences in susceptibility to Covid-19 and provides insight into the differences in disease severity in males. “More workup is needed to generalise our findings on gender effects of the Covid-19 outbreak. The exact reason for such a protective mechanism in females is still not known,” said one of the authors. The data pertaining to screened, tested and reported positive patients admitted to the “Covid-19 hospital” of the institute were analysed. All these reported positive patients were studied for positivity rate of the disease, associated comorbidities and mortality pattern based on gender preponderance of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/men-more-prone-to-covid-infection-says-pgi-study/articleshow/79766009.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||9 contenders for mayor’s seat, 84 for 20 councillors||Panchkula: A total of nine persons filed nominations for the post of mayor, while 84 filed nominations for the 20 councillor seats at the district election office till the last day on Wednesday. District election officer-cum-deputy commissioner M K Ahuja said for the post of mayor, they have received applications from Padam Garg, Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia, Dhawal Pratap Singh Ahluwalia, Kulbhushan Goyal, Sudarashan Bansal, Pushpinder Singh, Anil, Krishan Aggarwal and Shyam Singh Negi at the additional DC office. He said for Ward Number 1, Kuljinder Kaur, Amrik Singh, Anil Kumar, Parmala Devi, Sukhdev Singh, Sukhwinder Kaur, Narinder Pal Singh Lubana and Avtar Singh filed their nominations. From Ward Number 2, Suresh Kumar Sharma, Aman Dutt Sharma and Rattan Chand have filed their nominations. Ritu, Ruchi, Vijay and Bhavna have filed from Ward Number 3. From Ward Number 4, Seema Garg, Priyanka Garg and Sonia Sood are in the fray. Nitin Sharma, Akash Shreedhar, Sunil Talwar, Ravinder Kumar Rawal, Naresh Kumar Rawal are from Ward Number 5. From Ward Number 6, Pankaj, Sunny Kumar, Mukesh Kumar Rohit, Kavita and Seema have filed nominations. Usha Rani, Deeksha, Neelam Kanta Devi, Neelam and Neelam Rani are from Ward Number 7. Ajay Kumar Gupta, Shamsher Singh, Manoj Singh Visht and Rajbir Singh are from Ward Number 8 and many more from other wards too have filed their nominations till the last day. DC Ahuja said the last date of withdrawal of candidature is December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-contenders-for-mayors-seat-84-for-20-councillors/articleshow/79766003.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers stir to impact civic polls: Cong||Chandigarh: After Baroda by-election, now farmers’ agitation is likely to make an impact on the polling trends in the Panchkula civic body elections. The voting will be held on December 27. There are around 1.86 lakh strong electorates in the mayoral constituency of Panchkula. The urban estate of Panchkula has 31 sectors and six sectors are in the Mansa Devi complex and 40 villages. According to information, the rural and urban slums, which are in the periphery of the city, constitutes to at least 48 per cent of the voter count. While Congressmen and other opposition leaders assert that farmers’ agitation at the New Delhi border will have an impact on the polls. On the other hand, BJP leaders as well as election managers deny the same. Congress leaders are leaving no chance in taking up the farmers’ issue at all the platforms “Please don’t expect a repeat of Baroda by-poll here. Circumstances were different that time. Even farmers were unaware as to what was happening in the background of the agitation. Now, those behind the agitation stand exposed and the rural electors as well farmers have understood that the agriculture laws are in their favour,” said Parveen Attri, official state spokesman of BJP. “Moreover, these elections are contested on civic issues, development projects and accessibility of the candidate or elected representative. Hence, our candidate Kulbhushan Goyal has several individual achievements with clean image and social standing,” he added. Though, speaker Gian Chand Gupta, election in-charge Capt Abhimanyu and candidate Kulbhushan Goyal remained inaccessible. District BJP media in-charge Naveen Garg too endorsed this. While, Dhanender Ahluwalia, former Zila Parishad chairman and husband of Congress candidate Upinder Ahluwalia, was quick to react. “How can one ignore farmers and their issues, especially when the people in cities have come out in open to support them? This will certainly have an impact,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-stir-to-impact-civic-polls-cong/articleshow/79765995.cms||Manvir Saini
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,384 recover, but 1,160 cases are added||Ahmedabad: The number of coronavirus patients in Gujarat, rose to 2.31 lakh cases on Wednesday, with an addition of some 1,160 cases over a 24-hour period, ending at 5pm on Wednesday. Some 1,384 Covid-19 patients got discharged from various hospitals across Gujarat during the same period, according to the state health department. With this, Gujarat’s recovery count touched 2.14 lakh patients, with a recovery rate of 92.7%. Some 10 patients also succumbed to coronavirus infections, taking the death toll of Covid-19 patients in Gujarat to some 4,203 patients. The fresh death cases include five from Ahmedabad, two from Surat and one each from Rajkot, Vadodara and Amreli. At present, Gujarat has some 12,647 active cases, of which 67 patients are on ventilator support whereas the remaining are in a stable condition. As far as Ahmedabad is concerned, the city reported some 230 new cases on Wednesday, against 225 patients who got discharged. That apart, Surat city reported some 143 fresh cases, whereas Vadodara reported some 107 new cases and Rajkot reported some 104 new cases on the same day. Some 54,864 tests were conducted across Gujarat on Wednesday. With this, some 88.35 lakh persons from across the state have been tested for Covid-19 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1384-recover-but-1160-cases-are-added/articleshow/79768353.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||‘Waste of time’: Rahul, MPs walk out of defence panel meet||NEW DELHI: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and his party colleagues walked out of the parliamentary standing committee on defence on Wednesday on the ground that panel chair Jual Oram did not allow him to speak during a discussion on the rank structure, uniforms, stars and badges of the defence forces. A war of words broke out when Gandhi, who arrived after the meeting had started, is learnt to have said the panel was wasting time discussing ranks and uniforms when Indian soldiers were facing a crisis on the borders and the committee should focus on discussing strategy and ways to better equip soldiers stationed at the borders. Gandhi was, however, interrupted by Oram, who said discussions would remain limited to the fixed agenda, which was to acquaint members about the rank structure, stars and badges of the armed forces. Speaking to TOI, BJP MP and Lt General (retired) D P Vats, said, “It was decided in the previous meeting, which Rahul did not attend, that members of Parliament should be made conversant with ranks and uniforms since it is sometimes very embarrassing for senior officers when a lieutenant general is addressed at lieutenant, and members confuse other ranks as well.” Vats said he also cited instances during the meeting where some countries like the United States “simplified” their uniforms for easier identification. Gandhi, however, objected and said that Indian forces had their own history and tradition on the basis of which uniforms and ranks were decided. He added that any decision to change uniforms or ranks should remain only with the service chiefs. “Politicians cannot have the right to decide on the uniforms or badges of armed forces,” he told the panel. A senior MP who did not wish to be identified added that discussions about defence ranks and badges was not typically taken by standing committees. He also said at least two MPs from the ruling BJP apparently called for a simplification of Indian uniforms in line with practices elsewhere. With Gandhi and his colleagues Rajeev Satav and Rewant Reddy demanding explanations from the committee on why the committee failed to discuss the LAC situation with regard to China, Oram stopped them from speaking, and at which point, Congress walked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/waste-of-time-rahul-mps-walk-out-of-defence-panel-meet/articleshow/79769712.cms||Swati Mathur
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Married daughter can claim parent’s job, says Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court has ruled that married daughters, too, are entitled to seek employment on compassionate grounds as they don’t cease to be part of the family after they enter wedlock, and directed the government to consider the petitioner’s appeal for a job in one of its departments. “Half the world, and not even half a chance,” the HC said about the plight of Bhuvaneswari V Puranik, from Bengaluru, whose representation for a job on compassionate grounds was rejected because she is married. Her brother, working in a private firm, chose not to seek a government job. The petitioner’s father Ashok Adiveppa Madivalar, working as a secretary in the office of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee at Kuduchi in Belagavi district, died in 2016 while in service. His daughter’s application for a job on compassionate grounds in 2017 was rejected by the joint director (admin), department of agriculture marketing. ‘Rules seek to discriminate’Bhuvaneswari challenged the order in the high court, contending it was discriminatory. The court said married daughters’ exclusion from the ambit of expression ‘family’ under the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules, 1996, was illegal, discriminatory and unconstitutional, and struck down the rules which said only unmarried daughter is considered a family member. Stating that “nature bestows so much on women (and) the law cannot bestow too little”, Justice M Nagaprasanna said the rules seek to create discrimination on the basis of gender and, hence, violate Articles 14 and 15 that prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion, race, sex or gender. “If the marital status of a son does not make any difference in law to his entitlement for seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, (then) the marital status of a daughter (too) should make no difference. Law cannot make an assumption that married sons alone continue to be a part of the family,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/married-daughter-can-claim-parents-job-says-ktaka-hc/articleshow/79769726.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
December 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BJP in a spot as JD(S) seeks council chairperson’s post||BENGALURU: The BJP leadership is staring at a fresh challenge after getting the support of Janata Dal (Secular) to dislodge legislative council chairman K Prathap Chandra Shetty through a no-confidence motion as the HD Deve Gowda-led party wants that post. In the 75-member council, BJP has only 31 MLCs and is banking on the JD(S), which has 14 MLCs, to unseat Shetty, a Congressman who ruling party members allege is partial. Shetty seemed to be safe until JD(S) extended support to BJP and gave a letter about it to the governor and council secretary on Tuesday. Following unsavoury scenes in the house, BJP and JD(S) leaders paraded MLCs before the governor at Raj Bhavan. While Shetty’s ouster looks imminent, the buzz is who will be the next chairman. JD(S) is lobbying hard with senior member and former minister Basavaraj Horatti a likely pick. The JD(S) surprised many by its move to support BJP in the case of no-confidence move since the party had opposed the ruling party’s anti-cow slaughter bill the same day. Will take it up if BJP and JD(S) reach consensus, says Basavaraj HorattiEarlier, it had supported BJP in the council to get the land reforms bill passed. However, insiders said veterans of BJP and JD(S) came to an understanding on the no-confidence motion with chief minister BS Yediyurappa talking to Kumaraswamy. “We decided to move the motion only after JD(S) ensured its support. Now, JD(S) wants to bag the post,” said senior BJP MLC and government chief whip in the legislative council Mahantesh Kavatagimath. It’ll be the second effort for Horatti, who has been nursing the aspiration to become chairman for a long time. He came close when the JD(S)-Congress alliance formed the government in 2018 but finally Shetty got the nod. “I’ll take it up if both BJP and JD(S) leaders come to a consensus. I have no issues if they don’t want me,” said Horatti. While some senior BJP leaders, including Yediyurappa, are apparently willing to spare the post to JD(S), many loyalists are against it. They’re already upset that migrants from Congress and JD(S) are bagging cabinet berths and plum portfolios. While Kavatagimath is a contender, BJP has many aspirants, including Shashil Namoshi, Arun Shahpur and Ayanur Manjunath. “BJP is the single largest party in the council. There’s no question of handing the post to JD(S). The chairman has to be from BJP,” said BJP councillor Lahar Singh Siroya. It may even create an implosion in JD(S) if Horatti gets the post since his party colleague S L Dharme Gowda, now deputy chairman, has to step down. Shetty in no hurry to resignCongress functionaries have chosen to wait and watch even as Shetty is no hurry to resign. “There is no point in asking for Shetty’s resignation now. If they have the numbers, let BJP and JD(S) give a fresh notice to move a no-confidence motion and let the strength of parties be proven on the floor of the House,” said Congress MLC BK Hariprasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-in-a-spot-as-jds-seeks-council-chairpersons-post/articleshow/79769728.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Western Command pays tributes on Vijay Diwas||CHANDIGARH: To commemorate the Vijay Diwas, homage was paid to the martyrs at the Veer Smriti - the war memorial at the Chandimandir military station, during a solemn wreath-laying ceremony on Wednesday. On behalf of GOC-in-C Western Command, Lt Gen Yogendra Dimri, Chief of Staff, Western Command, laid a wreath and paid tributes. A number of senior veterans of all the three services also graced the occasion and paid tributes. Among distinguished veterans, former Army Chief Gen V P Malik (Retd), Air Chief Marshal B S Dhanoa (Retd), Admiral Sunil Lamba (Retd), Lt Gen T K Sapru (Retd), Lt Gen A N Aul, Vice Admiral H C S Bisht (Retd) and several others were present during the ceremony. This Vijay Diwas also marks the commencement of the Golden Jubilee year of the 1971 Indo-Pak War, which is being celebrated across the nation as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. Tri-services, a year-long commemorative event, also commenced on Wednesday at the National War Memorial with the lighting of the Victory Flame. Vijay Diwas commemorates the stupendous victory of the country in the 1971 Indo-Pak War in which the Western Command had played a stellar role. The war was fought for a period of 13 days i.e. from December 3 to December 16, 1971. In one of the fastest and shortest campaigns of the military history, a new nation Bangladesh was born as a result of the swift lightning campaign undertaken by the Indian Army. The decisive victory culminated with 93,000 prisoners of the Pak Army surrendering to the might of the Indian Army and the liberation of Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/western-command-pays-tributes-on-vijay-diwas/articleshow/79766012.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||I-T official dies after recovery||D G Pansari, joint commissioner of income tax (I-T) department in the state, succumbed to post-Covid complications on Wednesday, said his colleagues in the department. His is the second high-profile death in the department after Devashish Roy Choudhury, CCIT (TDS), succumbed to the viral infection in October. Pansari, 57, was serving as joint commissioner of regional e-Assessment Centres (ReAC). He had tested positive about a month ago and had also recovered. But ever since, he was not keeping well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/i-t-official-dies-after-recovery/articleshow/79768347.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: His ankle joint becomes his knee!||AHMEDABAD: In an unusual surgery, the experts at Gujarat Cancer Research Institute (GCRI) saved the leg of a nine-year-old boy from Madhya Pradesh by removing his knee joint which was infected with cancer and converted the ankle into a knee! Dr Abhijeet Salunke, orthopaedic oncosurgeon at GCRI, said that it was the second such operation in the recent past after the leg of a 12-year-old girl from Rajasthan was saved in a similar fashion. “The surgery is identified as ‘rotationplasty’ where the ankle joint substitutes as knee joint after 180 degree turn. It’s a middle path between saving the limbs and amputation,” Dr Salunke explained. GCRI director Dr Shashank Pandya said that the surgical procedure involved wide resection of bone tumour and separating the major neurovascular bundle and coiling of these structures. “The surgical procedure takes about five hours,” said Dr Pandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/his-ankle-joint-becomes-his-knee/articleshow/79768344.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||E-renewal of learner’s licence||Ahmedabad: The transport department has decided that henceforth, the physical presence at the Road Transport Office (RTO) will not be required for the renewal of the learners’ driving licence or for getting a learner’s licence. The RTO officials said that so far a person was required to remain present at the RTO office for the renewal of a driving licence. Henceforth, the person can do so by simply applying online and by paying the fee. The learner licence will be renewed immediately once the fee is paid on Parivahan official website. “If a person had a two-wheeler licence and he wanted to apply for a four-wheeler’s licence, he was required to go to the RTO office for getting a learner’s licence. However, now as per the new procedure, he will be issued a driving licence soon as he applies online and pays the fee,” said an RTO official. The officials said that a person’s presence was required now only for the first time when he wanted to apply for the permanent licence or learner’s licence for the first time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-renewal-of-learners-licence/articleshow/79768341.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Armed robbers hold retd armyman’s kids hostage, flee with pistol, valuables||NAGPUR: At least five armed dacoits looted cash, ornaments and a pistol from the house of a retired army jawan in Kamptee’s Riddhi Siddhi Colony at Ranala. The robbers also struck at the jawan’s neighbouring house but found no valuables, New Kamptee police said on Wednesday. At around 2.30am, the armed dacoits entered the duplex of retired army jawan Sunil David (49) by breaking open the main door lock, the police said. They took David’s two children, who were sleeping on the ground floor, hostage and then went upstairs where David and his wife were sleeping. Hearing the noise, David and his wife woke up. Before David could resist, the armed robbers threatened them that their children were hostage below and demanded all valuables from them. David and his wife handed over a gold ring and Rs10,000 cash. Before fleeing the dacoits also searched the almirah where they spotted David’s licenced .32 bore pistol and took the weapon with them. They also took his mobile phone. Later, the dacoits struck at the house of David’s neighbour Sharad Sahare, who too is a retired army jawan, after breaking open the main door of the duplex. Sahare and his family were not present in the house. The dacoits ransacked the house but could not find any valuables and left with his TV set. On realizing they could be traced due to David’s cell phone, they dumped it in a field. On being informed by David, New Kamptee police registered an offence of robbery against unidentified armed robbers and are probing further. A police team rushed to the spot and fingerprint experts and sniffer dog squad were also summoned. Sniffer dogs tried to track down the robbers for some distance. But they stopped at a short distance, and the police suspect the robbers might have used a car to flee. It is learnt that the police have found the footprints of the robbers at two places. CP Amitesh Kumar, DCP Neelotpal among other senior city police officials visited the spot. The DCP has also formed special teams to nab the robbers. Police said before entering David’s house, the masked robbers tried to enter the house of a retired income tax officer in the same locality. But after they spotted a CCTV camera, they changed their target, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/armed-robbers-hold-retd-armymans-kids-hostage-flee-with-pistol-valuables/articleshow/79767186.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Hone your skills in Learnathon 2020||Nagpur: Year 2020 has brought in several changes in many aspects of life, including in the education field which has seen never-before emphasis on online learning. Though online classes can never match classroom learning, Learnathon™ — the world’s only Learning Marathon — has for the first time crossed all bridges to go global. Learnathon™ 2020 is being presented in association with The Times of India. This year, it will be a two-day online event. Nagpur’s Gurukul.education has applied the concept of marathon, the 42km race that tests extremes of human endurance, to their own field — education and learning. Learnathon™, in its 5th year, is the world’s first and only marathon of learning. This year, it will be a double marathon again. Spread over two days, it will be a 42-workshop run, each day. Starting at 12 noon on December 26, Learnathon will continue till 8pm of December 27. There will be 84 workshops on varied subjects, each approximately an hour long. Learnathon™ provides a unique opportunity to learners, of all ages, to explore something that interests, excites and skills them. The event has already been conducted in Nagpur and Bhopal and received astounding response. Learnathon™ — brainchild of educationists Anup Dubey and Chitwant Tahalyani — aims to rekindle the joy of learning, which fizzles out in the daily grind of school academic curriculum. Last year, Learnathon™, after finishing its Nagpur round, had gone to Bhopal. It had attracted nearly 7,500 participants from all age groups in its two editions, making learning ageless and joyful. The 2020 edition will be instrumental in generating funds for a not-for-profit social activity — LIFE (Learnathon International Foundation For Education) that will help deserving students through scholarships and career guidance. The event is conceptualized, conducted and managed by about 200 young volunteers, who put in months of hard work to get the event stage-ready. Learnathon™ offers a wide variety of workshops, which appeal to children as well as adults. Some of the most sought-after courses are — How To Take Your Business Local To Global; How To Handle Parents; Dealing With Loneliness; Risky Business; How To Manage Risk; Indian Chutneys From Different States; Home Gardening; Kathak For Kids and many more. Learnathon™ ensures there is something for everyone, whether as a hobby or a professional skill. It opens a window to the world of opportunities and helps decide courses of future-dedicated learning. The workshops are conducted by domain experts. For example, during workshops on Data Analytics & Risk Management, Learnathon™ 2020 will have knowledge partners from the American Institute of CPAs. Thespo, Mumbai, will conduct acting workshops while several prominent psychologists such as Dr Rozina Rana and Dr Poornima Gauri will conduct workshops based on their respective fields of expertise. TOI readers can get more details about the workshops and buy passes from website www.learnathon.co/passes and can get a discount of Rs100 upon using coupon code TIMETOLEARN (valid for a day), or contact on mobile 7507510752 / 9665027247 for any queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hone-your-skills-in-learnathon-2020/articleshow/79767150.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Nine roadways buses diverted today, 4000 trucks stranded on highway||Jaipur: Nine roadways buses were diverted through Alwar’s Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal route on Wednesday and nearly 3000-4,000 trucks are stranded as the Jaipur-Delhi national highway (NH-8) continued to remain sealed at Shahajahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border owing to farmers’ agitation.The roadways buses included one Volvo luxury bus and 8 Express buses. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, farmers from Kota, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Churu, Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh reached the border with tractors in support of the agitation which has been continuing for the last four days. The farmers have blocked the highway as they were not allowed to march towards Delhi in protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. On Wednesday, the gurudwara committees of Ganganagar and Kota made arrangements for their food (langar) and drinks. People from nearby villages have also extended their support by providing food items like - milk, vegetables, lassi, sugar, grains - to the farmers. “On December 20, villagers from 45,539 villages of Rajasthan will pay homage to 20 farmers who died during the ongoing agitation,” said Kisan Mahapanchayat’s Ram Pal Jat.“The jam continues from Jaipur itself. The small vehicles easily get diverted through Behror, but the trucks and heavy vehicles can’t go through that route. About 3000-4000 trucks are stranded on the Jaipur-Delhi national highway. These trucks carry goods and materials to Delhi, Haryana, Noida, Ghaziabad and other places. But now we are not able to deliver goods timely,” said Gopal Singh Rathore, state president, Jaipur truck transport operator chamber.“Those who are going via diverted route have to travel 150-200 km extra to reach their destinations. On the way, they are being harassed by police and locals. Also, if raw materials get destroyed due to the delay, drivers won’t get their payment. There is a net loss of Rs 400-500 crore each day. If this situation continues, we will be ruined. The drivers are also running away leaving the trucks on the highway,” he said.“We have written to the prime minister, chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar urging them to resolve the issue,” he added. The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nine-roadways-buses-diverted-today-4000-trucks-stranded-on-highway/articleshow/79767183.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid tension, Sanjay asks CM KCR to restore temple land in Bandlaguda||HYDERABAD: Tension prevailed after BJP activists took objection to the raising of a temporary wall on a piece of land in Bandlaguda. BJP claimed that it was endowments land on which an individual S Narasimha Reddy was trying to raise the wall.  Police took the protesting BJP workers into preventive custody. Upon learning of the preventive arrest of their cadre, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay and BJP Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh reached Dabeerpura police station. Hyderabad police said that as per the instructions of the third additional chief judge of civil court, the SHO of Chatrinaka provided police protection to petitioner S Narasimha Reddy. “At about 9.30 am, the petitioner started constructing temporary boundaries at the scheduled land. Some 200 persons gathered at the site and raised slogans against police and created a nuisance,” police said. Amid a tense situation in Dabeerpura, Sanjay demanded chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to restore the endowments land at a temple in Chandrayangutta to the government. “If this is not done, we will forcibly occupy the temple land being illegally taken by an individual (Narasimha Reddy) and see that the government gets it back,” Sanjay warned and demanded that the local DCP be suspended. The Karimnagar MP, along with Raja Singh, went to Dabeerpura police station accompanied by BJP workers. Speaking to reporters at the Dabeerpura police station, Sanjay said there was more than eight acres of land at the temple which is endowments land but an individual is claiming ownership. He said police went by a lower court order a month ago and not by the latest high court order and facilitated the construction of fencing around the temple. The BJP leader alleged that the AIMIM was in cahoots with the individual to occupy the land. Raja Singh said they would prevent illegal occupation of endowments lands and waqf properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-tension-sanjay-asks-cm-to-restore-temple-land-in-bandlaguda/articleshow/79768455.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi gets cold treatment||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded the second consecutive cold day of the season on Wednesday and similar conditions have been predicted at a few places for the next two days, said Met officials. Dense fog also engulfed parts of the capital in morning. At Safardjung, Delhi’s base station, the minimum temperature dropped to 5.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, and the maximum was 18.6, 4.5 degrees below normal. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the lowest minimum temperature was recorded at Lodhi Road at 4.8 degrees Celsius. While the lowest maximum temperature was recorded at Jafarpur at 16.1 degrees Celsius, it was 16.2 at Palam. Due to a thick blanket of dense fog, the visibility dropped to 100 metres at Palam station, while shallow fog was formed at Safdarjung with a visibility of 600 metres. Around 50 flights were delayed at IGI Airport as low visibility procedures had to be adopted due to the fog, said an airport official. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Cold wind, which continues to blow from snow-capped western Himalayan region, is causing drop in temperatures.” A cold day is declared when the minimum temperature goes below 10 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature departure from normal is -4.5 degrees. On Thursday and Friday, the minimum temperature is likely to be 5 degrees Celsius while the maximum will hover around 18-19 degrees. Both maximum and minimum temperatures may rise slightly on December 21-22, with the minimum likely to be around 8 degrees Celsius and the maximum touching 22 degrees, said Met officials. Meanwhile, the capital recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 262 in the “poor” category on Wednesday. SAFAR, a central forecasting agency, said better ventilation conditions were predicted for the next two days due to high winds and increase in the boundary layer height at night. AQI is predicted to improve to “moderate” on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-gets-cold-treatment/articleshow/79767197.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court reserves order on school fees||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court has reserved its order on the collection of fees by private schools after arguments by all the parties were completed on Wednesday. The division bench of chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Sharma was hearing an appeal petition by lawyer Sunil Samdaria and the state government challenging the single bench order which asked the parents to pay 70% of tuition fees in three instalments. The single bench order followed a petition by a number of private school associations which challenged the government order asking for postponement of fees till the school reopens. During the hearing, a parents’ association said that in view of the corona crisis, the state government should bear the fees, while a parent said that even after the school reopens, the school management should charge only 30% tuition fees. Representing the state, additional advocate general (AAG) Rajesh Maharshi said that under the RTE Act, the government is obliged to bear the fees of only the students given admission under the RTE for free education and not of others. He said if the court is not satisfied with the fees fixed by the government, then fees could be determined by a committee comprising CA and guardians. Prateek Kasliwal, counsel representing Vidhyashram School, argued that it is necessary to strike a balance between the interest of school and parents. He said eight high courts have given orders that even in the condition of corona, schools could charge 100% tuition fees. At the same time, if there is a dispute about the fees, 80% of the total fees could be charged, he said. RAS exam 2018Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday vacated the stay on interview after RPSC agreed to relsese results of RAS 2018 by excluding ineligible candidates of ministerial staff and ex-servicemen. But in another petition challenging different cut off for various categories of candidates and only one and a half times the number of posts were called for an interview is still pending in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-reserves-order-on-school-fees/articleshow/79767189.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Change in Congress leadership?||GANDHINAGAR: There is a strong buzz in the Congress circuit of a change in leadership of the Gujarat Congress organization – including the top posts – ahead of local elections in the state. The speculation gained credence as AICC Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav has been camped in Gujarat for ten days and met a wide range of leaders and workers to chart out a strategy for the local elections. Key sources said the party did not take a decision on the offer to resign by GPCC president Amit Chavda and leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, after the party’s drubbing in the assembly byelections. The decision, on changes in the organization, was further postponed because of the death of senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Ahmed Patel. “Now, Rajeev Satav has taken feedback from diverse views within the Congress about the party’s drubbing in the assembly byelections. Workers from the grassroots to district in-charges opined that the leadership of Chavda and Dhanani has been ineffective and have demanded a change of guard at all levels in the state unit,” a source said. “National leaders are presently weighing the pros and cons of a change in leadership at this juncture. However, there is consensus among leaders that there is a need for drastic changes in the leadership before the 2022 assembly elections. If any change has to be done, it will be made in the next ten days or the party will wait until the local polls are over,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/change-in-cong-leadership/articleshow/79767191.cms||Kapil Dave
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC issues notices to Centre, state over exclusion of crops from MSP||JODHPUR: The high court on Wednesday issued notices to the central and state governments seeking reply on exclusion of two important crops of Rajasthan from procurement process on MSP by the state government. The court has sought reply in two weeks and has listed the matter for hearing on January 4. Petitioner Kisan Welfare Society from Pali district, through its petition, has prayed that inspite of cotton and millet being included in the list of the central government’s Price Support Scheme (PSS) for procurement of crops on MSP for states, the state government has excluded them. Petitioner’s counsel Moti Singh Rajpurohit stated that crops comprising paddy, jawar, bajra, raagi, makka, cotton, moong, groundnut, soybean, arhar, urad and sunflower have been listed by the central government for the state for purchase on MSP. “But ignoring this order, the state government in its order dated 28/10/2020, included only four crops moong, urad, soyabean and groundnut for procurement on MSP and excluded two principal crops cotton and millet,” Rajpurohit said. Arguing in the court, he said since the PSS was the central government’s scheme and funds are also provided to the state by the Centre, state governments are supposed to implement the scheme in letter and spirit. “But here, the state government not only disregarded the central government’s decision on inclusion of the crops under PSS, but also went on to exclude two important crops arbitrarily,” he argued. The society in its prayer sought inclusion of cotton, millet, makka and jowar crops in the procurement process and has demanded that the purchase of these crops be initiated on MSP with immediate effect at the designated procurement centres across the state. Allowing the petition, the division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas issued notices to both central and state governments seeking reply in two weeks. Rajpurohit, expressing surprise over the exclusion of the two important crops of the state, said millet is produced in 33 districts of the state, while cotton is cultivated in 19 districts. He said the MSP of both these crops has been fixed at Rs 2,150 and Rs 5,825, respectively, and according to the reports, in the absence of purchase on MSP, farmers are compelled to sell it in open market at Rs 1,300 and Rs 4,000, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notices-to-centre-state-over-exclusion-of-crops-from-msp/articleshow/79767190.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||Govt ropes in Nabard & Hudco to revive rural housing scheme that didn’t take off||NEW DELHI: The scheme to provide interest subvention to the rural homeless poor has failed to make a mark with weak response to loans and poor utilisation of funds, prompting the government to seek its revival by roping in two financial institutions with strong rural network. The Rural Housing Interest Subsidy Scheme has managed to spend barely around Rs 10 crore till this week, out of around Rs 50 crore released mid-2019, with roughly 9,000 beneficiaries. It marks a setback for government expectations, evident from the fact that the rural development ministry had earmarked Rs 100 crore for 2020-21. Sources said the current year allocation is redundant now given the abysmal expenditure. The figures were revealed in a review by the RD ministry last week. The flagship rural housing programme called Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (earlier Indira Awas Yojana), which provides financial support to the rural poor for construction of houses, has 2.95 crore beneficiaries identified on the basis of poverty survey Socio-Economic Caste Census. It has a deadline of construction of 2022. In 2017, the Centre launched the RHISS to help the rural poor who are not in the list of identified beneficiaries of PMAY but want to construct a house. They are helped to avail a loan of Rs 2 lakh with an upfront subvention of Rs 38,859. The National Housing Bank was chosen as the nodal implementation agency. The scheme guidelines were finalised in mid-2017. But with the scheme virtually a non-starter, wellplaced sources said the RD ministry this week decided to add two big institutions Nabard and Hudco as nodal agencies besides the existing NHB. “The idea is to tap into the rural network of District Central Cooperative Banks and Regional Rural Banks of Nabard while Hudco already works in financing rural housing,” a senior official said, adding, “The NHB has a limited reach and that is evident in the response to the scheme.” The added leverage of big institutions working in the field of credit in rural sector is expected to overcome a major hurdle in the success of RHISS — the reluctance of banks and lending agencies to provide loans to the poor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-ropes-in-nabard-hudco-to-revive-rural-housing-scheme-that-didnt-take-off/articleshow/79769822.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||To launch ‘Hello City’ drive||Gandhinagar: Still smarting from the jolt of losing all eight assembly seats for which byelections were held recently, the Congress is looking to rejuvenate its cadre and put up a strong fight for the urban and rural local body elections to be held in February next year. In an attempt to build connect with urban voters in the six municipal corporations where elections are to be held, Gujarat Congress has launched ‘Hello City’ campaign in six cities, namely Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar. A source in the party said the ‘Hello City’ campaign will shortly be rolled out in all cities where elections are to be held. “For Ahmedabad, the campaign will be called ‘Hello Ahmedabad’, and the names will be similar for all the six cities where elections will be held. The Congress will meet diverse groups and seek their expectations from elected bodies,” the source said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/to-launch-hello-city-drive/articleshow/79767202.cms||Kapil Dave
December 17, 2020||Delhi||December lows and highs: Delhi power demand eclipses last winter’s record||NEW DELHI: The plummeting temperature is pushing up the power demand in the national capital. On Wednesday, Delhi’s peak power demand crossed 4,000MW for the first time this winter and surpassed the record for the same period last year. Wednesday’s peak power demand was 4,196MW as against 3,938MW recorded between December 1 and 16 in 2019, a source said. The peak power demand this December has also increased by 19% as against the December 1-16 period last year and by 14% from the peak power demand of November 2020 — 3,678MW—recorded on November 20. The peak power demand in December 2020 has gone beyond the same in 2019 on seven days between December 1 and 16. These days are December 1, 2, 4, 7, 9, 15 and 16. With the mercury expected to stay low, the peak power demand is likely to increase further in the coming days, a source said. Last month, too, Delhi’s peak power demand surpassed the peak power demand on 15 corresponding days in November 2019 due to the early onset of winter. With Delhi’s peak power demand surpassing the same in last November and December, the discoms are gearing up for a much higher demand this winter. They expect the peak power demand to go up to 5,480MW this winter, surpassing last year’s 5,343MW. The peak power demand in the national capital during winter has been going up gradually. The peak demand recorded in the 2015-16 winter was 4,125MW, which increased to 4,168MW in the next winter and to 4,511MW after that, but dipped to 4,472MW in 2018-19. Earlier last month, the BSES discoms, BRPL and BYPL, and Tata Power Delhi Distribution (Tata Power-DDL) had announced their winter action plan and claimed that they were fully prepared to ensure adequate power availability during this season. BSES had said that ensuring reliable supply in any season was as much the function of proper power arrangements as also of accurate demand forecast and robust distribution network. The power-supply arrangements during the winter months include long-term agreements from power plants, including hydro and Delhi-based gas-fuelled generating stations, apart from more than 190MW of wind power, 25MW from waste-to-energy plants and 70MW of solar power, BSES had said. Both BSES and Tata Power-DDL had said they were using cutting-edge technologies to ensure 24x7 power supply, including advanced statistical forecasting models, combined with state-of-the-art weather forecasting solutions, including artificial intelligence and machine learning. BSES had said its discoms would buy short-term power from the exchange at affordable rates if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/december-lows-and-highs-city-power-demand-eclipses-last-winters-record/articleshow/79767228.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Brothers burn man alive for illicit affair with minor sister in Chittorgarh||UDAIPUR: Chittorgarh police arrested two brothers on Wednesday for reportedly assaulting a man and later burning him alive at Dhanora village under Sadar police station in Nimbahera. The accused have confessed to have committed the crime as they felt the deceased was having an illicit affair with their minor sister and despite several warnings, the duo had not stopped seeing each other. Police found the semi-charred body of Ishaq Mohammed (25), son of Shamsuddin, on December 12 on the outskirts of Dhanora village. FSL team and the dog squad were pressed into service from Udaipur and teams were constituted to find the culprits. During investigation it was found that Ishaq had a scuffle with one of the accused, Chetan, as the latter had spotted him with his sister in a field few days before the incident. Later, it was also learnt that on December 8, Ishaq was seen going towards a field and Chetan's house fell on the way. Police detained Chetan and his younger brother Rajesh as they were the prime suspects. “We interrogated them and they confessed to the crime. They told us that on December 8, Rajesh caught Ishaq and his sister together inside their home. He was mad with furious and called Chetan home. Both of them thrashed Ishaq so badly that he fell unconscious. They gagged and put him inside a sack and took him some 20 kilometers away to a deserted mining area where they burned his body with kerosene,” ASP Sarita Singh said. The accused told police that Ishaq was already a married man and was trying to mislead their young sister who was a minor. The ASP said Chetan and Rajesh, sons of Gopilal, residents of Aavrimata police station area, Bhadesar, have been arrested for the murder and are being interrogated for further details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brothers-burn-man-alive-for-illicit-affair-with-minor-sister-in-chittorgarh/articleshow/79767199.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Out of 33 districts, 16 currently have 84.4% of active cases||JAIPUR: Seventeen districts have less than 200 Covid active cases, collectively housing 2,278 infections and accounted for just 15.6% of the active cases. Rest of the 16 districts reported 84.4% of the active cases. From December 1 to 16, the pandemic situation has improved. On December 1, as many as nine districts had more than 500 active cases, but as on Wednesday, only two districts (Jaipur & Jodhpur) fell into that category. Eight districts with more than 500 active cases in December 1 were Jaipur (9,462), Jodhpur (6,059), Kota (1,490), Alwar (963), Ajmer (811), Udaipur (835), Nagaur (752), Bharatpur (529) and Bhilwara (690). Now, the situation in these districts has improved as they currently have Jaipur (5,885), Jodhpur (2,048), Kota (456), Alwar (247), Ajmer (244), Udaipur (433), Nagaur (300), Bharatpur (233) and Bhilwara (335). The number of active cases in Kota, Alwar, Ajmer, Udaipur, Nagaur, Bharatpur and Bhilwara have gone below 500 active cases. There are currently 14,510 active cases, down from 28,758 on November 29, the all-time high. A health department official said, “Situation in most of the districts has improved over the past 15 days. Active cases in the state have gone below 15,000 -mark. We are focusing more on districts which have high number of active cases.” In the last 24 hours, 10 persons died while 1,247 others tested positive taking its overall tally to 2,94,831. With 10 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,578. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (303), Jodhpur (98), Kota (96), Bhilwara (67), Dungarpur (65), Udaipur (65), Pali (61), Ajmer (56), Alwar (54), Nagaur (42), Barmer (32), Tonk (30), Rajsamand (26), Jhunjhunu (26), Churu (26), Sikar (25), Jaisalmer (21), Sawai Madhopur (21), Bundi (19), Bikaner (18), Chittorgarh (17), Siorhi (15), Jalore (13), Bharatpur (13), Hanumangarh (12), Banswara (7), Jhalawar (7), Baran (5), Dholpur (5), Dausa (1) and Sriganganagar (1), With two deaths Jaipur toll rose to 482, Bundi reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 15, Ajmer 210th, Bharatpur 117th, Udaipur 108th, Pali 104th, Churu 39th and Tonk reported its 32nd Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/out-of-33-districts-16-currently-have-84-4-of-active-cases/articleshow/79767203.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Nursing superintendent of JK Lon hospital removed||KOTA: In further action into the deaths of infants in Kota’s JK Lon Hospital, the state government on Wednesday removed the nursing superintendent of the hospital. A day earlier the superintendent and the head of paediatrics were removed. Principal, medical college, Kota, Dr Vijay Sardana issued the order to shift superintendent Ramratan Meena to Rampura hospital and to replace the post by nursing superintendents Mansur Ali and Naveen Kumar Sharma. In the process to improve the facilities, the nursing superintendent was replaced by two superintendents, however, they are yet to assume charge, newly posted superintendent Dr Ashok Moondra said, adding other efforts for improving the facilities are under way. Since assuming charge, three more infants died in the hospital and all three were premature, he added. Besides, the state government also sanctioned Rs 65 Lakh on Tuesday for a 4-D sonography machine at the hospital that would facilitate in diagnosing diseases during pregnancy. In compliance with the budget announcement by the CM, the decision was taken to install 4-D sonogrpahy machine in hospitals attached with medical college, district collector Ujjawal Rathore said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nursing-superintendent-of-jk-lon-hosp-removed/articleshow/79767194.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Plea against launch of dedicated channel for HR&CE dismissed||Madurai: Refusing to interfere in the policy decision taken by the government, the Madras high court has dismissed a plea which sought the state not to launch Thirukoil TV, a dedicated channel for telecasting festivals and to bring out the cultural richness of temples.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the state government has taken the decision to launch the channel for the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department by allocating Rs 8.77crore.The judges were hearing a public interest litigation filed by Periyanambi Narasimha Gopalan, who is working as a temple archaka in Tirunelveli district. The petitioner sought not to launch the the channel before appointing security personnel and other temple staff on minimum wages at all the temples under the administrative control of the HR and CE department.The grievance of the petitioner was that most temples are without adequate staff such as archakas, watchmen, sweepers. Since most of the temples are left without proper care and protection, several valuable idols were also stolen and the devotees are even finding it difficult to enter the temples.The judges observed that even though the petitioner welcomes the launch of the TV channel, it is his concern that there are several other issues which deserve priority than launching Thirukoil TV.The judges observed that it is needless to say that it is the duty of the HR&CE department to protect the temples and the valuable Idols, however, by referring to the same, the launching of TV channel cannot be stalled.The judges said that further the petitioner has also claimed that he has filed two other writ petitions praying for minimum wages for the temple staff and it is open to him to work out the remedy in these petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-against-launch-of-dedicated-channel-for-hrce-dismissed/articleshow/79768468.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Allot flats quickly to poor, CM Arvind Kejriwal tells DUSIB||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday chaired a review meeting of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and instructed officials to expeditiously allot the flats that have been constructed for those belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS) and slum dwellers. Kejriwal also directed the DUSIB officials to ensure the allotment of the flats to slum dwellers within a radius of five km of where their slums were located. “The ‘Jahan Jhuggi Wahin Makaan’ policy is the flagship policy of Delhi government. We have to ensure that the construction of the EWS flats for in-situ rehabilitation of the people should be completed in its due timeline. This has to be ensured so that we can provide shelter for every poor in Delhi,” Kejriwal said. Total 89,400 flats will be constructed in three phases in a total of 237 acres, with a deadline of 2022-2025. The meeting was also attended by Delhi urban development minister and DUSIB vice-chairperson Satyendar Jain, along with other Delhi government officials and DUSIB board members. In a meeting held last month, it was decided that construction of the EWS flats will be carried out on the vacant land of DUSIB. Out of 221 acres of land available with DUSIB, at present 115 acre land is being considered for construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allot-flats-quickly-to-poor-cm-tells-dusib/articleshow/79767262.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Child panel highlights same flaws in Kota’s JK Lon hosp||JAIPUR: Kota’s JK Lon Hospital has not learnt from the infant deaths in December last year. Rajasthan State Commission For Protection Of Child Rights (RSCPCR) in its report submitted to the state government has highlighted almost the same problems which were exposed last December. “On a single bed, two children were being provided with treatment, mothers of children were nebolising their children by themselves and the hospital was not properly cleaned, lack of coordination among the senior officials was making the situation difficult to improve,” said Sangeeta Beniwal, chairperson, RSCPCR.Beniwal had visited the hospital following deaths of nine children on December 10. The state government has already replaced medical superintendent of the hospital. The hospital staff, while taking to RSCPCR team, pointed out that electric wirings were old and at any moment a major mishap could happen.A four-member team, constituted by health minister Raghu Sharma, has also presented its report to the state government. The team suggested that there should be a system in place for regular repairs and maintainence of medical equipment in the hospital. The team also checked if the medical equipment are functional along with staff shortage and other related issues. A health department official said it has been suggested in the report need for proper coordination at higher level in the hospital and a proper system for repair of defuct machines. The committee has suggested a system for repair of equipment similar to the system in place in hospitals under medical directorate.In hospitals under medical directorate, a private player has been roped in for reparing equipment and an online system has been launched. Through the online system, hospitals file complaint of defunct equipment and on the basis of the complaint, private players repair the equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-panel-highlights-same-flaws-in-kotas-jk-lon-hosp/articleshow/79767224.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Pile-up at fitment centres as over 8k HSRPs unclaimed||Panaji: High security number plates (HSRP) fitment centres are facing a pile-up, not of vehicles, but of of number plates. While the ongoing pandemic may have left vehicle owners hesitant to get their HSRPs fitted immediately, many people seem to have failed to get theirs installed even prior to the lockdown. Records shared by the vendor show that over 8,000 HSRPs that were booked and paid for remain uninstalled. In a letter addressed to the directorate of transport, the Goa state manager for HSRP, Anuj Sharma, said that even after the fitments commenced in October 2019, a total of 8,589 number plates have been unclaimed, this despite sending out text messages for the appointment in advance. “The ready HSRPs have piled up at our fitment centres,” he wrote. The letter listed the number of plates, centre-wise, that have not been claimed. The highest number, 2,871, are at the Porvorim centre while the centre at Arlem, Margao, has 1,659 number plates pending fitment. The contractor, Real Mazon India Limited, has requested the directorate of transport to issue directions requesting for a deadline of up to when they must retain the HSRPs. They have also requested instructions on the future course of action in this regard. “These ready HSRPs are piling up at the fitment centres as customers are not coming on the scheduled date. And because of this, we are running short of space as these plates are unnecessarily occupying space,” the letter states. Officers from the directorate of transport said that considering the pandemic, the situation will have to be handled delicately, and by segregating the fitments. “They have given us a list of how many vehicles are pending fitments. Currently, we have not taken any decision in this regard. For now, a reminder will have to be sent to the vehicle owners with a time limit to install the HSRPs. But we cannot force them to do so owing to the pandemic and social distancing norms.,” a transport officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pile-up-at-fitment-centres-as-over-8k-hsrps-unclaimed/articleshow/79768533.cms||Nida Sayed
December 17, 2020||Madurai||HC recalls remarks made against advocate||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday recalled the remarks made against a woman advocate who made an outcry of injustice, as an order was pronounced without hearing her. Recalling the remarks, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said: “We do not want anyone to get the impression that we are biased” and hence directed to place the writ appeal before some other bench. On December 11, when the judges pronounced an order in a writ appeal, the counsel appearing for the respondent made an outcry of injustice as she was not heard before pronouncing the order. The judges had observed that whatever may be the result of the proceedings, a senior member of the bar ought not have stooped down to the level of making allegations against the court. The judges said that they are pained by the representation made by the counsel. If this kind of attitude is going to be encouraged, it will send a wrong message to the juniors, who are all watching the court proceedings, said the judges. The judges also said the outcry amounts to contempt of court and also needs a reference to the Bar Council of TN and Puducherry for taking disciplinary proceedings against her. Considering her grievance, the court will provide one more opportunity to the counsel to put forth her further arguments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-recalls-remarks-made-against-advocate/articleshow/79768495.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 17, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK welfare wing building temple for Jayalalithaa in Madurai||MADURAI: Amma Peravai, the welfare wing of the AIADMK, is building a temple for late chief minister J Jayalalithaa at Thirumangalam in Madurai, revealed minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhayakumar here on Wednesday. The shrine would have a life size bronze statue of Jayalalithaa and a similar one for MGR. The minister was accompanied by his parents R Bose and P Meenal while inspecting the construction site at T Kunnathur. He said they too considered Jayalalithaa as their family deity. He told reporters that Jayalalithaa lived in the hearts of 10 crore Tamils across the globe. “One and a half crore AIADMK cadres worshipped her as their family deity. Like the people, my family too worshipped her as their family deity and now they are constructing a temple for her, “ he said. Udhayakumar said it was Amma’s dream that the AIADMK should last hundreds of years and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam were making this dream come true through their actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-welfare-wing-building-temple-for-jayalalithaa-in-madurai/articleshow/79768516.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for spreading rumours||Hyderabad: A 29-year-old electrician, who allegedly spread rumours about Covid-19 through an audio message on WhatsApp, was arrested by Rachakonda police on Wednesday. During interrogation, the accused said that the audio is unverified and that he had received it from someone else.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/79768525.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Aurangabad||MSRTC clerk among 4 booked for siphoning cash from PF accounts||AURANGABAD: Aurangabad city police have registered a case of cheating and forgery against four suspects, including a clerk of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), for allegedly forging documents and siphoning lakhs of rupees from the PF accounts of at least two staffers. Investigation officer Amol Deokar, who had arrested the clerk in July for his alleged role in the murder of a retired MSRTC employee, said it recently came to light that since August 2018, the suspects, including those associated with the co-operative bank of the MSRTC, identified people having names similar to those of the transport company’s employees. Taking advantage of the similar names, the suspects opened parallel bank accounts in the MSRTC co-operative bank and made applications seeking provident funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msrtc-clerk-among-4-booked-for-siphoning-cash-from-pf-a/cs/articleshow/79765202.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||CM Rawat holds meet to review redevelopment of Doon rly station||Dehradun; Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday held a meeting with the vice-chairman of Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) to review the status of the redevelopment of Dehradun Railway Station. The station is being developed jointly by the RLDA and MDDA and an MoU was signed last year between both organisations in this regard. .Ved Parkash Dudeja, RLDA vice-chairman, apprised the CM of the development of the project and sought approval to Detailed Project Report involving a high-rise building of 83.5-metre height. A revolving restaurant will be built atop the high-rise tower where passengers/visitors can enjoy a 360-degree bird’s eye view of the entire Doon Valley. The objective of the redevelopment is to upgrade the station with state-of-the-art amenities such as segregation of the entry and exit points, food and beverage outlets, a dedicated underground parking, among others, for the convenience of passengers. The makeover of the proposed station will cost Rs 125 crore and commercial facilities will be developed at 400 Rs crore. Meanwhile, the CM advised MDDA to put up the proposal for cabinet approval in the next cabinet meeting. “We have requested the state government for an early approval to the DPR (detailed project report) of the Dehradun Railway Station so that the RFP (request for proposal) can be floated at the earliest. The redevelopment of the Dehradun Railway Station will upgrade the facilities in line with global standards and offer a delightful experience to commuters. The redevelopment will also catalyse real estate development, accentuate the tourism potential and boost the local economy, and will create a win-win situation for all the stakeholders,” Dudeja said. The Request for Qualification (RFQ) for the development of the Dehradun station on a PPP mode was earlier invited by RLDA. The DPR that constitutes a part of RFP, is currently under finalization by MMDA, following which the RFP is planned to be invited in January 2021. The mandatory station redevelopment is scheduled to be completed in three years. The commercial component will be leased for 60 years and the residential component for 99 years. The total area of land under consideration is about 14 acres wherein about 8 acres land is allocated for Railway mandatory development such as station building and railway passenger amenities including offices and the remaining about 6 acres of land will be allocated for real estate development. The real estate component involves residential and commercial components, such as malls, hotels, retail spaces, multi-level parking, and office space. It is worth mentioning that Ranvir Singh Chauhan, Vice Chairman, Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority, Shailesh Bagauli, Secretary, Housing, Uttarakhand and Ashish Kumar Srivastava, District Magistrate, Dehradun were also present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-holds-meet-to-review-redevelopment-of-doon-rly-station/articleshow/79765200.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 17, 2020||Bhopal||1257 beat Covid, recoveries in MP up at 93%, 1,000+ new cases||BHOPAL: The count of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 2,26,788 as 1,079 new cases were detected on Wednesday. However, on the brighter side, the number of people recovering from Covid-19 outnumbered the number of people testing positive on Wednesday. Against 1,079 new people testing positive, 1,257 patients recovered in the state on Wednesday. With these new patients recovering, the count of patients who have recovered from Covid-19 so far in the state reached 2,11,025. As on December 16, the overall recovery rate for Covid-19 in the state was 93.04%. Apart from the fresh cases, 8 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3,433 in the state on Wednesday. Districts where these casualties were reported include Indore where 4 deaths were reported, Bhopal where 2 deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Khargone and Vidisha districts. On Wednesday, fresh cases were reported from 50 of the total 52 districts of the state. A total 29,319 samples were tested on Wednesday, of which 1,079 tested positive. Positivity rate is now 3.6%. As on December 16, there were a total of 12,330 active patients in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1257-beat-covid-recoveries-in-mp-up-at-93-1k-new-cases/articleshow/79766128.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 2 bikers, 1 pillion rider die in 3 accidents in 8 hours||KOLKATA: A 20-year-old employee of a private airline, who was being trained to be an airhostess, died in a hit-and-run case at Hastings on Tuesday night. The woman, Rittika Majumdar, was riding pillion in a scooterette that was suspected to have been hit by a truck. The condition of the two-wheeler rider, Debaditya Singh (21), who sustained multiple injuries, was stated to be critical. Two other fatal accidents involving two-wheelers were reported in the city on Tuesday night and in the wee hours of Wednesday — one at Belvedere Road in Alipore and the other at Prince Anwar Shah Road. The three accidents happened in around eight hours. The deaths have prompted the top brass at Lalbazar to ask the 25 traffic guards in the city to start a road awareness drive, stressing on careful driving and bike riding, particularly at night. The traffic guards will also organise special refresher courses for new two-wheeler riders. In the Hastings accident, Majumdar and Singh were flung off the two-wheeler after being hit by the truck. The truck’s wheels crushed the legs of Majumdar who bled to death. Both the victims of the accident were rushed to Narayana Hospital in Howrah where the woman was declared dead. Singh is in severe trauma and undergoing treatment. Cops said Singh, a student of BTech in Chennai and a resident of Chatterjeehat in Howrah, had taken Majumdar to a shoe store at Esplanade. They were on the way back home around 9.10pm when the accident took place. “We aren’t sure whether the bike had skidded first or the truck had hit it. We have no CCTV camera at the spot. We are studying the CCTV footage in the nearby area for clues and waiting for Singh to recover so that he can tell us what had happened,” said an officer. Around 11.30pm on Tuesday, a biker rammed into a street lamp and then a pedestrian before being flung off the bike on Belvedere Road. The victim, Joy Krishna Sharma (25), died while the pedestrian escaped with minor injuries. The third accident took place near the Lords Crossing around 4.30am when a biker, heading towards Tollygunge Phanri at high speed, skidded and rammed into the median divider. The rider, Sayan Dandopat (19), a resident of Purba Putiyari was declared brought dead at Vidyasagar Hospital in Behala. The multiple accidents in the past few days have led the police top brass to ask all guards to generate awareness among bike riders, especially the new ones, about the “blind spots” meant for the drivers of trucks and buses. The first such awareness drive will start from Friday. “We hold regular awareness programmes where we teach bike riders through practical classes and make them take the seat of a truck driver. The southwest traffic guard carried out such an exercise in February. Given the pandemic, we had stopped that training. We might resume that. The same goes for bicyclists and pedestrians too,” said an officer. Cops also launched spot training for drivers and riders across 25 locations in the city. On Wednesday, 283 drivers of buses, auto rickshaws, taxis and trucks participated in various traffic management issues. In addition, 321 other vehicle drivers were sensitised about safe driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-bikers-1-pillion-rider-die-in-3-accidents-in-8-hours/articleshow/79767283.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Government pitches for farmers, SC says no role to play||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s intervention to highlight the primacy of farmers' interest and advocacy for acceptance of their demands in national interest found no takers in the Supreme Court on Wednesday as a bench led by CJI S A Bobde and solicitor general Tushar Mehta snubbed its counsel and said it had no role in resolution of the issue. When the bench was doing some plain talking with the SG about the futility of the way the Centre’s negotiations were proceeding with farmers’ unions, advocate Rahul Mehra for Delhi government intervened and said farmers’ interest reflected the larger national interest and suggested that their demands be met. Without mentioning the difficulties faced by commuters because of the blockade of roads linking Delhi with Haryana and Punjab for the last two weeks, Mehra said the larger interest of the country could only be safeguarded when farmers felt secure. The bench asked the SG whether Mehra’s client had anything to do with the farmers’ agitation. “He (Mehra) seems to be representing some farmers’ union,” the SG said before sarcastically asking Mehra which union he represented. The CJI told the SG that he could indulge in this sort of banter with Mehra outside the court. The CJI then said, “Mehta’s client has nothing to do with resolution of the farmers’ agitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-pitches-for-farmers-sc-says-no-role-to-play/articleshow/79767284.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Ahmednagar-Parli rail tracks: State grants over Rs 29cr||Aurangabad: The state government, as part of its share for the ongoing Ahmednagar-Beed-Parli Vaijnath railway tracks project, on Wednesday granted Rs 29.3 crore for carrying out the ongoing works. The proposal by Central Railway’s Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer (Construction) Mumbai CST, to release the fund was pending with the state government for some time and was approved on Wednesday. As on date, the total cost of the ambitious railway track project has been estimated at Rs 2,826 crore, out of which the central and the state governments have unanimously agreed to bear 50% each. The Centre has provided a fund of Rs 1,398 crore, while state has provided Rs 1,169 crore for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ahmednagar-parli-rail-tracks-state-grants-over-rs-29cr/articleshow/79765207.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Accused in bank fraud case sentenced to 7 yrs RI||Madurai: The special judge for CBI cases, Madurai has sentenced a man involved in a bank fraud case to seven years rigorous imprisonment and Rs 35 lakh fine. The convict has been identified as Niyaz Khan alias Abdul Razack. CBI registered a case on April 19, 2002 based on a complaint from officials of the Canara Bank stating that a few people had cheated it of Rs 76.58 lakh by presenting forged cheques with the help of a senior manager of the bank. A CBI team conducted an inquiry and filed a chargesheet. Earlier, the special judge had convicted three of the accused and sentenced them to undergo seven years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed Rs35 lakh fine. The accused Niyaz Khan was absconding at that time for the judgement. Following his arrested, he was made to face the trial and convicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accused-in-bank-fraud-case-sentenced-to-7-yrs-ri/articleshow/79768551.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal’s silent Santas bring cheer to the needy amid pandemic||BHOPAL: There is benevolence in the air, with little over a week left for Christmas. Pandemic may have curbed the quantum of celebration, but the passion to share and care is actually enhanced this year, more than ever. The silent Santas of Bhopal are busy giving solace, care and love to those who need them the most in these Covid times. Along with homely cake mixing ceremonies, buying gifts for friends and family and singing praises to the Lord, there are other things like charity and compassion that are driving the merrymakers. “To counter Covid, you have to share and care more for others,” said arch bishop of Catholic Church, Bhopal, Leo Cornelius. Arch Bishop went on to add, more than traditional fervour, this year Christmas will be about inner spiritual focus. “I have already sent a communique to all the parishes in the district, requesting the members to sacrifice personal goals and share the festive spirit with needy. At one of our parishes at Awali Kheda, chargeable torches and casseroles are being given to those living in jhuggis. These are small things, but they sure strenghthen bonds.” Joy of giving is finding resonance among many youngsters, who are making serious efforts to alleviate the suffering of those around them. Nikita Joseph, who is pursuing MA in Arts, said, “Charity is not about photo ops for me. During Covid, I saved my pocket money and extra cash that my parents gave on my birthday and paid the tuition fee of three maids’ children in our colony. Those children come to work along with their mothers after school and have a visible hunger for education. The smiles of their faces are the best Christmas gift I gave to myself.” Community leaders are playing a pro-active role when it comes to spreading smiles. Secretary of YMCA, Bhopal, Thomas Mathai and many others have been quietly reaching out to the homeless, to offer a bit of warmth to their battered souls. “We visit railway station, bus stops and other places where homeless of the city shiver in this biting cold. We have distributed many blankets in Christmas season and till new year, we will give many more woollens and blankets along with warm food. Of course we follow Covid norms while reaching out to others,” said Mathai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopals-silent-santas-bring-cheer-to-the-needy-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79766136.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||TV actor held from Mumbai for impersonating a cop to rob elderly in Doon||Dehradun: A 41-year-old television actor, who flies to various cities in the country to commit crime, was arrested by a team of Dehradun police, with the help of Mumbai crime branch, in Mumbai on the charges of impersonating a police officer and robbing a senior citizen of her valuables and jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh in Dehradun. The accused has been identified as Salman Jafrey, a resident of Shahdol district in Madhya Pradesh. Police suspect him to be a member of the notorious “Irani Gang”, whose modus operandi is to impersonate police personnel and rob senior citizens on false pretexts. Dehradun SP (city) Shweta Choubey told TOI that Banjarawala, a resident of Vimla Jasola locality in Dehradun, filed a complaint against him on December 4. The complainant stated that two motorcycle-borne persons posing as police personnel stopped her and asked her to hand over her valuables, including a gold chain and two gold bangles, to them for safety purpose and then fled the spot. Realising that she has been robbed, the woman raised an alarm and reported the matter to police. On the basis of the complaint, police registered an FIR in the matter under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Four special teams were formed to work out the case. On the basis of CCTV footage, police zeroed in on Salman Jafrey, who had earlier reached Dehradun via flight and his presence at the crime spot was verified by mobile surveillance team,” said Choubey. On the basis of technical surveillance, Salman was tracked in Oshiwara locality of Andheri in Mumbai, from where he was nabbed by the cops. According to police investigation, Salman is an active member of the “Irani Gang” and usually travels via flights to different cities to target vulnerable senior citizens. After obtaining transit remand from a local court in Mumbai, the accused is being brought to Dehradun by a team of Dehradun police. The accused has done some small roles in television crime shows such as Savdhaan India and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tv-actor-held-from-mumbai-for-impersonating-a-cop-to-rob-elderly-in-doon/articleshow/79765210.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Lots for ward reservation to be drawn on Dec 21||Kolhapur: The process to draw lots for ward reservation, a key step before the announcement of civic polls by the state  commission, will be be held at the Keshavrao Bhosale Natyagruha here on December 21. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s five-year tenure ended on November 15. The elections were, however, postponed due to the coronovirus pandemic and civic chief Kadambari Balkawade was given charge of administrator. Deputy municipal commissioner Nikhil More on Wednesday said, “We presented the draft of the delimitation of all 81 wards to the state election commission recently. It will be published on December 23. Suggestions or objections from members of public can be submitted till January 4.” “The suggestions and objections over ward delimitation have to be submitted in written and a report on the same will be submitted along with the ward reservations to the election commission on January 6,” said More. The commission will take at least two weeks to announce the code of conduct. The election will be held on the one-ward, one-representative, principle. Each ward will have around 7,200 voters. The election is expected to be held in a single phase. The wards will be reserved for SC, ST, OBC, general category and for women in each of these categories. Those for SC category reserved based on the population while the reservations for the remaining wards are rotated every 10 years. Candidates aspiring to contest the election will be keenly watching the reservation process. Last time, the process was repeated in the presence of the state election commission officials due to a technical glitch. In every ward, there are five to 10 aspiring candidates. Many long serving corporators are worried since the reservation in most wards will be changed this time. They are either lobbying for their relatives, mainly women, or supporter from other categories if the ward they represent is reserved. In each category, 50% wards will be reserved for women as per the policy for local body elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lots-for-ward-reservation-to-be-drawn-on-dec-21/articleshow/79765216.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Bhopal||Now, LPG will burn a hole in your monthly budget||BHOPAL: Till recently, prices of petrol and diesel were on the rise, but common man still had some solace as prices of LPG cylinders were static for the past several months. But this month, the oil companies have increased the prices of LPG. The LPG cylinder, which was priced at Rs 600 on December 1, would now cost Rs 700 and the cylinder meant for commercial use would cost Rs 1337.50 per cylinder in place of Rs 1301.50. “It was only LPG cylinder, whose prices were stable for quite sometime even as everything else in the market became costlier after the lockdown- grocery, petrol, diesel, vegetables, eggs. The price mechanism seems to have broken down. Can you imagine- a modest samosa- selling for Rs 12 to Rs 15 per piece.  The only solace was LPG cylinder. Its prices had not gone up for quite sometime but in the past two weeks, its prices have gone up by Rs 100 per cylinder. Life is really becoming difficult for people with limited income, which incidentally has gone down even as prices of commodities are touching the roof,” said Santosh Singh, an accountant in a private firm. Hoteliers and roadside vendors selling snacks are also upset with the hike in prices of cylinder for commercial use. “How do you justify it? On one hand, government starts schemes to help the roadside vendors overcome the losses incurred during the lockdown to bring their business back on track and raises prices of LPG on the other. All the ingredients we use to make snacks are already priced high. At least, government could have spared LPG. It’s easy for upmarket restaurants to hike the prices of samosa or kachori, other snacks or sweets, their customers don't mind but if we raise the price of samosa from Rs 8 to Rs 10 per piece, people question us. We lose customers or compromise with quality,” said Dinesh Saraswat, who has a tea stall in Kolar. Gas agencies are, themselves, surprised at price hike of LPG twice in a month. “If the oil companies have to raise or cut the prices of LPG cylinder, they normally do it on the 1st day of the month. But, on December 1, there was no hike in the prices of domestic gas cylinder, it was Rs 600 per cylinder as in the months before but on December 2, the price was raised by Rs 50 and on Tuesday, again by Rs 50. This means, in the month of December so far, there have been three prices of cylinder, which seldom happens,” said manager of a gas agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-lpg-will-burn-a-hole-in-your-monthly-budget/articleshow/79766151.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 17, 2020||Delhi||‘Senior professor’ title stokes a fresh row at Delhi University||NEW DELHI: A new controversy is brewing in Delhi University. Acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi was conferred the title of “senior professor” in a manner that has left many questioning the process. Several professors have pointed that the act was contrary to the University Grants Commission guidelines requiring professors appointing anyone to that position to have a minimum 10 years of experience. The UGC guideline on the selection committee appointing a senior professor mandates the vice-chancellor to be the chairperson of the selection committee. The other members should be a nominee of the visitor/chancellor, three experts on the subject, dean of the faculty, head/chairperson of the department and observers for different categories. Moreover, all members of the selection committee mandatorily have to be professors with a minimum of 10 years of experience. In Joshi’s case, the chairperson of the selection panel was Balram Pani, who is neither the VC nor is known to have 10 years of experience. Pani, before his appointment as the dean, was principal of Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences. Talking to TOI, Pani said, “I was chairperson of the committee because the acting vice-chancellor was himself the applicant. As the next seniormost university official, I had to chair the meeting.” The appointment of Joshi as senior professor was cleared by seven members. The visitor’s nominee was Sikkim NIIT director Arun B Samaddar, but the other names have not been disclosed by Pani. Executive Council members too claimed to be unaware of the remaining panel members. Also, it has been pointed out that contrary to the UGC requirement of three field experts in the selection committee, there was none in the current panel. When asked if the chairperson was required to have 10 years of experience, Pani responded, “This is not applicable in the case of the chairperson.” However, a professor contended, “The interpretation of the university on the chairperson does not hold true. There are several anomalies in the way the appointment has taken place. How can someone without adequate qualifications chair and make the highest ever appointment?” Such a concern is also known to have been raised in the EC meeting on December 8. Another professor pointed out the conflict of interest. “Someone reporting to the acting vice-chancellor chaired the selection committee for that promotion. It would have made sense if a faculty dean had been appointed a senior professor.” Up to 10% of professors can be appointed to the senior level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/senior-professor-title-stokes-a-fresh-row-at-du/articleshow/79767287.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Thief held for stealing 8 vehicles in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A person who was allegedly involved in stealing eight two-wheelers was arrested by Nampally police on Wednesday. Police said eight stolen vehicles were recovered from the accused. The accused committed offences in Humayun Nagar, Asif Nagar, Nampally, Rajendra Nagar. The total worth of vehicles is Rs 3.2 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thief-held-for-stealing-8-vehicles/articleshow/79768582.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Priority to women, children in night shelters to be made for Kumbh||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash reviewed the preparations for Kumbh Mela 2021 and directed officials to complete all works within the stipulated time span. For the night shelters to be made for pilgrims, he said that the top priority should be given to women and children. For the safety of women, he said that women staff and women police officials should also be deployed at these night shelters. Mela adhikari (officer) Deepak Rawat and chief security officer Sanjay Gunjyal gave an elaborate presentation on the preparations for Kumbh and its security arrangements. In the meeting, the CS laid thrust on sanitisation facilities and maintenance of social distancing norms during Kumbh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/priority-to-to-women-children-in-night-shelters-to-be-made-for-kumbh/articleshow/79765220.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Two children drown in waterbody near Madurai||Madurai: Two children aged 10 years drowned in a tank near Thirumangalam in Madurai district on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as S Yazhini of Avaniyapuram and her relative K Gunasekaran. Police said S Sangilimurugan, 33, visited the Sangili Matha Church in Koodakovil on Tuesday with his family members. His relative Kamaraj and family members were also with them. While taking bath in a tank near the church, Sangilimurugan's daughter Yazhini and Kamaraj's son Gunasekaran went to the deeper part of the tank and drowned. The parents rescued them with the help of locals in an unconscious state and rushed them to the nearby Thirumangalam government hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead. The Koodakovil police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-children-drown-in-waterbody-near-madurai/articleshow/79768577.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Water taps to go dry in south Kolkata, added areas||KOLKATA: Nearly the whole of south and south-west Kolkata will go dry on Saturday with Kolkata Municipal Corporation scheduling a shutdown of the Garden Reach water works to carry out scheduled repair and maintenance work. According to KMC water supply department officials, the plant will be shut down at 10am on Saturday after supplying the filtered water in the morning. Supply will be restored early on Sunday morning, said KMC water supply department director-general, Mainak Mukherjee. Multiple leakages that have developed in some of the major distribution pipes will also be repaired during the shutdown. Among a host of other works that will be carried out will include installation and replacement of higher diameter valves, interconnection of major water pipelines and routine maintenance. The repair and maintenance work assumes significance as a first step for augmentation of filtered water supply for south Kolkata and added areas like Behala, Tollygunge and Jadavpur. “We have taken up necessary repair and maintenance work and interconnection of high diameter water pipes to enable lakhs of residents in south Kolkata and its suburbs to reap the benefit of a new water treatment plant that is nearing completion. This work, once completed, will go a long way in ensuring augmented filtered water supply for more than 10 lakh people in south Kolkata and added areas such as Behala, Garden Reach, Tollygunge and Jadavpur,” said a KMC official said. The work will not only ensure augmented filtered water supply to at least 15 major and capsule water booster pumping stations but will also reach more water to households by reducing wastage through leakages in the high diameter water pipes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/water-taps-to-go-dry-in-s-kol-added-areas/articleshow/79767286.cms||Saikat Ray
December 17, 2020||Madurai||State yet to hand over land for AIIMS, finds RTI petition||Madurai: The state government is yet to hand over the 224.24 acres of land for setting up the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur in Madurai even 23 months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the Rs 1,264 crore project, according to a reply from the ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW) to an RTI petition. The response to activist R Pandiarajan’s petition also stated that only pre-investment activities are carried out by M/s HITES at the site. “Loan process (by) Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is still in process,” it said adding that construction will start after the loan is sanctioned. Pandiarajan had raised 17 queries subsequent to the replies he got from the ministry for his earlier queries four months ago that stated that the loan agreement with JICA is likely to be signed by December. “But it is shocking that the state government has not handed over the land to the Centre,” he said. He said most of the questions have not been answered and he has gone for an appeal. They include one on the targeted completion of 45 months — whether it is from the laying of the foundation stone or from the beginning of construction. Answers were sought on the targeted completion of pre-investment works and if an officer has been appointed for the project. While appealing to the government to extend proper support to the Centre for its speedy completion, Pandiarajan questioned the need for awaiting JICA loan when the Centre is able to fund projects that cost several folds more. Chief coordinator of Peoples Movement for AIIMS at Madurai V S Manimaran said the Centre should pressure JICA to expedite the process of sanctioning loan. “It would take over a decade for the Centre to fund the project in small instalments, so JICA is a better option,” he said. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said he had written to the CM in June 2019 and in February 2020 to hand over the land for AIIMS to the Centre and to appoint a special officer. “Other states have appointed a special officer for their AIIMS projects but the Tamil Nadu government has not. A dedicated officer can coordinate between the state and Centre and act as a bridge to address various issues in time,” he told TOI. Accusing minister R B Udhayakumar and the chief minister of not showing interest in the project, he warned of protests if there is delay in appointing the special officer. The minister later clarified at a function that the delay in securing JICA loan for the project was due to the effect of Covid-19. He said the signing would take place soon and construction begin thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-yet-to-hand-over-land-for-aiims-finds-rti-petition/articleshow/79768607.cms||M K Ananth
December 17, 2020||Allahabad||5,100-km Ganga Yatra flagged off at Sangam||PRAYAGRAJ: The Ganga Parikrama Yatra, an initiative of veterans of armed forces and several organisations to rejuvenate river Ganga under the Atulya Ganga Mission, was flagged off by the Group Commander, NCC Group Headquarters, Brigadier SK Singh at Sangam on Wednesday. The padyatra began with the Ganga Aarti at the Triveni Sangam Ghat in Prayagraj. During the yatra, the veterans would cover a distance of 5,100 kilometre. Retired Lt. Col. Hem Lohmi, founder of the Atulya Ganga said, “The motive behind the parikrama is to spread the message to protect and conserve river Ganga from pollution as it is one of the most polluted rivers in the world.” All the arrangements at the Sangam Ghat were conducted by 17 UP Battalion NCC officers who were also part of the yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/5100-km-ganga-yatra-flagged-off-at-sangam/articleshow/79766173.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nashik||Farmers to leave for Delhi from Nashik on December 21||NASHIK: The All-India Kisan Sabha’s Maharashtra unit has given a call to the farmers across the state to join the march to Delhi in support of the farmers who are on strike outside Delhi demanding a repeal of the three agriculture norms passed by the Union government. An online meeting of the Maharashtra unit was held and it was decided that the farmers will start their Delhi-bound journey from Nashik on December 21 and reach the national capital by December 23 to join the protests. “We will start on Monday at 11 am. The farmers from the various districts will join us in Nashik and then we will leave for Delhi,” said Raju Desle, the state secretary of the sabha. “It is now or never. We will have to wage the ‘fight’ against the Union government. We will not settle for anything short of the acts — that promote contract farming, do away with minimum support price, and remove the cap on the storage by the traders — are repealed. All these laws will kill agriculture. Therefore, we have decided to join the farmers there,” another office bearer said. The farmers from Maharashtra will stay in Delhi for five to eight days and they will carry their ration along with them. They have also been asked to make arrangements for their bedding and warm clothes as they will have to stay in the open. They will even pay for their own transportation costs. The participants have been asked to ensure that they carry hand sanitizers and other things required as part of Covid-19 guidelines. The farmers from all other districts will reach Nashik on December 20 evening. Those from neighbouring districts of Palghar, Thane, Ahmednagar will reach Nashik on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-to-leave-for-delhi-from-nashik-on-december-21/articleshow/79765230.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||New building to be constructed for Govt Degree College in Chamoli village||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s higher education minister, Dhan Singh Rawat, on Wednesday announced that a new building will be constructed for the Government Degree College in Nandasain village, located in the outskirts of the Chamoli district, next year. The construction of the building of the degree college has been due since 2015 when the land was allotted for the college by the local villagers. The project is estimated to cost around Rs 3 crores and will help in improving the higher education standards of the college which has been running since the academic year 2015-16. At present, the college has around 150 students from 15 villages. The 4G network facility in the college has also commenced in the college and the minister has assured of more facilities gradually. Meanwhile, the last date for registration for availing the scholarship given by the social welfare department meant for the students has been changed to December 31. The students can avail this scholarship amount for higher education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-building-to-constructed-for-govt-degree-college-in-chamoli-village/articleshow/79765229.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||IIT-Kgp convocation on virtual platform||Kolkata: The Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, is set to be among the first institutions in Bengal to hold a virtual convocation for 2,700-odd students in the outgoing 2019-20 academic batch. The event is likely to be webcast live over multiple social networking sites so that all students and their parents can join it. The convocation ceremony that is usually held between July-end and August had been postponed and students are yet to receive their degrees. Initially, the authorities had planned to call students to the institute and award them the degrees in-person. But the plan was scrapped owing to the prevailing pandemic. “There will be no possibility of asking so many students to come to the institute next month. Moreover, many graduating students have already found placements and are joining jobs. Since the degree certificates are valuable, we have decided to hold a virtual convocation without any further delay,” said a senior IIT-Kharagpur official. The institute’s registrar, Tamal Nath, said the convocation date is likely to be January 23. However, the chief guest is yet to be confirmed. “Since the highest administrative decision-making body of the institute has given the nod to the event, we shall now begin preparations,” said the official. IIT-Bombay has already held a virtual convocation. IIT Kharagpur has also announced the Distinguished Alumnus award. Total 21 alumni from across the world have been named this year. “They will be handed over the awards virtually,” said another official. After the convocation, each degree will be sent to the graduates at their mailing addresses. Most of the government institutes in Bengal have either cancelled the convocation this year or postponed indefinitely while some others with a limited number of graduates held it in person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-convocation-on-virtual-platform/articleshow/79767296.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 17, 2020||Madurai||142 new cases in south TN, 89 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 142 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death in Theni were reported in the southern districts on Wednesday while the central districts recorded no deaths but 89 fresh cases took their total tally to 72,390. According to the health department bulletin, an 80-year-old man with type-2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension tested positive on November 3 and was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai on November 10, but he died on November 18. Madurai with 26 fresh cases recorded the highest number of cases in the region followed by Dindigul and Kanyakumari with 22 cases each. The other districts recorded less than 20 cases each, of which five districts recorded less than 10 each. Ramanathapuram recorded the lowest (5), followed by Theni (8) and Virudhunagar, Sivaganga and Tenkasi nine cases each, Tuticorin (15) and Tirunelveli (17). Marginal increase in the active cases continued in Madurai and with 279 active cases it has the highest in the southern region. Five districts have less than 100 active cases of which Ramanathapuram (28) has the lowest. Trichy was on top of the chart with 25 fresh cases in the central region. The total number of positive cases in the district was 13,800 while the district had the highest number of active cases of 154. The rest of the districts in the region registered fresh cases below 20 only. While Thanjavur, which had the highest tally of 16,787 cases, recorded 16 cases, Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur registered 15 each. Three other districts recorded cases in single digit while Perambalur had no fresh cases. Ariyalur also has been registering no fresh case at regular intervals. While Ariyalur recorded the second lowest cases of on Wednesday, Karur and Pudukottai got eight and nine cases respectively. The region had 717 active cases with Perambalur having only six.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/142-new-cases-in-south-tn-89-in-central-districts/articleshow/79768595.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Gopal Rai visits Singhu border, demands rollback of farm laws||NEW DELHI: Agriculture minister and AAP’s Delhi convenor Gopal Rai on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements at Singhu border and demanded immediate rollback of the farm laws. Delhi government, which has been running the kitchens for the protesting farmers, has also installed mobile toilets and drinking water facilities at the site. “Our party and the government stand with the farmers against the three anti-farmer laws passed by BJP-run Centre. Farmers have been protesting for the past 20 days, the central government should resolve their issues. BJP is dealing with the issue with an ego, which has left the farmers to take to streets in this winter,” he said, adding that it was unfortunate that the Prime Minister had accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers. Rai also hit out at Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh by saying, he came to Delhi, met the Union home minister and returned without meeting the farmers. “Now, he is talking in the language of BJP and accusing AAP. This is a deliberate attempt to divert the attention. Singh was a member of the committee that was formed at that time for the law. He did not speak once regarding these laws,” Rai claimed. Recently, CM Arvind Kejriwal with AAP functionaries had observed a daylong fast in support of the farmers and stated that the laws were not only against them but also the common man as it would lead to massive inflation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gopal-rai-visits-singhu-border-demands-rollback-of-farm-laws/articleshow/79767347.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Satej Patil’s Twitter account hacked||Kolhapur: The verified Twitter account of Satej Patil, the minister of state for home and information technology, was hacked around 11 pm on Tuesday. The hacker(s) changed the name of his handle from @Satejp to @TwitterSupport and direct messages from the account were sent to many people, including senior journalists. Patil’s Twitter handle stopped showing his profile picture as well as his earlier tweets. “Yes, my Twitter account has been hacked. The cyber cell has been asked to look into it. I have written to Twitter to restore my account as soon as possible. Any malice by the hackers will not be tolerated,” Patil told TOI. Eminent researcher Dhruv Jaishankar was the first to point out the possible hacking activity. He said it was a clever attempt by the hacker to use an account with a blue verification badge. “It (the message in the DM) links to a Google site that asks for Twitter log-in info and password,” Jaishankar tweeted. Actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar also tweeted that her Instagram account had been hacked. Amir Shaikh, the state president of NSUI, tweeted stating his Facebook account was hacked. Patil is one of the few young Congress functionaries who is well-connected with people on social media. He has been on Twitter since 2010 and has over 42,000 followers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satej-patils-twitter-account-hacked/articleshow/79765224.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nashik||Tillers seek intervention of guv, Fadnavis to lift onion export ban||Nashik: The Maharashtra state onion growers’ association has renewed its demand with the central government to withdraw the ban on onion export and sought the intervention of the Maharashtra governor and the leader of opposition in the state assembly. A delegation of farmers, led by association president Bharat Dighole, met opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis and also the governor’s additional secretary Ajay Chaudhari and submitted their memoranda of demands in Mumbai on Tuesday. Dighole said Fadnavis agreed to meet the farmers only after they staged a protest in front of his official residence. “We resorted to a sit-in agitation after Fadnavis refused to meet us. We were then called for a meeting, during which we urged him to pursue with the Centre for withdrawal of the export ban on onions.” The farmers’ association leader said Fadnavis assured the delegation that he would approach the Centre and convey their message. The Centre imposed a ban on onion export on September 14 due to scarcity of the kitchen staple and increase in wholesale prices. “The situation is different now as the arrival of new kharif crop has increased. It may increase further and lead to a decline in the prices,” said Dighole. The farmers are worried as the wholesale onion prices have been falling in the last one-and-a-half months. The arrival of fresh kharif variety has increased by around 70% at the wholesale markets in the last two to three days. Meanwhile, the average wholesale onion price was recorded at Rs 2,450 per quintal at the Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, on Wednesday. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 1,100 and Rs 3,200 per quintal, respectively. Around 6,500 quintal of kharif onions and 1,000 quintal of summer variety were auctioned at Lasalgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tillers-seek-intervention-of-guv-fadnavis-to-lift-onion-export-ban/articleshow/79765243.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 17, 2020||Vadodara||Consumer court holds bank guilty of auctioning sub-judice property||Vadodara: A notice for auction in the newspaper left Bhaskar Parekh, a resident of Tarsali, deeply shocked. The realization that the flat he had purchased from a bank auction has also almost pushed him into litigation hassles, left Parekh much worried. The fresh notice in the newspaper was of the same property that he had purchased from Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) in August 2011, but this time it was issued by Bharat Cooperative Bank Ltd. Parekh understood that BoM sold the property for Rs 5.4 lakh without verifying whether it is under litigation or if its title is clear. He dragged the bank to the consumer court. After a legal battle that spread over seven-long-years, the consumer forum ultimately held BoM responsible for negligence and ordered it to return Rs 6.5 lakh with interest to Parekh along with Rs 10,000 as compensation. According to case details, BoM in August 2011 had put up the property near Khanderao Market for auction after the original owner defaulted in payment. The bank sold the property to Parekh as his bid of Rs 5.4 lakh was the highest. Besides the bidding amount, he paid Rs 2.1 lakh for stamp duty, sale deed and other charges. Two months later, Prekh read a notice for auction of the same property in the newspaper leaving him shocked.When he approached Bharat Cooperative Bank, he was told that the board of nominees court had ordered the auction. The board of nominees court refused to make Parekh a party in the case. When the property was sealed, Parekh approached the court to get his money back. During the hearing, BoM shrugged off its responsibility saying that it had sold the property on ‘as is where is’ condition. “The bank said that their auction notice was clear about the condition, but that is related to the physical condition of the property. Whether the title of the property is clear or not or whether it is litigation-free should have been verified by the bank before auctioning it,” said P V Moorjani, who represented Parekh.The court upheld the argument and stated that the bank’s officials were negligent and did not even inquire whether they had the sole right to auction the property or not. By holding the auction and selling the property to Parekh as he was the highest bidder, the bank has been unfair to him, the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/consumer-court-holds-bank-guilty-of-auctioning-sub-judice-property/articleshow/79765334.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Durga temple draws flak for ticket price hike||VIJAYAWADA: The Kanaka Durga temple trust board’s decision to increase the price of Pancha Haratulu ticket has drawn criticism from devotees and Hindu associations. The trust board had in its recent meeting discussed various Arjita Sevas performed at the temple and doubled the ticket price from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. The decision comes amid high demand for the ticket and Covid-19 restrictions at the temple. Panchayat Haratulu is an important Arjita Seva performed every evening at the temple. Two persons are allowed per ticket and till date, the ticket cost was fixed at Rs 500 per couple. Darshan of the Goddess Kanaka Durga is also included with every ticket. The Hindu Yuva Shakti (HYS) has raised objections to the decision of the trust board. “Government should stop considering temples as financial sources. Increasing Arjita Seva ticket price is nothing but looting the devotees. Temple authorities and trust board should immediately take back this decision,” said Chikkala Rajinikanth, president of HYS. Meanwhile, Artha Mandala Bhavani Deeksha Swikarana that commenced at the Kanaka Durga temple on Tuesday has received a positive response from devotees with thousands taking deeksha at the temple. The temple authorities are putting in place necessary arrangements for Bhavani Deeksha relinquishment from January 5. With Covid-19 cases on the decline, temple authorities expect around 50,000 devotees for relinquishment. Authorities also plan to extend the fest by two days to regulate crowds and provide darshan for all devotees. In view of Covid-19 safety protocols, giri pradakshina, tonsuring and other rituals have been prohibited at the temple during the fest. Holy dips in the Krishna river are also prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/durga-temple-draws-flak-for-tkt-price-hike/articleshow/79766500.cms||Venu Lanka
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Capital plans forcing airlines to boost regional connectivity||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a bid to promote to regional connectivity, different airlines introduced a host of flights operating from the four airports within the two Telugu states, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Now, aviation experts claim that in the post-lockdown scenario, there is a sudden spurt in traffic on these regional routes for several reasons. The two most important reasons being the shift in capital plan from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam and Hyderabad ending its term of being the de jure capital of Andhra Pradesh by 2024. “A lot of government officials from different administrative offices are moving between Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam and between Hyderabad and Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam to make their offices ready. We were actually expecting such movement by May-June itself. But, it got delayed, owing to the pandemic and the following lockdown,” president of Tours and Travels Association of Andhra, K Vijay Mohan, told TOI. While the capital shifting plan is being contested in the high court, the government is continuing with ground works for the shifting process of the state’s executive capital from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam. “As per the bifurcation act, we have to shift all our offices from Hyderabad by 2024. Quite understandable that when the capital shifting process from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam is on, all departments would also try and shift offices from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam during this period,” a senior government official involved in the shifting process, told TOI. Airlines like IndiGO, Spice Jet and Air Asia had introduced several flights since the first week of December from the three airports in Andhra – Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Tirupati. However, most of these flights are connecting these three cities and Hyderabad. “Apart from improving regional connectivity, we had increased flights between airports in AP and Hyderabad because we are considering Hyderabad as the hub airport for this region. In the post-lockdown period, we could not introduce direct flights to all major cities from the three Andhra airports so there is a huge demand for flights to Hyderabad as it is acting as the transit airport,” said a senior airline official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/capital-plans-forcing-airlines-to-boost-regional-connectivity/articleshow/79766548.cms||Arpit Basu
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Nakkapalli business cluster to get basic facilities||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government is focusing its efforts to provide basic facilities in the Nakkapalli cluster which is part of the Vizag-Chennai Industrial Corridor. The corridor works gained momentum after AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) managing director Pravin Reddy’s visit to verify the acquired lands and records. “He (Pravin Reddy) verififed village maps and revenue records. He also asked officers about the particulars of acquired lands including government, jirayat, D-form lands and the payment of compensation,” a senior APIIC official said. The APIIC has acquired 4,000 acres across Chandanada, Amalapuram, Rajayyapeta and other villages in Nakkapalli mandal in a bid to invite big players to set up petrochemical, power and related industrial units in the area. Sources said both private and public sector units have shown interest in the cluster. Authorities will be laying roads, drainage, setting up electric substations, drinking water facilities, effluent treatment plants while improving greenery at a cost of Rs 1,200 crore. Special deputy collector Anita told TOI that land acquisition was complete and compensations to those who gave up their land were almost settled barring a few cases. APIIC zonal heads are now focussing on the creation of basic facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nakkapalli-biz-cluster-to-get-basic-facilities/articleshow/79766610.cms||Siva G
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Work on new VMC building resumes||VIJAYAWADA: Work on the new administrative building of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) resumed here on Wednesday. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh officially restarted the project after offering special prayers. Former Vijayawada mayor had proposed a G+9 administrative building for the civic body at its main office in One Town. The built-up area of the building was to have been one lakh square feet out of which officials wanted to lease around 45,000 square feet for commercial purposes. Former municipal minister P Narayana had laid the foundation for the building at an estimated cost of Rs 32 crore. The project, however, was stalled after the government proposed shifting the VMC’s head office to Gunadala to expand the existing office site as part of riverfront development. Work on the building was abandoned midway and the VMC has resumed the project after the government withdrew the riverfront development project. The civic body released Rs 8 crore from the general grant to facilitate the works. Construction work will be completed within a year, the engineering wing has said. The commissioner directed additional commissioner U Sarada and superintendent engineer Sri Rama Murthy to monitor the work and meet deadlines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/work-on-new-vmc-building-resumes/articleshow/79766540.cms||Venu Lanka
December 17, 2020||Goa||Will resolve water issues in Sattari: Vishwajit Rane||VALPOI: A day after villagers from Panshe, Sattari, staged a protest outside the PWD’s Valpoi water supply division office against the year-round water scarcity in the village, local MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane, taking cognizance of the issue, assured them that the issue would be fixed at the earliest. Rane said the plant at Podashe has broken down around 10 days ago. He said he has already taken up this issue with PWD principal chief engineer Uttam Parsekar. Rane further said that he has sought an appointment with chief minister Pramod Sawant and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar to discuss the water supply issues being faced by residents across Sattari and parts of Usgao. “I will request them to resolve these issues at the earliest in the interest of the people as water is a basic necessity. I would like to reassure the people that I will work towards avoiding such issues in the future,” he said. It may be recalled that on Tuesday, residents of Panshe-Sattari had staged a morcha at PWD office at Valpoi and had threatened to camp there, along with their families, including children, if water supply to their area was not restored within the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-resolve-water-issues-in-sattari-rane/articleshow/79768615.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nashik||HC tells Nashik smart corp to stop work on new township||NASHIK: The Bombay high court has restricted the Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL) from carrying out any activities related to the new township project at Makhmalabad on the outskirts of the city. The division bench comprising Justices S J Kathawalla and R I Chagla stopped the state government and the corporation from proceeding with the project till the next hearing on February 9, 2021. Under its smart city project, the NMSCDCL has planned to set up a township at Makhmalabad. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is the planning authority for the project. The plan was to acquire over 753 acres from landowners in Makhmalabad to set up infrastructure like road etc. The cost of the project is over Rs 300 crore. A group of 28 landowners, including some farmers from Makhmalabad, had moved the high court demanding that the project be scrapped. As per the draft of the township project, farmers will get 55% of the land they give for integrated development while the infrastructure will be developed on the remaining 45% of the land. The farmers will get the developed plots equipped with modern amenities. “As per the norms, the draft of the township should be declared within nine months from the date of declaration. Accordingly, it was expected to be declared on June 9. However, the authority delayed the project even after a three-month extension by the state government. This is in violation of the norms. Therefore, we want this project to be scrapped,” said Pranil Sonawane, the petitioners’ lawyer. “Farmers are also against the project as their agricultural activities would be affected. We had insisted on implementing this project on the outskirts on non-irrigated land,” said Suresh Patil, one of the landowners. Prakash Thavil, the CEO of NMSCDCL, said a legal opinion would be sought. “We have already submitted the draft development plan (DP) of the township project to the state government and the project is pending approval,” said Thavil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hc-tells-nashik-smart-corp-to-stop-work-on-new-township/articleshow/79765237.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Renovated King Thirumalai Nayak palace opens for visitors||Madurai: The King Thirumalai Nayak Mahal, one of the main attractions in Madurai city, was thrown open to the public on Wednesday, after nine months.People now have the opportunity to see the palace, which underwent renovation at a cost of Rs 3 crore. The 17th century monument, known for gigantic pillars, was affected by the scribblings and bird droppings. The pillars are now restored using traditional lime mortar, and painting has also been done. Entry of birds has been prevented by installing a mesh to cover the open space. The weak places, where water seepage was noticed, were also strengthened.There was less number of visitors on Wednesday as tourism is yet to pick up in Madurai. Officials from the archaeology department, which manages the structure, said that mostly people from outside Madurai would visit it. Visitors’ number will go up when tourism activities pick up.Deputy director of the archaeology department R Sivanandham said, “We have increased vigilance to prevent scribblings on the pillars. We have carved out a small portion in one of the pillars to show people what the inner side of the pillars look like. Marble forms the centre of the pillar, which was finished using two layers of brick works and a thick layer of lime mortar.”The Keeladi artefact museum was also thrown open for visitors on Wednesday. The visitors are provided with hand sanitisers and checked for temperature. Children less than 10 years of age, people aged more than 65 years and pregnant women would not be allowed for now, he said.They are ready to start sound and light shows in the evenings, from Wednesday onwards depending on the response from the people, he said.Visitors also urged the Madurai Corporation to open the park adjacent to the palace, which is yet to be inaugurated after it was revived recently. “The park looks very attractive with lawns and new landscaping works. But we could not enter it. We were told that it is yet to be inaugurated,” said V Paramasivam, a visitor.A corporation official said that they are looking for a suitable partner to take care of the maintenance under the CSR arm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/renovated-king-thirumalai-nayak-palace-opens-for-visitors/articleshow/79768613.cms||V Devanathan
December 17, 2020||Trichy||PAC chief blames Nirmala for incomplete flyover project||Trichy: The assembly’s public accounts committee (PAC) has blamed Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the delay in acquiring a piece of defence land for the completion of the flyover project in Trichy.Stating that any project should commence only after land is acquired according to the rule, committee chairman and DMK general secretary Durai Murugan said it had not been done in this case. Being defence minister and a native of Trichy, Nirmala Sitharaman could have sorted out the matter easily but she didn’t do so. “Hence, we suggested at the meeting to get the work done as soon as possible. She (Nirmala Sitaraman) still can do her part in getting the defence land for the project,” he told reporters after the review meeting.The construction of the Chennai arm of the flyover has been left incomplete due to the hurdles in acquiring 66 cents of defence land at Mannarpuram even though the other four arms have been opened for traffic after completion in July 2018. Though the committee comprised 19 members, several of them did not turn up. It discussed several aspects in the reports of the comptroller and the auditor general of India with Trichy district collector S Sivarasu and officers of several government departments. The committee also inspected the developmental project being carried out in the district. Durai Murugan said at the review meeting that the committee will inspect whether the funds allocated to government departments to implement welfare measures were distributed based on eligibility. The committee inspected the construction of the bus stand at Chathiram under the smart city project, the agriculture projects in Anbil Dharmalingam agriculture college and research institute and a few other areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pac-chief-blames-nirmala-for-incomplete-flyover-project/articleshow/79768614.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna delta ryots struggle to sell damaged paddy stock||GUNTUR: The Krishna delta farmers are struggling to sell their paddy stock as the millers are not coming forward to purchase citing dis-colouration, damage due to the recent rains in Guntur district. Although the chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has promised to pick up the entire paddy damaged following Nivar cyclone, the Civil Supplies Corporation is dilly-dallying to procure the stock. Sources said that shortage of funds with the Civil Supplies Corporation is delaying the purchases from farmers. Sources said that the state government is also waiting for the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to relax procurement norms before starting to buy stocks. Although the district administration set up exclusive paddy procurement centres, the authorities of the Civil Supplies Corporation are neither procuring the stock directly nor motivating the rice millers to start procurement. The millers have so far purchased just around 600 metric tonnes of stock against the total expected crop of 10 lakh metric tonnes during the Kharif. In fact, the government asked the millers to procure at least 3 lakh metric tonnes and readied a plan to procure another 4 lakh metric tonnes for its own needs including to supply for Public Distribution Scheme (PDS) and social welfare hostels. However, the procurement is going at a very slow pace although harvest is nearing completion in the entire Krishna delta. State civil supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar has issued guidelines to district collectors on procurement of damaged, discoloured, sprouted paddy. He asked the collectors to keep the completely damaged stocks in separate godowns without mixing it with the fine stocks. Realising that the situation is grim in the district, in-charge minister Ch Sriranganatha Raju has asked the millers to start procurement of paddy to bail out farmers. He asked the millers not to take the situation to their advantage as the farmers have already lost heavily due to the cyclone. The minister directed the district collector to expedite the procurement from the farmers without any delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-delta-ryots-struggle-to-sell-damaged-paddy-stock/articleshow/79766422.cms||Samdani MN
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP man and wife arrested for killing in-laws over dowry||VIJAYAWADA: A man, with the help of his wife, allegedly killed his in-laws by slitting their throats for failing to provide dowry. The incident took place at Bandipalem village of Chillakallu mandal in Krishna district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Muthaiah and his wife Sugunamma. Chillakallu police said the main accused has been identified as Nemali Babu, a village volunteer, who got married four months ago, when his wife was a minor. Babu married his wife against her parents’ wishes, police said, and the two rented out an accommodation in Chillakallu town. After the marriage, he was selected as a village volunteer and later, began harassing his in-laws and demanded they give him dowry. Unable to put up with the torment, Muthaiah agreed to pay Rs 30,000 after receiving his DWARCRA payout from the government. Police said Muthaiah after failed to give Babu the promised amount, the two had an altercation and Babu decided to kill him. As per his plan, Babu first sent his wife to Muthaiah’s house and she notified him when her parents were asleep. He then barged into the house and attacked them with a knife, killing them on the spot. The two then fled from the spot. Locals alerted the police, who reached the spot and learnt that the last person the deceased had interacted with was their daughter. Police soon tracked down the duo and arrested them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-and-wife-arrested-for-killing-in-laws-over-dowry/articleshow/79766482.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Three nabbed for raping minor in Satara||KOLHAPUR: Satara police have arrested three youths for allegedly raping a minor girl for over a week by taking her to various places. There are a total of four suspects. One of them has managed to escape. The remaining three were produced before a local court and have been remanded in police custody. “All the suspects are in the early 20s and residents of Satara town. The suspect on the run is also a resident of Satara,” a police officer said. “Action was taken when the girl’s family lodged a complaint with us after the survivor shared her horrifying experience with them. According to the complaint, one of the suspects took the girl to a private lodge and forced himself on her. The incident took place between 1 pm and 5 pm on December 5,” he added. The officer said that one of the suspets owned the car in which the girl was taken to various places. “He also tried to rape the girl. The third suspect took the girl to Kaas plateau and raped her on several occasions. From December 11 to 14, the fourth suspect, who is absconding, took the girl to his rental apartment and raped her on several occasions,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-nabbed-for-raping-minor-in-satara/articleshow/79765231.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Woman held for extorting over Rs 9 lakh||KOLHAPUR: A woman has been arrested by Ichalkaranji police for extorting over Rs 9 lakh from a rape suspect by thr eatening to get his bail cancelled. According to police, the woman had lodged the rape complaint against the man and had sought money to drop the charges. The woman was arrested after the complainant approached the police saying that the woman had already taken nearly Rs 9 lakh from him and was demanding more. In 2018, the woman lodged a rape complaint against the man following which he was arrested. He somehow managed to get bail and the woman took Rs 9.2 by threatening to send him back to the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-held-for-extorting-over-rs-9-lakh/articleshow/79765241.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: GVMC moots cycling track from Vuda Park to Bheemili||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation is planning to develop a cycling and pedestrian connection on a 27-kilometre beach-front from VMRDA (Vuda) Park to Bheemili. The major objective of this proposed project is to construct a range of public realm along this stretch, including fully segregated walking and cycling pathways, site furniture (benches, drinking fountains and public washrooms), lighting, green infrastructure, and extensive areas of native vegetation. According to the GVMC officials, the civic body already issued an RfP (request for proposal) to prepare a detailed project report for this initiative. The GVMC recently finalised tenders for another beachfront project, spanning about 3.5 kilometres near RK beach, for Rs 116 crore. This Rs 116 crore project is being taken up with the financial assistance from the World Bank under Andhra Pradesh Disaster Recovery Project. GVMC chief engineer M Venkateswara Rao said that initial estimates for the development of bicycle track, pedestrian pathways and other works from VMRDA (Vuda) Park to Bheemili is pegged at Rs 112 crore. “We would try for external funds for this project. We have floated an RfP, inviting consultants to prepare DPR for the project” said Venkateswara Rao. The proposed combined track is a shared pedestrian and cyclist pathway, connecting VMRDA (Vuda) Park on the south to Bheemili up in the north side of the city. This would connect lighthouse at Vuda Park, Tenneti Park, Sagar Nagar beach, Rushikonda beach, red sand hills and other attractions or intermediate areas on this 27-km stretch. It is expected to provide a recreational facility for cyclists, walkers, joggers, and beachgoers, apart from offering an alternative mobility option. The plan would focus on providing an ecosystem of bicycle track by creating off-road bicycle tracks and trails running along the beach at various identified stretches. According to the GVMC officials, the DPR would also focus on integration and strategic approach for merging the green infrastructure with the existing roads, transit areas, bus stands, proposed metro stations, and residential areas. The proposals should be of universally accessible design.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-moots-cycling-track-from-vuda-park-to-bheemili/articleshow/79766587.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid: 478 new cases in AP, 3 more deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 478 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday while three more succumbed to the virus. The cumulative case load now stands at 8,76,814 while the death toll rose to 7,067. Of the three deaths reported on Wednesday, two are from Visakhapatnam and one from Kadapa. As many as 715 people were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 4,420 active cases with 8,65,327 cumulative recoveries and 7,067 fatalities. The active cases are less than 200 each in five districts, while three districts have achieved a 99% recovery rate. Chittoor reported 89 new infections on Wednesday, followed by West Godavari (63), Krishna (62) and East Godavari (58). The remaining nine districts registered less than 50 cases. Kurnool posted only six cases. The state tested 64,099 Covid-19 samples and detected 478 new cases on Wednesday, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 1%. Of the 64,099 people tested for the virus, 42,612 tests were done through RT-PCR method and the remaining through rapid antigen kits. The state has so far conducted 1.1 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 8%. The mortality rate stands at 0.8%. Meanwhile, the government reduced the price of RT-PCR test at private labs to Rs 475 (for samples sent by government) and Rs 499 (for individuals who directly approach labs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/478-new-covid-cases-in-ap-3-more-deaths/articleshow/79766553.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nashik||64 booked for polluting Godavari river||NASHIK: Police have booked as many as 64 people for polluting Godavari either by dumping garbage or carrying out washing activities on the banks of the river. “We will continue to take action against people found polluting the river,” a police officer said, adding that in order to keep the river free of pollution, the Bombay High Court has issued certain instructions on the basis of which, the Green Kumbh concept has been formed. To implement this concept, the police takes action, from time to time, against people found washing clothes, utensils, vehicles, animals in the river and also against those who are found dumping garbage, plastic bags etc. in the river..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/64-booked-for-polluting-godavari-river/articleshow/79765244.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Bail denied to riot accused||NEW DELHI: A city court on Wednesday refused to grant bail to a man accused in a murder case related to the northeast Delhi riots. The court noted that the accused was present in a large unlawful assembly that had taken part in the violence. “The contention of the counsel that the CCTV footage does not involve the accused in the offence under Section 302 IPC is not tenable as every member of the unlawful assembly is deemed to be guilty of the offence committed in prosecution of common object of that assembly or which he knew is likely to be committed,” additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat observed. Salman Khan, who has been in jail since March 30, 2020, sought the bail through his lawyer Seema Mishra. The lawyer said that Delhi Police had filed a chargesheet and that he had been framed in the case. It was also pointed out that neither had he participated in the unlawful assembly, nor did he commit any crime. “Given the trial is going to take a long time, he cannot be made to languish in jail forever,” Mishra argued. On the other hand, special public prosecutor Rajeev Kishan Sharma, referring to the incident of February 25, 2020, argued that when the cops had tried to stop the violent mob, it had faced retaliation with heavy stone pelting and firing, resulting in serious injuries to police personnel. As a result, police had to fire in the air to control the crowd, he added. According to the prosecution, a victim named Aaman succumbed to bullet wounds fired upon by the rioters. “The applicant is a resident of Uttar Pradesh and if released, there are chances of his absconding and fleeing. He is previously involved in as many as four other criminal cases, including rioting,” the prosecutor argued. It also came on the court’s record that there was video footage depicting Khan to be among the rioters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bail-denied-to-riot-accused/articleshow/79767355.cms||Aamir Khan
December 17, 2020||Nashik||Follow safety protocols: Civic chief||Nashik: With the continuing fluctuations in the weather conditions, Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has appealed to the residents to follow the safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently. He said the present weather condition is favourable for viral diseases, including Covid. “Covid cases are under control in the city at present, but the cases may increase if people did not follow the proper Covid safety protocols,” said Jadhav. Jadhav has also advised residents to approach doctors in case of fever and cough. The civic chief has also appealed to people to not go outside unnecessarily especially in crowded market places. He has also warned of legal action against the organisers of weddings and other functions if they do not abide by the guidelines. “We also want the shopkeepers to maintain ‘no mask no entry’ in their shops. They should not sell goods to customers not wearing masks,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/follow-safety-protocols-civic-chief/articleshow/79765259.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 tally cross 84k-mark in U’khand||Dehradun: The Covid-19 tally crossed 84,000-mark in Uttarakhand with 567 fresh cases reported from the state on Wednesday. Also, with three deaths, the toll of the virus shot up to 1,375. According to the experts, the death percentage in the nine hill districts has increased in the last two months from 7.3% in October to 12.6% in December. Among the fresh cases reported on Wednesday, the maximum of 194 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 123 in Nainital, 57 in Almora, 37 in Haridwar, 26 in Chamoli, 21 each in Champawat and Pithoragarh, 20 in Udham Singh Nagar, 18 in Pauri, 17 in Uttarkashi, 16 in Bageshwar, 14 in Tehri, and three in Rudraprayag. “The total cases of Covid-19 reached 84,069 on Wednesday,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. He added that the recovery rate reached 89.8% in the state with a total of 75,547 people recovering from the infection so far. As many as 498 people recovered from Covid-19 on Wednesday. Meanwhile, health secretary Amit Negi was recently tested positive for coronavirus. He has been on the forefront in the fight against coronavirus. Similarly, director general (Health) Dr Amita Upreti also tested positive for the virus earlier this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-tally-cross-84k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/79765247.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Ajni project will railroad through a slice of city’s heritage too||Nagpur: Not just thousands of age-old trees, the Ajni inter-modal station work is set to wipe out a lot of history too. Dotting Ajni Woods are a number of ancient cottages of British vintage, which are being used as quarters for railway employees. Not just massive environmental damage, the proposed station and other commercial projects will destroy this bequest that, according to activists, holds immense heritage value. In a case study ‘The Rail Heritage of Nagpur’, architectural conservationist Sandeep Pathe highlights how the quarters were established in 1883 and have been ‘witness to the glorious rail history of Nagpur’. According to Pathe, the quarters are quite unique, having elements of railway architecture. “The fences, the gates, sloping roofs, doors, windows, chimneys — everything contributes to the vocabulary of rail architecture,” he says. Considering the geographic location of the city, it had been a prominent epicentre for Britishers. “The first train in India became operational on April 16, 1853, which ran between Bombay and Thane. Later, when the railway network was extended to Howrah, there was a need for a junction and that is when Nagpur was made a railway junction,” he writes. Subsequently, various railway activities, including the locoshed and quarters at Ajni, followed suit. “Many British officials and some high-ranking Indian officials would reside in these quarters, which had separate houses for servants. Britishers planned this colony aiming towards self-sufficiency. It has a main road, a service road and immense greenery around every quarter,” says Pathe. He believes that the railway quarters qualify to be declared as ‘heritage’ as they meet both the required parameters — authenticity and integrity. “We can’t find these unique architectural elements elsewhere. Instead of destroying them, we should be preserving them as a testimony of railway architecture,” the architect says. The colony was made so thoughtfully that it could provide a lush green pocket in the heart of the city. “Unlike modern day urban planning, immense focus was laid on green and open spaces. That is precisely the reason why this area is a thriving biodiversity habitat,” adds Pathe. Despite this, the quarters have not found a place in the city’s list of heritage buildings. “It was probably because they were under the possession of railways,” the architect feels. Renowned architect and conservationist Pradyumna Sahasrabhojanee, who was also one of the members of city’s first heritage committee, says that the quarters could have been identified as a heritage precinct. “It is difficult to declare an entire locality as heritage, especially when it belongs to someone else and people were staying there. However, it certainly qualifies for a precinct,” he says. Heritage precincts refer to any spaces that require conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ajni-project-will-railroad-through-a-slice-of-citys-heritage-too/articleshow/79766238.cms||Manka Behl
December 17, 2020||Delhi||When 'US Marshals', 'foreign' agencies worked from Delhi||NEW DELHI: In one of the biggest crackdowns against illegal BPOs, a fake call centre being run from Moti Nagar in west Delhi was busted by Cyber Cell of Delhi Police. The 54 people arrested from there were scaring and duping foreign nationals by posing as personnel of law enforcement agencies. Police have also seized 89 desktops and a server. DCP Anyesh Roy said the accused used an elaborate script to carry out the con job. “They have duped more than 4,500 people of around Rs 90-100 crore. We conducted a raid at the call centre after getting a tip-off about the illegal activities. The arrested people include 45 men and nine women. These include four team leaders and ‘closers’, who were responsible for ensuring that the victim transferred the money. The team leaders have been identified as Gurmil Singh, Raunak, Jyotika and Yashpal.” During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they contacted residents of the US and other countries impersonating as staff of law enforcement and other government agencies, including Social Security Administration, Drug Enforcement Administration, US Marshals Service, etc. “The callers told the targets that their bank accounts and other assets were being frozen as their details had been found at a crime scene. They further stated that the bank accounts were being used for making illegal transactions to drug cartels in Mexico and Colombia and threatened the victims with immediate arrest,” said Roy. The victims were given two options, either go for legal action in which they would be arrested and their assets would be seized till the court case was on, or go for Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR), which would be faster and simpler. Upon opting for ADR, the victims would be asked to share the details of their assets, including money in bank accounts. “In the next step, the victims would be told that the only one way to safeguard their assets would be to either buy Bitcoins or Google Gift Cards worth the money in their bank accounts. The Bitcoins would then be transferred to wallets operated by the accused saying that it was a safe government wallet,” said a senior police officer. In case of gift cards, the victims would be allegedly induced to share the number mentioned on the cards stating that it would be linked to their new “safe” bank accounts. The script used by the call centre has been seized, along with digital devices and mobile phones of the accused. An initial investigation has revealed that the owner of the call centre was managing the operations from Dubai. Efforts are being made to identify others who could be involved in the scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-us-marshals-and-dea-worked-from-india/articleshow/79767366.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Truck rams 10 vehicles on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass||PUNE: An autorickshaw driver suffered fractures to his hand and leg and nine four-wheelers and a scooter were damaged after a truck carrying cement bags ploughed through the vehicles at Dattanagar along the busy Katraj-DehuRoad bypass on Wednesday afternoon. The truck was on its way to Navale bridge from Katraj when the accident occurred and its driver was arrested. Police said none of the people inside the damaged vehicles was injured in the accident An officer from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “The truck driver told the police that he had repeatedly tried applying brakes to stope the vehicle. However, he said, the brakes did not work and he lost control over the wheels. We are verifying the truck driver’s claims and will wait for the RTO vehicle inspection report.” Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “The autorickshaw driver, Ashok Arjun Nagarkar (50) of Pashan, had parked his vehicle along the bypass and walked a few distance ahead when the truck came from the rear and started dashing the vehicles. One of the vehicles hit Nagarkar. He was shifted to a private hospital at Dhankawadi. As many as seven cars, a scooter and two SUVs were damaged.” Kalaskar said, “We have arrested the truck driver, Raosaheb Muralidhar Kute (31) of Kej in Beed district. He currently stays in Pune. Offences under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 427 (mischief causing damage) and 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code have been slapped on him.” The accident disrupted vehicular movement along the busy bypass, which connects the Mumbai and the Bengaluru highways, for nearly an hour, the police said. Traffic resumed only after the police and local residents removed the damaged vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-rams-10-vehicles-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass/articleshow/79767359.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 32-year-old dies in road mishap in Vanasthalipuram||Hyderabad: A 32-year-old unknown man died in a road accident in Vanasthalipuram. Police said that the mishap took place when the man was hit by a two-wheeler while he was walking on the road. The incident took place on Sunday while the biker was travelling from LB Nagar to Hayathnagar. The victim succumbed while undergoing treatment on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/32-year-old-dies-in-road-mishap/articleshow/79768619.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ex-MLA remanded in police custody till December 18||PUNE: A magisterial court on Wednesday remanded former MLA Harshvardhan Jadhav in police custody till December 18 in connection with an attempt to murder offence registered against him by the Chatushrungi police. On Tuesday, police arrested Jadhav (43), a two-time former MLA from Kannad assembly seat in Aurangabad district, on the charge of assaulting a couple in a road rage incident on Monday. The couple, Ajay Chaddha (55) and his wife Mamta (48), were riding past Jadhav’s car in a two-wheeler when he suddenly opened the door, causing them to fall. When Ajay confronted Jadhav, the latter and a woman accompanying him, repeatedly hit the former in the chest and stomach despite him telling them that he is a heart and BP patient. The duo kicked and punched Ajay even after he fell, and also dealt similar blows to Mamta when she tried to stop them, the FIR lodged by their son, Aman (28), stated. Senior inspector Anil Shewale of Chatushrungi police told TOI on Wednesday that the Chaddha couple are under treatment in a hospital and Ajay still has pain in the chest. “The doctors have kept them under observation. Their condition is stable,” he said. Shewale said, “We are searching for the woman, who was accompanying Jadhav at the time of the incident. Our team visited her residence, but she was not there. She has switched off her mobile phone. We will trace her soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-mla-remanded-in-police-custody-till-dec-18/articleshow/79767353.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Patole orders probe in OCW agreement, OTS & extension||Nagpur: Maharashtra assembly speaker Nana Patole on Wednesday directed the state’s urban development department (UDD) to constitute a committee to probe agreement between BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and private water operator Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW), one-time-settlement (OTS) scheme and extension given to the operator. Patole also directed the UDD and NMC not to begin any construction on the proposed Sports Authority of India (SAI) stadium till a decision is taken on houses and plots on the said land. Taking note of various complaints lodged by West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre, Congress corporators Praful Gudadhe, Sanjay Mahakalkar, NCP state vice-president Vedprakash Arya and others, the speaker held a meeting in Mumbai on Wednesday. Guardian minister Nitin Raut, minister for sports and animal husbandry Sunil Kedar, UDD principal secretary Mahesh Pathak, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, collector Ravindra Thakare, NMC deputy commissioner Milind Meshram and other officials were present. Later, Gudadhe told TOI, “Inquiry committee will be set up on the lines of Nandlal Committee, which had probed sports goods scam in the NMC in 2001. Officials from the state administration will be in the committee.” Arya said, “As per NMC’s draft of expression of interest, the OCW was supposed to bear the expenditure on power and raw water. However, these two expenditures were later removed from the tender conditions to favour the operator and NMC is bearing these expenses. Also, a condition was inserted in the contract to have a local partner. One of the NMC office-bearers was director in one of two companies that formed OCW. Therefore, entire agreement was drafted to favour OCW. NMC was in profit before handing over the water works to the OCW. Information obtained by me under RTI has revealed that NMC incurred loss of Rs562.28 crore in the last eight years, and, OCW is in profit. Therefore, inquiry has been ordered.” Gudadhe said, “OCW was supposed to complete 24X7 water supply project within 5 years and also to achieve technical and financial efficiencies. Moreover, NMC approved the OTS for OCW from which the operator benefited by over Rs400 crore at the expense of cash-strapped civic body. Also, the operator has been given extension by five years. NMC was supposed to get done renewal and replacement (R&R) works worth Rs15 crore per annum from OCW every year from March 1, 2012 onwards. But, the OCW did not execute work of a single penny. Inquiry will also cover all these issues.” One of the ministers, on the condition of anonymity, confirmed about the probe order by Patole. It will be the first inquiry by the state government in OCW affairs in eight years. Gudadhe said when Radhakrishnan said that 24X7 water supply was not a project, but a target, we pointed out how big claims were made in the city about the project. Sources present in the meeting said Raut took a jibe at civic chief and asked him to hold a press conference and announce if he feels 24X7 water supply was not a project, but mere target. Mahakalkar said Patole has directed the UDD and NMC officials not to start SAI stadium construction. “Around 500 houses and 2,000 plots are situated on the land on which the SAI stadium is proposed. NMC has excluded some land from the project to save some houses and left others to suffer. It was a biased decision. Therefore, I explained in detail about the injustice being done to many citizens,” he said. Mahakalkar also said that SAI had planned to start construction of compound wall of the stadium, but it will be stopped with Patole’s latest orders. Others Issues From The Meeting West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre raised the issue of no FIR and cancellation of registration of Meditrina Hospital for alleged irregularities in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. He said state’s public health department had exposed irregularities and removed the hospital from its panel. Despite this, no offence was registered, he said and directed concerned officials to gather all information and submit it in the meeting next week. Congress corporators Praful Gudadhe, Sanjay Mahakalkar and NCP state vice-president Vedprakash Arya raised the issue of NMC handing over 75 acre land, worth over Rs180 crore, to Symbiosis International University (SIU) for off-campus centre free of cost. No directions were issued in the meeting on this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patole-orders-probe-in-ocw-agreement-ots-extension/articleshow/79766247.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 17, 2020||India||WSJ report on Bajrang Dal untrue: FB to House panel||NEW DELHI: Facebook India chief Ajit Mohan is learnt to have denied as “factually wrong and untrue” a report in Wall Street Journal about the social media giant refraining from banning Bajrang Dal out of fear of reprisal. Mohan’s testimony before the parliamentary standing committee on information technology on Wednesday immediately led BJP to attack Rahul Gandhi who had seized upon the WSJ report to claim that Facebook had been commandeered by the right-wing. The US business daily had alleged that while factcheckers at Facebook determined Bajrang Dal to be dangerous, it decided against evicting the Hindutva outfit from the platform. However, the Facbook team led by Mohan told the parliamentary panel led by Congress’s Shashi Tharoor that people quoted in the WSJ report “had no knowledge or authority, and were not in the hierarchical chain” to comment on the decisionmaking process. However, Mohan could not respond to questions on why Facebook had not issued a rejoinder and sought corrections of facts from WSJ on what was published. Sources said some MPs also asked Facebook to share the political affiliations of every one of Facebook India’s 268 employees, a demand the platform said it was unable to meet since it did not have the necessary information. Mohan’s claims about the report in the US paper saw BJP MPs demand that the social media platform should tag as ‘fake news’ a post by Rahul in which he shared a report by TV channels based on WSJ’s claim. To this too, Facebook was unable to give a clear answer. When quizzed about the specific mechanisms it had to check hate speech, the team is learnt to have told the panel that Facebook has no grievance redressal mechanism in India. The team also said it did not favour any individual or political party, and was not facing any political pressure either. The Tharoor-led panel was scheduled to hear representatives of Facebook on the subject of ‘Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space’. However, since the platform found itself at the centre of yet another controversy over failing to ban Bajrang Dal even though it was found to be sharing allegedly communally sensitive information, Tharoor and a few other MPs sought an explanation from Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wsj-report-on-bajrang-dal-untrue-fb-to-house-panel/articleshow/79769828.cms||Swati Mathur
December 17, 2020||Pune||Impostors dupe Camp eatery owner of Rs 4.8L||Pune: The Cantonment police are probing an FIR lodged by a prominent eatery owner in Camp stating that some unidentified people had duped him of nearly Rs4.8 lakh.The complainant (name withheld on request) said the persons would call him from November 21-24 from different numbers to claim that they were FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority) and police officers and would act against him in a food poisoning case if he did not pay the amount. Senior inspector Ashok Kadam of the Cantonment police said, “We are conducting technical investigations and collecting details of the transactions. We hope to detect the case at the earliest.” When contacted over the phone, the eatery owner on Wednesday told TOI, “I have no comment to offer. The police have instructed me not to talk to the media over the issue.”Kadam said, “It all started when the complainant’s manager received a call from a man, who identified himself as an FSSAI official. The caller said a complaint relating to food poisoning was received against the restaurant on November 21. He told the manager to ask his owner to contact him.” He added, “After the complainant returned the call, the man told him that a girl had suffered from food poisoning because she was given a parcel with stale ‘paneer’. The eatery owner denied the allegation, but the man claimed the person who had complained against the eatery was a sub-inspector with the Kothrud police station.” The caller shared the cellphone number of a woman with the eatery owner. When he called the woman, she said her daughter had collected a food parcel from the restaurant two days after Diwali and fell ill. Kadam said the complainant agreed to meet her daughter’s medical expenses after being told that an FIR would not be filed.On November 22, the eatery owner received a call from a person who identified himself as an FSSAI officer. The caller said the girl’s father was also a sub-inspector posted at the Pune police commissioner’s officer. He convinced the complainant to transfer Rs4,76,493 in e-wallets and bank accounts of the impostors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/impostors-dupe-camp-eatery-owner-of-rs-4-8l/articleshow/79767364.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Rain catches people in south TN by surprise||Madurai: After nearly a week of no rainfall, many of the southern districts experienced heavy to moderate rainfall on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, the day remained cloudy while it rained at night. The rains caught people by surprise. Among the districts, the highest average rainfall recorded was 32.8 mm at Ramanathapuram. Thondi in the district receiving the highest share of rainfall of 93.6 mm while Theerthandanatham, Mandapam and Rameswaram town recorded 65 mm, 40 mm and 24.2 mm rainfall respectively, till 8 am on Wednesday. Sivaganga district received 7.2 mm rainfall on Tuesday night, with Devakottai and Karaikudi in the district recording 24.2 mm and 21 mm rainfall respectively. Other southern districts too received less than 10 mm of rainfall on Tuesday night. Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam stood at 123.8 feet with an inflow of 686 cusecs and 1,222 cusecs being discharged from it. The water level in the Vaigai dam stood at 58.8 feet with an inflow of 1,231 cusecs and discharge of 2,319 cusecs. The rains on the first day of the Tamil month of Markazhi caught people unawares. “It usually doesn’t rain in the month of Markazhi, this is unusual’’ said Selvi of K Pudur whose plan to draw colourful kolams in front of her house to welcome Markazhi were dashed by the showers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-catches-people-in-south-tn-by-surprise/articleshow/79768621.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Bhopal||Mukul Wasnik on four-day visit, strategises for civic polls||BHOPAL: The AICC general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh affairs, Mukul Wasnik, reached here on Wednesday for a four-day visit. This is his first visit to the state after the Congress’s defeat in the bypolls. Speaking to the media after his arrival at the PCC headquarters, Wasnik said, “I have come to Bhopal today. I will hold discussions with senior leaders, office-bearers of the district Congress committee here and frontal organisations. After this, I will go to Sagar, Rewa and Jabalpur divisions.” Wasnik said that in Sagar, Rewa and Jabalpur, he will hold meetings to discuss strategy for the upcoming urban civic body elections. “I will discuss about the challenges before us today and the situation in the districts. I will also travel to the remaining divisions later and thereafter, finalise our approach for the civic polls,” he said. Asked if sitting MLAs can contest elections for mayor, chairman of urban civic bodies and corporator, the AICC general secretary said, “We have not made a decision on that yet. The state Congress Committee and senior leaders will sit together and take a final call on this.” Wasnik met and held discussions with office-bearers, including district party presidents of Bhopal, Raisen and Sehore offices. The meetings held on the third-floor conference room of the PCC office were also attended by Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh, former ministers Jitu Patwari, P C Sharma, PCC organisational vice-president Chandra Prabhash Sekhar and state Congress general secretary (administration) Rajiv Singh. Party MLAs also attended meetings with their district office-bearers. Sources said that it has been decided not to give urban civic poll tickets to ‘rebels’ and those who were allegedly involved in anti-party activities during the bypolls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/wasnik-on-four-day-visit-strategises-for-civic-polls/articleshow/79766253.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Madurai||955kg sea cucumber seized||Tuticorin: The Soorankudi police seized 955kg of dead sea cucumbers from a vehicle near Vembar, about 55km from Tuticorin city, in the early hours of Tuesday. Police detained a man and were on the lookout for five others who managed to flee the spot on seeing the cops. Soorankudi police inspector S Gurusamy said they received specific information about smuggling of sea cucumbers – a Schedule I species under The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. A team conducted a vehicle check in the locality. “We spotted a passenger-cum-goods carrier and managed to catch hold of one of the occupants while others fled,” he added. The sea cucumbers were found in 46 small cement bags. Preliminary inquiries with the accused revealed that sea cucumbers were caught off Vembar and were to be sold to someone in Tuticorin. A search is on for another person based on information received by the arrested person K Aulmaitheen, 43, of Naripaiur. In most cases, sea cucumbers are smuggled to other international destinations through Sri Lanka. The seized sea cucumbers and the vehicle were taken to the Soorankudi police station. Forest range officer for Gulf of Mannar in Tuticorin district, R Raghuvaran said that a parallel inquiry is on into the incident and the accused would be taken in custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/955kg-sea-cucumber-seized/articleshow/79768620.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Pune||71 repeat offenders arrested in police raids||Pune: The city police carried out a massive combing operation in the residences of 1,213 history-sheeters on the night intervening Tuesday and Wednesday and recovered as many as five pistols, three country-made revolvers, nine cartridges and 50 sharp weapons. A total of 71 criminals on police records were arrested during the raids, police said. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said the crime branch and local police officials participated in the night-long operation. “It was a major combing operation and police raided the criminals’ residences in different parts of the city,” Gupta said. Out of all recovered arms and weapons, five pistols, three country-made revolvers and nine cartridges were seized from the homes of five history-sheeters. “We have arrested them under the Arms Act,” he said. Gupta said the police team have arrested 50 history-sheeters for carrying sharp weapons. Police also raided houses of 223 history-sheeters who were externed from city and district limits for period of two years. “Of them, nine were residing in the city. We registered cases against those breaching externment orders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/71-repeat-offenders-arrested-in-police-raids/articleshow/79767369.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||A year on, mayor attack case probe goes nowhere||Nagpur: Nearly five months after taking over investigation from Nagpur city police, the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) is yet to get any clue about the two-mobike borne youths who had allegedly fired bullets on city mayor Sandip Joshi’s vehicle in December 17, 2019. The attack took place on Wardha Road during winter session of state legislature. The very next day, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had entrusted the investigation of the case to the crime branch. The Nagpur police crime branch investigated the case for seven months. Sleuths quizzed more than 500 people, recorded the statements of around 125 and also checked thousands of mobile call details. They failed to crack the case. The home minister Anil Deshmukh then transferred the probe to CID. In more than five months since, even the CID has not been able to make any progress. The state agency recorded statements of Joshi and 20 others in October. “If the police cannot find the attackers of the mayor, then what should ordinary citizens expect from the CID and the police,” asked sources. Joshi, who is battling Covid-19 infestion, was not available for comments. CID (SP) Rajalakshmi Shivankar did not respond to TOI’s call and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-year-on-mayor-attack-case-probe-goes-nowhere/articleshow/79766261.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Cong starts ‘Dhanyawaad Jawaan’ campaign; announces WhatsApp number to help families of defence, paramilitary forces||Dehradun: On the occasion of Vijay Diwas to commemorate India’s win over Pakistan in the 1971 war, Uttarakhand Congress party on Wednesday started its “Dhanyawaad Jawaan” campaign. Under the campaign, state Congress chief Pritam Singh and other party members would visit the families of both serving and retired soldiers in the next two months. Besides, the party also announced a WhatsApp number, which would be circulated among the families of defence personnel. The jawans and their kin would be requested to inform the party about their issues and problems and the effort would be made to solve them. During the event, state Congress chief Pritam Singh said, “Uttarakhand is Sainik Bhoomi and every third house in the state has given a defence personnel. It is our duty and responsibility to take care of the family members of the defence personnel, who are guarding the borders for our security.” He added that remembering the defence personnel and their families should not be a one-day affair. “We need to stand with them in all conditions. Therefore, the party has decided to meet them and also give a WhatsApp number which can be used to solve their problems.” said Singh.. He pointed out that 1,343 defence personnel from Uttarakhand have been awarded gallantry medals. “This includes one Paramvir Chakra, six Ashok Chakra, 13 Mahavir Chakra, and 32 Kirti Chakra. It is a matter of great pride for us,” said the Congress leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-starts-dhanyawaad-jawaan-campaign-announces-whatsapp-number-to-help-families-of-defence-paramilitary-forces/articleshow/79765269.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Left with no income, school van driver ends life||Nagpur: Rendered jobless amid Covid pandemic, a 66-year-old school van driver died by suicide at Kachipura in New Ramdaspeth on Tuesday. According to Bajaj Nagar police, Bhaskar Meshram consumed poison at his residence at around 7pm on December 8. His son and neighbours rushed him to Government Medical College and Hospital. However, Meshram breathed his last on December 15 at around 6.30pm. Police said Meshram owned two vans which he used to ferry students of some private schools. He had purchased both the vehicles before the nationwide lockdown by availing loan from a finance company. He and his son used to ferry students. As schools and other activities came to a halt due to the Covid-induced lockdown, Meshram was unable to earn anything and was reeling under acute financial distress. He was also not able to pay the monthly instalments of the vehicle loan. Shouldering the family’s responsibilities along with paying the instalments, Meshram managed with whatever savings he had for almost nine months. But things apparently turned worse as he had exhausted all the savings and was tense about managing the family. Unable to overcome depression, Meshram consumed poison on December 8. The police have registered a case of accidental death and are probing further. President of School Van Chalak Sanghatan Nagpur City Afsaar Khan expressed anguish over Meshram’s suicide and said the association has been demanding the state government to provide some financial relief to drivers ferrying schoolchildren across the city. “Meshram was one of the thousands of school van owners and drivers who lost their income/jobs during the lockdown. If the government doesn’t intervene even now, many such Meshrams will have to end life,” he said and added that on Tuesday the association has submitted a memorandum to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in this regard. “Unfortunately, there is no positive response from either the state government or the opposition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/left-with-no-income-school-van-driver-ends-life/articleshow/79766292.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 17, 2020||Pune||Jeweller in hospital with bullet injury, whiff of suicide bid||Pune: The owner of Marathe Jewellers shops on Laxmi Road and Paud Road, Balwant Arvind Marathe (60), was admitted to a private hospital late on Tuesday evening with a bullet wound in his chest, which police suspect to be a case of attempted suicide. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone I) Priyanka Narnaware said, “The bullet brushed his left chest. He is under treatment in the ICU and he is out of danger. For now, we are looking at the incident as a case of attempted suicide, but an FIR will be registered after we record Marathe’s statement. Prima facie, losses in business appears to have driven him to suicide attempt.” The hospital administration said Marathe’s condition was critical but stable. Inspector Kundalik Kaygude of Vishrambaug police, who is probing the case, said, “We recovered Marathe’s licensed pistol and an empty cartridge from the spot. They are being sent to ballistic experts for an analysis.” Narnaware said, “Marathe’s son, Pranav (36), told the police his father called his mother between 7.30pm and 8pm on Tuesday at their Narayan Peth residence and told her he had shot himself in his cabin behind the Laxmi Road jewellery shop.” The DCP said, “Pranav went to the shop and found its front shutter was rolled down and all employees had left. He found his father injured in the latter’s cabin. Pranav alerted Narayan Peth police chowky.” Narnaware said, “Pranav said his father was disturbed owing to financial stress and a poor business. Banks were after Marathe for loan repayment. He also borrowed money from private money lenders and diverted the funds collected via Bhishi schemes. But he could not repay the private persons, who were also after him for recovery.” TOI made several calls to Pranav, but they went unanswered. He neither responded to a text message seeking his comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jeweller-in-hospital-with-bullet-injury-whiff-of-suicide-bid/articleshow/79767371.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Madurai||CRS holds speed trial on Usilampatti-Andipatti line||Madurai: Commissioner of railway safety (CRS) Abhai Kumar Rai conducted the speed trial on the newly-completed Usilampatti to Andipatti broad gauge (BG) railway line on Wednesday.Hundreds of locals gathered at the Andipatti railway station in Theni district to have a glimpse of the speed trial train. Theni MP O P Ravindranath greeted the railway officials led by CRS Rai at the Andipatti station on completion of the trial.People sought speedy train services from the station including direct connectivity to Chennai. Talking to reporters after the speed inspection, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Madurai, V R Lenin said that passenger train services on the route is likely only after completion of the 17km Andipatti to Theni stretch, which is likely to be completed by May 2021.The speed trial began at Usilampatti station at 5.12pm and the train reached the Andipatti station at 5.32pm, covering the 21km section in 20 minutes. Top speed reached during the speed trial was 110 km/hr and 65 to 80 km/hr on the three km Andipatti – Kanavai ghat section. Earlier that day, the CRS conducted the trolley inspection from 11am to 5pm from Andipatti to Usilampatti. Railway officials said the CRS will give his report in about a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/crs-holds-speed-trial-on-usilampatti-andipatti-line/articleshow/79768622.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Pune||Railway underpass work at Kalepadal drags on||Pune: The construction of railway underpass at Sasanenagar-Kalepadal is progressing very slowly, forcing regular commuters to urge the administration to complete the pending work at the earliest to ensure hassle-free vehicular movement in the area. The slow pace of work compelled deputy mayor Saraswati Shendge to visit the work site recently. She told the authorities to speed up the pending work, which includes provision for approach roads to the underpass. Two underpasses were planned in the area on the railway track to avoid stopping of vehicles at railway crossing gates. While the underpass at Sasanenanagr has been completed, another one at Kalepadal is still incomplete. Jeevan Jadhav, a local activist, said that a detailed discussion was held to clear all obstacles. “The facility requires no objection certificate from the regional transport office. Steps have been initiated for receiving the go ahead. We are expecting at least one approach road to become operational in the next one month. There are some issues pertaining to land availability for the second approach road. ,” Jadhav said. Habib Shaikh, a regular visitor to the area, said that the access roads to the underpasses should be wide enough to handle traffic during peak hours. Vaibhav Mane, a local resident, said, “We want the administration to construct a retaining wall and ensure other measures in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/railway-underpass-work-at-kalepadal-drags-on/articleshow/79767376.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Political cases registered before December 2019 to be withdrawn||Aurangabad: The state home department on Wednesday amended the earlier GR meant to withdraw political cases against activists, and has said that the cases registered prior to December 31, 2019, may also be withdrawn. The extension of the cut-off date will pave way for the withdrawal of cases registered against political functionaries and workers, especially those from Congress and NCP, who were in the opposition between 2014 and 2019. Earlier, on March 14, 2016, the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led state government had issued the GR that allowed the withdrawal of similar cases registered May 2005 and November 1, 2014. That decision led to the withdrawal of hundreds of cases against members of the BJP and Shiv Sena, who had been in the opposition during the stipulated time period. Authorities said these cases are withdrawn using special powers granted to the state under section 321 of the CrPC. However, cases involving casualties as well as losses to public and private properties of over Rs 5 lakh are not considered. The proposal to withdraw the cases is prepared by a high-power committee comprising commissioner/superintendent of police along with the district collectors. These committees have been instructed to regularly hold meetings and send a monthly report to the state government. The proposals are then sent to the state-level sub-committee for forwarding it to the state for further action. Additional director-general of police (law and order) Rajender Singh said, “We already have the data on the cases registered. In the light of the amended GR, we will compile the data in specific categories afresh.” The cabinet sub-committee, formed under the ministry of finance and planning by the previous government, too has been withdrawn. The state home minister has been appointed the competent authority to recommend the case withdrawals. The state is already in the process of withdrawing non-serious cases linked to the Maratha quota and Bhima-Koregaon incident, said an officer. The demand for withdrawing the cases against those protesting against the now-scrapped Nanar project, farmer related protests, NRC and Aarey project have been made for almost a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/political-cases-registered-before-december-2019-to-be-withdrawn/articleshow/79765271.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Legal adviser to help recover Rs 1,200-crore tax on mobile towers||PUNE: The civic administration is planning to appoint a legal adviser to deal with specific cases of property tax recovery from the cellular operators on telcom towers. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has to recover Rs 1,200 crore property tax from cellphone tower operators. The civic administration officials stated the recovery was pending as majority of arrears was a subject matter of litigation in court. According to the officials, there are 700 cellphone towers in the PMC limits which have due permission from the civic body, while around 600 towers were set up without proper authorisation, officials said. The administration is to recover tax from these 1,300 tower operators. “The civic administration is following up regularly on the legal issues pertaining to the towers and property tax due. A special legal advisor will be appointed to speed up the recovery,” a senior PMC legal department official said. As per the 2016 Supreme Court ruling, the municipal bodies can levy property tax on mobile towers affixed on rooftops of properties within its limits. The PMC, besides collecting property tax for towers, also fines those operators who have installed the towers on illegal constructions. The operators have challenged the penalty decision of the PMC and the matter has been pending in court for a few years. The PMC cited the issues like non-availability of documents and other technical aspects for delay in the disposal of the court cases. “The special legal counsel will assist in coordination of these cases. Timely reply, furnishing the evidence and making the documents available on time would be possible with this improved coordination,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/legal-adviser-to-help-recover-rs-1200cr-tax-on-mobile-towers/articleshow/79767374.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Ignored by govt, villagers build bridge in 9 days via crowdfunding||YAVATMAL: Tired of facing multiple problems in crossing Painganga river, particularly during monsoon every year, and elected representatives and officials turning a blind eye to their repeated representations, residents of Palsi village in Umarkhed tehsil of Yavatmal district have set an example by building a new bridge themselves. The 70-ft-long Palsi-Manula bridge is 16ft wide and was constructed in just 9 days. The bridge is proving to be a boon for villagers in Palsi, Pophali, Kupti, and Mulava villages in Umarkhed tehsil, and Manula, Mathala and Sirad in Nanded district of Marathwada. Palsi village, 20km from tehsil headquarters Umarkhed and 150km from Yavatmal, is situated on the border of Vidarbha and Marathwada regions and has a population of little over 2,000. Earlier, the villagers had approached MLAs, members of Parliament, Maharashtra ministers, collector and officials of government departments with a demand for the bridge. However, the demand remained neglected. Shiv Sena’s member of Yavatmal Zilla Parishad Chitangrao Kadam, who had earlier been involved in building three small bridges, proposed the villagers get the bridge built themselves. He took the lead and collected Rs16 lakh through crowdfunding. The villagers not just contributed money, but also offered their services as part of shramdaan, and also arranged construction material. Using RCC pipes as the base structure, the villagers, with the help of masons, completed the bridge in just 9 days. The work started on November 20 and was completed on November 28. The work costing over Rs1 crore as per the state government estimate has been completed by spending only Rs15.80 lakh, said Kadam. “Had the villagers kept waiting for the state to act, the bridge would have never been built. The state administration seemed unwilling to spend a single pie on any new project. We have accomplished the task and the credit goes to every villager,” said Kadam. After the bridge was completed, sitting MP from Hingoli Hemant Patil (Shiv Sena), sitting MLAs of Umarkhed Namdevrao Sasane (BJP) and Hatgaon Madhavrao Patil Jawalgaonkar (Congress), government officials and others visited the site and lauded the efforts of the people. Earlier, Pophali-based sugar factory used to construct a temporary bridge-like structure to transport sugar cane of the farmers. However, after it was washed away in recent floods, people had to travel over 45km from Palsi to reach nearby Manula village in Marathwada. Watch Villagers build bridge in 9 days via crowdfunding in Maharashtra's Yavatmal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignores-by-state-atmanirbhar-palsi-builds-bridge-in-9-days-via-crowdfunding/articleshow/79766285.cms||TO Abraham
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Cops allowed to take voice samples of Jamia student||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has allowed Delhi Police to take voice samples of Jamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha accused under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act pertaining to a northeast Delhi riots case. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, “The investigating officer should coordinate with CFSL, CBI, Lodhi Colony, New Delhi, and fix a time and date for obtaining voice samples of the accused Asif Iqbal Tanha and inform the court about the same so that production warrants of the said accused can be issued.” The court further ordered that the voice sample should be taken while ensuring all Covid-19 protocols. “The director of CFSL should get prepared a proposed transcript of the text to be read by the accused under his supervision or through a voice sample expert available at the CFSL, on the basis of the material supplied by the investigating officer of the present case, keeping in view the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Sudhir Chaudhary,” it stated. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad said data retrieved from the accused’s phone was examined and some incriminating audio files were found. For the purpose to identify and match the voice in audio files, a voice sample of Tanha is required, he added. The court allowed the plea and stated that the aspect of taking voice samples of an accused was an aspect of the investigation and it did not make the accused a witness against himself. Tanha’s counsel Sowjhanya Shankaran opposed police’s plea and submitted that her client had “diligently cooperated with this investigation from the beginning” and even much prior to his arrest. She, therefore, stated that Tanha was willing to continue cooperating with the investigation subject to the exercise of his fundamental right against self-incrimination enshrined in the Constitution of India, 1950. She argued there was “absolutely no reason” or explanation by the investigating agency as to what material they sought to compare the accused’s voice sample with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-allowed-to-take-voice-samples-of-jamia-student/articleshow/79767389.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Agra||Meerut records coldest day at 5.6 degreeCelsius, cold wave grips Agra region too||MEERUT/AGRA: People in several parts of western UP woke up to a foggy morning and a cold day on Wednesday. Mercury plummeted in Meerut. The city recorded its coldest day so far this month at 5.6 degree Celsius. The temperature was a further dip from 6 degree Celsius recorded on Tuesday. “The maximum and minimum temperatures in Meerut on Wednesday were 19 degree Celsius and 5.6 degree Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels were 97% and 27%, respectively,” said Brij Mohan, officer-in-charge, Met department. While the maximum temperature was five degree Celsius below normal temperature, the minimum temperature was two degree Celsius below normal. The lowest temperature recorded so far in the district was 6 degree Celsius on Wednesday. The minimum temperature recorded in Muzaffarnagar was 6.2 degree Celsius, which was one degree Celsius below the normal. “Cold wave conditions are expected to continue until December 19 at isolated places in western UP,” Mohan added. Meanwhile, despite the cold wave condition, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) is yet to make arrangements for gas heaters at public places. In violation of the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) norms, labourers and people living on streets are using bonfires to overcome cold winds. Burning wood or waste is prohibited in Agra. On Wednesday, the temperature remained less than normal here, too. Minimum was recorded at 8.5 degree celsius. According to the Met department, the mercury level will drop to 5 degree Celsius in the next three days. “This year, no arrangement has been made for gas heaters. When someone lit a bonfire, other people also came around it. Gas heater facility will help a lot of people," a vegetable seller said. Similar sentiments were echoed by other locals. Mayor Naveen Jain told TOI, “I will check with officials about the delay in installing gas heaters at public places. Necessary arrangements will be made this week."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/meerut-records-coldest-day-at-5-6-degreecelsius-cold-wave-grips-agra-region-too/articleshow/79765276.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||2 girls among 4, returning from b’day bash, killed in accident||Chandrapur: Four youths, including two girls, were killed, while one was critically injured as a speeding car rammed a stationary tractor near Ajaypur on Chandrapur-Mul stretch of the highway late on Tuesday night. All the youths belonged to prominent families in Mul and were returning from a birthday bash in Chandrapur. Sources said one Yoga Gogri had his 23rd birthday on Tuesday and he had taken four of his friends to Chandrapur for a party. They had a grand celebration in a hotel in Chandrapur and were returning late in the night when the accident took place. Yoga, who was driving the car, apparently failed to notice a hay-laden tractor parked by the roadside near Ajaypur and rammed his vehicle into it. The dash was so severe that the car turned into a mangled heap of metal, killing four of the five occupants on the spot. The lone survivor in the car was critically injured. The deceased have been identified as Darshana Udhwani (25), Pragati Nimgade (24), Muhammad Aman (23) and Smit Patel (25). The birthday boy Yoga sustained critical injuries and was rushed to a private hospital in Chandrapur. Ram Nagar police have booked offence against the tractor driver and further investigations are underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-girls-among-4-returning-from-bday-bash-killed-in-accident/articleshow/79766301.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Efforts on to convert tree waste into biofuel, help farmers earn||Coimbatore: Much to the relief of farmers, who lose anywhere between 10% and 50% of a harvested tree often, the Forest College and Research Institute (FCRI) at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University is perfecting a technology to convert tree waste (Agro forestry residue) into briquettes that could be used as a form of biofuel. This would also address the difficulties faced by the farmers in disposing of the agro waste, which often ends up in landfills and waterbodies in the city. Scientists at the FCRI say at least 50% a tree could go waste depending on the purpose it is used. I Sekar, head, department of agroforestry, says, “If we cut a eucalyptus tree for pulpwood, 15%-20% of it gets wasted. When you sell it for timber, almost 30% to 40% of it goes as waste. And when you sell it to the matchstick industry, 50% of the tree gets wasted. And it is a huge loss for the farmers, who have to spend on transport and manpower to dispose of the waste.” In a bid to convert a large chunk of tree waste into briquettes, which could be used as a form of biofuel, and provide farmers a source of income, the FCRI at Mettupalayam is trying to perfect the mixing ratio and technique. It’s dean K T Parthiban says, “We have a pulverizing machine, which powders all the waste, including saw dust, tree bark, small chips, branches, cotton stock, groundnut shell and bark of lantana camera, among others. We mix the powder with saw dust and heat it in a densifier to a certain temperature, so that the lignin in saw dust binds all the powder into small briquettes.” The briquettes, he says, could be burned as biofuel and used to operate generators, machines, bakeries and hotel kitchens. “Basically, any industry that uses firewood could use briquettes instead.” Finding the right ratio of mixing pulverized waste powder with saw dust is the key in producing good briquettes. “We have found the right ratio for tree barks, shells of bixa orellana (achiote), roots of eucalyptus, base and entire lantana camara and saw dust,” says Sekar. The FCRI scientists are now researching if the leaves of the above trees, which have low density, could also be pulverized and densified into briquettes. The institute is also encouraging more students and alumni to set up briquetting units, where a farmer can bring his waste and convert that into briquettes, in different districts as their entrepreneurial venture. A briquetting unit could be set up at a cost of around Rs 45 lakh to Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/efforts-on-to-convert-tree-waste-into-biofuel-help-farmers-earn/articleshow/79767383.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Erode||Half-yearly exams cancelled for govt, aided school students||SALEM/MADURAI: State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan announced that half-yearly examinations for students studying in the government and aided schools were cancelled. However, there were no restrictions on private schools conducting online examinations, the minster told reporters in Erode on Wednesday. However, the decision evoked a mixed response in Madurai. The move did not come as a surprise for many and teachers welcomed it as schools continue to remain closed. “This is no time to conduct the half-yearly examination. Apart from Covid-19 safety concerns, the students are just not ready. We cannot rely on the video lessons alone. If the exams were conducted, it would only put unnecessary stress on students,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Government school teachers are also concerned that the move to cancel exams would send a wrong message to students. “We are in touch with students and try to keep them engaged. However, as of now, we find that the attitude of students is that for this whole academic year schools will be shut and they will pass without writing an exam. Over time, we fear students will not be mentally prepared to return to routine school learning,” said another headmaster of a government middle school. Some teachers said that instead of cancelling the exams altogether, it could have been postponed. “I don’t see the need to cancel it completely, especially for Class X, XII students. If schools are likely to reopen at least for them by January, then the exams could be conducted after sufficient time is given to train students,” said J Meenakshisundaram, a teacher. Earlier, the minister, participating in an event for unveiling statues in the AIADMK party office and Panneerselvam Park in Erode, lauded chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for taking the government on the path shown by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa Citing a recent government order, Sengottaiyan said the state has provided 3% reservation in government jobs for students who joined through sports quota. On reducing syllabus, the minister said that students up to Class IX have to study only 50% of the syllabus and for Class X, XI, XII students, it would be 65% of the syllabus. The minister also said the school reopening date will be announced by the chief minister after consulting with parents and educationists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/half-yearly-exams-cancelled-for-govt-aided-school-students-min/articleshow/79770510.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Shut govt schools rob kids of proper nutrition, health care||Madurai: As schools across the state continue to remain shut due to the pandemic, children from government schools are in particular affected by the lack of access to free regular medical check-ups and proper nutrition. Experts and activists are concerned this will affect development of children in the long run. “At home, parents, who are also back to work now, tend to neglect the health of a child. They don’t supervise if a child is drinking water, eating properly or even pay attention to what they are doing. Only when they come to school, we monitor them and also give them nutritious noon meal. We teachers often identify many illnesses and inform parents,” said the headmaster of government middle school in Madurai. Medical camps, which are regularly conducted in government schools by the health department and check-ups done for students to identify underlying illnesses, have also been halted now. “These camps are key to identifying many illnesses which may get missed out without check-up. We can identify congenital heart disease which otherwise may remain undetected as there is no considerable symptom at an early age. Tonsillitis may lead to the tonsils becoming enlarged if left untreated and the child could develop breathing difficulties,” said Dr T Karthikraj, a senior paediatrician. The camps also help find out any hygiene-related issues like dental caries or skin allergies. The doctor further said that nutritional deficiency, especially iron and vitamin deficiency is common in rural areas which may also be left unchecked. Government school headmasters said though deworming and iron/vitamin tablets are being provided now, health workers are unable to reach all students. Menstrual hygiene is also a concern as schools reported that adolescent girl students are not able to get free sanitary napkins. Teachers were also worried that children who get their first period may not be prepared or educated about menstruation or hygienic practices to follow. “Nutritious meal and sanitary napkins are both something which really motivated children to come to school. Dry rations provided are nutritious enough and are of low quality. The government must take measures to ensure at least these are provided in good quality,” said A Veronica Mary, a child and women’s welfare activist. A higher official in the state health department said that as of now, finding any alternative provision for this is difficult. “The most possible is the distribution of tablets that is under way. We are aiming to make up by compressing schedules later and hold medical camps covering all school children after schools reopen and finish it within a month,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shut-govt-schools-rob-kids-of-proper-nutrition-health-care/articleshow/79768623.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 17, 2020||Salem||Half-yearly exams cancelled for govt, aided school students||SALEM/MADURAI: State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan announced that half-yearly examinations for students studying in the government and aided schools were cancelled. However, there were no restrictions on private schools conducting online examinations, the minster told reporters in Erode on Wednesday. However, the decision evoked a mixed response in Madurai. The move did not come as a surprise for many and teachers welcomed it as schools continue to remain closed. “This is no time to conduct the half-yearly examination. Apart from Covid-19 safety concerns, the students are just not ready. We cannot rely on the video lessons alone. If the exams were conducted, it would only put unnecessary stress on students,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Government school teachers are also concerned that the move to cancel exams would send a wrong message to students. “We are in touch with students and try to keep them engaged. However, as of now, we find that the attitude of students is that for this whole academic year schools will be shut and they will pass without writing an exam. Over time, we fear students will not be mentally prepared to return to routine school learning,” said another headmaster of a government middle school. Some teachers said that instead of cancelling the exams altogether, it could have been postponed. “I don’t see the need to cancel it completely, especially for Class X, XII students. If schools are likely to reopen at least for them by January, then the exams could be conducted after sufficient time is given to train students,” said J Meenakshisundaram, a teacher. Earlier, the minister, participating in an event for unveiling statues in the AIADMK party office and Panneerselvam Park in Erode, lauded chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for taking the government on the path shown by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa Citing a recent government order, Sengottaiyan said the state has provided 3% reservation in government jobs for students who joined through sports quota. On reducing syllabus, the minister said that students up to Class IX have to study only 50% of the syllabus and for Class X, XI, XII students, it would be 65% of the syllabus. The minister also said the school reopening date will be announced by the chief minister after consulting with parents and educationists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/half-yearly-exams-cancelled-for-govt-aided-school-students-min/articleshow/79770511.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Half-yearly exams cancelled for govt, aided school students||SALEM/MADURAI: State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan announced that half-yearly examinations for students studying in the government and aided schools were cancelled. However, there were no restrictions on private schools conducting online examinations, the minster told reporters in Erode on Wednesday. However, the decision evoked a mixed response in Madurai. The move did not come as a surprise for many and teachers welcomed it as schools continue to remain closed. “This is no time to conduct the half-yearly examination. Apart from Covid-19 safety concerns, the students are just not ready. We cannot rely on the video lessons alone. If the exams were conducted, it would only put unnecessary stress on students,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Government school teachers are also concerned that the move to cancel exams would send a wrong message to students. “We are in touch with students and try to keep them engaged. However, as of now, we find that the attitude of students is that for this whole academic year schools will be shut and they will pass without writing an exam. Over time, we fear students will not be mentally prepared to return to routine school learning,” said another headmaster of a government middle school. Some teachers said that instead of cancelling the exams altogether, it could have been postponed. “I don’t see the need to cancel it completely, especially for Class X, XII students. If schools are likely to reopen at least for them by January, then the exams could be conducted after sufficient time is given to train students,” said J Meenakshisundaram, a teacher. Earlier, the minister, participating in an event for unveiling statues in the AIADMK party office and Panneerselvam Park in Erode, lauded chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for taking the government on the path shown by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa Citing a recent government order, Sengottaiyan said the state has provided 3% reservation in government jobs for students who joined through sports quota. On reducing syllabus, the minister said that students up to Class IX have to study only 50% of the syllabus and for Class X, XI, XII students, it would be 65% of the syllabus. The minister also said the school reopening date will be announced by the chief minister after consulting with parents and educationists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/half-yearly-exams-cancelled-for-govt-aided-school-students-min/articleshow/79768624.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Mandrem’s thumbs up to independents confuses main political parties in state||Panaji: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may have recorded a landslide victory in the zilla panchayat polls, winning 33 out of 49 seats. But, the ruling party’s results in the BJP stronghold of Mandrem assembly constituency are an absolute contrast from the overall state tally of seats. Both party seats in Mandrem have been lost to independent candidates. While chief minister Pramod Sawant has claimed that the ZP polls were a test for his government, in Mandrem the outcome of this test has sparked a political debate across sections ahead of the general elections in 2022. BJP’s Anant Gadekar lost in Arambol, while Dhananjay Shetgaonkar lost the Morjim seat. Mandrem assembly constituency is presently being represented by Congress-turned-BJP MLA, via the 2019 byelections, Dayananad Sopte. In Pernem taluka, there are four ZP constituencies. And the MGP-turned-BJP Pernem MLA and deputy chief minister Manohar Ajgaonkar has managed to hold the fort and win his two ZP constituencies — Dhargal and Torsem. The results show that parts of Mandrem constituency—Parsem, Tuem and Virnoda—managed to give a lead to BJP candidate Manohar Dhargalkar from Dhargal constituency. But in Korgao village, which is part of the Pernem assembly constituency, the results could not turn in favour of BJP Arambol candidate. Ironically, Pernem and Mandrem are represented by BJP MLAs. According to those in the know, independent winner from Arambol Ranganath Kalshawkar is a die-hard Ajgaonkar supporter. In Morjim constituency, nearly 6,800 votes appear to have gone against BJP. With just a few days to go for the Zilla Panchayat elections, Congress candidate from Morjim Mahesh Konadkar had announced his support to MGP. Still Congress polled 252 votes. If added to MGP votes, MGP’s tally would have been 2,925. The winner here polled 2,930 votes and BJP lost by 24 votes as they polled 2,906 votes. “The results reflect that there is no proper coordination between MGP and Congress as Congress leader Ramakant Khalap and the party’s 2019 byelection candidate Babi Bagkar supported independent candidate and the winner Satish Shetgaonkar in Morjim,” said a local observer. Similarly, in Arambol, MGP instead of supporting the Congress candidate supported independent Ranganath Kalshawkar, who went on to win the polls. Former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar has said that the history of election results in Mandrem shows that the winner here has always been from BJP, MGP or Congress and it is for the first time an independent candidate has been elected which reflects that voters are unhappy with the leaders of both Congress and BJP. He said that the party should analyse the results and pinpoint their weaknesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mandrems-thumbs-up-to-independents-confuses-main-political-parties-in-state/articleshow/79768631.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: ‘Unlock’ months register rise in new driving licences||PUNE: The regional transport office (RTO) in the city has registered a surge in the monthly issuance of driving licences. The RTO had issued only 1,093 learner’s licences in June when tests resumed after the Covid-induced lockdown. The number went up to a whopping 24,570 in November. Similarly, just 36 permanent licences were issued in June, while 6,800 were granted last month. “We believe that many people must have learnt to drive in their neighbourhoods during he lockdown. Once tests resumed, they must have received their learner’s licences,” an RTO official said. RTOs had resumed operations towards the end of May. As things stand, a total of 650 appointments are issued per day now.  Abhay Thorat, a student who lives in Kondhwa and got his learner’s licence last week, is eagerly waiting for his driving licence test. “My father taught me to ride a two-wheeler for three months. I also learnt the traffic signs and signals. I am waiting for my permanent licence test and will apply for an appointment next month,” Thorat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unlock-months-register-rise-in-new-driving-licences/articleshow/79767382.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 17, 2020||Pune||PMC plans to buy 50 CNG-run midi buses||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is working on a proposal to buy 50 CNG-run midi buses to strengthen the public transport network in the city’s core areas. The buses would be introduced on key routes to connect locations such as Swargate, Shivajinagar and Pune station, among other places. The proposal was being worked out as per the requirements of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML). The buses will have doors on both sides and other safety arrangements. Hemant Rasne, standing committee’s chairman, said the proposal to provide midi buses for core areas was included in civic budget of the current fiscal. He said, “The idea behind providing smaller buses was to boost public transport services in central areas of the city, where the roads were narrow and footfall of commuters was more. The administration is working on the proposal,” he said. The PMPML has introduced a scheme for commuters that allows them to travel for 5km by paying Rs5. The proposed midi buses could be part of a similar scheme, Rasne said. The officials from the civic administration said they were working on a proposal to purchase at least 50 buses in the initial stage. The cost of the buses was being estimated along with spending on other measures to be introduced in the buses. A proposal with all relevant details was being moved before the finance committee for further recommendations, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-to-buy-50-cng-run-midi-buses/articleshow/79767385.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham panel split on Centre’s amended road width circular||DEHRADUN: The high powered committee on the 900-km Char Dham highway expansion project is, once again, divided exactly on the lines it was the last time this came up — which government circular to take into account while deliberating on the impact of the project. On Tuesday, when the two-day virtual meeting of the Supreme Court-appointed committee began, the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) amended its 2018 circular on width of roads in mountains and hills — going from 5.5m to effectively 10m, as the defence ministry had sought before the Supreme Court earlier this month, TOI had reported. The amendment, then, became the priority agenda. “No unanimous decision could be taken. The majority group said that the HPC report by the chairperson was based on the 2018 circular. Now that the circular has been modified, the HPC should stick to the new provisions,” a member of the HPC who attended the meeting told TOI on Wednesday. “Since the matter is sub judice, it has been left to the Supreme Court to decide. We did not take any call on it.” In September, the minority group of the panel had prevailed when the Supreme Court upheld its view. The majority group had, at the time, said that since the 2018 circular had come two years after the project was signed off, it should not be applicable. The same minority group of three that had flagged environmental concerns then — wider roads mean more hill cutting — wanted to stick to the 2018 circular on Wednesday. “Environmental concerns were raised. The minority group said the modified circular would not apply to the Char Dham project. The Supreme Court order on the 5.5-width cap has not changed. That is not up for debate,” another member of the panel told TOI. “All the damage done by the MoRTH to the fragile ecology of Uttarakhand should be corrected.” With no clarity on which circular to follow, the plea of the defence ministry and MoRTH to increase the width of the highways could not be taken up. On December 2, the defence ministry had said these roads have strategic importance, citing three national highways — Rishikesh to Mana (281km), Rishikesh to Gangotri (231km) and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh (162km) — that lead up to the northern border with China and act as feeder roads. About the safety concerns, the panel did decide to ask the MoRTH to make a list of landslide zones and come up with stabilisation plans for those zones. Panel chairperson Ravi Chopra told TOI minutes of the meeting would be “produced before the court only.” The minutes will be ready over the weekend, sent to members for comments and then submitted to the apex court, a member of the panel explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-panel-split-on-centres-amended-road-width-circular/articleshow/79765274.cms||Shivani Azad
December 17, 2020||Madurai||Online training course on safety and security for teachers||Madurai: A one-day online course on various subjects involving hygiene, psychology, safety and security of students, including Covid-19 safety, has been initiated for government school teachers across the state. The mandatory course, which began on Wednesday is being conducted under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA).All teachers will be taking up the course in a staggered manner between December 16 and 22. Teachers have been directed to login to the Tamil Nadu Teachers Platform (TNTP) portal to take the course from their homes.As part of the course, the teachers will be required to study the content provided and also answer the interactive questions in the portal. An SSA official from Madurai said the course will cover a vast number of topics on safety and security, including Pocso Act and other laws for protection of children, bullying, and cyberbullying. Meanwhile, officials in Madurai said that due to technical difficulties faced by a large number of teachers, they have been given 10 days time to complete the training. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/online-training-course-on-safety-and-security-for-teachers/articleshow/79768625.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Weaving stories around structures & history||PUNE: City-based architect couple Kiran and Anjali Kalamdani, who have restored many prominent and obscure architectural heritage in the state, are bringing alive the stories behind the structures through a YouTube series called Vaasturuchi. They are doing so with a desire to generate interest about the architecture of some of these places, including ancient temples, prominent marketplaces, palatial residences and forts that they worked to restore using specific techniques to return them to their original look. The videos ,each having a duration of 10-12 minutes, mention the people behind the structures, including original designers and engineers. The first episode is on Moraya Gosavi Samadhi and temple complex in Chinchwad on the banks of Pavana river. Saint Moraya Gosavi, who was considered one of the most ardent devotees of Lord Ganesh, breathed his last at that spot, where his son built a Ganesh temple as well as a samadhi of his father in the 16th century. The production is a family affair, with Anjali the presenter as well as the scriptwriter, with their son working behind the camera and editing the episodes, including adding English subtitles. The reaction, from the public as well as from some of their fellow architects, has ranged from wonderment to appreciation. “We have received tremendous feedback. Even people who lived near the temple complex and gone there many times, as the temple is considered gram deivat (village deity) of Chinchwad, reached out to us. They are grateful for the history that has been depicted. The temple pre-dates the reign of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj,” said Kiran Kalamdani. The next episode is likely to be on Mahatma Phule Mandai complex, the busy wholesale market complex owned and operated by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), for which the Kalamdanis also worked on its restoration. Even the architectural aspect received curious and appreciative feedback due to the specialised techniques being spoken of, such as setting a roof in stone, and other forms of restoration. “Our desire is to take the architectural point of view of looking at a structure to the masses. There is of course an historical point of view of looking at a structure as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/weaving-stories-around-structures-history/articleshow/79767390.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Bor RFO, guard attacked by rowdy tourists||Nagpur: In a bizarre incident, range forest officer (RFO) Nilesh Gawande and forest guard Premdas Bhakre posted at Bor Tiger Reserve, 70km from here in Wardha district, were attacked by unruly tourists on Wednesday. According to sources, Mahesh Thakur, Swapnil Talwekar, Mangesh Ramteke, and four others, all residents of Wardha, arrived at the booking counter at Bor gate around 3.30pm in three private vehicles and wanted to enter the park in these vehicles though entry to private vehicles is banned. When Bhakre told the youths that safari in private vehicles is not allowed and they will have to hire Gypsies, the accused abused the guard and asked him to come out of the counter. When the guard stepped out, he was assaulted by the youths. The accused then turned to RFO’s quarter next door and manhandled Gawande. The accused held the RFO by his collar and also abused him when he tried to pacify the youths. The accused even issued life threats to the duo. Guides and Gypsy drivers intervened and saved the situation. Later, Gawande approached Selu police and lodged a complaint. The police have registered an FIR and are investigating. Talking to TOI, police inspector Prashant Kale said, “A team has already been sent to nab the accused.” Meanwhile, guides association and forest staff in Bor have threatened to close the park if the accused are not arrested within 24 hours. “We will not accompany tourist vehicles. December is the peak season and all wildlife parks are witnessing a rush. The strike would cause huge disappointment to visitors,” said a section of guides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bor-rfo-guard-attacked-by-rowdy-tourists/articleshow/79766308.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||BJP organises farmers’ rally in support of farm laws in Haridwar||Haridwar: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) organised a farmers’ rally in support of the three contentious farm reform laws in Haridwar on Wednesday. The rally was originally supposed to be joined by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat as well but he could not make it due to bad weather conditions and addressed the rally virtually. During his address, the CM said that the new reforms will help increase the income of farmers. Meanwhile, other BJP leaders, speaking at the event, slammed the Congress for misguiding farmers on the issues of the new farm laws. Farmers who joined the rally also extended support to the laws saying, “the reforms will help in the abolition of the ‘dalal’ (middlemen) culture”. However, they maintained that the MSP (minimum support price) should be fixed while selling their crops to the private sector. Yograj Singh Chauhan, a farmer, told TOI, “Government buys the crops on the MSP but similar guarantees must be given on selling crops to the private players as well. We have come to the rally to support the BJP. However, all farmers agree that all disputes can be resolved if the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission are implemented.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-organises-farmers-rally-in-support-of-farm-laws-in-haridwar/articleshow/79765283.cms||MS Nawaz
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Min invites Tirupur players to invest in new textile park||Coimbatore: Handlooms and textiles minister O S Manian met readymade garment makers and exporters in Tirupur on Wednesday and invited them to invest in the new Veda Textile Park, promising immediate fulfilment of all basic requirements. The meeting was held at the Tirupur collectorate to discuss the status of the upcoming park and requirements. Pointing out that two locations were earlier shortlisted for the park in Nagapattinam, the minister said they had zeroed in on 46.5 hectares land at Ayakkaranpulam in Vedaranyam block for the project.The textile park would have 36 units - 34 readymade garment units and two knitwear units. “The park will be set up at a cost of Rs98.86 crore, of which the Union government offer Rs 37.8 crore subsidy and the state Rs 23.62 crore subsidy,” the minister said. Manian said they had requested the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation to train 4,000 employees at the park in stitching and other allied garment related activities.Meanwhile, organizations like KPR Mills, NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion and Happy Sand Academy have come forward to train the employees.Talking to a few reporters after the meeting, the minister cited lack of feasible space as one of the reasons for not setting up the textile park in Tirupur. “In fact, it is for this reason (lack of space) that the ESI Hospital is also getting delayed.”The textile department had from the beginning encouraged the Tirupur Exporters and Manufacturers Association to identify land and set up a textile hub in Nagapattinam, where there aren’t any major industry or employment opportunities other than agriculture for its youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/min-invites-tirupur-players-to-invest-in-new-textile-park/articleshow/79767399.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Found guilty: KV staffer who asked for bribe to get student shifted||NEW DELHI: A Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan staffer who allegedly demanded a bribe from a parent for getting his child transferred from one branch to another branch of the school in Delhi has been found guilty by a special CBI court. “The accused misused his official position for his own pecuniary enrichment,” held special CBI judge Pulastya Pramachala. The accused, Raj Kumar, was a peon in the regional office of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (Delhi region), Old JNU Campus. The son of the complainant was in class II at the school’s Greater Noida branch. The prosecution alleged that on August 19, 2015, the student’s father had gone to the office, where Kumar worked, for seeking his child’s transfer to the school’s branch in Noida, which was closer home. The parent was, however, informed by the assistant commissioner that the transfer was not possible during the academic year and it could be considered in 2016. Kumar, it is alleged, then approached the complainant, took his number and told him that he would “talk to the assistant commissioner and would inform him accordingly”. On the same day, Kumar demanded a bribe of Rs 12,000 for getting the signature of the assistant commissioner on the student’s transfer application. Eventually after some negotiation, Kumar was willing to get the work done for Rs 9,000, but the complainant on the other hand lodged a complaint with the CBI. The CBI subsequently laid a “trap” and caught Kumar red handed with the bribe. Kumar was charged with offences of bribery and criminal misconduct under Sections 7 and 13 (2) read with 13 (1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 prior to the law's amendment in 2018. Kumar denied the charges stating he had never received a bribe in his career that started in 1991. He accused the complainant for implicating him over a business deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/found-guilty-kv-staffer-who-asked-for-bribe-to-get-student-shifted/articleshow/79767398.cms||Aamir Khan
December 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Family on way to Osmanabad robbed of cash & valuables||PUNE: A family-of-four travelling in a car to Osmanabad from Mumbai was robbed of cash and valuables, totally worth Rs46,000, by four criminals brandishing sharp weapons on the highway to Solapur near Indapur, about 140km from the city, on Tuesday early morning. The Indapur police said the complainant, Ankush Kale (25), suffered a cut on his hand while trying to resist the robbers by holding the blade of a sharp weapon. The Kale family hails from Osmanabad district. Ankush and his brother currently stay in Mumbai and regularly travel to Osmanabad by road. Senior inspector Narayan Sarangkar of the Indapur police said, “Ankush’ father is paralytic. On Monday night, Ankush, his brother and his parents left Mumbai for Osmanabad. They reached Indapur around 3am. Ankush stopped the car near a restaurant on the highway as his father wanted to answer nature’s call. The two siblings spent more than half-an-hour to help their father relieve himself. The suspects took advantage of this situation.” The officer said, “The suspects threatened the Kale family with dire consequences and robbed Rs20,000, gold ornaments weighing around 2 tolas, a wrist watch and a debit card from them. Before leaving, the suspects removed the car’s keys. When Ankush requested them not to take them away as his father was not well, they threw it under the car and told him to search for it.” Sarangkar said, “As it was dark, Ankush could not find the keys. He tried to stop the vehicles passing by, but no one halted. A motorcycle rider finally took Ankush to a hospital. The hospital authorities informed the police,” Sarangkar said. He said the police then brought the family to the police station. “We informed their relatives, who reached Indapur with a spare key of the car as Ankush could not find the keys thrown away by the robbers,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/family-on-way-to-osmanabad-robbed-of-cash-valuables/articleshow/79767394.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 17, 2020||Pune||Southern Command ready for battle: Lt Gen Mohanty||Pune: Lt Gen C P Mohanty, the chief of the Southern Command, said here on Wednesday that the command was “battle-hardened and battle-ready”, well poised and operationally prepared to undertake any task to protect the sovereignty of the nation. In a statement released on the occasion of Vijay Diwas, which marks the Indian armed forces’ victory over their Pakistani counterparts in the 1971 War, resulting in the creation of Bangladesh, the southern army commander said the victory was achieved in just 13 days of the war, which resulted in complete surrender of Pakistan forces. The commander praised the brave war veterans, saying, “They have written an epic saga of valour, grit, determination and bravery in the history of the command.” Earlier, a wreath-laying ceremony was conducted at the National War Memorial, Ghorpadi. The ceremony was attended by military personnel of Pune station as well as army veterans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southern-command-ready-for-battle-lt-gen-mohanty/articleshow/79767397.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS-Rishikesh doctors successfully perform sophisticated surgery to save man with heart ailment||DEHRADUN: Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh successfully performed the Ruptured Sinus of Valsalva Aneurysm (RSOV) surgery of a 30-year-old man experiencing extreme breathing difficulties due to a hole in the heart and leak in the cardiovascular valve. Harish Thapliyal, Public Relation Officer (PRO) AIIMS Rishikesh said that the 30-year-old Joshimath resident was brought to the hospital in November and after intensive testing, specialist doctors of the Cardiology Department found that he had a hole in his heart, causing leakage in the valves. “His entire treatment was done under the state government’s Atal Ayushman Scheme and he has been shifted to ward and is under observation,” said Thapliyal. Talking about the medical condition, AIIMS Cardiac Thoracic Surgeon Dr Anish Gupta, who performed the surgery, said that the most difficult part of the operation was to repair the patient’s heart valve. “A portion of the patient’s large artery was also ruptured by this hole. This medical condition is known as RSOV which is fatal as well. The delay in proper treatment was also one of the reasons that his condition got even more critical,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-r-docs-successfully-perform-sophisticated-surgery-to-save-man-with-heart-ailment/articleshow/79765290.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Covid PIL: HC rebukes Chanda collector, CMC||Chandrapur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday expressed serious concern over no response from Chandrapur collector and lukewarm response from Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) over a PIL, filed by former MP Naresh Puglia, highlighting lack of treatment facilities for Covid patients in Chandrapur GMCH. Puglia had filed the public interest litigation (PIL) expressing apprehensions over effective management of Covid in Chandrapur. The petitioner has pointed out lack of oxygenated beds and non-availability of medicines apart from poor infrastructure for treatment of Covid patients. The PIL also expressed concern over high incidence of Covid deaths in government facilities in Chandrapur. During the hearing, the high court bench pointed out that the most important respondent — district collector — has not filed any reply. The reply on behalf of the CMC has been filed by deputy municipal commissioner, to whom the municipal corporation has not given any authority, the court observed. Moreover, the reply of the corporation lacks some details that must have been placed on record, said the bench. In the light of these glaring lacunae, the court has directed both collector and the representative of Chandrapur Municipal Corporation to file their detailed replies and be personally present on the next date of hearing to explain their stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-pil-hc-rebukes-chanda-collector-cmc/articleshow/79766345.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 17, 2020||Pune||Wood stoves to go, over 41k schools in Maharashtra to get LPG for midday meals||PUNE: The 'chulha' will make an exit from schools, especially in rural areas. The state primary education department will provide LPG cylinders to 41,744 schools for cooking the midday meal. The exit of the 'chullha' will reduce air pollution and speed up cooking for the meals with LPG. Teachers, however, said that the refilling system for LPG should be strengthened and streamlined. Director of the state primary education department, Dattatraya Jagtap, told TOI on Wednesday that the department had issued a circular about the use of LPG this to education officers. They were taking stock of the actual requirement. “We are also in talks with Bharat Petroleum and working out the modalities.” he added. Jagtap said there are nearly 86,000 government schools that are eligible for this scheme, but in the first phase priority schools would be considered. As many as 41,000 schools have been identified. “Once we make a tie-up and the modalities are worked out, then we will cover all the schools under the scheme,” Jagtap added. The Union government had sanctioned funds for distributing LPG cylinders to schools for midday meal scheme in 2015 with contribution from state government too. Schools and education officers, block development officers and others have been told to report the preference list to the education department by December 24. Somnath Patil, a zilla parishad teacher from Jalgaon,“ The schemes introduced by the government never reach the end-users. The education department must ensure that it does not happen the same with the LPG gas supply. They should also establish a good mechanism to ensure that the refilling process is free of hassles.” In March, the state government had decided that all leftover grain stored in rural schools will be distributed among students. Since the schools were closed, there was no possibility of cooked food being provided to them. School principals, teachers and even managements were told to ensure that the process was carried out fairly. Schools had to inform all students about the government’s decision and fix a time and day for them to come to school and collect the material. Education department had said they could be called in phases .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wood-stoves-to-go-over-41k-schools-in-state-to-get-lpg-for-midday-meals/articleshow/79767401.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 17, 2020||Trichy||TN AAP hints at joining hands with MNM||Pudukottai: Tamil Nadu state coordinator of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) SAN Vaseegaran hinted at aligning with the actor Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam(MNM) in the upcoming assembly election in 2021, here on Tuesday. “AAP is contesting in the election to Tamil Nadu assembly in 2021. The chances of the party joining an alliance are high,” Vaseegaran told the reporters in Pudukottai on Tuesday evening during the party’s Broom Yatra in the district.Vaseegaran also addressed the people during their campaign against the alleged corruption in the state. The party workers took out the yatra in Chennai on December 13 and they were detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-aap-hints-at-joining-hands-with-mnm/articleshow/79768630.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK condemns move to scrap caste quota in IITs||DMK has condemned the recommendations of the panel headed by IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao to do away with caste-based reservations in faculty recruitments in IITs. DMK general secretary Duraimurugan urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ignore the panel recommendations and implement 49.5% quota in all central educational institutions. In a statement on Wednesday, Duraimurugan said that it was an insult to 80% of the country’s population to view all those securing jobs through reservation are not meritorious. The Centre, which has not even filled 10% of the 49.5% reservation for OBC, SC and ST in central institutions, was now desperate to remove even that, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-condemns-move-to-scrap-caste-quota-in-iits/articleshow/79767405.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: ZP teachers want user-friendly Saral software, Aadhaar camps||PUNE: The latest communication from the state government making school teachers responsible for Aadhaar registration of all students in their schools has caused an uproar. Teachers said they are hampered by the non-availability of Aadhaar centres in remote villages forcing them to travel to talukas centres, only to fine problems in the server when they reach the Aadhaar centres, to new students not having the required documents. Teachers say the new order, especially in the wake of a pandemic, has not been thought out. They demanded special Aadhaar camps in schools so that process can be done smoothly. The letter, addressed to all education officers, says the update of Aadhaar details of all students was to be completed within two months after the government resolution in September. But there has not been much progress. Teachers have been told to complete the update process by March 2021. The circular says that sanction to the number of teachers’ posts in these schools will depend on the number of Aadhaar registered students. However, teachers spoke about the practical problems of addressing the issue, especially during the lockdown and months after that, when most of the Aadhaar registration centres were closed. “Most centres are in taluka places or bigger villages. Before the Diwali break, we had taken about 15 tribal students to get their Aadhaar registration done. We had to call a vehicle to accommodate all the students and then reach another bigger village which has an Aadhaar centre. When we reached there, we could only get the registration done for two students as there was a problem registering the biometrics for the remaining. Finally, we had to return without the job done. The education department must make provisions for Aadhaar registration camps in all schools so that teachers get some respite,” a ZP teacher from Jalgaon said. Another zilla parishad teacher from Sindhudurg district spoke about the problems they faced in the Saral software due to lack of internet in rural areas and poor user-friendly design of the software. “If the school is situated in an area with poor internet connectivity, then everything to do with feeding information in Saral is a herculean task. Even with good connectivity, after we fill in all the details and try to save it, it rejects the request. We have to do the same process multiple times. If the details in the Aadhaar card and the details in the school register are different, that poses another series of problems as the system shows error reports if spellings or such data do not match,” he said. Another zilla parishad teacher from Jalna, said while there were humongous problems when the Saral system was started, it is more or less streamlined, but getting documents for students who joined recently is a challenge. If there is connectivity, then the update of data is not an issue, he added. Much of the problem arises because teachers are still not well-versed with the software itself. “Getting the Aadhaar registration of those students who have just joined in class I will be a problem, as there is not much direct contact with the teachers and parents yet due to the schools being shut. If the parents are labourers or illiterate, they do not know how to get hold of documents and teachers have to do the job of collecting documents after visiting the house of each and every student and then get their Aadhaar registration done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-teachers-want-user-friendly-saral-software-aadhaar-camps/articleshow/79767410.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Female tiger found dead in Singara forest was poisoned, says one laboratory report||Udhagamandalam: The female tiger, which was found dead in Singara forest range last month, was poisoned to death, suggested one of the lab results received by the forest department. The department is awaiting results from two more labs. On November 21, a female tiger was found dead at Seemarkuli Odai area near Aachakarai in the Singara range of forests in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) - buffer zone - in the Nilgiris. As per the protocol of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), a search was conducted by the forest field staff around the spot where the carcass of the tiger was found. Two male tiger cubs were secured by the field staff from a bush in that area. After postmortem, the preliminary report revealed that there were no physical injuries. Samples of the carcass were collected for pathological and forensic lab tests, according to L C S Srikanth, deputy director, MTR-buffer zone. “We had sent the samples of the carcass to three labs in Chennai and Coimbatore. We have received a test report from one of the labs which suggested that the tiger was poisoned,” Srikanth said. He said, “We are awaiting test reports from two other labs so that the final postmortem report could be compiled.” According to the official, the content in the stomach of the tiger was found to be of a sambar deer. The forest department has formed an intelligence team to probe the case. “Recently we conducted a meeting with cattle owners and grazing people in the Achakarai area and sensitized them to inform us if they suspect anyone in this case. A reward has also been announced,” Srikanth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/female-tiger-found-dead-in-singara-forest-was-poisoned-says-one-laboratory-report/articleshow/79767406.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||21 new Covid cases in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: With 21 new cases reported on Wednesday, the Covid tally reached 7,719 in the district. As many as 16 people recovered and were discharged on the day. With this, 7,538 people have recovered in the district. Of the 139 active cases in the district, 29 are being treated at government and private facilities in Coimbatore, while 33 people are kept in home quarantine and being monitored. The rest of the cases are admitted to government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/21-new-covid-cases-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79767407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Salem||100 Amma mini-clinics for Salem dist: CM||Salem: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated an Amma mini-clinic at Kondalampatti in the city on Wednesday. Addressing the gathering, the chief minister said as many as 100 mini-clinics will be opened in the Salem district in the next 10 days. “In the first phase, 34 clinics will be opened. These clinics are for giving treatment to the poor and downtrodden people,” he said. Across the state, 2,000 Amma mini-clinics will be established, he added. On the number of government school students joining in the medical college, the CM said, last year only six students got MBBS seats, but this year, because of the state government’s 7.5% quota for government and aided school students, 313 students got medical seats. Palaniswami said the government has opened 11 medical colleges in a year. The state has added 1,650 seats through these colleges. “Equipment to diagnose cancer has been installed in 10 government hospitals at the cost of Rs 20 crore,” he said, adding that his government has increased the ceiling from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh in the medical insurance scheme. In another event, the chief minister inaugurated a new hospital of Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospitals in the city, on the eve of its 63rd anniversary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/100-amma-mini-clinics-for-salem-dist-cm/articleshow/79767416.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Farmers from Pithoragarh’s Chaudas valley trained to preserve endangered medicinal herbs that grow only in high altitudes||DEHRADUN: A team of scientists from GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment, Almora, are training around 200 farmers from 11 villages of Chaudas valley to preserve around 12 rare and endangered medicinal herbs that are endemic to the Himalayas. Kireet Kumar, senior scientist at GB Pant institute, said, “The aim is to stop illegal exploitation of these herbs.” “The herbs are in high demand and private firms that manufacture Ayurvedic and herbal medicine rope in local villagers living in the Himalayan belt to collect these. Unchecked exploitation of natural resources in the area is a threat to the area’s fragile ecology,” Kumar said. The project is being funded by the Centre under its “National Himalaya Research/study Mission”. “The farmers have been trained to cultivate herbs like Jambu, Choru, Kapoor Kachri, Kutki, Kootha and Jatamansi. The cultivation has already started and the farmers are being assisted by our scientists,” Kumar said. He added that Pant institute is also planning a business module so the farmers can directly sell their produce in the market. ID Bhatt from Botany department of GB Pant institute, who is also a part of the project, said, “Recent researches and reports have tagged 120 natural herbs found in Himalyan belt as ‘rare and vulnerable’. Most of the herbs being cultivated by the farmers in Chaudas valley are found only in places altitudes ranging from 900 m to 2800 m above sea level. The area of Chaudas Valley of Pithoragarh, the frontier district of the state, is suitable for the cultivation of these medicines,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-from-pithoragarhs-chaudas-valley-trained-to-preserve-endangered-medicinal-herbs-that-grow-only-in-high-altitudes/articleshow/79765341.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||JU engineering student threatens prof||Kolkata: A show-cause notice was served on a Jadavpur University student after he allegedly threatened a teacher of the mechanical engineering department. The decision was taken after a meeting by the university authorities on Wednesday. The teacher, Tarun Naskar, wrote to vice-chancellor Suranjan Das stating about his fear. The authorities convened a meeting, where the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association (JUTA) condemned the incident. The accused has been asked to respond to the charges against him. Naskar, in his letter, said that the student was evaluated for his examination in 2019-2020. Despite failing in the sessional subject, he threatened Naskar over the phone on Tuesday saying that “steps will be taken against him.” “I had a class of computer-aided drafting in that session, which he never attended. I marked him absent on the mark-sheet and uploaded that in the online Jadavpur University Management System (JUMS) in December 2019. He has now demanded to get him passed on the sessional subject. Since he never attended any class, it is not possible for a teacher to do it,” wrote Naskar in the letter. “I request you to take steps so that I can discharge my duty as a teacher freely,” Naskar requested to Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-engg-student-threatens-prof/articleshow/79768686.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Land reclaimed from dons, gangsters will be used to build houses for common people: CM||Prayagraj: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday said that land reclaimed from gangsters in the ongoing drive against the mafia will be used for constructing houses and given to poor, lawyers, teachers and mediapersons on ‘no profit and no loss basis’ and due instructions have been given to development authorities in this regard. The state has become 'bhay-mukt' (without fear), as strict action is being taken against mafia dons and this will continue, he added. Addressing Uttar Pradesh Adhivakta Samagam, a mega lawyers’ conference jointly organized by Bar Council of UP and Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) at KP Ground here, the CM said the government would solve all problems faced by lawyers and is ready to set up a hospital in high court compound. He also asked the Bar Council to prepare a roadmap for helping lawyers who suffered due to Covid-19 pandemic and submit it to the law department. The government will find ways to help lawyers in this regard, he assured. Yogi further said that lawyers are symbols of faith as people contact them when they lose a fight even against their own and urged them to maintain this faith. “Lawyers have always led the society, but whenever any institution crosses its limits, public sentiments are hurt,” the CM said. “Our efforts in combating corona pandemic and results have been appreciated by the World Health Organization. We conducted the highest number of tests and have lowest case positivity and mortality rates,” he added. “Once the vaccine is available, the state government will ensure all people are vaccinated,” the CM said. CM also assured that construction of a ‘National Law University’ would start in Prayagraj soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/land-reclaimed-from-dons-gangsters-will-be-used-to-build-houses-for-common-people-cm/articleshow/79768675.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||AISSMS pupil selected for R-Day parade||Pune: Mechanical engineering student, Vivek Singh, from the All India Shri Shivaji Memorial Society's College Of Engineering has been selected for the Rajpath Parade for the 72nd Republic Day, a statement by the college on Thursday said. He was selected from the National Cadet Corps from Maharashtra and will be trained by the Army’s drill instructors.  The Republic Day camp has been organised on the Cariappa Parade ground from January 1 to 29. The camp will be inaugurated by Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and will conclude after the PM's rally on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/aissms-pupil-selected-for-r-day-parade/articleshow/79767413.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Early finish, restricted attendance at ‘midnight’ mass in pandemic year||PUNE: Christian denominations in the city say they are taking all safety precautions, such as staggered gatherings, sanitized premises and early finish to church services, while organizing the midnight mass for Christmas and New Year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A circular issued by the Bishop of Pune has a set of guidelines about how the churches under the diocese in and around the city as well as in Satara, Solapur, Sangli and Kolhapur should organize “midnight” masses, including increasing the number of gatherings given the restricted attendance for each of them, as well as adhering to the government advisories on health precautions. “Churches will finish with Mass by 10pm this year. The attendance for the masses will be according to the directions issued by the government, with masks being compulsory. We have recommended a limitation of one-third of the capacity of a church, with attendees three feet away from each other,” Bishop of Pune Thomas Dabre told TOI. “Holy Communion will be placed on the worshippers’ hands, so as to limit physical contact. There will be three or four masses at some churches to accommodate large congregations. There will also be a gap of half-an-hour between masses to allow for proper sanitization of the churches,” he said. Some churches are training volunteers for the Christmas and New Year masses to welcome and guide the guests inside. Representatives of the churches are also talking to the local police for permission, as is the requirement. “Our masses will start at 7pm, so that worshippers can be home by 9pm. This year, discipline is very important. We are training a batch of volunteers who will usher in the number of guests permitted per mass and guide them to their seats. They will close the doors when the capacity is reached. We have visited the local police station. The police have been very cooperative,” said Vicar-General Fr Malcolm Sequeira, in charge of St Anne’s Church. For the worshippers, it is still a Christmas they look forward to despite the timings and restrictions. “The timings are indeed a bit early. But we still hope that the masses still bring us the joy of Christmas even in this challenging year,” said Macdonell Baptista, who visits the St Xavier’s Church in Camp, Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/early-finish-restricted-attendance-at-midnight-mass-in-pandemic-year/articleshow/79767415.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 17, 2020||Agra||‘Students attending regular classes in Agra to be tested for Covid-19’||AGRA: Students of Classes 9 to 12 attending regular classes at schools in Agra will undergo antigen tests for Covid-19, officials said. The school authorities will be taking permission from the parents for such tests. The State Secondary Education Council has issued orders to the district inspector of schools (DIOS) in this regard. The tests will be conducted by the health department on the school premises. Agra DIOS Ravindra Kumar said, “Arrangements are being made for Covid testing of the students. Principals of all schools have been directed in this regard. No fee will be charged from students for testing." Meanwhile, at least 28 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 9,927. These included a junior doctor of the SN Medical College and a paramedic staff of the district hospital. Also, 40 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 9,927 cases reported in the district, 9,478 [95.5%] have been declared cured of the infection. The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/students-attending-regular-classesin-agra-to-be-tested-for-covid-19/articleshow/79765347.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Agra||UP ministers, BJP MPs hold ‘Kisan Sammelan’ in Aligarh to drum up support for farm bills||AGRA: Amid the ongoing farmers’ protests intensifying against the three recently-passed farm laws, the BJP organised a ‘Kisan Sammelan’ in Aligarh on Wednesday in a bid to make farmers aware of the benefits of the new agri laws. UP minister Sandeep Singh and MPs from Aligarh, Etah and Fatehpur Sikri — Satish Gautam, Rajveer singh and Raj Kumar Chahar, respectively, addressed about 1,000 farmers who had gathered at Kawarsi area. While talking to media persons, Fatehpur Sikri MP Raj Kumar Chahar affirmed that the central government won’t withdraw the farm laws “as they have been enacted for the benefit of the farmers”. “The government is ready to listen to farmers’ suggestions. I am hopeful that the farmers, who are being misled, would understand the benefits of the new laws and the matter will be resolved soon,” he said. Chahar added that the new farm laws are aimed at improving the economic conditions of the farmers by providing them direct benefits of their agri products sale and end the role of middlemen. He claimed that farmers have not been stopped from protesting. “No lathi-charge was done, no gunshots were fired and the protesting farmers are being provided proper space to raise their voices, but some opposition parties want a clash between farmers and the police in order to create fissures,” he said, adding while urging farmers no to fall for such conspiracies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-ministers-bjp-mps-hold-kisan-sammelan-in-aligarh-to-drum-up-support-for-farm-bills/articleshow/79765399.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Four city clubs plan year-end parties with limit on guest numbers; two decide not to||KOLKATA: Four of the city’s heritage clubs have planned to party on Christmas and New Year’s eve, while two have decided not to. The ones that will party — Tolly Club, RCGC, CC&FC and Saturday Club — have brought in Covid restrictions. So, the events will be trimmed with a limited number of guests and will have an ambience of caution and distance, unlike previous occasions, when people looked forward to closeness. The clubs that will party have applied for routine police permissions, which are likely to come through in the next couple of days, they said. The four clubs will also host the traditional Christmas lunch like other years. Tolly has decided to have its events only in the lawns and limited the attendance to 200 members. The bookings for entry will be on a first come first served basis to avoid crowding. “We will have sit down affairs, when it comes to dining on our lawns and distance will be maintained. There will be a late-night bar and music, too, on our lawns because the show must go on,” said CEO of the club, Anil Mukherji. Even RCGC is thanking the fact that it has spacious lawns that will make the party possible. Only 40% of members will be able to party this time on the two eve programmes while the lunch will see not more than 150 people. “We are planning the lay out of the food very carefully, following Covid protocols and tickets will be given to limited numbers,” said CEO Devrishi Singhal. The CC&FC party on the lawns has capped the attendance at 200 members for the wine and dine do with local band performing, said club president Sanaya Mehta Vyas. “We will have nothing indoors this time and the layout will be very different following restrictions,” she said. The Christmas eve party at Saturday Club that usually draws 3,000 people will also have just 200 members this time, said president Dipu Doshi. “We are going ahead with the party, but we know that we will not be able to allow more than 200 members that day because of restrictions and that will make all of us sad,” he said. Bengal Club, however, has announced here will be no New Year’s Eve party this time because it is not appropriate to celebrate at a time when the world is going through one of its worst disasters. “It is just not right. Moreover, it would be difficult to maintain the Covid-19 protocols at a bash,” said president Soumendranath Mukherjee. The club has decided that there would be a Christmas menu at the dining hall for lunch on the day of Christmas but it would be restricted to a prior booking of 70 people and not a gala event that saw at least 300 people turning out. The Club’s library committee, under the guidance of Sarojesh Mukherjee, will continue to hold virtual programmes to keep the members together. Calcutta Club, too, hasn’t planned any event this time. President Subrata Basu said: “Let’s see, what we can do, but nothing has been planned.” Calcutta Rowing Club would also not host Christmas eve or new years eve party for the first time in 160 years. “We will only have Christmas lunch,” said CRC secretary Chandan Roychowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-city-clubs-plan-year-end-parties-with-limit-on-guest-numbers-two-decide-not-to/articleshow/79768703.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Agents, not farmers behind Delhi protests: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||TRICHY: Those protesting against the new farm laws in Delhi are not farmers but agents who will be affected by these three laws, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at Karur on Wednesday. Reiterating that these farm laws will not affect farmers in Tamil Nadu, he said agriculture produce in northern states can be sold only through agents. Parties opposing the farm laws in Tamil Nadu are orchestrating a political drama to gain votes in the assembly elections, he said while talking to reporters. On the opposition criticism of not being able to prevent NEET in Tamil Nadu, the CM said it was Congress which introduced NEET while DMK in alliance at the Centre remained silent due to the greed to remain in power. “We tried to prevent but could not succeed. We then introduced 7.5% horizontal reservation to benefit 41% students in government schools who were denied opportunity,” he said. The CM said that 313 students were given medical seats this year through the reservation and 125-130 more seats will be added next year with the beginning of 11 new medical colleges. Asked if jallikattu will be allowed next month amidst the pandemic, the CM said that Covid-19 cases are coming down but people are refusing to wear masks. Travelling in an open jeep after entering Karur town, he saw many people not wearing masks. Saying that Covid-19 can be prevented to a large extent by wearing mask, he said vaccine will be given free of cost to people in the state as soon as it comes to the country. On scrapping free power to farmers, he said such false information is being spread by the opposition as elections are nearing. The AIADMK government will not take any anti-farmer step. He said the coalition formed by AIADMK during general election is intact for assembly election. On the bottleneck in setting up a new bus stand in Karur, he said a case is pending in court and steps will be taken to build the bus stand soon. The CM laid foundation stone for 2,038 developmental schemes worth Rs 627 crore in the district. He inaugurated 28 schemes that were completed at a cost of Rs 118.53 crore besides distributing beneficial schemes worth Rs 35 crore across various departments to the beneficiaries. The CM also conducted meetings with representatives of micro, small and medium enterprises, farmers associations and women self-help groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/agents-not-farmers-behind-delhi-protests-palaniswami/articleshow/79768700.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Three more Covid deaths, 91 new cases||Panaji: Three more Covid deaths in 50 and 60-year-olds were reported on Wednesday, taking the cumulative toll to 714. All the three patients developed Covid pneumonia and died of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital. One of the patients, a 61-year-old man from Quepem, died after 12 hours of admission at GMC after developing a cardiogenic shock. Another 52-year-old man from Cavelossim, with diabetes as an underlying condition, passed away after six days of treatment at GMC. Also, a 59-year-old female from Vasco with diabetes and hypertension succumbed to Covid after 10 days of hospitalisation at GMC. A total of 91 new cases were detected on Wednesday, taking the active Covid tally in the state to 979 and positivity rate to 5.2%. Twenty seven new patients were hospitalised and 66 opted for home isolation. Around 60% of the active cases, 573 are in South Goa, with Margao urban health centre reporting the highest number of 149 active cases followed by Quepem, Ponda, Curchorem, Cansaulim, Cortalim and Canacona. North Goa has 406 active cases, including ten travellers. Porvorim health centre has the highest active cases at 64 followed by Panaji, Candolim, Siolim and Chimbel. The state has a recovery rate of 96.6% where 104 patients recovered on Wednesday over the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-more-covid-deaths-91-new-cases/articleshow/79768714.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Pune||PMC has 90 storage units for Covid-19 vaccine, PCMC 32||PUNE: The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic bodies currently have 90 and 32 cold chain points, respectively, for storing Covid-19 vaccine vials. Health department officials from both the civic bodies said they are expecting the addition of more storage points and equipment soon. Ashish Bharati, head of the PMC’s health department, said the civic body’s storage network included 55 ice-lined refrigerators and 35 deep freezers. Bharati said, “This capacity will be enough to store 4 to 5 lakh doses. But we are not expecting a large volume of vials immediately as the number of healthcare workers who have signed up for priority vaccination — within PMC limits — is around 50,000.” He said the health department was also awaiting more instructions on how the vaccination drive is set to proceed. “We know that healthcare staff from the civic hospitals will be administered the shot by civic staff. However, it’s unclear if these government vaccinators will be used to vaccinate healthcare workers from the private sector as well. If that’s the case, we will need assistance from private hospitals in the setting up of more vaccination sites in the city.” Santosh Patil, the additional commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation said the 32 cold chain points in the twin towns hold a total capacity of nearly 2,600 litres. He said registration of private sector health workers was still on in PCMC limits. So far, Patil said, about 12,000 medical staff have signed up for the priority shot. Cold chain points are vital for vaccination programmes. Besides storage, they also determine reach and coverage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-has-90-storage-units-for-covid-19-vaccine-pcmc-32/articleshow/79767420.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 17, 2020||Pune||PCB hosp staff sport black bands as mark of protest over incentives||Pune: A group of 85 permanent health care staffers engaged in Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 duties at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel general hospital, run by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), on Wednesday sported black armbands at work to express their disappointment over the incentives sanctioned for performing in tough situations for the last eight months. Pune Cantonment Karmachari Sangh president Chandrakant Dhongade said, “The PCB has sanctioned Rs150 per day incentive for 65 days, but this amount is less than what the contractual employees have been given. Many of us have worked for over 10-12 hours without taking off. Some of the employees’ family members had also tested positive for the virus during this time and still they continued their work. Yet, we have got less incentive. All permanent employees of the hospital wore black ribbon as a mark of protest.”Incidentally, the protest came a day after the defence estates department announced the ‘Raksha Mantri Award for 2020’ for PCB’s general hospital for outstanding performance in the fight against Covid-19.PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, “We have considered Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) circular while sanctioning the incentive amount to our employees. Today, we had an amicable discussion with the workers’ union representatives and asked them to show us a circular or notification of any other hospital in Pune, which may have given a higher incentive to their health staffers. We are willing to consider such an amount.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-hosp-staff-sport-black-bands-as-mark-of-protest-over-incentives/articleshow/79767417.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 17, 2020||Pune||Municipal areas log more infections than recoveries||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded marginally higher recoveries (696) than Covid-19 cases (665) on Wednesday, with the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits recording more number of infections than discharges in the past 24 hours. On Tuesday, the region had added 509 cases and 707 recoveries. PMR has recorded over 3.36 lakh discharges and 3.53 lakh caseload so far. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the PMC limits added 302 new cases and 293 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The PCMC limits reported 138 infections as against 111 recoveries. The rural areas defied the trend and recorded 292 recoveries as against 225 cases. The region reported 16 deaths on Wednesday, pushing its toll to 8,659. As many as 8,669 tests were conducted on Wednesday, including 3,699 in the PMC limits, 2,792 in the PCMC areas. Heath officials from PMC said they had been monitoring the situation and asked local teams to conduct rigorous contact tracing. “The municipal limits are reporting around 300 to 400 cases on daily basis. The cases are coming up in sporadic manner so far,” a civic health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/municipal-areas-log-more-infections-than-recoveries/articleshow/79767427.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Half-yearly exams cancelled for govt, aided school students: Min||Salem: State school education minister K A Sengottaiyan announced that half-yearly examinations for students studying in the government and aided schools were cancelled. However, there were no restrictions for private schools to conduct online examinations, the minster told reporters in Erode on Wednesday. Earlier, participating in an event for unveiling statues in the AIADMK party office and Panneerselvam Park, the minister lauded chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for taking the government on the way shown by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa Citing a recent government order, the minister said the state has provided 3% reservation in government jobs for students who joined through sports quota. On reducing syllabus, the minister said the students up to Class IX have to study only 50% of the syllabus and for Class X, XI, XII students, it would be 65% of the syllabus. The minister said the school reopening date will be announced by the chief minister after consulting with parents and educationists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/half-yearly-exams-cancelled-for-govt-aided-school-students-min/articleshow/79767424.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Rain brings worries to delta farmers over samba paddy harvest||Trichy: With rains lashing delta districts since Wednesday, farmers have expressed concern over a proper samba paddy harvest with good yield. Meanwhile, officials from the agriculture department have issued various measures that should be taken up by the farmers to safeguard the standing crops, which were inundated during the recent rains triggered by the cyclones Nivar and Burevi.Kudavasal in Tiruvarur district recorded a maximum of 55 mm rain till 6 am on Wednesday, while it was 53 mm in Mannargudi. Tiruvarur, Thiruthuraipoondi also recorded more than 40 mm of rainfall in the district. Nagapattinam and Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district registered 53 and 52 mm rainfall on Wednesday respectively. Thanjavur also witnessed widespread rain in several parts on Wednesday. Farmers have been taking steps to drain water from inundated fields in delta districts. Farmers believed that there was a chance for reviving the standing crop at several places. However, the fresh spell of rain has created concerns among the farmers over whether they could safeguard their crops, S Rajavelu, a farmer from Pattukottai in Thanjavur said.“With the submergence of several thousands of acres of paddy fields, farmers are distressed. Hundreds of farmers took up early harvest in Pattukottai and Peravurani and Orathanadu blocks and those crops are ready for harvest. Standing crops can be somewhat safeguarded, however, in the case of matured crops, yield loss is inevitable due to fresh rains,” P Sugumaran, a functionary of Thanjavur district Cauvery farmers protection association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-brings-worries-to-delta-farmers-over-samba-paddy-harvest/articleshow/79768715.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 17, 2020||Pune||Pune registers 66% drop in corona biomedical waste||PUNE: A drop in the number of new cases has led to a massive fall in daily generation of Covid-19 biomedical waste within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Latest data shows daily waste generation has fallen by nearly 66% — from 6,000 kg per day in September to at least 2,000 kg in December. An official from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board said, “Average daily generation of Covid biomedical waste in the PMC area in November and December fell to 2,000 kg-3,000 kg from October’s 4,000 kg-5,000 kg. In September, volume of per day Covid waste from PMC area was 6,000 kg.” Officials attributed the drop to the reduction in number of hospitalised patients. A heath department official said, “Nearly 60% of active cases in Pune district are in home isolation. This has led to reduced use of PPE in hospitals. Currently, the region has 6,150 patients in home isolation, while 2,700 are in hospitals. In September, the number of patients at home was much less.” The official added that in October, the ratio of hospitalised and home-isolated patients was 50:50 in the district. “It is now 60:40,” he said. Sunil Dandawate, who runs the city’s common biomedical waste treatment facility, at Kailas Crematorium, said, “The volume of Covid-related biomedical waste has indeed reduced. But non-Covid incinerable waste has increased in PMC limits, to 3,200-3,500 kg per day from at least 2,800 kg per day (when cases were on a rise). This is because regular admissions have resumed at many hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-registers-66-drop-in-corona-biomedical-waste/articleshow/79767422.cms||Neha Madaan
December 17, 2020||Agra||22-year-old man found murdered near Yamuna Expressway||AGRA: A 22-year-old man, who was returning to Noida from Agra after visiting Taj Mahal, was allegedly murdered just 500 meters from the Yamuna Expressway under Mathura’s Raya jurisdiction. The police have sent the deceased’s photographs to neighbouring districts for identification. According to police, the man’s body was found in the same outfit, which was shown in some photographs that were clicked at Taj Mahal. The cops had also found a bus ticket from Noida to Agra at the crime spot. SP (rural) Shireesh Chandra said that preliminary investigations revealed that his head was allegedly hit with a large stone. They also suspect that the incident might have happened on Tuesday night. “Apparently, the killer was known to him as his body was found on the Noida-Agra route instead of the Agra-Noida route, from where he was returning,” Chandra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/22-year-old-man-found-murdered-near-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79765421.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||Expert group still awaiting deaths’ data||Pune: The state technical committee on Covid-19, which had asked PMC and PCMC to submit reports on all pandemic-linked deaths after October 1 by November-end, is still waiting for the information. Subhash Salunke, a committee member, said there has been “no response” from health wings of the civic bodies. The data can determine if there were lapses in treatment. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC, said they will need a week to prepare the data. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner of the PCMC, said their report would be submitted soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/expert-group-still-awaiting-deaths-data/articleshow/79767436.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 17, 2020||Bareilly||8 dead, 24 injured as bus & gas tanker collide on UP highway||BAREILLY: A state roadways bus with at least 36 on board collided with a gas tanker leaving eight dead and 24 injured in Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal district on Wednesday morning. The bus, on its way from Moradabad to Aligarh, was trying to overtake a tractor-trolley carrying sugarcane ahead of it when it crashed into the gas tanker at Dhanari on the Aligarh-Moradabad highway. “The accident took place because of low visibility,” Sambhal SSP Chakresh Mishra said. This was around 7.30am. "There was a loud bang as the tanker crashed into our bus. A lot of people were injured. Fortunately, I was seated on the left side of the bus and survived with just a few scratches," a passenger, Pankaj Kumar, said. The front cabin and right side of the bus were completely mangled. Tanker driver Suresh Rajput (45) from Moradabad and bus driver Saleem Khan (32) from Aligarh died on the spot. So did four passengers. Two others succumbed to injuries later. The collision was so bad that they could not be identified initially. Later, police released their names — Rohit Rana (a 25-year-old constable with 112 helpline), Jitendra Kumar (a 30-year-old from Bijnor), Chhote Singh (45, from Bulandshahr), Anila Kumari (45, from Bahjoi), Aslam (40, from Moradabad) and Om Prakash (55, from Rampur). At the time of filing the report, 24 injured were being treated at a hospital in Sambhal, nine of whom were in a critical condition and may be moved to Moradabad. “The death toll may go up. We had to work fast to prevent fire or gas leakage from the tanker. Things could have been much worse had the tanker exploded,” SSP Mishra said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted that his thoughts are with the families of those in the accident: “I am deeply hurt by news of the road accident in UP’s Sambhal. The government is busy with relief and rescue work. I express my condolences to those who lost their loved ones in the accident, and hope that those injured recover soon.” The office of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, tweeted out a message of support and condolences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/8-dead-24-injured-as-bus-gas-tanker-collide-on-up-highway/articleshow/79765482.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||India's first maritime arbitration centre to be set up in GIFT City||GANDHINAGAR: On the lines of maritime hubs like Singapore, Hong Kong and China, India’s first arbitration and mediation centre focusing on disputes related to the shipping sector will come up in the Gujarat International Finance-Tech (GIFT) City in Gandhinagar. The Gujarat Mediation and Arbitration Centre (GMAC) being built under the aegis of Gujarat Maritime University and is a key part of the Gujarat Maritime Cluster that will be housed in GIFT City. The centre is expected to start early next year and a space of nearly 8,000 sq ft space has been taken at the GIFT City. “Today, specialist alternate dispute resolution (ADR) centres focused on maritime trade is a popular mode of dispute resolution around the world. With GMAC being set up, India will join the list of maritime countries where such centres are flourishing,” said Avantika Singh, CEO and vice-chairman, Gujarat Maritime Board (GMB). GMAC will ensure effective, time-bound and cost effective resolution of disputes, reduced burden on courts and help attract international stakeholders also to India, said Singh. "We have drafting the rules for GMAC and these are being vetted by top national and international maritime arbitrators," said sources. Ahmedabad-based arbitration lawyer Samir Shah, who is also the India director of Chartered Institute Of Arbitrators CIArb (UK), told TOI: "There has been a need for such an arbitration centre for a long time considering the increasing maritime trade in Gujarat due to the natural advantage of a longest coastline. This centre will surely to be a gamechanger for maritime disputes in India." Sources said that Indian companies engaged in maritime trade and shipping have been flying to ADR centres in London, Singapore and Hong Kong to settle their disputes in the absence of any internationally acceptable arbitration centre in the country. At a recently organized webinar, Supreme Court judge Justice MR Shah also spoke about the various alternate disputes mechanisms like mediation, arbitration, negotiation that are adopted globally due to their cost and time effectiveness vis-à-vis litigation mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/indias-first-maritime-arbitration-centre-to-be-set-up-in-gift-city/articleshow/79765502.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Class XI girl lauded for translating ‘Aathichudi’ to Hindi||Trichy: A class XI student of a private school in Trichy has won the praise of Trichy district collector, S Sivarasu, for translating ‘Aathichudi’, a collection of single line quotations by Tamil poetess Avvaiyar, in English and Hindi. She has also translated ‘Kondrai Vendhan’ – a Tamil moral book of the same author-and released it as a book.This is not the first time that ‘Aathichudi’ and ‘Kondrai Vendhan’ has been translated to other languages but N S Apsara, from Sowdambikaa school, has translated the books in two different languages besides coming out with the transliteration of the works, which has made her feat unique. The collector met Apsara on Tuesday and appreciated her for her attempt to take popular Tamil books to non-Tamil readers. Her tryst with Aathichudi – a collection of 109 phrases which teach moral values- happened in class VII when she recited them for a school competition.It was Apsara’s father, K Sasi Kumar, who motivated her to come up with the translation in Hindi as she used to learn the language after her school hours. “Initially, Apsara started taking help of an online dictionary for translation but later got her work corrected by Vijayalakshmi, Hindi teacher at Cauvery college for women,” Sasi Kumar said. Apsara plans to translate many more popular Tamil books to Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/class-xi-girl-lauded-for-translating-aathichudi-to-hindi/articleshow/79768742.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||Allopaths should not professionally associate with non-allopaths: MMC||PUNE: Maharashtra Medical Council, the governing body of allopathy doctors in the state, on Tuesday issued a set of directives advising its members not to ‘professionally associate’ with non-allopathy practitioners. The move comes in the wake of the recent Union government notification allowing ayurveda postgraduate doctors specialized in shalya (surgery) and shalaya (diagnosis/prevention) to perform 58 procedures. The Maharashtra Medical Council reiterated that the ultimate responsibility of treating a patient, where an allopath is professionally associated with a non-allopathy doctor, lies with the allopath alone under the relevant sections of the law. Besides, allopaths running nursing homes/hospitals should ensure that a non-allopathy doctor working as an assistant does not issue a prescription of allopathy drugs on his/her (non-allopath) signature. Shivkumar Utture, MMC president, said, “All these directives are already there in the Indian Medical Council Regulations and MMC Act. We have simply reiterated them to sensitize our members and safeguard patients’ interest.” Senior paediatrician Dilip Sarda, MMC member, said, “First, the allopaths should not professionally associate with non-allopaths. If they have to, the onus of treating a patient lies solely with the allopath.” Telemedicine can prove a better tool. “Digital signatures/prescriptions and telemedicine are valid tools under the law. The allopaths can use them to the fullest while running the operations of nursing homes/hospitals,” said Sanjay Patil, state vice-president of IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/allopaths-should-not-professionally-associate-with-non-allopaths-mmc/articleshow/79767430.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Poompuhar, Danish fort opened after 8 mths||Mayiladuthurai: The tourist spots Poompuhar and Tharangambadi Danish Fort were thrown open for public here on Wednesday after more than eight months. However, due to rain, the footfall was very low on the first day. All the tourist spots were closed following the pandemic across the state including Poompuhar and Danish fort in Tharangambadi in Mayiladuthurai district. Following the announcement made by the chief minister of Tamil Nadu Edappadi K Palaniswami a few days ago, officials readied both the tourist spots by cleaning and establishing required basic amenities. As per the Covid-19 protocol arrangements have been made to make sure the general public maintains one metre distance between them while visiting, curator P Baskar told TOI. “We have made the required arrangements to check temperature and to provide sanitizer to the visitors. ,” Baskar further stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poompuhar-danish-fort-opened-after-8-mths/articleshow/79768733.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||HC stays disqualification of Katol councillors||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday has stayed the disqualification of over 20 councillors from Katol. A notice has been issued to the state government seeking a reply within six weeks, regarding the issue. The councillors who were disqualified include Vaishali Thakur, Jitendra Tupkar, Charansingh Thakur, Subhash Kothe, Maya Sherkar, Hemraj Revatkar, Meera Umap, Shweta Dongre, Kishore Gadve, Shalini Bansod, Raju Charde, Lata Kadu, Sangeeta Harjal, Sukumar Ghode, Vinita Revatkar, Devidas Kathane, Shalini Mahajan, Prasanna Shripatwar, Jaishree Bhurse, Manoj Pendham and Tanaji Thote. All of them had been disqualified by Prajakt Tanpure, minister of state for urban development, under the Maharashtra Municipal Council Nagarpanchayat and Industrial Township Act, 1965. Orders were issued by the state government on December 4, following which the petitioners approached the court. Advocate Mahesh Dhatrak who appeared for some of the petitioners said, “The court said that prima facie, the state government’s order looks bad in law. Hence, the court granted a stay with reference to prayer clause B, which was asking for a stay on the order issued on December 4, till the disposal of the petition.” Till the time of going to press, the order had not been uploaded on the court’s portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-stays-disqualification-of-katol-councillors/articleshow/79766429.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||Rise of Islamist extremism in Bangladesh worries India||NEW DELHI: As PM Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina meet virtually for a bilateral summit on Thursday, beyond the discussions on connectivity and infrastructure, a rising concern in India is the apparent resurgence of Islamist extremism in Bangladesh. The Hasina government is re-activating over 80 terrorism-related cases against the extremist group Hefazat-e-Islam, whose new radicalised chief Junaid Babunagri has already vandalised statues of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman and threatened to bring down others too. Bangladeshi media reports quoted home minister Asaduzzaman Khan Kamal as saying, “Terrorism cases can’t be postponed for long. Details of the cases are being checked. The government is determined to take action against the accused.” He acknowledged that the government had not been proactive against Hefazat and that “seven years have passed for various reasons, which is a mistake”. While the Hasina government has been proactive against terror groups affiliated or inspired by al-Qaida, the Taliban and Islamic State terror group, Hefazat has escaped action, largely because the previous chief tilted in favour of the government, and the government used it to target the Jamaat. But the group has now turned on the government, raising concerns whether Hasina will be able to deal with these elements. Hasina’s son Joy Wajed too issued a warning against Hefazat, calling them the new “razakars”. “There is a group that has raised its head in a bid to take the country backwards. They are threatening to transform Bangladesh into Afghanistan. There was the Jamaat in 1971, and now Hefazat is becoming the new Razakar,” he said. In its most recent pronouncements, Hefazat has demanded closure of the Iskcon facilities in Bangladesh and the French embassy and to declare Ahmadiyas as “non-Muslims”. The growth of the group comes at a time when Pakistan is reinstating its position in Bangladesh, with the return of an envoy to Dhaka after a longish period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rise-of-islamist-extremism-in-bangladesh-worries-india/articleshow/79769848.cms||Indrani Bagchi
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Railway ticket booking counter working hours to be restored||Trichy: With the Southern Railways operating fully reserved special trains, railway authorities from Trichy railway division have instructed the major station in-charges to restore the working hours of the ticket booking counters to the regular working hours. After the railways began its special train operations across the division, the Passenger Reservation Systems (UTS) were functioning within a stipulated time based on stations. Counters were not opened for current bookings, current cancellations, parcel loading, unloading and ticket checking activities due to this.Now, as per the circular, passengers can avail the facilities of regular bookings, current bookings and cancellations as per the timings followed during pre-lockdown, official sources said. Moreover, ticket checking duties must also be performed by on duty commercial or traffic staff at stoppages where ticket-checkers are not posted, during arrival and departure trains. Supervisors are asked to ensure the process and relevant records are maintained in this regard, the circular stated.Though the timings of PRS has been restored, the officials have strictly stated that no unreserved tickets should be issued at any location until further advice. Meanwhile, rail users welcomed the move to restore the working hours of the ticket booking counters. When there is no way for booking unreserved tickets, this current booking of tickets will help passengers who plan their journey in last minute, rail users opined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railway-ticket-booking-counter-working-hours-to-be-restored/articleshow/79768769.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Colleges step up Covid vigil to get over testing times||TRICHY: Colleges across the state have intensified testing and are on heightened vigil to check for coronavirus cases in the wake of IIT Madras campus turning out to be a hotspot. Though preventive measures are in place, colleges are sceptical over checking the spread especially in hostels in the coming days. The higher education department has issued a fresh set of guidelines in addition to the SOPs given by the government to prevent Covid-19 outbreaks on the campus. “While the state has taken up the responsibility to do ‘saturation’ testing for all colleges, we will not hesitate to initiate action when we find protocol violations,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Health department staff in Coimbatore say they have asked colleges to ensure all students and staff wear masks throughout the day. “Wardens have also been asked to spread the beds out in hostel rooms and dormitories ensuring social distance and if necessary use more empty rooms because of colleges working at 50% capacity,” said a staff member. However, the principal of an autonomous arts and science college in Trichy said it may not be possible to restrict students in the hostel as they tend to move out increasing the chances of Covid-19 spread. In various arts and science colleges, online semester exams are either under way or set to be held after practical classes were conducted at a stretch for final year students since reopening. Covid-19 positive cases have not emerged yet from BEd colleges or arts and science colleges as a majority of the students are appearing for their semester exams from home. “Though colleges reopened in the first and second week of December, a majority of the students remained at home as they were attending online classes,” said the regional joint director of collegiate education in Trichy, A Mekala. While this has ruled out the possibility of Covid-19 to a large extent, she said most of the colleges are conducting online semester exam. “Since this will end in a week which will be followed by vacation till new year, we hope to keep the college premises safe for students,” she said. V Sujatha, principal, Cauvery College for Women, said all the 350 students in the hostel have been screened for Covid-19. They have been isolated and not allowed to move out of the campus. Further, the mess was being sanitised and so were the buses, she said. “We did not have any instance of any student showing symptoms of Covid-19. Temperature screening was done every day. For those staying in the hostel, most students had taken Covid-19 tests barring a few. But even they were monitored closely,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science, Madurai. Many of the colleges say they find online classes effective and instead of having the students on the campus they may continue virtual classes till the end of next semester. (With inputs from Pratiksha Ram Kumar in Coimbatore, Sukshma R in Madurai and PushpaNarayanan in Chennai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colleges-step-up-covid-vigil-to-get-over-testing-times/articleshow/79768761.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 17, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Childless farmer adopts calf as 'son', invites over 500 guests to ‘mundan’||BAREILLY: Failing to conceive a child after 15 years of marriage, a farmer couple at a village in UP decided to adopt a calf as their 'son' and called it ‘Laltu baba’. The couple, Vijaypal and Rajeshwari Devi, invited over 500 guests to a symbolic ‘mundan’ or head shaving ritual for Laltu baba on Wednesday. The couple took Laltu baba to Laltu Ghat, on the banks of Gomti river, and performed the ceremony. The priest also gave blessings to the calf and its 'parents'. A feast was then held where people from across the village arrived with gifts. “I always treated Laltu as my son. The calf has been attached to us since its birth. Laltu's love for us is true and unconditional," Vijaypal told TOI. “We were surprised to see the 'mundan' invitation. A lot of people attended. We were all excited and happy for the couple and the calf,” Ratnesh Mishra, a local villager, said. After his parents' deaths, Vijaypal felt lonely in his Shahjahanpur home. Vijaypal's two younger sisters were also married. Vijaypal said that he was very close to the cow, Laltu's mother, brought up by his late father. When the cow passed away, the calf was left alone. So, he decided to adopt it as his 'child'. "When we can accept a cow as our mother then why not its calf as a son,” Vijaypal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/childless-farmer-adopts-calf-as-son-invitesover-500-guests-for-symbolic-mundan-ritual/articleshow/79765510.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 17, 2020||Bareilly||Another army recruitment scam busted in Shahjahanpur, 4 held||BAREILLY: A month after a joint team of Military Intelligence and the UP Police unearthed a fake army recruitment scam in Shahjahanpur, another fake recruitment racket has been busted by police in the district. Four persons were held with fake IDs, stamps and marksheets on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off, SHO Khuthar Police station Jaishankar Singh raided a ‘Jan Seva’ centre and caught the accused red-handed. Additional SP Sanjay Kumar said, “We have recovered fake marksheets, Aadhaar cards, and other documents from the accused who used to get the fake documents verified for the candidates in the Army. The accused are identified have been Shahbaz alias Sonu, Mukesh Singh, Anirudh and Aftab Khan. They are booked under relevant sections of forgery.” On November 13, the enforcement sleuths had busted the fake recruitment racket involving an ex-serviceman, two policemen and five others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/another-army-recruitment-scam-busted-in-shahjahanpur-4-held/articleshow/79765490.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: NICED hits 10km-rider hurdle in vaccine trial||KOLKATA: For its Covaxin trial, NICED’s attempt to rope in volunteers living within a 10-km radius of the Beliaghata campus for better accessibility to monitor their conditions is proving to be a bottleneck. NICED needs 1,000 volunteers but it has got only a third of the number, who fit the distance criteria, ever since the exercise started a fortnight ago. So far around 300 volunteers have got their first shots. More than 1,000 people have expressed their interest to join the trial as volunteers but their applications apparently cannot be processed as they live in the districts, especially in North and South 24 Parganas, much beyond the 10-km limit. “Volunteers are coming in, but the problem is many of them are from the districts,” said a source. “Distance is always a criteria for vaccine trials as the institute is required to have easy access to the volunteers and vice versa for regular follow-ups,” said Dipika Sur, former scientist at ICMR-NICED who was been involved in various drugs and vaccine trials at the institute. In an appeal on November 26, NICED director Shanta Dutta had pointed out that those living within a 10-km radius of ICMR-NICED, Beliaghata, were preferably encouraged to volunteer for the trial. Participants in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial will get two doses, the second one to be administered 28 days after the first one. All of the participants will be followed up for a year. Even as they invited volunteers, experts allayed concerns over largescale lifestyle changes. “Apart from preference for easy accessibility to volunteers, the trial requires lifestyle restrictions on alcohol consumption and bearing a child. Volunteers are asked to avoid alcohol as much as possible for the year as it is known to have an impact on immunogenicity. Bearing a child, too, is not encouraged because we really do not know about the vaccine’s impact on the foetus. Otherwise, there is not much restriction,” said clinical trial specialist Santanu Tripathi who will be the principal investigator of another Covid-19 candidate vaccine at School of Tropical Medicine. Experts pointed out there was no bar on physical relations, provided protection was taken to avoid pregnancy. M K Bhattacharya, former ICMR scientist, said alcohol and smoking was known to inhibit immunity and hence, volunteers were expected to keep themselves away from alcohol and cigarette during the trial. “Taking a jab is not the end of the participation. Volunteers have to be committed to follow-ups. Some fear they will get the placebo instead of the vaccine. This should not be the mindset. Volunteers also concerned who would take care of them in case of adverse effects. The institute will ensure they get the right treatment at the right place,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, director, clinical research, Peerless Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/niced-hits-10km-rider-hurdle-in-vaccine-trial/articleshow/79768768.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 17, 2020||Bareilly||Azam Khan now facing 100 criminal cases, after 11 fresh additions||RAMPUR: A set of 11 criminal conspiracy cases were on Wednesday slapped against former Uttar Pradesh minister and Samajwadi Party leader Azam Khan, taking the tally of cases he is facing to 100 now. It came to the fore when the incarcerated leader appeared before a special court through video conferencing from UP’s Sitapur prison. Rampur Police told the special MP/MLA court that Azam's name was added in 11 FIRs, which were earlier registered against his close aides in the alleged illegal demolition of homes in the district. Police pressed charges of “criminal conspiracy” against Azam in the 11 FIRs lodged by locals of Dongarpur area, whose houses were allegedly demolished and valuable articles were “looted” by the SP leader’s close aides. Additional district government counsel (ADGC), appointed at MP/MLA court, Ramautar Saini, said, “Azam Khan’s counsel had presented surrender applications in 11 FIRs registered at Ganj Kotwali police station in 2019 on the complaint of Dongarpur residents against Azam’s close aides-- former circle officer Alay Hasan, former sub-inspector Feroz Khan, former Rampur municipality chairman Azhar Ahmed Khan and others-- under the charges of dacoity. Azam was not named in the FIRs lodged by the complainants. But, now, during the course of the investigation and on the statements of the accused, Azam’s name has been added." In 2019, on the complaints of Dongarpur residents, the accused were booked under IPC sections 147 (rioting) , 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 504 (whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace), 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any woman, intending to outrage or knowing it to be likely that he will there by outrage her modesty), 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 447 (criminal trespass), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 412( dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity) 120-B (criminal Conspiracy).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-khan-now-facing-100-criminal-cases-after-11-fresh-additions/articleshow/79765497.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 17, 2020||Agra||Farmers’ associations plan to go on indefinite hunger strike||AGRA: The farmers’ associations in Agra region are working on a plan to go on an indefinite hunger strike over their demand to repeal the three farm laws recently enforced by the central government. Farmer leaders have started organizing meetings in this regard. Bharatiya Kisan Union, along with other organizations, is getting support from villages to launch hunger strike from December 19 at the office of divisional commissioner. To ensure participation of women in large numbers, social activist Savitri Chahar, who has been actively participating in the farmers’ protest, has been roped in. BKU Agra district president Rajveer Lawaniya said, “We are going to strengthen the stir against the three farm laws. We will not budge till the government repeals the three farm laws and guarantee minimum support price to farmers.” Farmer leader Shyam Singh Chahar said, “The Centre is unable to understand farmers’ problems, and so, we have taken the decision to go on an indefinite hunger strike. Thousands of farmers have approved the decision in meetings held in different villages. We will be marching to the office of the divisional commission on Saturday. We are ready to get arrested if need be and in the case, the hunger strike will be launched in jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-associations-plan-to-go-on-indefinite-hunger-strike/articleshow/79765489.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Trichy||Convict dies in Trichy central prison||Trichy: A 56 -year-old convict prisoner, C Balasubramanian of Woraiyur in Trichy city, died at the central prison in the wee hours of Tuesday. He had been lodged in the prison since January 8, 2019 after being convicted for two years jail in a 2006 case under the prevention of corruption Act. He developed chest pain close to midnight on Monday and was rushed to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) but was declared brought dead. The KK Nagar police registered a case based on a complaint from jailor Sathishkumar. The body was handed over to his family members on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/convict-dies-in-trichy-central-prison/articleshow/79768799.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Most parents clear fee arrears, schools extend deadlines for remaining few||KOLKATA: A large number of schools have managed to collect nearly 90% arrears from defaulting parents. Happy with the parents who have connected with them over the past one month and cleared the pending fees, school heads pointed out 10% defaulters were a routine affair. But, they said, they were burdened this time, given they had to waive 20% tuition and session fees. Now that they have collected a major chunk of the payments, it was becoming easier for them to help those who have not paid yet and could extend deadlines or offer instalments. “We have about 6% parents who default all year long and only towards the end of the academic session do they pay. We are used to this persuasion routine and expect to reach 100% target by the end of the academic year,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for Birla High School and Sushila Birla School. More than 96% parents of classes X and XII students have made payments, said Shri Shikshayatan School. For them, the school has been able to help parents in distress by extending the payment deadline to December 31 and is continuously conversing with them. “About 10% defaulters is always the case but because we have not been able to increase fees this time and had to waive 20% fees, we have gone back to the 2017 structure,” said spokesperson Bratati Bhattacharya. Many schools felt since most parents have written to them, saying they did not wish to take the waivers, they could extend deadlines and accept tailor-made staggered payments on case basis. At La Martiniere schools, at least 70% parents did not take the waiver and over 90% parents have cleared the dues. “We are happy with our tally and have extended the deadline to month-end. By then, we hope to reach our target,” said secretary Supriyo Dhar. The school had sent letters to defaulters and over the past one month, the major chunk of outstanding was cleared. Most parents at Don Bosco Park Circus also met principal Father Bikash Mondal and said they wanted to pay full fees, bringing down the percentage to defaulters to less than 10. “I have decided not to rush anyone and by the end of the academic year, everyone will clear the dues because I am keeping the office open for anyone to come and see me with their problems,” he said. South Point and MP Birla, too, said they made rapid progress and asked defaulters to pay by December 19 or apply for additional waivers, citing reasons and documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-parents-clear-fee-arrears-schools-extend-deadlines-for-remaining-few/articleshow/79768823.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 17, 2020||Bareilly||Indiscriminate firing at Dalit family in feud with Thakurs leaves one dead, 4 injured in UP||BAREILLY: A Dalit man, 45, was allegedly shot dead and four members of his family sustained injuries after a group of armed men fired indiscriminately over an old property dispute. The dispute was reportedly between the Dalit family and some Thakurs. It was about "land grab", locals said. Three individuals, perhaps Thakurs, were involved in the firing, police said. The incident took place in Bighapur Kesari village of Shahjahanpur district on Wednesday. Two accused have been arrested. Weapons used in the attack were found in their possession, the police added. An FIR has been registered under the IPC sections of murder and attempt to murder, and the SC/ST Act. The deceased has been identified as Drigpal. The four injured are Kaladevi, Aadhram, Babli and Savitri Devi. "We found one individual lying dead, while three women and a man were wounded in the attack," additional SP (rural) Nipun Agarwal said. “The Thakur men were trying to grab the family's farm land. The family was resisting through legal means. On Wednesday morning, Sonu Singh, Devendra Singh and Abhishek Singh came to the village. They were armed. After threatening Drigpal, they opened fire, indiscriminately," Kandhari, a neighbour who was also a witness to the incident, said. The family will be provided adequate compensation under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and security teams have been posted in the village to ensure their safety, Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said. "We will file a chargesheet in this case soon,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/indiscriminate-firing-at-dalit-family-in-feudwith-thakurs-leaves-one-dead-4-injured-in-up/articleshow/79765521.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Boy, his twin sister traced to hospital||Rajkot: Twins who had gone missing since Sunday from their residence at Daulatpara locality near Junagadh Marketing Yard were found at Junagadh Civil Hospital on Tuesday. Police said Akshit Thakor and his twin sister Akshita Thakor, both aged 12, had left their home after their father Raju Thakor had scolded them. Raju had reprimanded his children as they had spent his money to buy snacks for themselves and food for the puppy they had kept as their pet. Raju had left Ahmedabad after the death of his wife Salma and had come to live in Junagadh along with his children. Here he started working as a labourer. As no one was at home to take care of his children while he was away for work, he put both his children at Shishu Mangal children's home in Junagadh. "After the lockdown began, the authorities of Shishu Mangal asked Raju to take his children back home. After he lodged the missing complaint of his children, we started searching for them. As Raju said that his children had only seen Junagadh Civil Hospital, where Akshit was once admitted, we decided to search there.Both were found there," said R G Chaudhary, inspector with Junagadh A division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/boy-his-twin-sister-traced-to-hospital/articleshow/79765551.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF’s victory underscores Kerala's secular mindset: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Expressing profound gratitude to people who gave a thumbing victory to LDF in local-body elections, CM Pinarayi Vijayan has said the overwhelming public mandate underscored secular mindset of Kerala and people’s unflinching confidence in LDF’s ability to fight communalism. “Kerala has reckoned that only LDF puts up a brave fight against communalism and stands for secularism,” Vijayan said on Wednesday. Coming down heavily on Congress-led UDF, Vijayan said the front paid a heavy price for its retrograde stance and camaraderie with ultra-organisations like Jamaat-e-Islami. “BJP too has felt a bloody blow in the elections as they failed to achieve the political gains they claimed they would make. The predicament that Congress party finds itself in stems from their inability to resist and challenge BJP,” he said. Vijayan said the resounding victory by the LDF proved that voters rejected with disdain the ‘malicious campaigns’ the opposition and a section of right-wing media unleashed against his government. “People have voted against those who tried to belittle the achievements made by Kerala,” he said. UDF faced no drubbing, says Ramesh ChennithalaOpposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has said the Congress- led UDF did not face any significant drubbing in local-body elections. “It’s true that the public angst against the LDF government did not reflect the way we all hoped it would. But that doesn’t mean that UDF lost everything. The only setback we did come across was in the election to district panchayats,’’ Chennithala said. He said the mass base of UDF and Congress has not eroded as claimed by political opponents. “We still have the chances to come to power in three corporations,’’ he said. The opposition leader said the LDF used to hold sway over local body elections for long and it did not mean that the LDF government has earned the public confidence. “The performance of UDF has been more or less the same in local body elections, barring the one held in 2010,’’ he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldfs-victory-underscored-the-secular-mind-sent-of-kerala-says-cm/articleshow/79767490.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Log-in replaces freshers’ welcome as students go to college, virtually||KOLKATA: Wednesday was Sreyansh Ghosh’s first day in college. He logged in at 9am sharp and met his professors and other classmates. The first-semester commerce student had dreamt of creating memories on campus on the first day of college but the pandemic had other plans and he had to settle with virtual entry. Bidisha Nag was happy to return to some form of studies after almost eight months of her exams. Though she missed on-campus classes but was relieved that she would at least have some notes and study materials to study at home. First-semester classes at most Calcutta University-affiliated colleges in the city started on Wednesday as students introduced themselves to their professors and interacted with their classmates virtually. Teachers explained the format and the timings of the classes to students. Regular classes will start from Thursday. Once the higher education department made it clear that on-campus classes would not resume any time soon, colleges decided to hold virtual classes to complete the syllabus in time. Principals instructed teachers to form WhatsApp groups and hold online classes instead of just sharing notes and study material. Like on-campus classes, the university attendance rules will apply to virtual classes, too. The students said they were happy to return to studies though they did miss on-campus classes. “Every student dreams of going to college one day. The first day in college is the most cherished memory for him or her. But for the batch of 2020, there will be no memory of that first day on campus as we are going to have online classes for most of the first semester,” said Anisha Dutta, a first-semester student at Asutosh College. “It was nice to return to studies in some form after so many months,” said Sreyansh, who has taken admission to Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College. “The future of higher studies hanged in balance after the board examinations. We were not sure how and when college admissions would take place and how we were going to attend classes.” Institutes seem strict about attendance. “Unless a student can provide a legitimate reason, like poor net connectivity or unavailability of a smartphone or a computer, for staying away from classes, they will be marked absent for not attending online lessons. Respective subject teachers will take regular attendance,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college. Some institutes, such as Goenka College for Commerce and Business Administration, J D Birla Institute and St Xavier’s, already started online classes few weeks ago. Others were waiting to fill their seats before starting online classes. “Almost one semester is lost due to the pandemic. We will focus on completing the syllabus at the earliest to make up for the lost time,’ said the principal of a north Kolkata college. Principals have told professors to conduct classes, instead of mailing notes so that students can clear their doubts and feel motivated to join the lessons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/log-in-replaces-freshers-welcome-as-students-go-to-college-virtually/articleshow/79768848.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Preferential qualification counts only when marks are equal : HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that possession of a preferential qualification does not entitle a candidate to be considered over other candidates and that such a candidate (with preferential qualification) would succeed only when two or more candidates score equal marks. “Provision of a preferential qualification in the selection process does not entitle a candidate possessing the said qualification to be considered independent of his overall merit. The said preference does not constitute a reservation. If that were so, the sanctity of the selection process would be diluted as the same has been designed in a manner to permit candidates without preferential qualifications to show their superiority. Merit would be compromised in case candidates with preferential qualifications were considered as a separate block,” the HC has held while relying on the apex court judgments on the issue. Justice Sudhir Mittal passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by Kapil Hooda, a native of Rohtak district in Haryana. Hooda had challenged the decision of Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for not selecting him on the post of deputy superintendent in the Haryana prison department. In 2006, the HSSC had invited applications for three posts of deputy superintendent, jail. Qualifications prescribed for the said post were degree of a recognised university in arts or science. The advertisement also stated that preference would be given to candidates holding degree or diploma in criminology. The petitioner possesses a bachelor of arts degree from Panjab University as well as a post-graduation degree in criminology from Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan (LNJN) National Institute of Criminology and Forensic Science. Out of total three posts, two, including the petitioner, were for general category. Hooda also appeared in the selection process for which the final result was declared but he was not selected. He approached the HC in 2007, challenging his non-selection primarily on the ground that due weightage was not given to the preferential qualification of post-graduation in criminology. While arguing his case before the HC, the petitioner argued that the selected candidates do not possess the preferential qualification. It was also stated that the information obtained under the RTI Act shows that they scored 43.90 marks and 43.10 marks, respectively, whereas the petitioner had scored 40.29 marks. “If due weightage had been given to the preferential qualification, I would have scored more marks than the selected candidates,” contended the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/preferential-qualification-counts-only-when-marks-are-equal-hc/articleshow/79767488.cms||Ajay Sura
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Karnal village land dispute: 3 shot dead||KARNAL: Three persons were shot dead while around five others sustained bullet injuries over a land dispute at Gagsina village in Karnal district on Wednesday morning. The deceased have been identified as Dilbhag (55), Balraj alias Meenu (45), and Parveen (33), all residents of Gagsina village of Gharaunda subdivision. The injured are Dhan Singh, Roopchand, Joginder, Jitender, Hardeep, and others, who have been hospitalized at civil hospital, Karnal, and CHC Gharaunda. Family members of the victims have accused police officials of inaction against the accused and alleged that the firing took place in the presence of some cops. According to the police, both groups had a dispute over a piece of land for the last several years and the matter was under trial before an SDM court. The incident took place while taking control of the said land. While two persons died on the spot, third died on the way to the hospital. The accused, however, managed to flee from the spot. The injured were rushed to civil hospital, Karnal, where they are undergoing treatment. The condition of one of them is said to be critical. Soon after the incident the police team along with forensic experts reached the crime spot and collected evidence. The situation in Gagsina village is tense and heavy police force has been deployed in there. Family members and villagers stopped the cops to take possession of the bodies and are demanding action against the accused. Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia and other officials also reached on the spot and tried to pacify the family members. After the SP’s assurance, the family member agreed to send the body for post mortem examination. Punia said, “An FIR is being registered against the accused under relevant sections of the IPC. Several teams have been constituted to nab the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-village-land-dispute-3-shot-dead/articleshow/79767492.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||400 foundries closed indefinitely||Coimbatore: More than 400 small-scale foundries in the district downed their shutters indefinitely on Wednesday to condemn the central and state governments for their inaction in controlling the spiraling prices of raw materials. The shutdown would affect lakhs of workers who are working in and with foundries and other industries including pumps, textile machinery, automobiles and other engineering industries. “The price of raw materials has increased up to 30% since November. When about 80% of our investment is required to procure raw materials, it is impossible to continue doing business mainly for the small-scale industries who had been working with minimal profit margin. Even though half of our customers have agreed to revise the price, we decided to continue the strike. We want to gain the attention of both the state and central governments who remain silent despite escalating the issue multiple times,” president of Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners Association (Cosmafan) A Sivashanmuga Kumar said. About two to three lakh workers who are working in the foundries and those who are working indirectly for the foundries like transportation of materials will be affected severely. “Most of our workers are from northern parts of the country and we had already provided accommodation to them. Now, we have made arrangements to distribute food items including vegetables and ration products to them as it is impossible for us to provide them their wages without any production,” he added. Per day production of the foundries is 800 to 1,000 tonnes. Once the issues are resolved, our workload is going to be high mainly because of the backlog and the workers would get work regularly, he said. Wages were revised to Rs 450 by 25% following the lockdown period. However, the condition of contract workers who contribute to 30% of the workforce, is uncertain. One of the most affected industries because of the strike is pump set industry. “We are completely dependent on foundries for casting. We would be affected if they increase the price of spare parts and stop their production,” president of Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association (KOPMA) K Maniraj said. Pointing out that their stocked spare parts will last for another 10 days, he said that they will end up stopping their production if the foundries do not resume their production within a week. “If they increase the cost of their products on par with the price of raw materials, then we will have to increase the price of raw materials by 25%,” he added. In support of foundries, Coimbatore, Tirupur Districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association and their allies stopped their production on Wednesday. “Close to 10,000 units including 5,000 units of our members have stopped their production and the revenue loss is estimated to be Rs 15 crores per day. As about 90% of us are doing job works for big companies, their production will be delayed by the strike,” president of the association C Sivakumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/400-foundries-closed-indefinitely/articleshow/79767498.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Nashik||Eye check-up for motorists at Ghoti post||Nashik: The highway police at the Ghoti post organised an eye check-up camp for truck and bus drivers on Wednesday on the instructions of additional director general of police Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay.The camp is part of the measures taken to reduce accidents on the highway. Nearly 300 drivers were checked in the camp.The Ghoti post of the highway police falls on the busy Mumbai-Agra highway which witnesses a large number of accidents around the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/eye-check-up-for-motorists-at-ghoti-post/articleshow/79764997.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic polls: Dec 27 public holiday in Hry||Chandigarh: In view of the general election for mayor and members of the wards of various municipal corporations and president and members of municipal councils and municipal committees in the state, Haryana government has decided to observe December 27 as a public holiday in the offices of all departments/boards/corporations/educational institutions under state government and in all commercial establishments falling within the jurisdiction of all wards of municipal corporations/municipal committees where the election is to be held. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-polls-dec-27-public-holiday-in-hry/articleshow/79767503.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||6 die in accidents, 8 others injured||KARNAL/YAMUNANAGAR: Six persons died and eight others sustained injuries in two road accidents in Karnal and Yamunanagar on Wednesday. In Karnal, three persons were killed while seven others were injured when the pick-up van they were travelling in rammed a truck on NH-44, near Patti Kalyana village of Panipat district, in the wee hours, police said. The pick-up van, though a multiutility vehicle, was transporting 27 passengers. Police said the pick-up was carrying 27 people, including 15 children, four women, and eight men, who work in brick kilns. They were on their way to Faridabad from Punjab. Near Patti Kalyana village, their vehicle rammed a parked truck. While two persons died on the spot, another succumbed to his injuries on the way to the hospital. Deceased Yogesh (12), Khilesh (16), and Arjun (18) belonged to Chhattisgarh. The injured have been identified as Indu, Nandani and Neetu (aged between 15 and 17), and Punita, Laburam, Arjun, and Ikbal. Police said that the injured have been taken to PGIMS Rohtak. The pick-up van and truck drivers fled the spot. Ankit Kumar, SHO of Samalkha police station, said the bodies had been sent for postmortem. In Yamunanagar, three youths were killed and one person was injured after their car collided with a tree on Khajuri-Jathlana road. The deceased were identified as Mohit Kumar (29) of Alipura in Yamunanagar district, and Gaurav (25) and Ajay (24) of Sura village in Kurukshetra district. Gaurav (23) of Sura village was injured. Jathlana police station house officer (SHO) Dharampal said, “Mohit was blinded by headlights of another vehicle coming from the opposite direction near Khajuri village and failed to negotiate a sharp turn. The car collided with a tree on the roadside.” The car turned over and four occupants got stuck in the vehicle, he said. “Only Gaurav managed to open the window on his side, while the rest three remained stuck for long. We reached the spot as soon as we received the information. All four persons were rescued and rushed to the hospital. The doctors declared three youths dead,” the SHO said. He said the bodies would be handed over to their family members after the post-mortem at the civil hospital in Yamunanagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-die-in-accidents-8-others-injured/articleshow/79767500.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Deleted Mormugao voters: CEO takes note of opposition’s complaints||Panaji: Based on the opposition’s complaints that names of voters are being deleted in Mormugao constituency on the basis of objections raised by dead people, the office of chief electoral officer (CEO) on Wednesday asked South Goa collector and district electoral officer (DEO) Ajit Roy to look into the allegations. Deputy chief electoral officer Sangeeta Naik has asked Roy to also consider replacing the BLOs for Mormugao constituency as 22 of the 29 BLOs are from the electricity department and were recruited when BJP MLA Milind Naik was the power minister. “In view of the concern raised by the political parties regarding the parent offices of the BLOs of Mormugao, you are requested to explore the possibility of replacing these BLOs from staff of other government departments instead of one single department,” said Naik. “The action taken report in the above two issues is required to be submitted to this office within eight days from the receipt of this letter,” Naik’s letter states. Congress and GFP had alleged that a dead person, Baramaoppa Chalwadi — who passed away in July — is among those who called for deletion of close to 900 names from the electoral roll this November. “This one person who died some months ago has called for deletion of 14 voters from Mormugao constituency. There are other fake objections where the contact numbers are false and the persons are residing in other states,” said states Congress vice president Sankalp Amonkar. Amonkar said that the deletion of voter names will affect voting patterns for the coming municipal elections and assembly elections. These concerns were raised at a meeting on December 15 by GFP vice president Durgadas Kamat too when the political parties met the chief electoral officer. Kamat has produced a copy of Chalwadi’s death certificate.  After the Congress voiced several objections, Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai asked all the political parties to appoint representatives who could accompany the BLOs during door-to-door surveys. However, Desai gave the parties less than 24 hours to appoint representatives, but the survey did not happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deleted-mormugao-voters-ceo-takes-note-of-oppositions-complaints/articleshow/79768904.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Two held with 300kg banned tobacco items||Coimbatore: Two people have been arrested for possession of banned tobacco products for sales near Karumathampatti on the outskirts of the city. Police have also seized 300kg gutka worth Rs 3 lakh and a car from the duo. A police officer said Jithendra Kumar, 24, a native of Rajasthan, and Dharvesh, 35, a resident of Mettupalayam, were caught transporting banned tobacco products. Jithendra Kumar, he said, was residing at Somanur. “They tried to divert the route on seeing police personnel involved in vehicle check near Brindavan Nagar in Karumathampatti on Tuesday night. The team, however, managed to stop the vehicle. One of the passengers suddenly got out of the vehicle and fled. The team caught the other two passengers and during the vehicle check they found the trio were transporting banned tobacco products,” the officer said. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the man who fled was Mothilal, who owns a shop at Somanur. “They were transporting the tobacco products from a warehouse to the shop,” the officer said. Police have booked the accused under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (COTPA) Act. The arrested two were produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody. “We have launched a manhunt for Mothilal. The arrested two are his employees,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-held-with-300kg-banned-tobacco-items/articleshow/79767506.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Minors’ rape-accused headmaster nabbed in Kothagudem||HYDERABAD: Five minor rape survivors and their families alleged that 40-year-old headmaster sexually abused the girls multiple times since August on the primary school premises in Lakshmidevpally in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Though five boys were also enrolled in the school, he used to take only the girl students to the school on the pretext of teaching them online classes and abuse them. The headmaster, who was on the run after the incident came to light, was arrested from his house in Kothagudem on Wednesday evening. After the allegations came to light on Monday, Bhadradri Kothagudem district education officer (DEO), E Somasekhar Sharma has conducted a preliminary inquiry and suspended the accused headmaster. “Primary school students are not supposed to be going to school. Online classes are being provided for students from class III to X. For students of class I and II, worksheets have to be given by the teachers at their home,” the DEO said. “If any student does not have cell phone or TV to follow online classes, a teacher, in coordination with village officials, should try to arrange the facilities at their houses or at the place suggested by the family,” the DEO said. The DEO also mentioned that he would also verify if other school teachers from nearby areas tried to dissuade the families from approaching police. As per the school records, there are 12 students currently enrolled in the primary school, but child development project officer, K Kanaka Durga who visited the village, school and spoke to the victims along with their family members, said only 10 students were attending classes before the lockdown. “All the girls said the accused has been sexually abusing them at the school premises,” Lakshmidevipally sub-inspector (SI) Anjaiah said. Bhadrachalam ASP G Vineeth, said the accused has been charged under sections 376 (AB), 376 (C) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act for sexually abusing the five girls. Though five boys were also enrolled in the school, he used to take only the girl students to the school on the pretext of teaching them online classes and abuse them (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minors-rape-accused-headmaster-nabbed-in-kothagudem/articleshow/79767505.cms||Mahesh Buddi
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Jadavpur University dean of arts gheraoed over online class||KOLKATA: A demonstration was staged at Jadavpur University on Wednesday afternoon over a circular issued by the Dean of Arts Om Prakash Misra who had instructed the first-semester online classes to begin from December 16. The Arts Faculty Students’ Union started a protest and handed Misra a dissent note, stating the decision was one-sided and that the classes could not be held till all seats are taken up in the faculty. Misra refused to withdraw the circular, which led to a five-hour impasse. The students gheraoed Misra. “After keeping me confined for a long time, the students left as I would not take back the decision,” he said. Classes in the UG arts faculties, however, started, with limited students attending them over virtual platform. “Several seats are vacant. We demand that all seats be filled up without which the infrastructure and standard of the university will deteriorate,” said a student leader. Science faculty classes are yet to start. “Admissions are still on in arts and science departments. While online classes have started in arts, no such notice has been sent to science,” said a physics teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-dean-of-arts-gheraoed-over-online-class/articleshow/79768875.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nashik||4 held for stealing onions worth Rs 95k||Nashik: The Ahmednagar police have arrested four residents of the Rahuri taluka in connection with the theft of onions worth Rs 95,000. The suspects have been identified as Ganesh Shendge (21), Kiran alias Vicky Baban Thorat (25), Akash Wakade (22) and Navnath Nandkumar Pacharne (20). The police said that at 7.30 pm on Monday, they got a tip-off that six-seven persons were planning to commit a theft near the Guha canal in Rahuri. Accordingly, the police set a trap at Kolhar Phata. They found the suspects next to a pick-up there and chased them. While the cops managed to nab four of them, three managed to flee. When the police checked their vehicle, they found various material used to commit the theft. When interrogated, the suspects confessed that they had earlier stolen onions worth Rs 95,000 on November 2 at 2 am near Chincholi Phata. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-held-for-stealing-onions-worth-rs-95k/articleshow/79765000.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||Congress lauds Indira, takes aim at govt over LAC row||NEW DELHI: Congress lauded the leadership of late PM Indira Gandhi on Vijay Diwas even as it took aim at PM Narendra Modi over the continued standoff with Chinese forces that have intruded into India in Ladakh. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “In celebration of India’s historic victory over Pakistan in ’71, I greet the countrymen and salute the valour of the Army. It is about time when India’s neighbours respected the PM of India and were afraid of violating our national borders.” If his allusion to the Ladakh standoff was unsaid, the AICC shed the ambiguity to launch a scathing attack on the BJP government while remembering the 1971 victory. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said India needs leadership like Indira Gandhi’s that scares the enemy. “We need such leadership and willpower at a time when the enemy is sitting inside our territory and we are in denial. When instead of challenging the intruder, we ignore its brazenness. We hope that Vijay Diwas will inspire our PM to back our armed forces which are capable of teaching a lesson to anyone,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-lauds-indira-takes-aim-at-govt-over-lac-row/articleshow/79769868.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal 2nd fastest growing city in Telangana: Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao||HYDERABAD: Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Wednesday unveiled the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the premises of Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation. The ruling TRS will soon unveil the statue of BR Ambedkar too. The minister promised drinking water supply to every household in corporation limits soon and said the TRS government was allocating Rs 300 crore every year for the development of Greater Warangal. Stating that Warangal is the second fastest growing city, Dayakar Rao said: “The day is not far when the city would emerge as the second capital of Telangana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/warangal-2nd-fastest-growing-city-in-t-min/articleshow/79767513.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||TPCC polls: Senior leaders attack Revanth Reddy||HYDERABAD: Lobbying for TPCC president’s post has intensified as a letter, claimed to be written by loyal and senior leaders, has been sent to Sonia Gandhi stating many leaders will leave the party and there is a chance of a split in the Telangana Congress if Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy is appointed as the state Congress president. The letter went viral on social media. Revanth is in Delhi and has sought an appointment with Sonia Gandhi. On Wednesday Revanth, led by Rahul Gandhi, walked out of a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence in New Delhi. He was not available for comments. Meanwhile, Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy met Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi. He is one of the top contenders for TPCC president’s post and also met Sonia Gandhi at her residence. The AICC leadership is expected to meet some more senior leaders from Telangana before finalising the candidate for the TPCC president’s post. Leaders from SC, ST, BC and minority communities have written to Sonia and Rahul, stating that Reddys comprise only 8 percent of population in Telangana whereas the SCs, STs, BCs and minorities comprise over 80 percent of population. They stated in the letter that the Reddy leaders could not revive Congress in Telangana in the last 10 years, despite being given the posts of TPCC president, working president and CLP leader. Hyderabad: AICC secretary S A Sampath Kumar, a Dalit leader from Madiga community has emerged as a dark horse for TPCC chief’s post. He rushed to New Delhi after being called by AICC leadership. He is reportedly in the good books of Rahul Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tpcc-polls-senior-leaders-attack-revanth/articleshow/79767508.cms||Roushan Ali
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Two killed, one injured as two cars collide in Pollachi||Coimbatore: Two people were killed and another one was injured after the car they were travelling in collided with another car near Gedimedu in Pollachi on Wednesday. The Komangalam police identified the deceased as Annamalai, 23, a resident of Zamin Uthukuli, and Vijayakumar, 46, of Nattukalpalayam at Pollachi. Their friend Muruganantham, 48, a resident of Suleeswaranpatti, escaped with injuries. According to an investigation officer, the three were used car dealers. “They were travelling to Madurai to discuss a business deal. When they neared Gedimedu around 7am, their car collided with another car that was coming from the opposite side,” the officer said. While Annamalai, who was at the wheel, died on the spot, his friends were rushed to the government hospital at Pollachi with injuries. “Vijayakumar succumbed to his injuries at the hospital without responding to treatment. Muruganantham was taken to a private hospital, where his condition is said to be stable” the officer said. He said the passengers of the other car involved in the accident had escaped without any major injuries. The Komangalam police have sent the dead body of Annamalai to the Pollachi government hospital for postmortem. Police have booked a case and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-killed-one-injured-as-two-cars-collide-in-pollachi/articleshow/79767537.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Pune||Party office bearer held on charge of attempt to extort Rs1L from school director||Pune: The Chakan police on Tuesday arrested an office bearer of a political party on the charge of extorting Rs30,000 from the director of a private English medium school after threatening to stage an agitation and defame the school for allegedly collecting “excess fees” from parents during the lockdown.Prakash Rathod, assistant inspector, Chakan police, told TOI on Wednesday, “Abhay Wadekar (28), a district-level office bearer of the party, had demanded Rs1lakh from the school director, besides admission for one of his candidates. We have arrested him under Section 384 (punishment for extortion) of the Indian Penal Code following an FIR lodged by the school director.”Rathod said, “On November 27, Wadekar and eight of his party workers went to the school located at Waki near Chakan. He told the complainant that the school management had collected excess fees from parents during the lockdown. Wadekar also submitted a memorandum to the complainant.”Rathod referred to the FIR and said, “On December 5, Wadekar again contacted and asked the complainant to meet him at the Nana-Nani park in Bhosari. During the meeting, Wadekar threatened the school director that he and his party workers would stage an agitation in front of the school and defame it. Wadekar also told the complainant that if the latter does not want him or his men to visit the school, then he should pay Rs 1lakh and admit the daughter of his aide from whom he should not charge any fees.”Rathod said, “The complainant then gave Rs5,000 to Wadekar. On December 7, Wadekar again contacted the school director and asked him to come to Ambethan chowk. Wadekar then took Rs25,000 from him. When the complainant told him that it was not possible for him to pay the remaining amount, Wadekar again threatened to defame the school. On Tuesday, when Wadekar again contacted the school director asking for the rest of the amount, the latter lodged a complaint with the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/party-office-bearer-held-on-charge-of-attempt-to-extort-rs1l-from-school-director/articleshow/79767552.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Centre hunting for local firm to make Moderna vaccine||HYDERABAD: Even as companies such as Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila are going full steam ahead to develop indigenous Covid-19 vaccine candidates, the Indian government is in talks with other vaccine makers in the country to manufacture the Moderna vaccine. Sources told TOI that the Indian government is talking to biotech biggie Moderna for procuring the technology for its candidate – mRNA 1273 – so that it can be made locally. “Government representatives have approached vaccine makers to check whether they will be able to spare their capacities for making the Moderna vaccine in the country,” said a source. India and Hyderabad, in particular, account for a large chunk of global vaccine manufacturing capacity. “We too were approached 2-3 weeks back by government representatives for making it at our facilities,” the source added. The government has been considering the Moderna vaccine as it can be stored at 2-8 Degree Celsius for a period of up to one month, making it suitable for Indian conditions where maintaining extremely cold conditions for long periods may be tough. The ideal temperature for storing the vaccine, which has a six-month shelf life, is -20 Degree Celsius. The government has been gearing up for a mass Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country early next year and announced its guidelines earlier this week. The drive plans to vaccinate about 30 crore people, including healthcare and frontline Covid-19 workers, those above 50 years and those under 50 years suffering from co-morbidities, in phase 1. The Moderna vaccine, which is reported to have an efficacy of over 94% in clinical trials, was on Wednesday also endorsed as safe and efficacious by scientists at US drug regulator US Food & Drug Administration (USFDA) office. The company had applied to the USFDA for emergency use authorisation (EUA) on November 30 this year. According to reports emanating out of the US, FDA reviewers stated that the two-dose vaccine was “highly effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19 from occurring at least 14 days after the receipt of the second dose”. If approved, the Moderna vaccine will be the second to be approved in the US after the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the administration of which has already begun in the US and UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-hunting-for-local-firm-to-make-moderna-vaccine/articleshow/79768923.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP 10th in country in active Covid cases, still at bottom in tests/mn||BHOPAL: Despite a reduction of 15% in active cases in the first 15 days of December, Madhya Pradesh is still ranked 10th in terms of the highest number of active cases in the entire country. There were a total of 14,471 active cases in the state on November 30. On December 15, there were a total 12,516 active cases. There has been a reduction of 2,255 or 15% in the number of active patients in the 15 days of December. With regard to the number of Covid-19 cases reported, Madhya Pradesh — with more than 2.25 lakh positive cases — is at the 16th position in the entire country. In terms of active cases, Madhya Pradesh is at the 10th position, currently having more than 12,000 active cases. States like Bihar, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, which have reported more cases than Madhya Pradesh, have far less number of active cases compared to MP. Far more worse is the condition when it comes to conducting number of tests per million of population. MP is the worst among the top 16 states of the country which have reported the maximum number of positive cases. With 2.25 lakh cases on December 15, MP was on the 16th position in the entire country when it came to reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, but simultaneously, the state was also on the 16th or worst position among these states when it came to conducting tests. Sources said that since the number of tests is directly proportional to the number of people testing positive, it is quite natural that if testing is improved, more cases would be reported from Madhya Pradesh. Despite fighting corona for more than 8 months, the state has been lagging when it comes to conducting tests for Covid-19. This is also despite the fact that the positivity rate — number of people testing positive per 100 samples tested — has been higher than 5%. The cumulative positivity rate for Covid-19 in the state on December 15 was 5.4%. And positivity rate above 5% as per prevalent beliefs is considered higher and calls for more tests. Even now, less than 30,000 tests are being conducted in the state every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-10th-in-country-in-active-covid-cases-still-at-bottom-in-tests/mn/articleshow/79766531.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Four held for taking bets on cricket matches||AURANGABAD: In a raid carried out at a private premises, Parbhani district police arrested four suspects on the charges of taking online bets for cricket matches currently going on in Australia. Authorities said that the action was the result of a specific tip-off received by superintendent of police Jayant Mina. Accordingly, a team headed by probationary IPS Bapurao Dadas rushed to Daithana on Parbhani to Gangakhed road and caught the suspects red-handed. Those arrested have been identified as Ganesh Panchal, Govind Abuj, Sachin Bansode and Kishor Toshniwal. Police said that they have seized some cash, 10 mobile phones and their bikes, totally to the tune of over Rs 3 lakh. Authorities said that efforts are on to ascertain the connection of the suspects with that of the professional bookies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-taking-bets-on-cricket-matches/articleshow/79767539.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot Airport runway ready for bigger aircrafts||Rajkot: Aircraft as big as Airbus A320 with seating capacity of 160-180 passengers will now be able to land safely at the Rajkot Airport with the extension of the existing runway by 100m from 1,742m to 1,842m.Currently, Air India and SpiceJet are operating flights to Delhi and Mumbai from Rajkot with aircraft having passenger carrying capacity of maximum 120. With the extension of the runway, these operators will not only be able to use bigger aircrafts of size of Airbus A320, but will have more safety while landing and take-off.The Airport Advisory Committee (AAC) for Rajkot was informed of this development during its meeting on Wednesday. The Rajkot Aiport officials further informed the AAC that they have approached several commercial flight operators to start more flights from Rajkot. Talking to TOI, Rajkot Airport director Digant Borah said, “Increased runway length means more aircraft safety and higher movement of passengers. We have approached Indigo Airlines to start operation from Rajkot and we are in the process to request other operators to start the operation from Rajkot.” Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) has been demanding more air connectivity with other parts of the country to boost the business of Rajkot and Morbi.V P Vaishnav, president of RCCI said, “A number of airlines did not operate from Rajkot because of lack of facilities and small runway length. Now, we too will pursue operators to start services in Rajkot with surety of enough passenger traffic.”RCCI has been demanding one more flight to Mumbai and Bangaluru. The AAC on Wednesday also decided to start a flying club for training commercial pilots at Rajkot in coordination with Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Udan academy and ministry of civil aviation. Box: Air cargo service to begin from JanRajkot: The air cargo facility at Rajkot Airport will start by the end of January which is likely to boost business and trade community. According to sources, this facility was suspended for more than five years because there was no separate building to operate cargo service at the airport. The Rajkot Airport authority will commence the service after the DGCA’s inspection in mid-January. The ceramic and engineering industries will be able to send their products using the air cargo service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-airport-runway-ready-for-bigger-aircrafts/articleshow/79765619.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Meerut||Three killed after speeding mini truck rams into bike in Shamli||Muzaffarnagar: Three men died after a speeding mini truck rammed into a bike in Shamli. Police have arrested the driver of the mini truck after a complaint from the family of one of the deceased.The incident occurred at Panipat Khatima Highway on the late night on Tuesday.After the incident, police rushed to spot and shifted all three at the hospital where they were declared dead. Police have registered a case into the matter after family member filed a complaint at Kairana police station. SHO of Kairana police station Preemvir Rana said, “The driver, Sanni, who is a resident of Haryana, was arrested and his mini truck was also seized. Further investigation is on.”Abdullah Ahmed, brother of the one deceased, said, “They used to work in a blanket production factory. They were returning home late night when the incident happened.” The deceased have been identified as Waseem (24), Sharukh (21), and Akram (40)—all residents of Karana in Shamli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-killed-after-speeding-mini-truck-rams-into-bike-in-shamli/articleshow/79766547.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 17, 2020||Surat||GST staff accused of harassment||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has alleged harassment of textile businessmen by GST officials over generation of e-way bills. The officials of the trade body has made representation to the state government and the state Goods and Service Tax (SGST) department. The representation by SGCCI was done following complaints by Nylon Spinners Association and other textile associations in the city. SGCCI submitted a written representation to Gujarat finance minister Nitin Patel and chief commissioner of the SGST J P Gupta against the GST officials of Surat circle.SGCCI alleged that the mobile squad of the SGST’s Surat circle would confiscate the entire consignment in case of any mistake made while selecting the transaction type while generating e-way bills by the company. The company is then informed that the consignment and the vehicle would be released after filing appeal in the department. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gst-staff-accused-of-harassment/articleshow/79765638.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Hardened criminal held under MPDA||Aurangabad: After contesting a legal battle for eight long days, Aurangabad city police have finally bagged the custody of hardened criminal Imran Latif Patel (20) who was wanted since December 23, 2019. He has been arrested under Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act and as the orders under MPDA have been approved by the high power committee of the state home department, the accused will not be eligible for bail for a period of one year. Considering his involvement in series of serious body and property offences, police have externed him from the city limits for a period of one year. Violating the externment orders, the accused got involved in two serious offences, including attacking a youth from Baijipura with a sharp-edged weapon and in the second offence, he torched a pan stall for not paying extortion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hardened-criminal-held-under-mpda/articleshow/79767569.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Vice-prez in city for TNAU convocation||Coimbatore: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu arrived in the city on Wednesday evening. He is here to attend the 41st graduation ceremony of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University on Thursday. Meanwhile, while he was travelling on Avinashi Road, members of Naam Thamilar Katchi waved black flags at him. Subsequently, police arrested 14 members of the party. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/vice-prez-in-city-for-tnau-convocation/articleshow/79767568.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Goa||Proposal to cut raw water tariff cleared||Panaji: After a delay of several years, the government has finally approved the proposal to reduce the raw water tariff for Verna Industrial Estate to Rs 15 instead of the present Rs 25 per cubic metre, sources told TOI. “The file has received in-principle approval and the chief minister may speak about it in the coming days,” an official said. In 2018, then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had promised industrial units that the raw water rate would be reduced to Rs 10 per cubic metre instead of Rs 25 per cubic metre that was being charged. However, a file moved by the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) to implement the proposal remained stuck with the industries department since then. The water resources department (WRD) bills GIDC Rs 20 per cubic metre for raw water and GIDC charges Rs 5 for its distribution. With the government dilly-dallying over the proposal, dues amounting to Rs 3 crore accumulated. Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) has repeatedly pursued the issue with chief minister Pramod Sawant, who finally offered a middle ground and suggested that Rs 15 would be charged instead of Rs 25. The WRD was also reluctant to reduce the water supply cost to Rs 10, leading industrial units to agree to pay Rs 15 per cubic metre. “The department knows the file has been approved but until it is notified, the decision cannot be implemented,” another government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/proposal-to-cut-raw-water-tariff-cleared/articleshow/79768928.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala local body elections: Smart strategies & risk taking fetch win for LDF||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was after LDF had almost finalized candidates and launched its campaign for the local-body election that CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan took a long leave from the post on medical grounds. There were political reasons, fuelled by the arrest of his son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a money-laundering case, as well behind the surprise exit of the senior leader from the election front. While Kodiyeri took a break amid the raging criticism from within and outside the party, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided to weather the storm. Vijayan faced allegations too, but, not on a personal level. His office was on the hit list of Enforcement Directorate and CBI. After arresting his former principal secretary, M Sivasankar, the central agencies had cast the net for additional PS C M Raveendran who is a close confidant of the CM. Using Covid-19 as a shield, Raveendran skipped ED interrogation thrice and ensured that his party didn’t suffer a setback in his name in the election. In the state secretariat and state committee meetings held to discuss poll preparation, CPM senior leadership stressed the need to focus the campaign on the development and social-security initiatives undertaken by the government. The smart handling of crises -- from floods to Covid-19 -- was highlighted. The decision to provide monthly grocery kits free of cost to all families and increase welfare pensions, and provide them without arrears, also played a major role in LDF’s election performance. Drawing confidence from the feedback from the grassroots, both Pinarayi and CPM acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan declared that the election will be a referendum on the state government, too. CPM, which was taken aback when CBI launched a probe into the Life Mission projects, was on the offensive when CAG took on KIIFB by listing out faults in the audit report. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, who dared to break precedents, converted the crisis into an occasion to debate the relevance and necessity of KIIFB. From funding primary health centres, where one can now get treatment at par with private hospitals, to funding the smart classrooms in government schools, KIIFB had become integral to the daily lives of Malayalis. The question of whether we need to close KIIFB or whether the opposition leader is bold enough to say no to KIIFB-funded activities in his constituency echoed through online and offline platforms during the campaign. In the final phase, when UDF convener M M Hassan announced that UDF will dismantle Life Mission if elected to power, social media cells of LDF worked overtime to propagate the sound bite as far and wide as possible. According to LDF leaders that was the final nail in the UDF coffin. Throughout the campaign, LDF smartly created a binary pattern. All who criticized the Nava Kerala Mission and its financier KIIFB were branded ‘forces working against the interests of the state’. By that scale, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and other UDF leaders who had sent petitions to the prime minister, governor and central ministers pointing out the anomalies in the conduct of these organizations were branded ‘anti-state elements.’ Vijayaraghavan said the poll outcome showed that people had rejected the 'false campaign' against the party and the chief minister. “Some tried to create controversies out of various allegations. The central probe agencies tried to derail the day-to-day governance of the state. Kerala has never seen such poisonous campaigning ever. But people rejected all those and stood by the government,” he said. LDF also did well in candidate selection. The prominence accorded to young and women candidates was visible in almost all local bodies. With campaigning taking on a new dimension, in a Covid-19 world, these very young candidates took early advantage by employing social-media platforms effectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/smart-strategies-risk-taking-fetch-win-for-ldf/articleshow/79767531.cms||B Sreejan
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Will Secunderabad Cantt Board be abolished?||SECUNDERABAD: In a major move that could see civilian areas controlled by Cantonment boards get merged with civic bodies across the country, the Centre has asked all 62 board CEOs to send their views, giving hope to civilians in Secunderabad who have been demanding such a merger for a long time. The ministry of defence (MoD) has sought detailed reports from several chief executive officers (CEOs) of the cantonments regarding the abolition of these boards, whose primary purpose is to cater to the civic needs of people residing in these areas. In an official communique, on Tuesday, the CEOs were again asked to submit the reports by December 21, 2020, as they had failed to meet the deadline several times. TimesViewResidents of Secunderabad Cantonment Board have been asking GHMC to take over their areas for some time now. It is a valid demand. Having two different systems of civic governance within a booming city like Hyderabad does not make sense. With the Ministry of Defence now looking to give up control of civilian areas, this is an ideal opportunity to have a win-win situation.Secretary of Cantonment Citizen’s Civic Amenities Development Society, Banala Srinivas Reddy said, “The MoD and Telangana government should take a final decision regarding the merger. This is a long-standing demand.” A top GHMC official said the government would welcome such a move as it would help them generate more revenue through property tax. “It will be a win-win situation for residents too,” he said. So far, CEOs of six cantonment boards — Jabalpur, Lucknow, Almora, Ranikhet, Nainital and Mhow, have responded to the call. While the process of collecting opinions began sometime ago, Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) said they are yet to receive a formal directive from the defence ministry. SCB CEO, B Ajith Reddy said that he is not aware of any such move. “I am not aware of this subject,” Reddy told TOI. All civilian associations have welcomed this move. Jitender Surana, secretary of the All India Cantonment Citizen Welfare Association (AiCCWA), Secunderabad cantonment said, “For several years the AICCIWA has been demanding the merger of civilian areas with the civic bodies. However, to fulfil this demand the consent of the state government is mandatory.” Surana said that Prabhu Dayal Patel, vice-president of Sagar Cantonment in Madhya Pradesh, got an assurance from defence minister Rajnath Singh regarding the merger. “When our delegation met the defence minister Rajnath Singh, he responded positively. He said that a final decision would be taken after seeking the opinions of CEOs,” Prabhu Dayal told TOI over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-secbad-cantt-board-be-abolished/articleshow/79767643.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad civic body seals five mobile towers||Aurangabad: Authorities of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) sealed five mobile towers on Tuesday after the companies failed to clear the taxes totally to the tune of over Rs 10 lakh. In a press release issued by the civic body, administrator and AMC commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey issued directives for cracking down on mobile tower companies that have failed to clear their outstanding taxes for a considerable period. Accordingly, a special squad headed by assistant commissioner and assessor Nandkishore Bhombe was formed. The squad comprising staffers from ward number one, junior engineer and other members of recovery staff reached the Padegaon area and sealed two mobile phone towers of a company for defaulting on taxes to the tune of Rs 2.37 lakh. This was followed by sealing of three more towers having a totally outstanding of about Rs 49,000 and one mobile tower have an outstanding of Rs 7,75,901 installed at a building in the heart of the city. Authorities said that the action against defaulters, especially the commercial set-ups would only increase in the coming days. “Considering the serious financial crunch the citizens have faced due to lockdown, no strong steps were taken by the civic body to recover the outstanding dues,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-civic-body-seals-five-mobile-towers/articleshow/79767606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Meerut||Meerut records coldest day at 5.6 degree Celsius, cold wave grips Agra region too||Meerut/Agra: People in several parts of western UP woke up to a foggy morning and a cold day on Wednesday. Mercury plummeted in Meerut. The city recorded its coldest day so far this month at 5.6 degree Celsius. The temperature was a further dip from 6 degree Celsius recorded on Tuesday. “The maximum and minimum temperatures in Meerut on Wednesday were 19 degree Celsius and 5.6 degree Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels were 97% and 27%, respectively,” said Brij Mohan, officer-in-charge, Met department. While the maximum temperature was five degree Celsius below normal temperature, the minimum temperature was two degree Celsius below normal. The lowest temperature recorded so far in the district was 6 degree Celsius on Wednesday. The minimum temperature recorded in Muzaffarnagar was 6.2 degree Celsius, which was one degree Celsius below the normal. “Cold wave conditions are expected to continue until December 19 at isolated places in western UP,” Mohan added. Meanwhile, despite the cold wave condition, the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) is yet to make arrangements for gas heaters at public places. In violation of the Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) norms, labourers and people living on streets are using bonfires to overcome cold winds. Burning wood or waste is prohibited in Agra. On Wednesday, the temperature remained less than normal here, too. Minimum was recorded at 8.5 degree celsius. According to the Met department, the mercury level will drop to 5 degree Celsius in the next three days. “This year, no arrangement has been made for gas heaters. When someone lit a bonfire, other people also came around it. Gas heater facility will help a lot of people," a vegetable seller said. Similar sentiments were echoed by other locals. Mayor Naveen Jain told TOI, “I will check with officials about the delay in installing gas heaters at public places. Necessary arrangements will be made this week."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-records-coldest-day-at-5-6-degreecelsius-cold-wave-grips-agra-region-too/articleshow/79766554.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Why Aadhaar for slot booking, HC asks Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: The high court on Wednesday sought a written reply from the state government within one day as to why it is insisting on furnishing of Aadhaar numbers at the sub-registrar offices for booking slots for registration of properties, etc, despite assuring the court that it will not seek such personal details from people. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while resuming the hearing in a batch of pleas filed by advocates Gopal Sharma and K Saketh who questioned the new Dharani portal and its legal validity. The state government earlier said that it will restore registrations in the old mode and would not insist on Aadhaar, caste, etc., from sellers and purchasers of non-agricultural properties, but insisted it should be allowed to ask people to come to registrations only after booking their time slots online. Appearing for one of the petitioners, senior counsel D Prakash Reddy said the government is seeking Aadhaar and family members’ particulars even for this slot booking. The bench, upset, sought to know if the government wants to do things through backdoor. It also asked advocate general BS Prasad if the state was reconsidering the idea of Dharani as it has formed a cabinet sub-committee to study the issue. The state counsel said the state has formed a cabinet sub-committee and its term of reference is at the stage of finalisation. The case will come up for hearing again on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-aadhaar-for-slot-booking-hc-asks-t/articleshow/79767610.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Alagumalai jallikattu to be held on Jan 31||Tirupur: Plans are afoot to conduct the Alagumalai jallikattu, the biggest event in the region, on January 31. Members of the Alagumalai Jallikattu Bulls Welfare Association have also decided to hold an expo of native breed bulls. At a recent meeting chaired by association president ‘Leader’ Palaniswamy decided to keep the number of bulls and participants lesser, in view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation. Accordingly, the organizers have planned not to permit more than 500 bulls and erect bigger gallery for spectators. Jallikattu was organized for the first time at Alagumalai near Pongalur in 2018 and soon it emerged to be the biggest such event in Tirupur with several bulls from across the state participating. This would be the fourth edition of Alagumalai jallikattu. The organisers have decided to approach the government authorities, seeking permission for the event in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/alagumalai-jallikattu-to-be-held-on-jan-31/articleshow/79767613.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Stormy sessions expected as new GHMC takes shape||HYDERABAD: With the BJP now having a sizeable presence in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the council sessions and the standing committee meetings are expected to be stormy and tough for the ruling dispensation. For the past five years, the ruling TRS and AIMIM had it easy as there was little presence of opposition in the council. Whether it is the approval of projects worth more than Rs 2crore or passing resolutions condemning the Parliamentary approval of Citizenship Amendment Act, the TRS-AIMIM had their way. Since 2016, the TRS-AIMIM combine dominated the council and all the members of the standing committee were from these two parties. Fifteen corporators from among the 150 are elected as members of the standing committee, which takes many important decisions. The committee’s meeting used to be held every Thursday to approve proposals over Rs 2 crore. Due to the bonhomie between TRS and MIM, there used to be no ruckus during the committee meetings, which were also attended by IAS officers. To avoid misunderstandings, the mayor would speak to all the members a day before the scheduled meeting. But all that is set to change now. “Things will not be the same any more. We expect heated arguments every Thursday and also during the council sessions,” a GHMC official said. The BJP members are raring to go and the party is waiting to take on TRS-AIMIM. “During the earlier term, GHMC had unilateralism all over, and in management of corporation, the hegemony of TRS and AIMIM and its brute majority had lead to many unwanted decisions, which not only impacted the civic body financially but also bankrupted it,” said BJP spokesperson Krishna Sagar Rao. “It had also become a platform to pass resolutions for sake of political appeasement.” Rao said, “The unwanted resolution passed against CAA is the best example. We will not allow any such unilateral decisions.” However, TRS corporator from Banjara Hills, Vijay Laxmi, mocked BJP leaders. “Most BJP corporators are newcomers. Let them prepare themselves for the test first and then enter the council. Even I heard that they will object to every decision. What will they object to? Will they object to developmental and civic works? We are not afraid to take them on. We know how to defend ourselves,” said Laxmi, who is the daughter of TRS MP Keshav Rao. Several MIM corporators, who were part of the council for decades, said they can’t comment unless their chief Asaduddin Owaisi instructs them to do so. Owaisi, who is in Lucknow, was not available for comment over the phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stormy-sessions-expected-as-new-ghmc-takes-shape/articleshow/79767604.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Covaxin induces robust immune response in Phase-1, says Bharat Bio||HYDERABAD: India’s first indigenous vaccine Covaxin was successful in inducing robust immune response without any serious adverse events during Phase 1 trials on 375 volunteers in July-August, Bharat Biotech said in a research paper. The paper has been uploaded on ‘medRxiv’, a server which carries preprints of research work before it is peer reviewed. The company said a majority of adverse events observed were mild and resolved. “The vaccine was well tolerated in all dose groups with no vaccine-related serious adverse events. Only one serious adverse event was reported, which was found to be unrelated to vaccination,” it said about the Phase 1 interim findings. On safety it said that “after first vaccination the local and systemic adverse events were predominantly mild or moderate in severity and resolved rapidly without any prescribed medication. A similar trend was observed after the second vaccination”. Covaxin undergoing Phase 3 studies involving 26,000 volunteersAccording to the paper, the most common adverse event observed during the study was pain at the injection site, which resolved spontaneously. The other side-effects observed were local tenderness, redness, erythema, swelling, induration, and systemic adverse events, including fever, fatigue or malaise, myalgia, body aches, headache, vomiting, anorexia, chills, rash, and diarrhoea. “The overall incidence rate of local and systemic adverse events in this study was 10%-20% in all vaccine treated arms, which is noticeably lower than the rates for other SARS-CoV-2 vaccine platform candidates and comparable to the rates for other inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates,” the research paper said. The paper also said that Covaxin, codenamed BBV152, is the first inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine that has been reported to induce a Th1-biased response. Th1 cells have antigen specific receptors on their cell surfaces that help recognise foreign pathogens and protect the body against viruses and bacteira. “Neutralizing responses to homologous and heterologous SARS-CoV-2 strains were detected in all vaccinated individuals. Cell-mediated responses were biased to a Th-1 phenotype,” it said. Covaxin, which is being developed by the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is a whole virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine that is currently undergoing Phase 3 efficacy studies involving around 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites across the country. The vaccine has to be stored between 2°C and 8°C, which is compatible with all national immunisation programme cold chain requirements, the company said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-induces-robust-immune-response-in-ph-1-says-bharat-bio/articleshow/79768930.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 17, 2020||Chennai||Traffic to be studied for high-speed rail||Chennai: The proposed Chennai-Mysore high-speed rail corridor seems to be on track as the Centre is going ahead with completing each stage of planning and preparatory work so that land can be acquired and construction can begin on time. The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) will soon conduct a traffic study for the four proposed high-speed rail corridors, including the 435-km line between Chennai and Mysore, to assess the travel demand and to prepare a detailed project report. Steps are already underway to fix the alignment of the line concerned. Though the Centre will prioritise building Mumbai-Ahmedabad and Delhi-Varanasi lines, the corporation is working to complete groundwork simultaneously for the other lines so that land acquisition and construction can start as soon as everything is ready. An agency will be identified for the study by the first week of January and the survey is supposed to be completed in 180 days. The traffic survey is going to be done because detailed project report for the four lines — Chennai-Mysore (435km), Mumbai-Hyderabad (711km), Delhi-Amritsar (459km), Varanasi-Howrah (760km) — is being prepared, said an official. The main objective is to assess the existing traffic characteristics and estimate the travel demand for high-speed rail systems on the route for 20 years. The travel demand assessment will include ridership on the proposed routes, station load and section loads between stations and peak hour, peak direction traffic. The traffic data of road, rail and air travel for the last five years, fare structure, population density, urban developments or proposed development, the need for travel, category of travellers and other details will also be gathered so that a travel demand modelling can be done for the 435km route. Lidar-based technology and cameras may be used to take the vehicle count on the routes. Sources said a passenger demand forecast will be used to fix the fare from the choices offered by the high-speed rail corporation. “The study will also help the authorities prioritise a route for construction. If a route has good travel demand and has people who are ready to travel by high-speed trains, the government may push for construction of the line first.  After a DPR is prepared and an alignment is fixed, the state government will have to acquire land,” said a railway official. A rough estimate shows that at least 5,000acres may be needed to build a double line with fencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/traffic-to-be-studied-for-high-speed-rail/articleshow/79767674.cms||V Ayyappan
December 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Collective farming will help farmers get best prices, say experts||Coimbatore: The Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business has advised farmers from the catchment areas of Upper Bhavani basin to opt for collective farming and either to join or start farmer producer organizations to get the best prices for their produce and embrace modernization techniques and equipment in a more affordable manner. The department has conducted a two-day workshop for 200 farmers from the catchment areas at the forest college and research institute on Tuesday and Wednesday. The farmers were members of the Sri Renganathar Farmers Producers Company of Upper Bhavani Basin. The farmers, who mainly cultivate coconut, banana and curry leaves, were exposed to different opportunities to develop their produce further and modernize their farming equipment. Hilda, AGMARK officer, said, “Experts deliberated at length on how farmers could manufacture their own compressed coconut chekku oil, virgin coconut oil and desiccated coconut powder. A representative from A1 Chips engaged a session on verities of banana chips, banana candy and banana powder.” Farmers were also exposed to methods of making a variety of powders, oil and tea bags with curry leaf. The farmer producer company could get a grant of Rs 20 lakh under the Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agricultural Modernization Project to buy equipment to produce the value-added products. District collector K Rajamani, who inaugurated the workshop, advised the farmers to adopt micro irrigation for the entire farm and supplemental irrigation, and form farmer producer organizations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collective-farming-will-help-farmers-get-best-prices-say-experts/articleshow/79767649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Nashik||Deolali cantt board wins def minister’s excellence award||Nashik: Deepa Bajwa, the director-general of defence estates, felicitated the Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) with the Raksha Mantri’s Award for Excellence, on Wednesday, for its exemplary work on healthcare during the Covid pandemic. The board was felicitated through a video conference. The Pune Cantonment Board and Khadki Cantonment Board were also felicitated with this award. Deepa Bajwa said she was happy to give this award to the three cantonments in the category of Public Health Challenge of Covid. Senior officials of CBD including its president Brig J S Goraya, Baburao Mojad and Bhagwan Kataria corporators, CEO Ajay Kumar were among others present at the virtual presentation.Goraya applauded all the doctors and employees of the health department for their hard work to treat the Covid-19 patients.He also said the CBD will be among the 62 cantonment boards that will be getting funds for developmental works from the 15th Finance commission. Brig Goraya also thanked MP Hemant Godse, MLA Saroj Ahire and the district administration for making funds available for the treatment of the patients.As many as 5,923 people were tested. Of them, 1,530 tested positive. Three residents succumbed to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/deolali-cantt-board-wins-def-ministers-excellence-award/articleshow/79765002.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 17, 2020||Meerut||4 criminal arrested in police encounter in Amroha||Amroha: As many as four criminals were arrested during an encounter on later Tuesday night after the accused looted a bike, a mobile phone and Rs.4,000 cash from a passer-by. The incident occurred on Kaanth road in Amroha.According to Amroha superintendent of police Suniti all robbers are of young age and used to loot the commuters in the deserted area at gunpoint.They had robbed a commuter on Tuesday night as well, after which the victim informed the cops.Police cordoned off the area after getting a tip-off about the loot. Police managed to arrest them in Kaanth road close to Naugavan bypass area after an encounter.They have recovered two country-made pistols, three cartridges, four mobiles and a cash of Rs 3,000 from.The criminals have several cases against them in different police stations and used to rob the commuters to meet daily expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-criminal-arrested-in-police-encounter-in-amroha/articleshow/79766560.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Five years after return from Pakistan, Geeta lands in Basar in search of her family||HYDERABAD: Geeta, ‘the daughter of India’ as the late Sushma Swaraj described her, is in search of her family, five years after her return from Pakistan. And, this brought her to Telangana. Geeta, who is hearing and speech impaired, was brought to Basar in Nirmal district by an NGO in Indore. In sign language, she explained that as a child she used to live in a village which was close to a ‘river, temple and railway station’. From the description, the girl, who is now in her late 20s gave, Geeta was brought to Basara by Gyanendra Purohit, a social worker who runs an organisation for the rehabilitation of the hearing and speech impaired people in Indore and under whose care she is. “She looked around the place that we showed her. We showed her the railway station and the river. We also showed her the famous Basar temple if she would be able to recollect the place,” Basar tahsildar Shiva Prasad told TOI. Laxmikanth, a hearing and speech impaired person and who works in a government office in Soan, was also called by Shiva Prasad to communicate with Geeta. “Going by the way Geeta reacted, it appeared that she did not think her family hailed from Basar,” he said. In Basar village, sarpanch Laxman Rao was also asked if a girl from any family had gone missing more than 20 years ago, but there was no such instance or case with police also. Since Geeta indicated there was also a bridge close to her house, as she vaguely remembered, the officials showed her Krishna and Dowleshwaram barrages on Google. Geeta’s travels continue as her caretaker is on a mission to find her family. Geeta was in the care of Edhi Foundation in Pakistan for more than 13 years. In October 2015, the then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj took interest in Geeta’s case and Pakistan handed her over to India. It was at Edhi Foundation in Karachi that the girl was named Geeta as it was clear to them that she was an Indian. How Geeta landed in Pakistan as a child is a mystery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-years-after-return-from-pak-geeta-lands-in-basar-in-search-of-her-family/articleshow/79767652.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district adds 100 cases||Kolhapur: The district reported 100 fresh Covid patients and four people succumbed to the infection since Tuesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 53,744. The death toll has now risen to 1,779. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil added 16 cases, including five from Satara town, Karad tehsil reported 15 new cases and 10 people tested positive in Maan tehsil. Tehsils which recorded cases in single-digit are-Patan (4), Phatan (9), Koregaon (5), Jawli (8), Wai (2), Mahabaleshwar (5) and Khandala (5). The four deceased, including three women and a man, were elderly. Three deaths were reported in Satara tehsil while one death was recorded in Khatav tehsil. As many as 50,506 patients have recovered while 1,459 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Solapur district, covering city and rural limits, identified 145 new cases since late night on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases in the district has swelled to 37,199. At present, Solapur district has 1,020 active cases. As many as 117 patients were discharged from various facilties across the district on Wednesday, taking the tally of recovered patients to 35,085. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported 27 new cases, taking the total number of patients to 10,709, of which, 576 have succumbed to the contagion. Kolhapur adds 24 cases, 3 deaths Kolhapur district registered 24 fresh coronavirus cases along with three deaths on Wednesday. Of the recent cases, 14 were identified from the city. The number of active patients in the district has, however, come down to 106. Of these 106 patients, 35 are in home isolation. Sangli district, on the other hand, reported 23 cases along with two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-adds-100-cases/articleshow/79767634.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Rates for conversation tax prescribed in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The state has prescribed rates for conversation tax for conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes. A GO issued on Wednesday by revenue department. The conversation tax for conversation of agricultural land to non-agricultural purposes will be two per cent of the basic value of the land in the areas covered under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, and three per cent of the basic value of the land in the areas other than GHMC. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said this would come into force with immediate effect. The department issued another GO dated December 16, 2020 which said the Telangana Agricultural Land (conversation for non-agricultural purposes) (Amendment) Act, 2020 provisions would come into effect from December 16 itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rates-for-conversation-tax-prescribed/articleshow/79767628.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: Dist admin sounds alarm after polls||Thiruvananthapuram: The district administration has sounded alarm anticipating a steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the district following the local body polls. What has prompted the authorities to take additional precautions is the experience during Onam festival, after which the cases registered a steady growth across the district. The local body  also turned out to be an occasion for mixing of people, leading to breach of Covid-19 protocol in various places. The authorities believe that the next two weeks will be crucial. After registering the first community spread in the state, the district is now reporting only lesser number of cases when compared to other districts. However, there are reports that the case load might increase due to mass gatherings during the poll campaign and also during the election. District collector Navjot Khosa said an alert has been sounded in the district since there are chances of an increase in the caseload. “At present, the district has only 3,455 active cases. Last month, we had 7,323 active cases. We could bring down the active cases due to the active involvement of the authorities in the prevention and cure of the disease. If the same alert and caution are continued, we can bring down the cases further,” she said. However, the health department has reported that there might be an increase in the case load in the coming weeks. Hence, we have decided to strengthen the monitoring and preventive activities in the district, she added. As a first step, the number of Covid-19 first-line treatment centres in the district will be increased to meet any emergency. An action plan has been prepared for this by the district administration, said the collector. As the caseload has decreased, at present 70% of the beds in the existing Covid-19 first-line treatment centres are lying vacant. The patients, who become Covid-positive now, are treated in the hospitals itself. The General Hospital has 310 Covid-19 beds of which 187 beds are lying vacant. It has been decided that the General Hospital will continue as the designated Covid-19 hospital till December 31. However, all the first and second-line treatment centres attached with the schools will be shifted from there, considering the chances of starting of classes in January. The other institutional quarantine centres will continue to remain as such. The institutional quarantine centre set up at the Agricultural College will be shifted to Greenfield Stadium at Kariavattom. Similarly, some of the institutional quarantine centres will be shifted to other centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-19-dist-admin-sounds-alarm-after-polls/articleshow/79760309.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh still holds German passport: MHA to Telgana high court||HYDERABAD: Union home ministry on Wednesday informed the high court that TRS MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh from Vemulavada is now holding a German passport which is valid till February 25, 2023. Namavarapu Rajeswara Rao, the assistant solicitor general filed a memo and certain documents sent by the Centre to this effect before the court. Justice Challa Kodanda Ram who was hearing this case filed by Congress leader Adi Srinivas raising objections about a German citizen functioning as their legislator. Petitioner’s counsel V Ravi Kiran Rao charged Ramesh with perpetuating the fraud even today. MLA Ramesh claimed that he relinquished his German citizenship ten years ago when he started his political career in Karimnagar district. But today that was proved out to be wrong because he still has a valid German citizenship. The Centre has already cancelled his Indian citizenship because he suppressed vital information about his mandatory stay in India prior to his application while filling the citizenship form, he said. The MLA’s counsel Y Rama Rao said that the centre has unilaterally cancelled his Indian citizenship and sought its restoration. He relinquished his German citizenship and now with the cancellation of his Indian citizenship the legislator has now become stateless, he said seeking a rational and practical approach by the central authorities in the matter rather than looking at the issue purely from a technical prism. Ravi Kiran Rao refuted the claims of the legislator and said that the claims of relinquishing German citizenship were proved out to be bogus and this was what was revealed by the documents filed by union home ministry, he said.  Justice Kodanda Ram went through the documents filed by the Centre and said that the union home secretary did not do any fresh exercise like finding out the status of the legislator from the German embassy. The judge directed the Centre to file an affidavit explaining the current status of the legislator by Jan 20. The judge in the last hearing directed Ramesh too to file an affidavit. This time I want sworn affidavits both from the home secretary and the legislator, the judge said before adjourning the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mla-still-holds-german-passport-mha-to-high-court/articleshow/79767646.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nashik||Task force formed to draw up Covid vaccination strategy||Nashik: The Nashik administration has formed a district task force (DTF) to chalk out and execute a plan for Covid-19 vaccination, including storage, transportation and administration.The first meeting of the DTF to be chaired by district collector Suraj Mandhare was held on Wednesday in which the members, including officials from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), civil surgeon district health officials from Nashik zilla parishad, will be present. “We will sit together and chalk out the programme of vaccination for the district so that things go on smoothly. Though we have not received any specific guidelines about storage, going by the information received so far, we do not think storage will be a major challenge,” Mandhare said. Collector pointed out that the DTF would chalk the plan for storage and logistics of the vaccines so that those engaged in the process do not face any problem. “We will plan storage and logistics in such a way that they are near the vaccination centres,” the officer said. According to officers, so far are more than 23,000 fronline health workers have been identified for vaccination in the first phase.“We will be giving vaccine shots only to those who have been registered with the government as the criteria states that they should be frontline health workers that include Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA), Anganwadi sevikas, Auxillary Nurse Midwives (ANM), health surveyors, etc. All these — from private as well as the government centres — have been registered with the government and QR code has been generated for them,” the officer said. To being with, there will be five vaccination booths per taluka for where the vaccines will be administered and these numbers will be increased. Each of the booth will have three cells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/task-force-formed-to-draw-up-covid-vaccination-strategy/articleshow/79765007.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Outsiders caught dining with prisoners, jailor nabbed||Rajkot: The runaway jailor, who had allegedly allowed the dinner party in Gondal sub-jail where five prisoners were having dinner with six outsiders on October 1 night, was nabbed in Gondal of Rajkot district on Wednesday. “The accused, D K Parmar, had been on the run ever since he was booked for the crime,” said S M Jadeja, inspector with Gondal town police station. The dinner party was busted by the flying squad under additional director general of police (jail) from Ahmedabad. Some of the prisoners were even found talking on cellphones. The outsiders had brought in tiffins, cellphones and cash along with them. The squad had nabbed one person and seized five cellphones and one dongle, suspected to be belonging to the outsiders who managed to escape from the rear gate of the prison. The police had also found a purse containing Rs 15,000 cash. The outsiders identified as Jayesh Dave, Jitendra Vanraj, Ajay Boricha, Jignesh Bhuva, Kalpesh Thumar were having dinner with prisoners - Nikhil Donga, Rajesh Shekhava, Divyarajsinh Jadeja, Jayesh Gohel and Amit Padaria. Parmar has been booked under Sections 466 (Forgery of official record), 269 (Negligent Act), 188 (Disobedience to order), 114 (Abetment) and 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/outsiders-caught-dining-with-prisoners-jailor-nabbed/articleshow/79765654.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents up in arms against cell tower||HYDERABAD: Residents of Sainikpuri are up in arms against a cell phone tower being installed in their locality. They said the cell phone tower is being installed on a 30-year-old building that is structurally unfit. “Building owners are allowing telecom firms to install the towers despite their structures being unfit. These towers are death traps,” said M Suresh Babu, vice-president, Federation of Residential Welfare Association. Residents of Saibaba Officers Colony, Sainikpuri. GHMC officials said they did not receive any complaint regarding the tower. “Action will be taken if the issue is reported,” said N Shanker , GHMC deputy commissioner, Kapra circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-up-in-arms-against-cell-tower/articleshow/79767679.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Congress workers furious at dy collector’s absence during voter verification||VASCO: There was chaos at the Mormugao deputy collector’s office on Wednesday after state Congress vice-president Sankalp Amonkar came there with 29 of his block level agents (BLA). Amonkar said during the field survey it was seen that neither the deputy collector nor the mamlatdar were present. To this, he was informed by the office staff that both were on leave. On Tuesday he was served notice by the Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai’s office to get his BLAs to accompany block level officers (BLO) to serve notices to concerned electors. When Amonkar reached with his BLAs, neither Desai nor any BLO was present. “This is a mockery. These administrators work under pressure and want to show everything is being done on paper but practically on ground nothing is happening,” Amonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-workers-furious-at-dy-collectors-absence-during-voter-verification/articleshow/79768935.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Meerut||Amroha: Man sentenced to life for killing his father||BIJNOR: A man who had allegedly to have accidentally slit his father’s throat during a squabble with his wife in 2015 was sentenced to life by a local court here in Amroha district in Uttar Pradesh. Additional district and sessions judge Umesh Kumar on Tuesday evening also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 on accused Mahavir while pronouncing the judgement. According to Amroha's assistant district government counsel Nitin Bansal, the incident took place at Tigariya Nadirshah village under Adampur police station on January 26, 2015. The convict, Mahavir, was stated to be inebriated when the altercation broke out between him and his wife. His father Jaswant Singh sustained fatal injury when he tried to contain the situation. After a complaint from the deceased’s brother, accused Mahavir was booked under Indian Penal Code section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) which was then converted to section 302 (punishment for murder). “The deceased's younger brother had filed a case against the accused. Police arrested the culprit and sent him to jail. However, later he came out on bail, after which the police submitted a chargesheet at the local court. Since then, the hearing was going on in the court of additional district and session judge, Umesh Kumar,” Bansal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/amroha-man-sentenced-to-life-for-killing-his-father/articleshow/79766594.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Fiat Chrysler to invest $150 million in its Hyderabad centre||HYDERABAD: Automotive giant Fiat Chrysler Automobiles (FCA) is investing $150 million in setting up its largest Global Digital Hub (GDH) outside North America and EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) in Hyderabad that will serve as a transformation and innovation engine driving the company's global IT strategy. Top FCA officials said the company will be creating around 1,000 cutting edge tech jobs at the Hyderabad GDH by the end of 2021 and plans to step up hiring further over the next two to three years. The GDH has been set up in the Gachibowli SEZ area of Hyderabad’s IT corridor. TOI was the first to report in November this year that the auto biggie is setting up a centre in Hyderabad as part of efforts to accelerate its digitisation efforts. Mamatha Chamarthi, CIO, North America and Asia Pacific, FCA, said during a virtual interaction that the company has already hired around 250 people for the Hyderabad centre, most of whom are currently working from home. According to Karim Lalani, director and head of FCA ICT India, the new Hyderabad facility currently has a capacity to accommodate 400 techies that will be ramped up to over 1 lakh sq ft by 2021 end. He said the new facility will open up new roles for full stack developers, UX developers, data scientists as well as jobs for application modernisation to convert legacy applications to digital. The facility will focus on building strategic competencies in niche technology areas such as connected vehicle programmes, artificial intelligence, data accelerators and cloud technologies among others that will result in products and concepts that will define the future of mobility at FCA. FCA currently employs close to 3,000 people in India across Pune, Chennai and India headquarters Mumbai, including over 1500 people at the manufacturing facility in Ranjangaon. It is also expanding its 1,300-member strong engineering team at Chennai, where it can accommodate about 2,200 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fiat-chrysler-to-invest-150m-in-its-hyd-centre/articleshow/79768933.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||No match to Telangana’s housing scheme in entire India: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said that no other state in the country has taken up the housing programme like Telangana has done. “No other state since Independence has taken up such a massive slum-free initiative in Hyderabad. The government has taken up construction of one lakh 2BHK houses at a cost of Rs 9,714 crore,” said KTR after inaugurating 324 2BHK houses in Vanasthalipuram. He formally handed over the keys to the beneficiaries on Wednesday. The houses in Vanasthalipuram were built at Rs 28 crore. “The state spent around Rs 9 lakh on each flat. The market value of each flat ranges from Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh,” KTR said. Earlier, the minister was not part of an inauguration of a project built under Strategic Road Development Programme (SRDP) in Malkajgiri Parliament segment. At Wednesday’s event, TRS corporators who lost against BJP candidates in GHMC poll shared the dais with KTR. BJP corporators, who won the poll, did not attend the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-match-to-ts-housing-scheme-in-entire-india-ktr/articleshow/79767688.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala local body elections: UDF retains dominance in IUML stronghold of Malappuram||KOZHIKODE: Even amid LDF wave in local-body elections in the state, IUML has managed to retain its traditional dominance in Malappuram district, helping UDF win 73 of the 94 grama panchayats, leaving LDF with just 19 seats. In the 2015 elections, LDF was able to secure power in 27 panchayats and anti-IUML independent people’s fronts had managed to win in another six panchayats. But this time, UDF has managed to bring many of that grama panchayats it had lost in 2015 back to its kitty. In Malappuram district panchayat, municipalities and block panchayats, the two rival fronts maintained their respective tallies of 2015, with UDF retaining its supremacy. In Malappuram district panchayat, UDF won 27 of the 32 seats leaving five to LDF. In the 2015 elections too, LDF had won five seats. This time, the LDF managed to wrest two sitting seats of UDF — Mangalam and Vazhikkadavu — while it lost the divisions of Thrikalagode and Angadippuram to UDF. LDF also retained Changaramkulam division. Among the 12 municipalities in the district, UDF won nine while LDF bagged the municipalities of Ponnani, Perinthalmanna and Nilambur. While LDF lost Tirur municipality it had won last time, it made up by capturing the Congress stronghold municipality of Nilambur where UDF defeat has come as a shocker. UDF, which had 22 seats in the 33 seats in the municipality in 2015, has managed to win just nine seats this time. IUML, which had eight members in the Nilambur municipality in 2015, has drawn a blank this time, making it the only local body in Malappuram without IUML having a presence. The controversy over non-distribution of flood relief kits provided by Rahul Gandhi MP, which had come to light during the election campaign, also led to the debacle. The local-level understanding between UDF and Welfare Party proved beneficial for the UDF to wrest many grama panchayats in the district like Kootilangadi which had gone the LDF way in 2015. Also that IUML and Congress were able to fight the elections in a cohesive manner in all except three panchayats in the district helped the front. In block panchayats, UDF has won 12 of the 15 blocks while LDF retained Ponnani, Perumbadappu and Tirur blocks. Meanwhile, IUML has taken serious note of the poor performance of UDF in other districts. IUML national general secretary P K Kunhalikutty said while IUML has managed to secure its strongholds in Malappuram and other districts of Malabar, UDF and Congress will have to do a serious introspection about the results. “The prima facie examination of the results shows that the strongholds of the party are intact be it in Malappuram or other areas in Malabar like Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. The party has made major gains in Malappuram. But the elections calls for serious examination by UDF and Congress,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/udf-retains-dominance-in-iuml-stronghold-of-malappuram/articleshow/79767648.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||CEC to inspect Mollem projects' site early next yr||Panaji: The central empowered committee (CEC) will be conducting site inspections of the three infrastructure projects in Mollem early next year. The inspections are expected to be held within the next four weeks, the CEC stated during hearings conducted on a complaint filed by Goa Foundation against approvals granted by the National Board of Wildlife’s (NBWL) standing committee to the three infrastructure projects. The complaint alleged that none of the three projects can go through the wildlife sanctuary in view of Section 29 and Section 35 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which explicitly forbids any development in any sanctuary unless it is certified that the development is in the interest of wildlife or improvement of the wildlife habitat. During the hearing of the highway project, the CEC questioned why the project was being taken up by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) in Karnataka and PWD in Goa, how much time it would take to complete and how many kilometres it is sanctioned for. The CEC asked the Union environment ministry whether it had considered the contiguous nature of the project and recommended that it examine the proposal as a whole. On the railway double tracking project, the CEC questioned the need for the project with many of RVNL’s projects facing difficulties in South Goa, with prices of iron ore less, exports stopping and imports increasing and in the wake of chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that ore transport would be reduced to half. The CEC asked why it couldn’t consider a corridor in a different stretch and pointed out that the Konkan Railways are underutilised and stated that it must have an exceptional reason if it wants to pierce through the ghats. Goa Foundation stated that despite their complaint being filed in June 2020, the lawyers and officials appearing for the three projects did not have adequate or ready information when queried by the CEC. “Though making it very clear that they were making preliminary observations, the CEC came down heavily on the need for the railway doubling. The chairperson voiced serious apprehensions,” Goa Foundation stated. “The CEC made it clear during the hearings that it had received large numbers of complaints against the three infrastructure projects. The CEC repeatedly told the officials representing the three projects that Goa was a small place and therefore it was necessary to proceed with caution. They emphasised that this was Western Ghats terrain, tiger territory, and therefore it was their concern to ensure there was no damage,” it stated. In relation to the highway expansion, the CEC found it difficult to understand how Karnataka is restricting road width to the existing 12m whereas Goa wants to increase it to 24m. In relation to the Tamnar project, the counsel for the Goa Foundation told the CEC there were alternatives available for the alignment which did not require it to be taken through the wildlife sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cec-to-inspect-mollem-projects-site-early-next-yr/articleshow/79768999.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||AAP donates Rs 2 lakh to the family of ‘martyr’||LUDHIANA: Aam Aadmi Party MLA and state kisan wing leaders on Wednesday visited the native place of a martyr of the farmers’ agitation, Gajjan Singh, and paid their tributes. An amount of Rs 2 lakh collected in collaboration with AAP’s NRI wing in Punjab was given to the martyr’s family through the state president of kisan union, Sidhupur Jagjit Singh Dalewal. Kultar Sandhwan said that the Modi government was harassing the farmers of the state and the country due to its stubbornness, forcing millions of farmers across the country to sleep on the roads amid cold nights of December. He said that the farmers of Punjab,who had been feeding the whole country, were being maltreated at the hands of the present government at the Centre. Sandhwan said that calling the peaceful protesting farmers extremists and anti-national exhibited their mental bankruptcy. He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should address this issue by holding talks with the farmers as soon as possible. Others who were present on the occasion included Jagtar Singh Dayalpura, senior leader, Samrala constituency, block president Sukhwinder Singh Gill, Kashmiri Lal Samrala, Major Singh Baliun, Malkit Singh, Sukhwinder Singh Khatran among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-donates-rs-2-lakh-to-the-family-of-martyr/articleshow/79766611.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Full bench of Telangana high court may hear KTR farmhouse case||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that they wish to first determine whether they are justified in hearing an appeal against an order passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on the construction of a farmhouse at Janwada in Rangareddy district allegedly owned by the state municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, the Telangana high court on Wednesday said it may refer the matter to a full bench soon to decide the maintainability of the plea. Though the high court had earlier stayed the order of the NGT, two-division benches of the high court later gave two different orders on this issue. Congress MP A Revanth Reddy filed an implead plea in the case seeking vacation of the stay and to allow the NGT order to come into force to ascertain whether the farmhouse is being constructed in violation of the GO 111 norms. “The high courts can intervene even in such matters by invoking the jurisdiction of Article 226 of the Constitution, but that should be sparingly done,” the chief justice said, adding that they have to verify whether the current case falls under such a rare category. The chief justice, who is on a transfer to Uttarakhand high court, said that such final hearing matters cannot be decided on an urgent basis as they need a considerable length of the hearing. The case was posted to January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/full-bench-of-t-high-court-may-hear-ktr-farmhouse-case/articleshow/79767672.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Since October, DVAC arrested 33 govt staff for corruption||CHENNAI: In the past two and half months, surprise raids across the state by Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) officials has resulted in the arrest of 33 government staff for demanding and receiving bribe. According to an official release, 127 surprise checks were conducted state wide in government offices between October 1 and December 14, in which unaccounted money of Rs 6.96 crore, 7.2kg gold, 9.8kg silver, 10.5 carats of diamonds and fixed deposits of Rs 37 lakh were seized apart from documents. Officials were arrested for receiving bribe amount as less as Rs 1,000. In Chennai, a sanitary inspector with the city corporation, an estate officer with the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB), a junior assistant with the district revenue office were among those booked by the vigilance department. Very recently, on Monday (Dec 14), DVAC officials raided the office and residence of Pandian, a superintendent in the state department of environment and seized property worth Rs 1.37 crore. The officials found Rs 88,500 in unaccounted money from the superintendent’s office at Saidapet’s Panagal Maligai, where all senior environment department officials sit. Search at his residence in Saligramam yielded 3kg gold,10 carats of diamonds, fixed deposits of Rs 37 lakh and 18 property documents. A DVAC official said the superintendent is only a member of the clerical staff, but influential. “Top Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers were also wary of him. He would threaten to transfer other officials if they did not listen to him,” he said. Other notable seizure by DVAC sleuths in the past two months was in Vellore, where searches for two continuous days at the office and residences of M Panneerselvam, a zonal officer with the state pollution control board, resulted in seizure of property worth Rs 3.5 crore in cash, 450 sovereigns of gold and 6.5kg of silver. Searches at a senior official in the registration department in Salem resulted in seizure of more than Rs 1 crore worth properties. A majority of raids were conducted at RTO (regional transport office) checkposts across the state and in sub-registrar offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/since-oct-dvac-arrested-33-govt-staff-for-corruption/articleshow/79767711.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers reject proposal in writing, say no parallel talks||BATHINDA: The protesting farm organisations have asked the central government to desist from holding parallel talks with farm groups who are not part of their agitation and stop defaming the protesters. This was communicated to the Centre in the letter written by farmer organisations’ representative Darshan Pal on behalf of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to agriculture ministry joint secretary Vivek Aggarwal on Wednesday. The letter was sent in response to the draft proposal given by the central government on December 9, a day after the farm representatives had met Union home minister Amit Shah for an informal meeting. The farm bodies had rejected the draft proposals on December 9 itself. Speaking to TOI, Darshan Pal said, “After the impasse in talks with central ministers on December 5, farm representatives had asked the government to say either ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to repealing of agri-laws. After that the central government had sent a draft proposal on December 9. Though we had rejected that draft the same day, we sent the letter rejecting those proposals on Wednesday.” “We have also asked the government not to engage in parallel talks with groups who are not in protests and not to defame the protesting farm groups by name calling,” he further said. The farmer organisations who are holding protests at Singhu, Tikri and Gazipur borders on the outskirts of Delhi, had said the previous day that they will send a written reply to Centre’s proposals. The letter sent to the agriculture ministry reiterates rejection of proposals about some amendments in the legislations suggested by government, including written guarantee of minimum support price and registration of anyone dealing in private mandis. BKU (Kisan) representatives from Uttar Pradesh had met central agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum about MSP. Tomar had thanked the farm organisation for reposing faith in the government. Earlier, too some farm representatives from Uttrakhand and Haryana had met the agriculture minister and had praised the agri-laws. Some ministers, including commerce minister Piyush Goyal had been making claims that ultra left activists had infiltrated the protest. Before that allegations of some ‘Khalistanis’ barging into farm protests too had been levelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-reject-proposal-in-writing-say-no-parallel-talks/articleshow/79767720.cms||Neel Kamal
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man kills 50-year-old uncle in Baran||Kota: A 50-year-old man was stoned to death by his 24-year-old maternal nephew on at Kaloni village under Shahabad police station of Baran district on Tuesday night. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Wednesday and lodged a case of murder. The accused was yet to be arrested. The deceased was identified as Shravan Kumar Bhalai, alias Srilal, a resident of Kaloni village under Shahabad police station of Baran district. The initial inquiry revealed that the man was a native of Shivpuri district in Madhya Pradesh, but for the last 10 years he had been living with his maternal grandfather in Kaloni village, Shahabad SHO Hari Prasad said. It was also learnt that the deceased and his maternal nephew, who also lived in the same house, were not on good terms and often exchanged heated words.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-50-year-old-uncle-in-baran/articleshow/79766619.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Hyderabad||LPG price hike: Mahila Congress stages dharna||HYDERABAD: Mahila Congress leaders on Wednesday staged a dharna against the increased price of domestic LPG gas. They demanded that central government immediately roll back prices as increase of price by Rs 100 in the last one month has become a burden on the women to manage monthly finances at home. Mahila Congress leaders Indira Shobhan and Uzma Shakir along with workers staged a rasta roko at Basheerbagh crossroads and said BJP was pursuing ‘anti-poor’ policies.  They added that they would intensify the agitation if Central government did not roll back the prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lpg-price-hike-mahila-cong-stages-dharna/articleshow/79767705.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Cowshed raised but stray cattle still stalk roads||Ludhiana: With the Ludhiana Municipal Corporation (LMC) yet to come out with a solution to the stray cattle problem, the city residents continue to suffer. They say that poor visibility due to the foggy weather has further increased the risk of running into these cattle stalking the roads. Even though the civic body has constructed a cowshed at Burj Pawat, Machhiwara, it is yet to decide on the charges to be paid to the NGO handling the maintenance of cattle there. As of now, the civic body has a tie-up with Govind Godham for lifting and upkeep of the stray cattle and for each cattle, the MC has been paying Rs 30. But, at the Burj Pawat facility, the NGO has demanded Rs 75 per cattle for their maintenance and an additional charge for their transportation. That is why the cattle are not being shifted to this cow shed now. Incidentally, the MC has spent Rs 6.75 lakh on the construction of this cowshed. The MC is also not going ahead with the plan to construct another cowshed, because they are unable to decide as to who will handle its maintenance later. In this scenario, the city residents are bearing the brunt of the stray cattle menace. Gurpal Grewal, a resident of Model Town, said, “I had gone live on Facebook to show the condition of bus stand flyover, where stray cattle had captured the entire road. Even though the traffic cops were issuing challans for the traffic rules violations, they were least bothered about the stray cattle.” He further said during the night time, it has become even riskier to drive in the foggy weather, as the stray cattle suddenly appear before the vehicles, which could result in accidents. The authorities should take this problem seriously, he added. Another resident from Civil Lines area, Avinash Kumar, said, “The officials should have worked out in advance whether it will be feasible to send the cattle to Burj Pawat or not. Now that they have already spent funds on the construction of shed, they are finding it difficult to keep the cattle there.” He said this is sheer wastage of public money, as the lives of residents continue to be at risk. When contacted, corporation’s medical officer Dr Vipul Malhotra said, “We are yet to sign an agreement with the NGO handling the cowshed in Burj Pawat. Once that happens, we can shift the cattle there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cowshed-raised-but-stray-cattle-still-stalk-roads/articleshow/79766626.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Meerut||Meerut to get electric buses in 2021||Meerut: Meerut is all set to get its first set of electric buses in 2021, with about 50 buses stationed in the district. Officials said the e-buses will start in June 2021.While the approval has already been given to allow electric buses, 100 such buses given a green signal from Lucknow and 50 buses are already stationed in Meerut.Nearly three months ago, 150 buses were sanctioned for Meerut district, however, they have not started due to delay in the construction of charging stations. An amount of Rs 25 lakh will be spent on the charging station.Due to the absence of charging stations, the officials had decided to start the e-bus services in June.Anil Agarwal, assistant regional manager, Meerut city transport limited, said, “We were given May 31 deadline to complete the construction of the charging station. Once the construction is completed, the electric buses will start plying on the roads.”“The diesel buses earlier stopped plying during lockdown and the new electric buses could not be transported here during that period,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-to-get-electric-buses-in-2021/articleshow/79766613.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 17, 2020||Dehradun||Sherwood College dispute: Second judge recuses himself from case as Diocese of Agra reaches HC||Nainital: The dispute between the incumbent principal of Sherwood College, Amandeep Sandhu, and Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel, who was appointed interim principal in October this year, reached the Uttarakhand high court once again on Wednesday, as the Sherwood Diocesian Society sought a clarification on the court’s earlier order granting police protection to Emmanuel. The Sherwood Diocesian Society, an extension of the Agra Diocese, which is responsible for the administration of Sherwood College and appointed the new principal, sought a clarification on the court’s earlier order granting police protection to Emmanuel. Justice Ravindra Maithani – who sat on the division bench along with acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath – recused himself. Maithani was the second judge to recuse himself from the case after Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia did it last Wednesday. The hearing has now been pushed back to Thursday. Mahesh Jethmalani, senior counsel appearing for the Sherwood Diocesian Society, argued that he had earlier prayed for police protection while Emmanuel would take charge as principal. However, he said the order just granted them protection and not the power “to effectuate their prayer” (police were authorized only to provide cover, not help them enter the school and take charge). As reported by TOI, the officials of the Diocese of Agra, along with Emmanuel and police personnel, had reached Sherwood College on Saturday. However, the doors remained locked and they were not let in. The group visited again on Sunday but to no avail. Over a century-and-a-half-old Sherwood College is the alma mater of some of most famous and renowned personalities in the country, including actor Amitabh Bachchan and Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw. Sandhu was suspended by the Agra Diocese in October over allegations of financial irregularities and Emmanuel, who was formerly with St Joseph’s College, was appointed the interim principal. Emmanuel had tried to take charge in October as well, but was stopped. Sandhu refuses to give up his post, alleging there is a conspiracy against him and that the school falls under the Bishop of Lucknow or Bishop of Delhi, not Agra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sherwood-college-dispute-second-judge-recuses-himself-from-case-as-diocese-of-agra-reaches-hc/articleshow/79765659.cms||Prashant Jha
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unlock fed no hope to restaurants||Ahmedabad/Vadodara/Surat/ Rajkot: Ahmedabad-based restaurateur, Rohit Khanna, has been in the business for a decade. Having been expanded to six branches over the years, his venture was thriving — then the pandemic changed everything. Reduced footfalls, apprehensions about eating out, and declining order volumes have forced him to shut down four branches. “We are currently running only one branch and that too with minimal staff and a limited menu,” said Khanna. “It is not possible to sustain operational costs with dwindling revenues.” The restaurant industry did begin to revive with the relaxation of the initial spell of the night curfew across Gujarat and revenues reached 80-90% of the pre-pandemic levels for most restaurateurs. The recovery in business was recorded though the government had ordered that dine-in services be operated at only 50% capacity. However, the second wave of Covid-19 coupled with the night curfew in four major cities came as a big blow to the restaurant industry in the state, forcing many to shut. Industry estimates suggest that at least 20% of restaurants and cafes in Ahmedabad have shut down in this pandemic period. While some restaurateurs have shut branches of their operations, others have closed down their businesses altogether. A few have switched to the kitchen-only model relying on takeaways. High rentals, increased operating costs and overheads, and restrictions continue to hurt restaurants. Rushabh Purohit, another Ahmedabad restaurateur, said that he has moved to the takeaway-only model for his outlet because sustaining hefty operational costs is not possible. Purohit said the business used to peak in the evenings, but the night curfew has put paid to that. According to the adage ‘Surat nu jaman, ane Kashi nu maran’, culinary bliss is delivered by Surat and salvation by Kashi. But the coronavirus has devoured a large part of the food business in the Diamond City too. With about 50% of the restaurants in the city not reopening after the lockdown, more than 5,000 people have been rendered jobless. Sanat Relia, the vice-president of Southern Gujarat Hotel and Restaurant Association, said: “Of the total 300 fine-dine restaurants in the city, 50% have not reopened after the lockdown.” Relia went on to say: “The remaining are operating at less than 30% capacity due to the night curfew. This has resulted in huge job losses.” Arvind Purohit, the owner of a Vadodara-based restaurant, closed his establishment due to the Covid-19 risk and the lack of business. “I sent all my staffers back to their hometowns during the lockdown,” he said. “Later, I didn’t reopen my restaurant as I didn’t want to risk the safety of my customers.” Dinesh Rajpurohit, who owns a chain of Gujarati thaali restaurants in Surat, said: “Due to the night curfew, people are avoiding restaurants. The business is less than 30% of what it used to be before the pandemic.” Rajpurohit added: “Restaurant owners have trimmed their staff by 60%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unlock-fed-no-hope-to-restaurants/articleshow/79766622.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Two rape minor girl in Kota district, one held||KOTA: Kota rural police late on Tuesday night arrested one of the two persons, who allegedly raped a 15-year-old girl in the forests near Kherabad town in Kota district on Monday, while the other accused is yet to be nabbed. The 15-year-old girl, a native of Anta town in Baran district went to Ramganjmandi police station along with her parents on Tuesday evening and lodged a case of abduction and rape against one Roopchand Gurjar and his brother-in-law Om Prakesh, a resident of Vinodkhurd under Sangod police station of the district, said SP Kota rural, Sharad Choudhary. The minor survivor has alleged in the report that she and her parents went to attend a jagran (religious gathering) in a village in Ramganjmandi police station area on Sunday noon and added that the next day (Monday), her parents stayed in the village while she along with Roopchand Gurjar and his wife, left for her home by car, the SP said. The accused Roopchand dropped his wife at her parents’ home in Kherabad and told the minor that her parents wanted her back in the village and asked her to accompany him in his car, he further said. On the way, the other accused, who is a brother-in-law of Roopchand and was identified as Om Prakesh Gurjar, also joined him and the two accused took the minor into the forests near Kherabad, where they took turns to rape her and later dropped her back to her home, he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-rape-minor-girl-in-kota-dist-1-held/articleshow/79766612.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen meet chief engineer over working of PSPCL||LUDHIANA: Faced with various problems related to the working of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), a delegation of city businessmen met chief engineer of the organisation. According to them, the biggest issue for them is levy of fixed charges for the period of lockdown when the industry was not working. The other issues are erratic power supply and long time taken by the PSPCL to resolve certain day-to-day problems. Businessmen are also of the view that a coordination committee should be formed, in which representatives of the industry and PSPCL officials too should be enrolled as members. This committee can help resolve the problems of the industry faster and also implement suggestions of businessmen to improve the working of the PSPCL. Giving more information, industrialist Jaswinder Thukral, who led this delegation, said, “We met the chief engineer of the PSPCL, Bhupinder Khosla, for resolution of our problems. The meeting was held in a very cordial environment and he heard our problems patiently. We informed him about our biggest concern, which was imposition of fixed charges on factories for the period of lockdown. These charges are totally unjustified as during that period the industry was not in operation and so, how can we be asked to pay these charges. Moreover, chief minister Amarinder Singh has already ordered the PSPCL to waive these charges. So, we have urged the chief engineer to take up this matter with the higher authorities and get the orders for waiver of fixed charges at the earliest.” According to another businessman, Swinder Singh Hunjan, “Another issue which was discussed during the meeting was the shortage of staff at the PSPCL’s Janta Nagar division due to which the resolution of complaints usually took time. We have also requested the chief engineer to ensure that all power divisions which cater to areas where factories are located should be instructed to pay special attention to the complaints related to factories and resolve these in a time-bound manner.” Rajinder Singh Kalsi, who too was part of the meeting, said, “During the discussions, we took up the issue of formation of a coordination committee of the PSPCL, which should comprise industrialists and department officials. The main function of this committee will be to conduct regular meetings with regard to the problems being faced by the industry and reduce the communication gap between both sides. The chief engineer responded positively to our demand and he has assured that a committee will be formed at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-meet-chief-engineer-over-working-of-pspcl/articleshow/79766632.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Proposal on quota for PwDs not sent to centre||JAIPUR: Though the state’s law department has sent a proposal to the Centre on December 2, a year after an order issued by the state’s disability court, recommending amendment to the notaries Act to ensure three-year relaxation in legal experience for notary public’s job for a specially-abled person, the proposal related to 5% reservation for PwDs was not sent to the central government. In October 2019, based on the petition by Hemant Bhai Hemant Bhai Goyal, national vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, the court of the commissioner for specially abled persons had issued an order directing the law department to send proposals to the centre for amendment in notaries act to ensure 5% reservation in notary public’s job for PwDs (persons with disabilities) and relaxation in legal experience for them. However, when it was not done for a year, the court had written to the state’s law department again on November 19, 2020, seeking to know the action taken in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/proposal-on-quota-for-pwds-not-sent-to-centre/articleshow/79766633.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Jaipur||Biometric verification helped weed out fake account holders: Minister||JAIPUR: Cooperatives minister Udailal Anjana said the biggest achievement of his department is the introduction of biometric verification on the members of village cooperatives and weeding out fake account holders. He said he wanted to ensure that the elections to the cooperatives were held on schedule in every five years. He said in the last two years over 12 lakh new farmers enrolled in the cooperative sector reinforcing faith of farmers in the cooperatives. The minister was talking to reporters on the achievements of his department in the last two years. He said 22.85 lakh farmers benefited from the loan waiver scheme with an expenditure of Rs 7,726 crore. He said a total of Rs 15,000 crore agriculture loans in the cooperative sector, including Rs 6,000 crore of the BJP government was borne by the government. Till now, 27.87 lakh farmers were registered through biometric system and 12.72 lakh new farmers were included for loans. These new farmers were distributed Rs 2,553.73 crore agriculture loans. Anjana said 700 ATMs were being set up in rural areas and mobile ATM facility has been launched. Biometric registration for crop procurement had also eliminated complaints of partiality. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biometric-verification-helped-weed-out-fake-account-holders-min/articleshow/79766628.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act now law||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 2020, came into force across the state on Wednesday, after the state government framed rules and regulations for its implementation. The anti-land grabbing legislation was passed in the Gujarat assembly this September. Terming it a “historic step”, chief minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday said that by implementing the new anti-land grabbing law, the government has honoured its promise of safeguarding the land and property of farmers and other victims of the land mafia. A seven-member committee headed by the district collector will evaluate grievances of land grabbing and file a report on the veracity of complaints within 21 days. If the land belongs to the government, the district collectorate and state government can initiate suo moto action, say the rules framed for implementation of the Act. The CM said that special courts and public prosecutors have been appointed in all districts, and these courts will deliver their verdicts within six months. Significantly, the onus of disproving the allegations of land grabbing will be on the accused when trials are held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-land-grabbing-prohibition-act-now-law/articleshow/79766637.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Citizens condemn ecology damage in North beach belt||Calangute: The Calangute Constituency Citizens’ Forum (CCCF) has condemned inaction by various government agencies against violators of environmental and other laws in the Calangute-Candolim coastal belt and adjoining areas of Anjuna. CCCF president Premanand Divkar said there has been massive destruction of greenery and hill-cutting on the Sinquerim hill, roads have been proposed through forested areas in the outline development plan (ODP) on the Baga hill, besides other projects which will lead to permanent environmental damage. “When we complain to the forest department, they come and carry out an inspection, but nothing is done afterwards, no action is taken. When we complain to the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA), they pass orders which are never implemented,” Divkar said, citing the example of sand dunes which had been flattened at Cobravaddo, Calangute to build an illegal road. “The GCZMA order is very clear. The sand dunes have to be restored, but even two years later nothing has been done,” he said. He alleged that authorities are not taking action because of pressure from influential quarters in the government which are only intent on “destructive development”. Divkar also claimed that an illegal road has been built in the past few months from the Anjuna side of the Baga hill to gain access to the hilltop where developers have acquired a property. “This road was built by taking advantage of the lockdown and the Covid situation despite there being an order from the collector prohibiting any such activity in the land,” Divkar said. Lawrence Silveira said the hills are rich in biodiversity and medicinal plants and herbs and therefore need to be conserved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/citizens-condemn-ecology-damage-in-north-beach-belt/articleshow/79767756.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||UK Punjabis angry at being called Khalistani for backing farmers||London: A group of 25 British business leaders, professionals and councillors, mostly of Punjabi-origin, have sent a letter to the High Commissioner of India to the UK Gaitri Kumar condemning the way anyone who attends a kisan rally in Britain is being tarnished as a Khalistani. Titled ‘Descendants of farmers and soldiers, not terrorists’, the letter states “ordinary families did take part in UK-wide peaceful protests in huge numbers to show their support and solidarity for the farmers. This does not make all of them anti-India.” It criticises the “negative role” that “some sections of the Indian media and Indian government supporting groups” have played, saying “their sole objective has been to portray an incorrect picture and damage the image of the entire hard-working Punjabi diaspora in the UK by labelling us all as Khalistani separatists or anti-India.” It states that the December 6 car rally in London attracted very large numbers of ordinary families, elderly and youth “who have nothing to do with the separatist agenda but all have been labelled as Khalistani-supporting people. This is not acceptable.” The letter calls on the High Commission to “take swift action to stop any further polarisation in the UK” to avoid causing irreversible damage to the High Commission’s relationship with the Punjabi diaspora. It requests the Indian government to resolve the grievances of farmers, condemns the use of force against protesters and condemns “any groups linked to the Khalistani agenda or any political parties who are trying to use farmers protest for their own agendas.” “Congress, Khalistanis and Communists are using the farmers’ protests to show their own opposition to the BJP government in India which is creating lots of confusion and damaging the real cause of the farmers,” said chairman of the British Sikh Association Lord Rami Ranger. Lord Ranger has been forced to file a complaint with the police after being targeted by what he believes are Khalistani activists who he says have been circulating fake posters and letter purporting to be by him and simultaneously set up a petition to get him removed from the House of Lords. The petition has since been taken down. The fake poster urges people to attend the farmers rally. Labour Sikh MP Tan Dhesi, who is sympathetic to the farmers' cause, has been forced to call out on Twitter “some in the Indian media” for “misinformation” by “labelling peaceful farmers, or those speaking up for them, as separatists or terrorists”. Tweeting examples of defamatory stories in which he was falsely labelled as “closely connected with Khalistani elements” and even as the organiser of the December 6 rally in London, misleadingly described as a “Pro-Khalistan” rally in those articles, Dhesi said “Can’t take credit for attending a protest, let alone organising one. Please stick to the facts, rather than weakening one of the key pillars of a democracy.” Some Khalistani groups have though jumped on the farmers’ protest bandwagon. On December 10, Sikhs for Justice, the illegal outfit organising the 2020 Punjab referendum, held a farmers’ rally in Birmingham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uk-punjabis-angry-at-being-called-khalistani-for-backing-farmers/articleshow/79767747.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 17, 2020||Lucknow||Govt to train unskilled migrantworkers to make them job ready||Lucknow: The state government is set to provide training to unskilled workers, who had returned to their native places during coronavirus lockdown, to make them fit for jobs in various sectors. In a communiqué to skill development department, additional chief secretary (rural development), Manoj Kumar Singh, said the department has mapped 18 lakh workers who are unskilled and require training to be brought into the mainstream. He said skilled manpower could also be upgraded through various schemes like Recognition of Prior Learning, Up-skilling and Re-skilling. “Migrant workers can be given priority in various schemes carried out under UP Skill Development Mission. Mass awareness about these training programmes requires special attention,” Singh said. Rural development department has sent a detailed breakup of over 34.8 lakh migrants who returned to the state during lockdown. According to the data, a maximum of 18 lakh migrants are unskilled, followed by 11.2 lakh who were found to be fit for being engaged in construction works. Likewise, 86,000 migrants were found to be skilled in painting and coating works. In case of agricultural activities, at least 77,468 migrants were found fit while 73,885 were found to be skilled in the art of weaving and carpet making. The government mapped migrants in 30 categories which included automobile, furniture and fitting, electronics and hardware, capital goods, tourism and hospitality, pipe fitting (plumbing), domestic help, beauticians, jewellery and mining. It also mapped 8,671 migrants who possessed IT skills and 8,132 migrants who had the know-how of banking and finance. Likewise, 488 were found to be fit for media and entertainment and 987 were good at sports. Singh stressed on the inclusion of migrant labourers in various schemes devised at district level by the skill development committee. Also, the migrants will be included in employment fairs organised by UP Skill Development Mission. He said the progress of training for migrants need to be tracked for which the skill development department may amend its training nomination form to include the category of ‘migrant labourers’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-train-unskilled-migrantworkers-to-make-them-job-ready/articleshow/79768936.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab ignoring railway confirmation requests, HC told||CHANDIGARH: The railway authorities have claimed that the Punjab government is not paying any heed to their requests regarding confirmation to enable them to resume passengers and goods services trains on the Beas-Amritsar section through Jandiala railway station. According to the railway officials, protesters are still present on railway premises at several areas. These assertions were made by the railway authorities before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday through a report filed by Vimal Kalra, senior divisional operations manager, Northern Railway, Ambala Cantt. According to the report, the general manager, Northern Railway, approached the Punjab chief secretary on December 3, seeking confirmation about the restoration of passenger train services through Jandiala so that checking of the section and resumption of the service can be carried out and goods and passengers train services could be resumed at the earliest. Getting no response, a reminder was also sent on December 9, seeking confirmation so as to enable the railways to resume its services on the Beas-Amritsar section through Jandiala railway station. “It is humbly prayed that the state of Punjab may kindly be directed to accord the necessary confirmation and to clear the agitators from railway premises, guarantee security for free run for all trains, including freight and passenger, to and through the state of Punjab and also to maintain law and order in railway premises,” the Railways has submitted. The railway authorities also requested directions to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, to clear the railway premises. The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of several petitions filed pertaining to the farmers agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-ignoring-rly-confirmation-requests-hc-told/articleshow/79767742.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Chennai||NHAI collects half the toll fee, but only after cops intervene||Chennai: National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has started collecting half the toll amount at Sriperumbudur and Walajapet toll plazas from Tuesday. A police complaint was filed based on a TOI report (on Monday), which highlighted that NHAI violated Madras high court’s direction and was collecting full toll fee from users. HC had last week penalised NHAI for poor maintenance of the 93-km highway stretch between Poonamallee and Walajapet along the Chennai-Bengaluru Highway (NH48/ Old NH4) and directed both the toll plazas to collect only 50% of user fee till December 21. Soon after the police complaint, toll booth employees and NHAI officials were summoned to the Sriperumbudur police station. The officials gave a oral submission to comply with the court order and and agreed to paste the slashed rates at both locations, after which they were let go. The complainant, S Yuvaraj from Tamil Nadu Truckers’ Association, said, “A central government organisation such as NHAI is expected to take the court direction seriously. They can’t expect the public to approach police every time to get court orders implemented”. The core issue of bad roads, however, is yet to be resolved. Most parts of Poonamallee-Walajapet Highway is riddled with potholes and there are not enough sign boards to warn motorists about traffic diversions, Yuvaraj added. NHAI’s status report submitted to HC confirms that at least 40 or more parts of the said highway had potholes or reported frequent water stagnation during rain. When asked about this, project implementation unit of NHAI, Kancheepuram, said 70% of maintenance work was completed but refused to share the specifics on money spent towards the repair and other aspects. In 2013, it was proposed to make the stretch a six-way road by now with 50 bridges. But delay in work has resulted in 460 or more accidents every year. NHAI neither had a satisfying response to other questions raised by the HC pertaining to planting of shrubs along the median and trees on road sides. Rules stipulate that the NHAI plant 10 trees for each tree felled for the road construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nhai-collects-half-the-toll-fee-but-only-after-cops-intervene/articleshow/79767776.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Two booked for killing labourer||Rajkot: Two persons were booked on suspicion of killing a young labourer in Bhadiyad village in Morbi taluka on Tuesday. After the body of Manoj Parmar (20) was found from behind a factory on the outskirts of the village, police booked Raisang Amarsang and his son-in-law Balram Adivasi as the duo was last seen with the deceased. Family members of the deceased told the police that on Monday evening both accused had come to Parmar’s house on a bike and asked him to accompany them. The bike belonged to labour contractor Karansinh. “After Parmar did not return till the next morning, his father Madhusinh started searching for him, when another labourer informed him that Parmar's body was seen lying on a mound of sand behind the factory. Karansinh’s bike was also parked at the spot. As Madhusinh gave the names of Raisang and Adivasi as suspects, we booked both of them and are searching for them as the duo has gone absconding,” said A A Jadeja, sub-inspector with Morbi taluka police station.Parmar body bore wounds inflicted by sharp-edged weapons on the face and chest. “We will be able to get a clear picture only once the accused duo gets arrested,” Jadeja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-booked-for-killing-labourer/articleshow/79765678.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||Rs 3,500-cr sop to sugar mills may help clear farmers’ dues||NEW DELHI: The Cabinet on Wednesday approved Rs 3,500 crore subsidy to sugar mills for export of 60 lakh tonnes of the sweetener during the ongoing marketing year 2020-21 with the objective to help them clear outstanding dues of sugarcane farmers. This subsidy of nearly Rs 6 per kg will also help the industry liquidate stocks worth Rs 18,000 crore in the next 10-12 months over and above sales domestically. The government claimed the decision will benefit nearly five crore sugarcane growers as they will get subsidy directly into their accounts at a time when the government is trying to convince farmers protesting against the farm laws of its commitment to their welfare. “Industries availing this subsidy, which have cane payment due to farmers, will have to clear the arrears first,” an official said.The Rs 6 export subsidy has been fixed considering the international price of the sweetener, which is around Rs 25 a kg. The minimum sale price set by the government is Rs 31. Welcoming the decision, home minister Amit Shah tweeted, “This will benefit five crore sugarcane farmers and five lakh employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-3500-cr-sop-to-sugar-mills-may-help-clear-farmers-dues/articleshow/79769875.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||RT-PCR tests in dist: Weekly positivity rate falls below 5%||Thiruvananthapuram: The weekly positivity rate of RT-PCR tests in the district went below 5% in the first two weeks of December. It is for the first time since July that the rate went below 5%. The positivity rates of RT-PCR tests in the first two weeks of December have been 4.4 and 4.2% respectively. Any rate below 5% is indicative of low levels of disease transmission. RT-PCR positivity rate in the district peaked to 9.2% in the third week of July and went as high as 17.9% by the third week of August. In the following months, it tended to dip slightly and post Onam, the graph peaked again to touch 17.5% by the fourth week of September. It was from the middle of October that RT PCR test positivity rate began to come down in the district. The rate has been below 7% since the second week of November which has reflected dip in transmission. The low RT-PCR positivity rates have been reported in December with the highest number of RT PCR tests. Between first and second week of December, 30,069 RT-PCR tests were done in the district and it yielded 1,290 positives. Antigen tests, which have far outnumbered RT-PCR tests in the district, have also shown a declining trend in terms of positivity rates. Weekly antigen test positivity rate of district has dropped from 18.8 to 7.8% between September and December. The drop has been steady since November as TPR of antigen tests came down from 14% to 7.8% by the second week of December. While the RT-PCR positivity rate dropped below 5% in the district, the total weekly positivity rate has dropped to 6.3%. Since July, when community transmission swept coastal stretches in the district, the positivity rate grew from 4.5% to 17.6%.  Since the first week of November, the rate has touched below 10% and has slowly been on the downward slide. Officials hope that without any other peak, the total positivity rate could easily come down below 5% in the district. The evident dip in weekly test positivity rates comes as a huge relief for the district which was handling above 500 daily cases for three-four months. The test positivity rate, which had always been a concern for the district, recorded 10.37% by the first week of November, which was even lower than the state’s TPR of 10.98%.  The TPR of district had swayed between alarming scales; 13-19% during that period. The weekly positivity rate in the district rose from 13.3% in the first week of September to 17.6% by the month end. As many as 24,411 cases were detected in five weeks out of 1,55,342 tests which were done in September. Over 1.6 lakh samples were tested in October in first four weeks itself and the weekly positivity rate ranged between 13.7% and 16.8%. Right from the first week of October which recorded the highest number of samples tested for a week so far, positivity rate had dropped slightly from 17%. Meanwhile, there has been a sharp dip in testing in government sector. Since the first week of October, testing in government sector dropped from 60.2% to 39.7%. In the same period, testing in private sector has gone from 39.8% to 60.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rt-pcr-tests-in-dist-weekly-positivity-rate-falls-below-5/articleshow/79760384.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Amritsar-bound trains continued to remain short terminated||LUDHIANA: In a setback for rail passengers of the city and state, majority of trains for Amritsar still remain short terminated or cancelled for the time being. The railways while citing the farmers’ agitation and blockage of the tracks on this route is keeping at least five trains short terminated, two cancelled and at least four diverted. On Tuesday as well, the railways has released orders regarding the same. Giving more information, a spokesperson of the railways said, “Due to the farmers’ agitation in Punjab several trains shall remain cancelled, short terminated, short originated and diverted. The 05211 Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express special train, the journey commencing date of which was December 15, will remain cancelled. Consequently, the 05212 Amritsar-Dibrugarh special train scheduled to run from December 18 will also remain cancelled. The 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar Express special train, which was to run from December 16, will also remain cancelled. The 09612 Amritsar-Ajmer special train, the journey commencing date was December 17, will not run. The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express, the journey commencing date of which was December 16, will be short terminated at New Delhi. The 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Express, the journey commencing date of which was December 18, will short originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled.” Meanwhile, residents and businessmen are disappointed over such a large number of trains not running. Speaking on the issue, Kishore Kapoor, an accountant, said, “We provide consultancy services to clients in other cities too and once in a week I get to travel to Amritsar for the same. I always prefer train for travelling to that city as not only it’s faster than other modes, but cheaper as well. But due to non-movement of trains now, I have to use my car to travel to Amritsar, which is proving very costly.” Nitin Sharma, executive member of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, said, “Hindrance in movement of trains to and from Amritsar is causing huge problems not only to normal passengers, but to businessmen who have to book their parcels on the passenger trains. According to railways, the problem in running the trains on this sector is blockage of the tracks near Amritsar by farmers. It is our request to the farmers’ organisations that they should clear the tracks if they have blocked these anywhere as people are facing huge problems due to non-running of the trains to and from Amritsar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amritsar-bound-trains-continued-to-remain-short-terminated/articleshow/79766642.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Absconder in 1.3 tonne gold smuggling case arrested||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch on Wednesday held one of the five accused declared absconders in a COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) case. The case involves 1,300 kg of gold smuggling being investigated by the Customs department. Bhargav Kanu Tanti of Nikol and hailing from Amreli had been tracked and held 15 days ago, but as he tested Covid positive, his formal arrest was delayed till discharge from hospital. ACP, crime branch, D P Chudasama said that after testing Covid negative, Tanti was brought to Ahmedabad and handed over to Krishnanagar police on Wednesday, where the authorities had deposited his warrant. Crime branch sources said that from 2013 to 2018 the accused had made about 46 trips to Dubai and smuggled the gold through Ahmedabad International Airport into the city. “All accused in the case were served notices by the Customs department to remain present before them but they did not and hence the deputy secretary of Customs in New Delhi communicated with city police chief Sanjaya Srivastava to nab the absconders,” added Chudasama. Chudasama said a team led by inspector A Y Baloch learned that Tanti was at his native place in Amreli. “We sent a team to village Ingroda in Khamba Taluka of Amreli and found Tanti at his house,” Chudasama said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/absconder-in-1-3-tonne-gold-smuggling-case-arrested/articleshow/79766651.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Collector’s office continues to ignore nazul land violations||Nagpur: After ignoring brazen violations and misuse of state government-owned nazul lands for decades, the office of district collector also failed to take action within deadline on 12 associations that, according to a committee set up by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, had violated the norms of the land. The office did not even send notices to these associations 50 days after having received report of the committee. Sources in collector office told TOI that nazul department was again studying terms and conditions of lease of these 12 associations instead of acting on recommendations of HC-appointed committee. Collector Ravindra Thakare assured to verify from nazul department and get back. Later, he did not respond to TOI’s call and messages. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar in 2017 had raised the issue of violations on nazul lands and inaction from collector office. In a suo motu PIL related to Kasturchand Park, amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar brought up the issue to the notice of HC which directed collector to file an affidavit. On September 26, 2017, collector filed an affidavit in HC informing violations on 12 of 113 nazul lands. But it did not initiate any action. On October 11, 2017, the HC had appointed three-member committee comprising Bhandarkar, chartered accountant Suren Durugkar and a representative from collector office. “Office of the collector shall examine it (committee’s report) and take necessary remedial steps within next six weeks,” HC had ordered. Circle officer Rajesh Dethe was appointed by collector office. The committee verified all documents, held hearings of 12 associations and submitted report with Thakare and HC on October 27. Bhandarkar told TOI that failure of collector office to act on committee’s report within six weeks is contempt of HC orders. The report has been filed for immediate action. “Delay means causing loss to state’s exchequer by collectorate as it is supposed to recover 25% of total earnings of the associations and also take other steps as per bylaws,” he said. Wadpalliwar said, “Stringent action should be taken against collectorate officials. It was their responsibility to conserve nazul lands and ensure no misuse. All these lands are situated near collector’s office and no step was taken to prevent their misuse. It is clear that there is nexus between the collectorate officials and leaseholders.” The committee in the report has stated nazul lands were allotted for sports, cultural and social activities at a nominal rate. 12 associations are using major parts of the lands commercially and making money. The committee recommended stopping of activities other than those allowed in lease and penal action under Section 406 and 420 of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collectors-office-continues-to-ignore-nazul-land-violations/articleshow/79766647.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha cases under 1k for 13th day in a row in Dec||Nagpur: Of the 6,100 RT-PCR tests conducted for Covid-19 in Nagpur district on Tuesday-Wednesday, only 7% have come positive. This also helped keep the tally of entire Vidarbha to just under 1,000-mark at 942 for 13th day in a row this month. Two Covid patients from the city and one from outstation succumbed while no death was reported from rural parts of Nagpur district. Vidarbha reported total nine casualties on Wednesday from six districts. Deaths were reported from Nagpur (3), Chandrapur (1), Gadchiroli (2), Akola (1), Amravati (1), Yavatmal (1), taking for toll to 6,338. No death was reported from Bhandara, Wardha, Gondia, Buldhana and Washim. In fact, Washim has reported just four deaths in the last 30 days and continues to report lowest number of cases and recoveries in Vidarbha. The new cases came from Nagpur (436), Bhandara (67), Wardha (37), Gondia (38), Chandrapur (100), Gadchiroli (52), Akola (52), Amravati (65), Yavatmal (33), Buldhana (46) and Washim (16), taking the region’s caseload to 2,41,203. The day also saw 765 patients recovering in Vidarbha with Nagpur reporting 231, Bhandara (63), Wardha (30), Gondia (53), Chandrapur (98), Gadchiroli (56), Akola (17), Amravati (70), Yavatmal (31), Buldhana (106) and Washim (10). This took the total recoveries to 2,24,674. Now, the region has 10,192 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: With two Covid death reported on Wednesday, the district’s toll increased to 94. Caseload increased to 8,650 with addition of 52 cases while 56 recoveries were reported, taking the total to 8,193. Now, the district has 363 active cases. Washim: The district reported 16 cases, lowest for the day in Vidarbha, while 10 patients got discharge. The new cases took the tally to 6,477, recoveries increased to 6,055 while toll remains 148. Now, there 273 active cases. Buldhana: No Covid death took place while 46 new cases and 106 recoveries were reported on Wednesday. According to official data, the district now has 11,944 cases, 11,510 recoveries, 144 deaths and 290 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported 67 new cases and 63 recoveries on Wednesday. The district has 567 active cases. Total caseload is 11,721 and recovery count is 10,877. The virus has claimed 277 lives in the district so far. Gondia: The district witnessed 30 recoveries and 37 new cases on Wednesday, while 283 patients are under treatment. New cases took the tally to 13,197. The district has seen 174 deaths while 12,740 patients have recovered so far. Akola: The district reported 52 new cases, 17 recoveries and one death on Wednesday. The caseload climbed to 9,980. So far, 306 people have died of Covid here. With new recoveries, the tally touched 8,986. Now, there are 688 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-cases-under-1k-for-13th-day-in-a-row-in-dec/articleshow/79766641.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 17, 2020||Agra||PM to be chief guest at event marking 100 years of AMU||AGRA: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the chief guest at celebrations marking 100 years of Aligarh Muslim University, one of the country’s oldest varsities, on December 22. “A centenary is a landmark in the history of any university … The entire AMU community and I are grateful to the PM for accepting our invitation,” vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor told TOI on Wednesday. “The PM’s presence at this historic event will be immensely helpful to the growth and development of the university and placement of our students.” Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will also be attending, he added. The last time a sitting prime minister attended an event at the university was in 1964, when Lal Bahadur Shastri delivered the convocation address. It does come with a change of plans though. AMU officials had earlier told TOI that President Ram Nath Kovind would be attending the centenary celebrations. Now, however, he has deferred his plan and will be attending in February 2021. All events will be held online, given the Covid-19 restrictions in place. A senior AMU official told TOI that the PM’s presence would “send a strong message to BJP functionaries who keep attacking the institution.” AMU protests against CAA had led to a backlash last year. Its scholars have been vocal against cases of violence against women in UP and in favour of the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. The VC did not share the itinerary for December 22, but sources said the PM may inaugurate the newly constructed campus gate, release a postal stamp and a commemorative coffee table book, and attend the burial of a ‘time capsule’ with AMU memorabilia. Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental College was set up in 1875 by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, along the lines of what he saw at Oxford and Cambridge. In 1920, it was renamed Aligarh Muslim University and was formally inaugurated as a university on December 17 by then VC Mohammad Ali Mohammad Khan, the Raja Saheb of Mahmudabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pm-to-be-chief-guest-at-event-marking-100-years-of-amu/articleshow/79765684.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 17, 2020||Goa||Serendipity fest unveils digital avatar||Panaji: The Serendipity Arts Festival (SAF) this year is being presented this year as the Serendipity Arts Virtual in view of the ongoing pandemic. In the digital avatar, which went live on Monday and has free access to registered users, the festival programme can be viewed at a specially-designed website, serendipityartsvirtual.com. Founder patron of the Serendipity Arts foundation, Sunil Kant Munjal, said, “Opportunities are often disguised as challenges and we have used the pandemic to grow, evolve and wholeheartedly embrace the digital medium. Several artists, creative collaborators and coders were involved in putting together this exciting marriage of art and technology and we are grateful to each of them. Thanks to Serendipity Arts Virtual, we now have a wonderful vehicle that allows art to contemporize, express itself freely, and reach out to a much wider audience.” The website for the arts festival will be kept live beyond December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/serendipity-fest-unveils-digital-avatar/articleshow/79767775.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||GFP disbands Ponda block, expels party member||Ponda: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Tuesday said it has expelled its party member from Ponda Rajesh Verekar, while the latter claimed he tendered his resignation from the party’s membership. GFP chief Vijai Sardesai has, however, said that the Ponda block of the party stands dissolved. Sardesai said the party had received some complaints that Verekar had worked against the party interest during the recent zilla panchayat elections that were held on Saturday. “Following the complaints, the party had decided to sack him and the expulsion is as per the party decision”, Sardesai said. Verekar, however, claimed that he has tendered his resignation immediately after Sardesai had levelled allegations against him while speaking to mediapersons. GFP had also put out a message on its social media handles that Verekar has been expelled from the party. “If the party was supposed to dissolve Ponda block, what made them expel me soon after my resignation. Expulsion tweet is just a farce. If the party had complaints against me, it should have asked for a clarification from me. But without asking any cause, they reached a decision. This was a sign that the party had no confidence in me and because of this I decided to resign from GFP,” Verekar said. Local observers said Verekar may be inclined towards Congress, after the national party’s incumbent Ponda MLA Ravi Naik’s sons joined BJP recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-disbands-ponda-block-expels-party-member/articleshow/79768943.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ponmudi likely to be opened for tourists on Saturday||Thiruvananthapuram: Ponmudi hill station, one of the favourite destinations of domestic tourists in the district, will most likely be reopened on December 19, Saturday. The decision in this regard was taken by an executive committee of Ponmudi Vana Samrakshana Samthi (VSS) that met here on Sunday. The decision will become final once it is approved by the divisional forest officer (DFO). The minutes of the meeting has been forwarded to the DFO for approval. Ponmudi upper sanatorium has been lying closed to domestic tourists ever since the nation-wide lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic came in effect in March this year. Even though it was opened to tourists a few weeks ago, the entry was restricted to those who book rooms in the Golden Peak Hill Resort here under KTDC. According to forest officials, the entry to the upper sanatorium will be allowed under strict regulations. The hill station will be open from 8am to 6pm.  Entry will be blocked after 4pm. The maximum time an individual or group can spend at the upper sanatorium has been restricted to two hours. Palode forest range officer B Ajithkumar, under whose limits Ponmudi hill station comes under, said that the time limit has been introduced to avoid overcrowding. “As this is the favourite tourist destination of many and people have been requesting through social media to reopen it, we anticipate a huge turnout of domestic tourists when it is opened,” said the officer. The tourists have to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols. People are requested not to bring along those under vulnerable categories, which are children below the age of 10 and senior citizens above the age of 60. People must carry hand sanitizers with them. When the parking area at the upper sanatorium becomes full, a message will be passed to the officials at Golden Valley check post near Kallar on the foot of Ponmudi hills to block the incoming tourists so that there would not be any congestion on the winding road leading to the top. The officer added that regulations were less likely to dampen the experience of the tourists as it was a very vast space and huge number of people can easily spend time there at the same time maintaining a safe distance from one another. From Monday onwards the forest officials and VSS will commence works of preparing the parking lots here. It is estimated that around 250 to 300 light motor vehicles can be parked at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ponmudi-likely-to-be-opened-for-tourists-on-saturday/articleshow/79760406.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Cabinet OKs 1-wk assembly session||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to summon a one-week session of the Goa legislative assembly from January 25. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the budget session, which will be held later, will be of longer duration. The last session of the Goa legislative assembly, which was to be held for two week, was curtailed to one day — July 27 — owing to the pandemic. The state budget was passed amid noisy scenes as members of the opposition were upset that the adjournment motion moved by the leader of the opposition, Digambar Kamat, was rejected by speaker Rajesh Patnekar. As the state witnessed a spike in Covid infections then, the opposition wanted to discuss the pandemic situation, keeping aside regular business of the day. The speaker had not allowed their request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-oks-1-wk-assembly-session/articleshow/79767798.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Rajewal trying to weaken farmers’ agitation: Bittu||LUDHIANA: A day after Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal courted controversy with his remarks on Nishan Sahib and Nihang Singhs, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu on Wednesday alleged that Rajewal is playing into the hands of the central government and trying to weaken the farmers’ movement. In a strange request to the youth, who are protesting along with the farmers at the Delhi borders, Bittu asked them to keep a watch on the movements of farmer leaders. Bittu said, “It is clear that he (Rajewal) has been indoctrinated by some people, in whose hands he is playing. That is the reason he went on to attack his own religion and his people by making absurd comments. Rajewal should explain how a sacred religious symbol like Nishan Sahib poses any threat to anyone. Be it car, bike or tractor, this sacred symbol is used everywhere in Punjab. How can someone make such a statement about it? I am sure that such statements can’t be made by a Punjabi or a Sikh and that there is someone else behind such ideology.” He further said, “Moreover, what problem Rajewal or anyone else can have due to the presence of Nihang Sikhs, who are the forces of our revered gurus? Who is Rajewal to question them and how dare he ask them to leave the dharna spot? By such acts, Rajewal has embarrassed Punjabis and Sikhs and clearly proved that something fishy is going on.” He appealed to the youth camping at the borders that in order to save this movement, a close watch on leaders like Rajewal should be kept. “I urge them all to follow these leaders secretly wherever they go, check whom they meet… Only then we will come to know about the people behind these so-called leaders. I also want to tell the protesting farmers that they still have time to make this movement stronger and achieve the results they want. But, for this, they need to come and join us in our agitation at Jantar Mantar rather than getting fooled by some leaders, who are misleading them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rajewal-trying-to-weaken-farmers-agitation-bittu/articleshow/79766653.cms||Mohit Behl
December 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Man rapes 28-year-old woman after offering her lift||RAJKOT: A man was detained on Wednesday for the alleged rape of a woman in Mitana village of Tankara taluka in Morbi district on Sunday night. Another person who aided the accused in the crime was also booked. Police said the accused, Urvesh Patel, had allegedly raped the 28-year-old woman after giving her a lift on his bike. The survivor, who is from Thane near Mumbai, is into event management in Rajkot. She had gone to Tankara on Sunday. From Tankara she had hired a private vehicle which dropped her at Mitana chowkadi. "As she was waiting for a vehicle to go to Rajkot, the accused duo arrived on a bike and offered her a lift to Rajkot. Trusting them, the woman sat on the bike. The accused then drove the bike into a farm where Patel allegedly raped her, while his accomplice stood guard. After committing the crime, the accused duo left the survivor at the spot and sped away," said an official from the Tankara police station. After coming to Rajkot, the survivor developed pain in her private parts and she went to a gynecologist. When she told the gynecologist that she was raped, the gynecologist told her to shed her inhibitions and approach the police. "As the accused had exchanged their cellphone numbers with the survivor, we were able to trace and nab Patel on the basis of his number," added the official, while refusing to divulge the identity of the co-accused, citing secrecy of the investigation. Patel has been detained at present. He will be formally arrested after undergoing the mandatory Covid-19 test. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-rapes-28-year-old-woman-after-offering-her-lift/articleshow/79765707.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Ex-post facto nod for Covid purchases||Panaji: The state cabinet has granted ex-post facto approval towards the purchase of 5,000 cartridges along with accessories for Covid testing using a TrueNat machine installed in Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim. The cartridges of Rs 61.6 lakh were brought from M/s Tapascharya Enterprises Pvt Ltd, an authorised dealer of M/s Molbio Diagnostic Pvt Ltd. A government official said that the purchases were made a few months ago and prior approval was not obtained then in view of urgency and paucity of time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Similarly, an ex-post facto approval has been given towards the purchase of 3072, the Abbott Real Time SARS-CoV-2 kits for PCR system which were procured on an urgent basis for the virology laboratory of GMC. The purchases worth Rs 59.7 lakh were made from Tapascharya Enterprises, which is the authorised distributor for M/s Abbott Healthcare Pvt Ltd. The purchases were made a few months ago and prior approval was not obtained then in view of urgency and paucity of time due to the pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-post-facto-nod-for-covid-purchases/articleshow/79767809.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Chandigarh||At Tikri, widows from Punjab narrate hardships of life on the farm & in debt||BATHINDA: Pain was visible on their wrinkled faces as they spoke of their miseries for the first time on a stage outside Punjab. Women, whose husbands had committed suicide due to farm debt, on Wednesday narrated their tales of woes to people gathered at the farmers’ agitation on the Tikri border of Haryana and Delhi. Harjinder Kaur (52) from Pandori village in Barnala district, whose husband Lakhwinder Singh committed suicide as he failed to pay his debt, said the family had already sold little over two acres of land before he took the extreme step. After his suicide, Harjinder mortgaged the home, but she still owes nearly Rs 4 lakh. While her two daughters are married, her sons are unemployed with just a handful of landholding left to till. “I too wanted to kill myself, but there would have been no one to take care of my four children. I survived, but our life is miserable,” said Harjinder. Sarabjit Kaur of Bhattiwal Kalan village and Angrej Kaur of Gurthari village had similar stories. Angrej, who has three kids and no means of livelihood as the family had sold its small landholding of 1 acre, said she had nothing to feed her kids. “ I hope when we are at the national capital, the government will listen to us and provide some assistance,” she said. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) women’s wing head Harinder Kaur Bindu told TOI that every widow had her own tale of woes. “The organisation requested these underprivileged widows and men who have lost their fathers or sons to mounting debt, to come at Delhi border so that the entire country could see how the agrarian crisis has ruined lives of thousands of families in Punjab, which otherwise is a prosperous land in the eyes of the outer world. We want PM Narendra Modi’s government to see all this and do justice with farmers,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/at-tikri-widows-from-punjab-narrate-hardships-of-life-on-the-farm-in-debt/articleshow/79767803.cms||Neel Kamal
December 17, 2020||Amritsar||‘How many should die before you act?’||BATHINDA: Bathinda MP and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Wednesday again hit out at the Centre for scrapping the winter session of Parliament, stating it was running away from its responsibility to resolve the grievances of farmers by not repealing the three recent farm laws. . She asked the Centre how many more farmers should be martyred before the government listened to them. She also demanded a special one-day session to repeal the laws. In a statement on Wednesday, the MP said the government knew it could not face people on the issue and that was why it had “invented” the excuse of Covid-19 to cancel thewinter session. Terming the move as murder of democracy, she said MPs had been denied an opportunity to raise a voice for farmers. “Farmers are suffering in biting cold and parliamentarians want to put pressure on the government to repeal the laws,” she said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/how-many-should-die-before-you-act/articleshow/79767804.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rickshaw gang robs Isro engineer of Rs 25,000 from e-wallet||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old scientist engineer with Isro (Indian Space Research Organization), Kautubh Datar, lodged a complaint at Narol police station on Tuesday alleging that he was robbed of Rs 25,000, through his e-wallet, when he was travelling from Narol Crossroads to SG Road in a shared autorickshaw on Saturday. According to the FIR, the three other passengers in the vehicle forced him to open his e-wallet on his mobile. They then called someone and provided the details of the bank account linked to his e-wallet. After some time, Rs 25,000 was siphoned off from his bank account. The three men then got off, while the rickshaw driver dropped him off on the road leading from Sarkhej to Vishala Circle and left. The three men also took his wallet, which had Rs 1,000 in cash. According to the complaint, Datar, a resident of Green Residency on Sanand Road, had gone to the Swami Samarth Temple in Narol and boarded the rickshaw on his way back. “According to the complainant, when he got in there was one other passenger in the vehicle. After a while, two others arrived on a scooter, parked it and then got into the auto. All three then forced him to open his e-wallet,” said a police official. The FIR says that as the next day was Sunday, the complainant went to the bank to cancel the transactions but the money had already been transferred to another account. The bank authorities told him to lodge an FIR, which he did on Tuesday. We are hunting for the accused based on the account into which the money was transferred,” said a Narol police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rickshaw-gang-robs-isro-engineer-of-rs-25k-from-e-wallet/articleshow/79766682.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||PM Cares: HC asks addl SG to file reply||Nagpur: Seeking transparency in the utilization of funds in ‘Prime Minister Cares Fund’ (PM Cares), petitioner’s advocate Arvind Waghmare informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that there is no mechanism in the state of Delhi before whom the grievances can be put forward. The HC has sought a reply from additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who was unable to reach Nagpur on Wednesday due to other legal commitments. Waghmare said, “All trusts are governed under some Acts and the mechanism which oversees them is run through the charity commissioners’ office. PM Cares Fund is based out of Delhi, and we found that no such Act exists there under which we can air our grievances.” He said the bench headed by justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor had asked the additional SG to file a reply by January 9 when the next hearing has been set. The petitioner had prayed before the court that there was no transparency in handling the funds in PM Cares. Waghmare said, “We had earlier been directed to approach the authorities concerned, so that the proper channel is followed. We found out that only five states have a proper mechanism to deal with such issues, and Delhi is not one of them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pm-cares-hc-asks-addl-sg-to-file-reply/articleshow/79766658.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Water pumping stn at Savoi Verem soon||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to the construction of a barrage and raw water pumping station at Muridwada, the upgradation of Shitole tank at Savoi Verem for irrigation and a water treatment plant to supply drinking water to Savio Verem and Querim in Ponda. The neighbouring villages of Priol constituency will also benefit from the proposed project. “Verem, Vargurme, Querim, Priol and surrounding villages in Ponda are located on higher elevation inhabited mostly by tribals. People here have difficulties in sourcing water ,” an official said. The tender was renegotiated by the chief engineer as instructed by the Goa State Works Board last month. The offer of M/s PRN Infratech, Hubbali, which stands at 88.3 crore has been accepted by the cabinet. It is 8.42% above the justified amount of Rs 81.4 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/water-pumping-stn-at-savoi-verem-soon/articleshow/79767858.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beaten after threats from lenders||Ahmedabad: Four alleged loan sharks attacked a Ghatlodia resident on Monday night who filed a complaint against his assailants on Tuesday. Police said Kalubha Jhala (39) had taken Rs 85,000 at 5% monthly interest from the accused in February 2018. Jhala, a taxi driver, states in his FIR lodged with Sola police station that he had taken Rs 75,000 from Arvind Patel from Chandlodia and Rs 10,000 from Shankar Desai and his son Praveen Desai. He had taken money from both of them at 5% monthly interest which he had paid until March this year before the lockdown was imposed. Jhala said that he could not do his business due to the lockdown and suffered losses due to which he could not pay the interest. He alleged that the money lenders began threatening him. On Monday, four unidentified goons approached him in Chandlodia and attacked him with iron rods and sticks. Jhala has been admitted to Sola Civil Hospital where he is being treated in the emergency ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-after-threats-from-lenders/articleshow/79766699.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP CM Jagan Reddy bats for revised cost of Polavaram project||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy renewed his request for approval of the revised cost of the Polavaram project. The chief minister met Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on Wednesday. The chief minister presented a copy of the Polavaram project report to the Union minister. The revised cost of the project is estimated at Rs 55,656 crore. The chief minister also explained the number of families that will be rehabilitated under the resettlement package of the project. He told the Union minister that the number of families has increased from 44,574 in 2005-06 to 1,06,006 families in 2020. With the increase in number of families over the years, the number of houses too, have increased, the chief minister said, and explained the need to provide houses for all families in the resettlement package. The chief minister spoke about the increased cost of the resettlement and rehabilitation package of the project from 2005 to 2020 and requested the Union minister to consider the proposal positively. The chief minister also informed the Union minister that the Centre is yet to reimburse Rs 1,779 crore to the state as the amount already spent on the project by the government. The bills have been submitted to the central government, he said, and requested the Union minister to clear the bills at the earliest. The chief minister also emphasised that any delay in the works would see escalation of prices, which would be a burden on the state and central governments. The chief minister also informed the Union minister about his visit to the project site this week and his assessment of progress of the work. The chief minister had reportedly submitted a fact sheet on the progress of works at the project site. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office told TOI the Union minister had responded positively to the presentation by the chief minister. The Union minister also informed the chief minister that he would send a senior delegation from the ministry to visit the state, particularly the Polavaram project site. Union Jal Shakti ministry advisor Sriram Vedire met the chief minister, who requested Vedire to visit the state to study its water projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cm-bats-for-revised-cost-of-polavaram-project/articleshow/79776292.cms||Gopi Dara
December 17, 2020||Goa||24x7 power after Tamnar project: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the Tamnar power transmission project is a requirement for uninterrupted power supply to all parts of the state. “There are some parts of the state that do not get 24x7 power supply. The government tried to implement a solar power scheme, but just 29 people have availed the benefit so far even as the government is giving 50% subsidy,” said Sawant speaking to reporters on Wednesday. At present, industries are not getting power supply without interruptions, he said, trying to justify the project which has kicked off a controversy as it is passing through the Mollem wildlife sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/24x7-power-after-tamnar-project-cm/articleshow/79767873.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Nagpur||OECD body accepts complaint by Yavatmal pesticide poisoning victims||Nagpur: After the kin of two persons who died of pesticide poisonings of 2017 in Yavatmal filed a case in a Swiss court against pesticide multinational Syngenta, the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) national contact point (NCP), also in Switzerland, has accepted another complaint against the company on Wednesday. This was stated by a group of NGOs that were pursuing the case on behalf of survivors of pesticide poisoning in Yavatmal that left many hundreds dead. The case and the complaint have been filed in Switzerland as it is also the home country of Syngenta, which operates in India too. A number of victims of the accidental pesticide poisoning were found using Polo, a brand made by Syngenta. Other brands were named in the cases too. The acceptance of complaint by OECD-NCP opens the door for negotiations between the two parties in which the aggrieved persons can seek compensation from the company. The acceptance also indicates there is merit in the case and it can be heard further, said a source in the NGO that pursued the matter. The complaint was filed in September and the acceptance has come now after the due diligence was done. The case in Swiss court too was filed in September this year. OECD is an inter-governmental body with 37 members. The complaint was filed on behalf of 51 affected families on September 12 by the Maharashtra Association of Pesticide Poisoned Persons (MAPP) together with Pesticide Action Network India (PAN India) and Asia Pacific (PAN- AP), the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights and Public Eye, a release issued by them said. Wednesday’s decision may not be a recognition that Syngenta has violated the OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises but does conclude that the issues raised in the complaint merit further consideration. It is time for Syngenta to come to the table, said the press release. Narsihma Reddy of PAN-India told TOI that like the two widows who had filed the case in the Swiss court, names of these 51 survivors have not been revealed for security reasons. The NGO had surveyed the villages and held health camps during last three years on the basis of which the victims could be identified. “These persons survived but suffered serious health complications due to the accidental inhalation of pesticides. Most common is photosensitivity, which hamper hampers vision in daylight. As they have to work in the day, it has affected their livelihood too,” said Reddy. He said the case was not filed in India even as there were domestic companies’ pesticides found being used by the victims because the Indian laws do not call for providing compensation by pesticide companies. NGOs are demanding the new pesticide law should have the clause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oecd-body-accepts-complaint-by-yavatmal-pesticide-poisoning-victims/articleshow/79766694.cms||Shishir Arya
December 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP CM Jagan Reddy bats for revised cost of Polavaram project||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy renewed his request for approval of the revised cost of the Polavaram project. The chief minister met Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on Wednesday. The chief minister presented a copy of the Polavaram project report to the Union minister. The revised cost of the project is estimated at Rs 55,656 crore. The chief minister also explained the number of families that will be rehabilitated under the resettlement package of the project. He told the Union minister that the number of families has increased from 44,574 in 2005-06 to 1,06,006 families in 2020. With the increase in number of families over the years, the number of houses too, have increased, the chief minister said, and explained the need to provide houses for all families in the resettlement package. The chief minister spoke about the increased cost of the resettlement and rehabilitation package of the project from 2005 to 2020 and requested the Union minister to consider the proposal positively. The chief minister also informed the Union minister that the Centre is yet to reimburse Rs 1,779 crore to the state as the amount already spent on the project by the government. The bills have been submitted to the central government, he said, and requested the Union minister to clear the bills at the earliest. The chief minister also emphasised that any delay in the works would see escalation of prices, which would be a burden on the state and central governments. The chief minister also informed the Union minister about his visit to the project site this week and his assessment of progress of the work. The chief minister had reportedly submitted a fact sheet on the progress of works at the project site. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office told TOI the Union minister had responded positively to the presentation by the chief minister. The Union minister also informed the chief minister that he would send a senior delegation from the ministry to visit the state, particularly the Polavaram project site. Union Jal Shakti ministry advisor Sriram Vedire met the chief minister, who requested Vedire to visit the state to study its water projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-bats-for-revised-cost-of-polavaram-project/articleshow/79765713.cms||Gopi Dara
December 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmer dies, cop injured while on way to Delhi||PATIALA: A 42-year-old farmer from Hoshiarpur district died in an accident on Wednesday morning, while a cop who was driving the vehicle was injured. Police said the incident took place around 6.30am on Wednesday, when a Mahindra Bolero jeep collided with a truck from the rear as it was parked on the national highway. Police said visibility was low due to fog, following which the driver, a cop, could not see the truck parked without parking lights. The deceased farmer has been identified as Kulwinder Singh of Shataur village of Hoshiarpur, while the injured cop has been identified as sub-inspector Jagjit Singh. Police said Jagtar was rushed to a hospital in Mandi Gobindgarh, from where he was shifted to Hoshiarpur. “We have arrested the truck driver, Baljinder Singh, and charged him with sections of IPC, including causing death due to negligence. Investigation is underway. Baljinder claimed that his truck was stopped after facing a mechanical problem. Kulwinder Singh seems to be known to SI Jagjit Singh as they both belong to the same district. Jagjit was going to Delhi to meet his in-laws while Kulwinder was going to participate in the protest,” said Khanna police station SHO Hemant Kumar. He said the area where the accident took place fell under Khanna police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmer-dies-cop-injured-while-on-way-to-delhi/articleshow/79767848.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Pune||After cases, 16 defaulters clear dues||Pune: Sixteen property tax defaulters have cleared their dues after the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) filed cases against 23 of them for dishonouring cheques deposited under the amnesty scheme. “Some people had given cheques after the civic staff visited their properties for recovery. But those cheque were not honoured, so we had to file the cases,” said Vilas Kanade, head of PMC’s property tax department. PMC officials said under the amnesty scheme for defaulters, 80% discount was offered in the penalty amount. The scheme, which was to end on November 30, has been given an extension till January 26 with the discount on penalty amount being reduced to 75%. Owners of 1.4 lakh properties have paid tax amounting to Rs 355 crore so far. The civic administration gave a discount of Rs 181 crore. There are around 10.26 lakh properties in the property tax net.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-cases-16-defaulters-clear-dues/articleshow/79766675.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Special RT-PCR test drive in East Singhbhum||Jamshedpur: The East Singhbhum administration undertook a special RT-PCR testing drive across all the 10 blocks of the district on Wednesday. The authorities have set a target of conducting 4,200 tests during the drive. The drive was launched a day after the state health department made it mandatory for those with symptoms to undergo RT-PCR test. The urban circle comprising the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) and the Jugsalai Municipality have been set a target of 1,500 tests. The Baharagora block and a part of the Jugsalai block were given a target of 400 tests each. While the target number for each of Potka, Dhalbhumgarh, Ghatshila, Musabani and Patamda blocks was 300. For Dumaria and Chakulia blocks, the number was 200 each. “We have divided all 10 blocks into three different areas for smooth execution of the drive,” said the additional chief medical officer (ACMO) cum district surveillance officer (DSO), Sahir Pal. The ACMO said that magistrates have been deputed at the sites identified for testing and police were cooperating with the medical teams to ensure there was no law and order issue while carrying out the drive. The official added that crowded places like markets, haats, malls, bus stops and auto-rickshaw stands, among other areas, were identified as sites for the Covid tests. Pal said the district has conducted 4,23,207 tests so far with a per million test rate of 1,57,653. In the last six days, 160 positive cases were reported from the district with 157 cases being recorded in the urban areas. Till Wednesday afternoon, East Singhbhum had recorded 17,462 Covid cases, of which 194 are active. The district has a recovery rate of 96.86%, which is the worst in the state after Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/special-rt-pcr-test-drive-in-east-singhbhum/articleshow/79766297.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||CPIML to start ‘Vada Nibhao’ drive||Ranchi: As the mahagathbandhan government is about to complete a year in office, the CPI-ML has decided to hold a ‘Vada Nibhao’ drive from December 18 to January 16 to press the JMM-led government to fulfil its electoral promises, including waiving off farm loans, timely procurement of farm products, giving jobs to youngsters and providing financial aid to families affected by mob-lynching. The party’s national general secretary Deepankar Bhattacharya said a massive rally will be organised on January 16, the martyrdom day of their leader Mahendra Singh, where the newly elected CPI-ML MLAs from Bihar wil also take part. On December 28 — the eve of the formation of the state government — the party will hold programmes on the issue across all district headquarters. “Although the state government has had a difficult year because of the viral outbreak and the challenges posed by the BJP-led central government, we feel that the government should exhibit a greater sense of urgency in fulfilling its electoral promises,” Bhattacharya said. Meanwhile, Bhattacharya said that the Union government has made mockery of democracy by cancelling the winter session of Parliament. “At a time when the farmers are agitating on the outskirts of the national capital for repealing the new farm laws, instead of discussing the issue in Parliament, the government has taken an autocratic stand by cancelling the winter session. It shows that the Centre conducted the Parliament session during lockdown only to get its bills passed,” he said. He added that farmers in the state, who have fought the capitalists in the past, should also join the protest and CPI-ML is planning to take steps in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cpiml-to-start-vada-nibhao-drive/articleshow/79766146.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Schools scamper to sanitise, rebuild classrooms after resumption nod||RANCHI: A day after state health minister Banna Gupta said that schools will reopen for Class X and XII examinees soon, school authorities are now talking to teachers and parents on how to go about conducting classes while maintaining the safety norms. Delhi Public School principal Dr Ram Singh said, “I’d like to thank the state government for giving us the green signal to reopen schools. Any further delay would have resulted in the students lagging behind.” He added, “It is upon the school administration, parents and teachers on how to conduct classes while maintaining the safety norms. We are in touch with the parents in this regard. All the standard operating procedures issued by the government will be followed once we resume classes.” Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli principal Samarjit Jana said as soon as the government issues the formal notification with detailed guidelines, he would hold meetings with the parents to ascertain if they are keen on sending their children to school. “There is no point in conducting classes if the attendance is poor. If the parents are not keen on sending their wards to school, an alternative arrangement for face-to-face interaction between the teachers and students would be made,” he added. He further said, “If the parents agree, we will make sure that all safety norms are maintained. The classes would be sanitized thrice a day while thermal scanning of students will also be done and wearing of masks will be made mandatory.” Ashutosh Kumar Singh, principal of the government-run Zilla School here, held a meeting with the teachers to draw up a plan for conducting classes. He said, “Since only a few batch of students will be present, we will have enough number of rooms to ensure social distancing in classes. A 60-seater classroom will now accommodate only 18 students and every alternate bench would be left vacant in order to maintain social distancing.” He added, “Both teachers and students are eager to return to school and I have been getting several calls from them for the past few months, asking when exactly classes will resume.” Ajay Rai of Jharkhand Abhibhawak Manch said that the government must ensure that schools enforce the safety measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-scamper-to-sanitise-rebuild-classrooms-after-resumption-nod/articleshow/79766450.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||24 trafficked women of W S’bhum & S-K rescued from Coimbatore||Ranchi: Salge Murmu (19) of West Singhbhum’s Sonua village had shifted to Coimbatore in October this year in expectation of earning a decent living for her family after she was promised a stitching job that would fetch her Rs 12,000 a month. However, within a month, she and 23 other women realised that they were victims of human trafficking. The women were not only paid only Rs 4,000, they were also denied of a respectable life, proper food and rest. On Wednesday, all the 24 women were rescued and brought to Ranchi in an Indigo flight via New Delhi in a coordinated effort by the state government and two NGOs — Asra in West Singhbhum and Partnering Hope into Action (PHI) Foundation, which works with the state labour department. The cost to fly the women back, approximately Rs 3 lakh, was borne by the ACC cement plant in Jhinkpani. Officials said the women were promised stitching jobs, but the company was a manufacturer of threads. On Tuesday, when the management of the firm realised that the women are in touch with the government here, they were thrown out of their accommodations. Convener of PHIA foundation Sandeep Dungdung said the women, 21 from West Singhbhum and three from Seraikela-Kharsawan, were in constant touch with the district administration. PHIA, which operates the call centre of the state labour department, often receives distress calls from migrant labourers. Dungdung said initially a few family members of the women had approached the chief minister’s office to apprise him about the condition of the women. Dungdung said, “The women were taken to Coimbatore by two middlemen, one based in Jharkhand and the other in Odisha. We have filed a complaint against them. The victims were given identity cards and promised tailoring jobs of Rs 12,000 to 14,000 a month.” Raimuni Hembram, another victim, said, “We were given food once a day and made to work for more than 16 hours a day.” Talking to TOI, West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Arava Rajkamal said whether the women were registered with the labour department is being investigated. “The agents who facilitated the movement of the girls will be charged with human trafficking and cheating. We are told that one among the group was a minor,” he said. According to the Interstate Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, any company or contractor taking more than five labourers to other states for work must have a valid registration with the state labour department. In this case, both the company and the middlemen were not registered in Jharkhand. The rescued girls have been offered training at a tailoring centre operated by ACC cement plant from where they would be offered jobs locally. Though Rajkamal clarified that none in the group was trained in any skill development centre, Dungdung said most of them were trained under skill mission in tailoring. “Since they are skilled they would be given jobs by the state government and we are hopeful that when the textile park comes up at Oremanjhi under the aegis of the industry department, they would be given employment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/24-trafficked-women-of-w-sbhum-s-k-rescued-from-coimbatore/articleshow/79766183.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Vadodara||End of term of elected wing spares employees for other tasks||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) that has a plethora of vacancies has suddenly found a workforce that could ease things for the next few days. With the elected wing’s tenure coming to an end, several officials as well as other personnel, working in the secretariat branch or for elected functionaries have been spared for other tasks.The elected representatives who hold posts like those of the mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairman and others as well as offices of the political parties have secretaries, peons and other personnel working for them. They fall under the secretariat department. Apart from those posted with elected representatives and political parties, there are persons posted in the secretariat department itself who look into the working of various committees as well as the general board. Their tasks range from preparing agendas for the meetings, conducting meetings and then recording resolutions passed there. All documentation regarding these meetings is also maintained and even archived by the secretariat branch.An official said that the branch had 39 personnel in all including those from sanitation workers to the municipal secretary. Out of these 32 persons have been transferred to other departments and ward or other offices. The only official to remain in the branch now is municipal secretary who cannot be transferred as per rules. Five other personnel have not been transferred to other places.Sources said that the officials and personnel were transferred as they had already been placed under the municipal commissioner who has also been appointed as the chief executive of the civic body. The powers of various committees, including the important standing committee, are now vested under him and so is the staff. The staffers have been appointed at places where positions were vacant or there was need of more persons. After the civic polls, when the new elected wing takes over, the personnel will be sent back to the secretariat branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/end-of-term-of-elected-wing-spares-employees-for-other-tasks/articleshow/79765402.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Surat||In death, 2.5-year-old Gujarat boy gifts life to five||SURAT: A two-and-a-half year-old boy became the youngest cadaver donor whose multiple organs were donated that saved seven lives that included two four-year-old children from Russia and Ukraine. On December 9, Jash Oza fell from the second floor balcony of his neighbour’s house in Shanti Palace of Bhatar area in the city. Doctors found that he had suffered brain haemorrhage and swelling. On December 14, they declared him brain dead. Jash’s heart, liver, lungs, both kidneys and eyes were donated after his parents Sanjeev Oza and Arachana agreed for the noble cause, said Nilesh Mandlewala, founder, Donate Life, a voluntary organization working to encourage organ donation. His heart and lungs were transported to Chennai via air within 160 minutes. The heart was transplanted into a four-year-old child from Russia while the lungs were transplanted into a four-year-old child from Ukraine in MGM Hospital in Chennai. “The family was shattered after doctors told them that their little one was brain dead. Sanjeev has also been creating awareness about cadaver donations and in such a difficult situation, he took a decision of organ donation. Jash was fondly called as ‘Babu’ in his family,’‘ Mandlewala told TOI. Jash’s mother was hopeful of recovery when he once uttered the word ‘mummy.’ “But we explained to her that he was medically dead and his vital organs won’t be useful if they wait for too long. She was also convinced and told us that she wants to see Jash alive in more people,’‘ Mandlewala added. State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO)‘s convener Dr. Pranjal Modi was then informed for further process. The kidneys were transported by road to Ahmedabad’s Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), covering 265 km in 180 minutes, via a special green corridor. One kidney was transplanted into a 13-year-old girl from Surendranagar and another into a 17-year-old girl from Surat. A two-year-old girl from Bhavnagar got a new life with his liver. Sanjeev is a journalist with a local business newspaper. The couple have a six-year-old daughter Kiyara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-toddler-gives-new-life-to-five-with-organ-donation/articleshow/79765922.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Tata golf tourney to begin amid Covid norms||JAMSHEDPUR: Tata Steel and Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) are set to host the annual Tata Steel Group Championship in Beldih and Golmuri from December 17. The four-day tournament has prize money of Rs 1.5 crore and will see more than 125 golfers taking part in it. This is the seventh event of the 2020-21 PGTI season and will have 72-hole stroke play championship. The Pro-Am event preceding the tournament was held on Wednesday. For the first time in six years, a PGTI event will be held simultaneously in both Beldih and Golmuri golf courses, which have 18 holes each. PGTI CEO Uttam Singh Mundy said, “Both the venues are beautiful and well-maintained.” Star golfers like Anirban Lahiri (seven international wins), SSP Chawrasia (six international wins), Gaganjeet Bhullar (10 international wins), Jyoti Randhawa (nine international wins), Shiv Kumar (six international wins), defending champion Rashid Khan (282 in world rankings) and others will be playing in the tournament. Shiv Kapur, a four-time winner of the Asian tour, returns to play in Jamshedpur after 16 years. Kapur had played at the third Tata Open in 2004. “It is heartening to see PGTI organising the tournament even during a pandemic,” Tata Steel vice-president (safety, health and sustainability) Sanjiv Paul said. The organisers have taken special precautionary measures in view of Covid-19. Around 300 people, including players and support staff, have undergone Covid tests, Paul said. “Every player has to return to the pavilion after every round while his/her caddy will carry a sanitiser for him,” he added. The Beldhi Club and the Golmuri Club — where the PGTI officials, players and support staff are staying – will be sanitised regularly. This time, crowds will not be allowed on the field. Only the authorized members will be on the ground and they have to abide by all the safety protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-golf-tourney-to-begin-amid-covid-norms/articleshow/79766474.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Maiden digital kisan mela held at Birsa agri varsity||RANCHI: ICAR-Indian Institute of Agricultural Biotechnology (IIAB), Garhkhatanga and Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) jointly organised the first digital Kisan Mela based on the theme of ‘entrepreneurship development in the animal husbandry sector’ at the former’s campus on Wednesday. More than 400 farmers and entrepreneurs participated in the event. Inaugurating the fair vice-chancellor Dr O N Singh spoke about the scope of the livestock sector in Jharkhand. IIAB’s director Dr Arunava Pattanayak and joint director (research) Dr Tilak Raj Sharma discussed the importance and need for improvement in the livestock sector.  BAU dean, faculty of veterinary science & animal husbandry Dr Sushil Prasad explained in details the different schemes promoted by the state government that are relevant for the sector. He also asked the state government to address issues of employment generation and livelihood security by considering the pandemic-induced reverse migration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maiden-digital-kisan-mela-held-at-birsa-agri-varsity/articleshow/79766416.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum shops raided for selling tobacco without licence||JAMSHEDPUR: Acting upon the directives of East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar, a special drive was undertaken across the district to nab shopkeepers selling tobacco-based products without a valid license. The OCs of various police stations and the civic body officials conducted raids across 292 shops in Sidghora-Golmuri area, Galudih, Dhalbhumgarh, Ghatshila, Dumaria, Bahragora, Barsol and Gurabendha. A penalty of Rs 33,000 was collected from the shopkeepers and FIRs were lodged against two shop owners in Jugsalai area. As many as 45 shops were raided in Jugsalai. Notably, the state government last month had directed authorities to ensure that shops selling tobacco products should procure special licenses and they can not sell any other products. Task forces of civic bodies also carried out raids to remove encroachments from footpaths across the city. In Jugsalai area only 45 shops were removed and fines to the sum of Rs 20,500 was collected from owners. The task force also found some shopowners not following Covid-19 SoP, so they were fined. FIRs have also been lodged against some shop owners for using plastic bags, which is a banned item in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-shops-raided-for-selling-tobacco-without-licence/articleshow/79766390.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 17, 2020||India||Married beti can claim father’s job: HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka HC has ruled that married daughters, too, are entitled to seek employment on compassionate grounds as they don’t cease to be part of the family after they enter wedlock. “Half the world, and not even half a chance,” the court said on Tuesday about the plight of Bhuvaneswari V Puranik from Bengaluru, whose representation for a job on compassionate grounds was rejected because she is married. Her brother, working in a private company, chose not to seek a government job. The court also directed the government to consider the petitioner’s appeal for a job in one of its departments. The petitioner’s father Ashok Adiveppa Madivalar, who worked as a secretary in the office of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee at Kuduchi in Belagavi, died in 2016 while in service. His daughter’s application for a job on compassionate grounds in 2017 was rejected by the joint director (administration), department of agriculture marketing. Bhuvaneswari challenged the order in HC, contending it was discriminatory. The court said married daughters’ exclusion from the ambit of expression ‘family’ under the Karnataka Civil Services (Appointment on Compassionate Grounds) Rules, 1996, was illegal, discriminatory and unconstitutional, and struck down the rules which said only an unmarried daughter is considered a member of the family. Stating that “the nature bestows so much on women (and) the law cannot bestow too little”, Justice M Nagaprasanna said the rules seek to create discrimination on the basis of gender. “If the marital status of a son does not make any difference in law to his entitlement for seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, the marital status of a daughter (too) should make no difference,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/married-beti-can-claim-fathers-job-hc/articleshow/79769881.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||School canteens asked to consider use of biogas||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked schools which operate canteens to take benefit of the schemes offered by the Goa Energy Development Agency and shift to the use of the environmentally-friendly biogas. The directorate has said that this source of energy for cooking is cost-effective and also solve the issue of disposing kitchen and other organic wastes. “Biogas is a renewable, clean source of energy and a substitute to LPG cylinder. The bio-slurry generated during the process can be used as liquid fertilizer in the garden. It is therefore enjoined on heads of government/government aided/unaided secondary, higher secondary and special schools having canteen facility to promote and avail subsidy benefit of the schemes,” director of education Santosh Amonkar has told institutions. In order to manage wet waste at source in a hygienic way and to promote utilization of natural source of energy in the form of biogas, Goa Energy Development Agency has notified the scheme for promotion of biogas plants based on kitchen and organic waste. “Disposal of garbage including kitchen waste is an alarming problem in the state. There is need to dispose kitchen/organic waste at source to encourage disseminated system of disposal and to reduce the use of fossil fuel/LPG for cooking purpose, as biogas being the cost effective alternative fuel for cooking,” DoE has told schools. The Goa Energy Development Agency scheme promises to help one family save on at least 10 LPG cylinders a year. A subsidy of upto Rs 30,000 is available to beneficiaries under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/16-gauree_school-canteens-asked-to-consider-use-of-biogas/articleshow/79768095.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Goa gets its first IB institution||Panaji: Sunshine Worldwide School, Old Goa, said it has now been authorised as an International Baccalaureate (IB) school, the first in Goa. It is now only among 300 IB schools in India and in the league of 5,000 educational institutions worldwide, school founder director Deepak Khaitan said. Khaitan said Sunshine School will now follow the same IB curriculum as schools of the likes of Mumbai’s Dhirubhai Ambani International School and The Doon School in Dehradun, among others. Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, IB curriculum is focused on developing skills of inquiry, knowledge and empathy among children, through inter-cultural understanding and respect. “The authorisation process takes 2 to 3 years where the school and faculty have to be onboarded and aligned with the philosophy. We were able to complete the authorisation process within a year,” said Khaitan. Sindu Hemant, principal, Sunshine Worldwide School, said IB is aligned with the Indian National Education Policy 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-gets-its-first-ib-institution/articleshow/79768130.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||SC lens on regularisation of unauthorised colonies||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to evolve a mechanism to stop mindless regularisation of illegal colonies and unauthorised structures by seeking responses from the Centre and states on a PIL which sought geo-mapping of all areas to stop this practice which messes up civic facilities. Appearing for petitioner J Sagar Rao, advocate Sravan Kumar told a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and Ajay Rastogi that Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu had passed orders this year legalising massive clusters of illegal colonies and unauthorised constructions for generating extra revenue without sparing a thought about the chaos it would cause in town and city planning, not to speak of disruption in civic facilities. The bench realised that the problem was a pan-India one and not restricted to the states mentioned in the petition. The apex court had tried to deal with the issue of regularisation of unauthorised colonies and constructions some 15 years ago but had little success. The bench asked the petitioner to make all states and UTs parties, issued notices to them and asked them to reply to PIL within eight weeks. The PIL seeks extension of SC’s earlier direction to Maharashtra government for geo-mapping of all municipal and urban areas to enable authorities to detect unauthorised constructions. The petitioner said Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu had been regularisation “illegal layouts”. “Nomenclature of the orders itself shows that the governments are regularising the illegal act committed by the real estate mafia with the help of government officials in these states,” the petitioner said. “Regularisation schemes have been repeatedly implemented by these states for structures and layouts situated in eco-sensitive zones, elephant corridors, reserve forest, water bodies, roads, drains, nalas etc, which will cause immense damage to the environment, planned development and cause traffic jams, heavy pollution, stagnation of drainage, shrinking of water bodies, urban flooding, shortage of drinking water and unsustainable population density in civic areas,” the petitioner added. He claimed that Telangana’s regularisation scheme had received massive response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-lens-on-regularisation-of-unauthorised-colonies/articleshow/79769890.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 17, 2020||Goa||‘Fort Aguada renovation not being supervised by ASI’||CALANGUTE: The renovation and restoration of the former central jail at Fort Aguada is being carried out without any supervision by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), said Heta Pandit, founder member and chairperson of Goa Heritage Action Group. The structure is being converted into a museum. The monitoring by ASI is necessary as per the conditional no-objection certificate (NOC) given by the National Monuments Authority (NMA), Pandit added. This lack of supervision is leading to destruction of historical facets of the site, Pandit told TOI. “The tourism department through the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) has actively perpetrated the destruction of the 16th century Aguada jail in the name of renovation,” Pandit said. The aquifer was once the largest supply of fresh water in the whole of Asia. Today, the wall is broken, the azulejos decorating the spring destroyed, and the spring is dry, she said. “The main entrance to the jail has been demolished and replaced by cement blocks. Cement washes have covered the old lime plaster in the jail cell blocks. The entire Mangalore tiled roof has been replaced by a UPVC (synthetic) roofing,” said Pandit. As per documents obtained by her using RTI, Pandit said there is no memorandum of understanding (MoU) between GTDC and ASI in accordance with the conditional NOC given by the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA). “Almost every structure is marked as being ‘of no historical/heritage value’ by the consultants,” she added. The museum, work on which is currently under way, is expected to be opened in February 2021, and will showcase Goa’s freedom struggle and Goan artifacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fort-aguada-renovation-not-being-supervised-by-asi/articleshow/79768157.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Goa||Pollution board’s Saligao premises gets solar plant||Panaji: A 45 KW grid-connected rooftop solar powered plant was installed at the Goa State Pollution Control Board office at Saligao on Tuesday. The plant, which will work on a net metering basis, will supply its excess power to the electricity department’s grid. This in turn will help reduce the office’s power bills. Inaugurating the rooftop plant, power minister Nilesh Cabral appealed to people to go green. For this, he said, the state government is offering a 50 percent subsidy on the installation of a solar plant. Consumers can recover the remaining 50 percent by not paying energy charges, he said. An official from the Goa Energy Development Agency (GEDA) said the government is turning its own offices and buildings green. The rooftop solar projects that have been installed at the modern central jail at Colvale, with an installed capacity of 100 KW, are one of the state’s largest solar installations. Installations have also been set up at GEDA, Goa University, PWD offices, NIT, MPT and Raj Bhavan and some education institutions. “Initially there were long delays to disburse the subsidy amount. Now the process is streamlined and the subsidy is released within 20 days,” the official said. Till date, solar installations with an installed capacity of 15 MW have been installed in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-boards-saligao-premises-gets-solar-plant/articleshow/79768167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||India||SC: HCs can’t expedite trials at behest of social activists||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday said high courts had ample power to direct speeding up of criminal trials but this power could not be exercised by constitutional courts at the urging of a social activist, who was a third party having no role in the trial. This order came from a bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah in a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, in which Uttar Pradesh police had lodged a case against one Sanjay Tiwari in 2006 and filed a chargesheet after 14 years. However, on the plea of social activist Tripuresh Tripathi, the high court had ordered expeditious trial in the corruption case. “This court has laid down that it is for parties in the criminal case to raise questions and challenge the proceedings initiated against them at appropriate time before the proper forum and not for third parties under the garb of public interest litigants,” it said. It said in a criminal case, an outsider could not have any legal role. It stressed the importance of speedy trial in criminal cases, especially those under the PC Act. “It is well settled that the high court in appropriate cases can very well under Section 482 of Criminal Procedure Code or in any other proceeding always direct the trial court to expedite the criminal trial and issue such orders as may be necessary,” it said. “But the present is a case where proceedings initiated by Tripathi do not appear to be bona fide proceedings. He is in no way connected with initiation of criminal proceedings against the appellant... It is the obligation of the state and the prosecution to ensure that all criminal trials are conducted expeditiously. The present is not a case where prosecution or even the employer of the accused have filed an application seeking expeditious trial,” it said and asked the trial court to expedite the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-hcs-cant-expedite-trials-at-behest-of-social-activists/articleshow/79769898.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||Tourism back on its feet as travellers hit the road||The roads less travelled in 2020 are filling up again. Hotel rooms are taken, New Year packages are selling out. The long-missing holiday mood is back as people prepare to bury this forgettable year. Don’t leave your New Year reservations for the last moment, says Ankush Nijhawan, MD of Nijhawan Group and CEO of Travel Boutique Online. The weekend crowds are back in Alibaug, Lonavala, Coorg, Mussoorie, Rishikesh, Shimla, Jaipur — all at drivable distances from major cities. Daniel D’souza, president and country head, leisure, SOTC Travel, sees the pent-up demand stretching well into 2021. There has been a significant increase in bookings for the next few months, he says. Kapil Chopra, CEO of The Postcard hotels says his hotels are fully booked for the next few weeks. A survey by travel portal Goibibo shows 35% of the respondents intend to travel before the year is out. Rajesh Magow, co-founder and group CEO of MakeMyTrip Limited that includes MakeMyTrip, Goibibo and red-Bus, says people are fi nding new ways to fulfi ll their travel aspirations, especially when they are assured of safe travel choices. “Travellers are looking to unwind and welcome the New Year in high spirits. We are witnessing a steady rise in bookings,” says Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels, adding that there is a rush for their Manesar, Goa, Agra, Jaipur and Mussoorie properties. Nipun Vig, VP operations of Sarovar Hotels and Resorts, also says their leisure properties in Bhimtal, Dehradun, Goa, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Lonavala, Mandawa, Palampur, Mashobra and Thekkady have seen 100% occupancy over the past few weekends, and there is a clear preference for drivable destinations. Jodhpur and Jaisalmer are sold out with bookings from Gujarat while the Bhimtal property has most of its bookings from Lucknow and Kanpur. For Kerrie Hannaford, vice presidentcommercial, Accor India & South Asia, the spurt in weekend travel, staycations and drivecations are “green shoots” for the industry. Even without business travel, city hotels are doing well again, says Chris Franzen, area VP, West India, Hyatt Hotels. “People are seeming to enjoy the idea of staycation and embracing it even in their own cities.” Hotel chains ITC, Leela, Taj, Oberoi and Accor are planning grand year-end celebrations. IHG hotels are offering attractive deals on stay; Oberoi Mumbai and Delhi hotels are advertising staycation packages for Christmas and New Year, while ITC hotels are running a 31-day celebration showcasing the best of their food and beverage offerings. It’s not only road trips but also private fl ying that is seeing heightened interest. People are tired of being holed up at home, says Santosh Sharma, cofounder and CEO, Foresee Aviation, and founder of Bookmyjet. “We are seeing a lot of curiosity regarding fl ying private. During the last few months and the upcoming season, 90% of fl yers are fi rst-time users,” he says. Besides domestic destinations, Maldives and Dubai are also attracting Indian travellers. Priyanka Nijhawan, director, Dubai Tourism India representative offi ce, says this time people are fl ying to Dubai to stay longer, with many opting to work from there. Ankush Nijhawan sees another positive sign in people turning to travel agents for bookings. When lockdowns were announced suddenly, people didn’t know where to go for rescheduling bookings and cancellations. Thanks to that uncertainty, “people have started approaching agencies again for their travel bookings to have someone to talk to or rely on in case of an emergency,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tourism-back-on-its-feet-as-travellers-hit-the-road/articleshow/79769904.cms||Amin Ali
December 17, 2020||India||Priyanka’s claim on railways ‘misleading’, clarifies govt||NEW DELHI: The government on Wednesday flagged a post shared by Congress member Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on a social media platform and rejected her “misleading claim” that the railways has accepted a private firm’s stamp. In a ‘Fact Check’ alert, the Press Information Bureau tweeted, “It has been claimed in a Facebook video that Indian Railways has accepted a private firm’s stamp. This claim is misleading. This is just an advertisement that aims to improve revenue.” Priyanka, in her post, had shared a 45-second clip that showed a logo of Adani Wilmar Ltd, an FMCG firm, on a train. She wrote, “The railways that was created with the hard work of crores of Indians... BJP has put a stamp of its billionaire friend Adani. In the days to come, a large part of the railways will go to the billionaire friends of Modi ji.” She had further written that “India’s farmers are waging a tough battle as they try to stop Modi ji’s billionaire friends from taking over farm sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/priyankas-claim-on-railways-misleading-clarifies-govt/articleshow/79769910.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: ‘Poor homework’ & ‘haste’ resulted in MVA setback||MUMBAI: While deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said that the state government may think of approaching the Supreme Court against the HC order on the Kanjurmarg car shed issue, a senior state bureaucrat said that inept handling of the case at all levels in the Maharashtra government had resulted in a big embarrassment for chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The Metro car shed is the pet project of Uddhav Thackeray. The CM took the decision to shift it from Aarey to Kanjurmarg, and now it appears to be a distant dream. It was unfortunate that despite a battery of high-profile bureaucrats, we lost the case,” the official said. The bureaucrat said that prima facie, it appeared that the Mumbai suburban collector’s homework had been poor. The suburban collector had passed on October 1 the order to transfer the land to MMRDA. On November 1, 2018, the then revenue minister Chandrakant Patil had passed an order saying ownership of the disputed land rested with the state revenue department. Patil’s order was challenged by S R Goradia before the city civil court, while the salt commissioner filed an appeal before the high court on September 22, 2020 (against the revenue minister’s 2018 order). “Instead of passing the order in haste (after this), the suburban collector should have waited for the HC verdict. It was a blunder of the highest order,” the bureaucrat said. Significantly, the official said, the Centre’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade had written a letter to the state chief secretary saying the collector’s action of transferring land to MMRDA was unilateral and improper. The Union commerce minister had on July 31, 2020 proposed a joint survey with the salt commissioner and MMRDA as the Centre was keen to transfer the land to MMRDA considering the larger public interest. However, before such a survey could be done, the land was transferred to MMRDA. “Before going to court against the Maharashtra revenue minister’s 2018 order, the Centre tried to resolve the issue by discussion. However, despite repeated communications from the Centre, the state government was silent, which forced the Centre to knock at the doors of the Bombay high court,” the bureaucrat said. CM Thackeray’s office will take a decision on the future course of action after it reads the high court verdict in the matter. “As usual, the CM had routine meetings on Wednesday but there was no discussion on the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed verdict,” a bureaucrat told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-poor-homework-haste-resulted-in-mva-setback/articleshow/79769919.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to add DJB, electricity department staff to vaccine priority list: Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that besides healthcare personnel and other workers, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and electricity department workers would be included in the list of “frontline warriors” against Covid-19 who will receive the Covid vaccine in the first phase. “On Tuesday, Delhi government issued orders that DJB and electricity department workers should be included in the list of frontline workers,” Jain said on Wednesday. “During the lockdown, all these workers were on duty, working 24x7; hence, they, too, have been duly included in the list of frontline workers along with police, civil defence and sanitation workers,” Jain said. “It is quite relieving that the effect of coronavirus in Delhi has been dwindling since the past month. For the first time since May, the positivity rate is 1.9%,” he said. “Five per cent is supposed to be good enough, and being at 2%, we are ideal. But I would still urge Delhiites to continue taking all the precautions. I lay stress on wearing a mask without fail,” the minister emphasised. Although the effect of the outbreak has come down, “coronavirus will live with us. It’s not going to completely go”, Jain said. “According to WHO parameters, Delhi is in a safe zone.” Almost 50% of the ICU beds in the city are available, though the occupancy lies between 80% and 90% in private hospitals, he added. Delhi government has prepared a list of nearly two lakh healthcare personnel in the capital who will be the first to get inoculated as soon as a vaccine for Covid-19 becomes available in the national capital. The “frontline warriors” will be followed by those who are 60 years or above and then by those in the 50-59 age bracket with comorbidities. The healthcare personnel include medical, paramedical, supporting, security, sanitation and administrative staff of all allopathy, dental and ayush facilities, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings. The database will be submitted to the Union health ministry by the Delhi health and family welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-add-djb-electricity-dept-staff-to-vaccine-priority-list-satyendar-jain/articleshow/79769915.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Delhi||1,547 fresh Covid cases, 32 fatalities in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi saw 1,547 new Covid cases on Wednesday, which came from over 79,000 tests conducted the previous day. The positivity rate stood at 1.96%. With 32 new fatalities, the death toll mounted to 10,147, while the active cases dropped to 13,261 from 14,480 on Tuesday. This is the second consecutive day when the positivity rate, number of confirmed cases from those tested, remained below 2%. On Tuesday, it was 1.90%. Since December 3, Delhi’s positivity rate has remained below 5% which, the state health department official said, confirmed ebbing of the third wave of the disease outbreak that claimed over 2,600 lives in November. The positivity rate between December 3 and 7 had successively dipped to 4.96%, 4.78%, 4.2%, 3.68% and 3.15%, respectively. However, on December 8, it rose to 4.23%, falling again to 3.42% on December 9 and 2.46% on December 10. On December 11, the positivity rate was 3.33%, which fell to 2.64% on December 12, was 2.74% on December 13, and fell to 2.15% on December 14. A decline in cases has led to a sharp dip in occupancy of Covid beds in various hospitals. According to data shared on Delhi Corona app, 81% of Covid beds in Delhi are currently vacant, along with 48% of ICU beds with ventilator and 73% without it. In November, nearly all ICU beds were occupied in the top private and public hospitals due to heavy rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1547-fresh-covid-cases-32-fatalities-in-delhi/articleshow/79769913.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Dabhoi youth conned with job promise||VADODARA: A youth living in Dabhoi was conned of Rs 1.8 lakh from a man who promised him job at Ahmedabad airport in August. The complainant Nikhil Patel told police that a person who identified himself Atul Sharma called him on August 27 and told that he is an HR officer of Airports Authority of India (AAI) working in Delhi. Patel was told that AAI was looking for young men ready to work at Ahmedabad airport. When Patel, who is trained as electrician from ITI, showed readiness, he was told to transfer Rs 1,500 as placement fee. After transferring the money on September 7, he was asked to pay money for uniform, mobile phone, transportation and food. Within next few days, Patel ended up paying Rs 1.8 lakh. However, he did not receive an appointment letter and whenever he asked Sharma, he kept making excuses. After dilly dallying for weeks, Sharma stopped answering Patel’s phone. On realizing that he had been cheated, Patel approached police and based on his complaint an offence was registered at Dabhoi police station on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dabhoi-youth-conned-with-job-promise/articleshow/79765427.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||‘Floor leaders consulted on winter session, let them deny they weren’t'||Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi tells TOI’s Akhilesh Singh the decision to call off the winter session was taken after consultations with senior members from most political parties who were not in favour of being in Delhi for the session. Excerpts from the interviewThe opposition says it was not consulted. Did consultations take place and what was the response of the main parties? Consultations with all major political parties were done before taking the decision to call off the winter session and parties making it an issue are doing so with a political motive. Leaders were unanimous that the Covid situation in the national capital was grim and the session be avoided. Leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury (Congress), Sudip Bandopadhyay (TMC), Ram Gopal Yadav (SP), T R Balu and Tiruchi Siva (DMK) and a few others agreed that the session should be clubbed with the budget session in January. Congress and TMC are raising the issue because of their internal situation as some leaders want to impress their bosses. Let the floor leaders deny that there was no consultation. We also spoke to YSRCP and other regional parties. I have two questions: When the monsoon session was taking place in September, most of these parties were questioning it and sought an early conclusion. Second, many MPs from these parties are not coming to Delhi to attend even committee meetings. Conversations are highly sensitive and it not ethical to go into details. Even if the Covid situation was bad in November, it is better now. Could a short winter session not be called since the opposition is making it an issue? There has to be some gap between two sessions and there should be some time to take up business. The next session is approaching and we have to prepare for that. A session should not happen only to satisfy an irresponsible opposition party coming up with a fancy idea. Let me tell you about Congress leaders. The whole issue brings to the fore the differences within the party. I am asking Jairam Ramesh, has he confirmed from Azad and Chowdhury that there was no consultation? I doubt if they are on talking terms. Leaders like Ramesh insult their own party leaders to appease their bosses. He just wants to show loyalty to his leadership. Congress says the government is avoiding issues like farm laws due to which the winter session was called off ? Congress should look at its performance in polls as it is facing a drubbing across the country at every level. Discussions are going on with farmers and we are confident that they (farmers) will understand that changes made in the laws are in their interest. When will Parliament meet? Will it be a full session? The budget session will be held from January and it will be a full session as there is plenty of business other than the customary joint session. In fact, we want an extended session as there is plenty of legislation, including ordinances. We are surprised about the reactions of Congress leaders when their allies too have spoken against holding the winter session. Even Shiv Sena said no to the session. We are expecting a vaccine in January-February after which things will further improve. Will safety arrangements seen in the monsoon session continue? Let’s see how things proceed… if the situation does not improve, then arrangements are already there and will be continued, of course. The opposition says democracy is being hurt by not convening the winter session? There could be no bigger irony than Congress and TMC talking about democracy. The Congress high command has made leaders who demanded elections for the party president's post outcaste||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/floor-leaders-consulted-on-winter-session-let-them-deny-they-werent/articleshow/79769921.cms||Akhilesh Singh
December 17, 2020||India||SC to form panel to resolve Centre-farmers deadlock||NEW DELHI: In a bid to safeguard the interests of farmers and to also uphold the right to citizens to free movement, the Supreme Court on Wednesday stepped in to find away out of deadlocked negotiations on the contentious farm laws between the Centre and the agitating farm unions and said it would form a committee with representatives from all stakeholders. “We will form a committee to resolve this dispute. It will include representatives of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), other agitating farmer bodies, Union government and even representatives from other farmers’ unions from across the country. If not resolved early, it will soon become a national issue,” said a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. After its surprise intervention, the bench asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to prepare a tentative list of possible representatives of government, farm unions and other stakeholders and place it before the court on Thursday. “We will have to hear this matter tomorrow as the court is closing for winter break from Saturday,” the bench said. Mehta said the Centre was always ready for meaningful talks with farmers and would do nothing to harm their interests. But the CJI said, “What is the point in saying something which only sounds good. Your negotiations are not working. The farmers are adamant on scrapping the laws. So, the negotiations are bound to fail.” Mehta said both sides needed to be ready for meaningful talks. The bench was dealing with three PILs filed by Rishabh Jain, Reepak Kansal and GS Mani. While Jain’s counsel Dushyant Tiwari cited the SC’s Shaheen Bagh judgment which disapproved of protesters blocking roads and sought removal of blockades caused by the farmers’ stir, the other two petitioners wanted farmers to be allowed to come into Delhi and be provided with a proper place to protest. The SC asked the petitioners to join the farm unions as parties. Mehta said, “It appears that those advocating interests other than that of farmers have clearly taken over the protests. Meaningful dialogue needs both sides. But the farmers’ unions appear to have taken an adamant stand over repeal of the farm laws and are not ready to settle for anything less. When they come for negotiations and flash ‘yes or no’ placards and sit on chairs showing their backs to the ministers engaged in negotiations, a constructive dialogue becomes an impossibility. “The government offered to discuss the farm laws clause by clause, but they did not agree. It is still open for a constructive dialogue.” When petitioner’s counsel Dushyant Tiwari cited the Shaheen Bagh judgment in which the SC frowned upon the long blockade of Kalindi Kunj-Noida road by anti-CAA protesters, the CJI wanted to know how many people were blocking the road at Shaheen Bagh and how many were there at Singhu border? “Will it not depend on the number of people who block the road?” the CJI asked. When the petitioner countered with “will it (farmers blocking the road) be not construed as violation of the SC judgement”, the CJI said, “There cannot be any precedent about a law and order situation.” Thus clearly indicated the court’s reluctance to apply the yardstick it had applied for the Shaheen Bagh protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-form-panel-to-resolve-centre-farmers-deadlock/articleshow/79769973.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 17, 2020||Delhi||Raghav Chadha launches RWH campaign||NEW DELHI: Raghav Chadha, vice-chairman for Delhi Jal Board, on Wednesday launched a rainwater harvesting campaign called 30 Days-200 Structures. The AAP MLA said the capital needed to reach a stage where people could flaunt their rainwater harvesting structures, which is necessary to achieve the vision of 24x7 access to water. The DJB head convened a meeting of all 42 zonal revenue officers (ZRO), and asked each zone to identify at least five places where RWH structures could be built. “I’d like every ZRO to aim for as many structures as possible, not just five,” Chadha said. “Several RWAs are extremely strong. Many hospitals don’t have RWH structures, too.” Chadha said ZROs should bank on individual goodwill to get people to invest to in such structures. “The rainwater harvesting campaign can be a success only if every ZRO is thorough with the deadlines and does actual ground work. It won’t be enough to simply write letters to RWAs, colleges, hospitals, hotels and industrial areas where structures are to be built. Personal visits will surely help,” he added. The AAP MLA also told ZROs to focus on smaller shopping malls, market associations, and industrial areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/raghav-chadha-launches-rwh-campaign/articleshow/79769975.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Devendra Fadnavis wins first round of battle against Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: The open conflict between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis took a new turn on Wednesday with the Bombay high court staying transfer of the Kanjurmarg land to MMRDA. While construction of the Metro 3 car shed has for some time been the bone of contention between Thackeray and Fadnavis, at least in the first round of the legal battle, Thackeray seems to have lost. When Fadnavis was CM and the Shiv Sena was part of the state government as BJP ally, he had decided to construct the car shed at Aarey. Thackeray shifted it as CM of the MVA government to Kanjurmarg, which resulted in litigation. “The CM alone is answerable for the mess. It (HC order) is a slap on the face of the MVA government. In fact, Thackeray should have gone by the report of the Saunik committee (set up by the MVA government), which had made it clear that there will be no adverse impact on the environment if the car shed comes up at Aarey. A few bureaucrats wrongly briefed him, and ego too came in the way, following which he decided to shift the car shed. Even now it’s not too late, the CM should reverse his decision,” Fadnavis told TOI. A day after Thackeray took over the reins of the state on November 28, 2019, he stayed construction of the Metro car shed at Aarey on the grounds that it would have an adverse impact on the environment of the entire Goregaon area. Thackeray was agitated before last year’s assembly elections when he found out that two senior bureaucrats had taken the lead in cutting more than 2,000 fully grown trees for construction of the car shed. The law-enforcing agencies had then arrested more than a dozen agitating activists, and these cases are still to be withdrawn despite the CM’s assurance. Since that day, peace has eluded Fadnavis and Thackeray. Fadnavis’ contention was Aarey was the most suitable place for the car shed, while Thackeray took the view that for protecting greenery in the Aarey area, it would be better if the car shed is moved. Thackeray on Wednesday did not comment on the HC order which is being viewed as a setback for him. A CMO official said whether to file a special leave petition before the Supreme Court or abide by the HC order will be decided only after reading the order. Fadnavis reacted sharply, saying it was high time Thackeray understands ground realities. “In my opinion, the decision was changed only to satisfy the CM’s ego,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis recalled that even the SC had approved Aarey and only if the shed is constructed there can the Metro 3 work be completed by 2021. “If it is Kanjurmarg, it will delay the project by at least four years and burden the state exchequer by Rs 5,000 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-devendra-fadnavis-wins-first-round-of-battle-against-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/79769987.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 17, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: SDMCs defy govt, get students back on campuses for games, lessons||BELAGAVI: Following through on their plan to get pupils back into schools and in defiance of the government’s diktat, School Development and Monitoring Committees (SDMCs), with support from All India Students’ Federation (AISF), reopened about 30-35 government schools across five districts. The move comes a day after the government announced resumption of its Vidyagama programme. In an encouraging sign for SDMCs, many children attended classes and engaged in various games organised by members of the committees. The members hoped to reopen more schools over the next few days in a bid to exert pressure on the state to formally announce resumption of classes. In Kodagu district, students trickled into eight school campuses in three taluks. Although attendance was low, many parents have agreed to send their children to school from Thursday. In Kodagu, guest teachers held classes on school grounds and ensured social distancing norms were followed. Most students appeared to be thrilled to be back in school. Nagaraj KA from Madikeri said since teachers’ association elections coincided with the campaign, SDMC was unable to reopen 100 schools as planned. “However, things will change very soon and all schools will begin operating in a span of 10-15 days,” he said. In Puttur taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, a guest teacher conducted classes in a room and ensured physical distancing. Children were seen wearing masks. A total of eight schools opened in DK district and about seven in Udupi. In North Karnataka, some schools opened in Dharwad and Vijayapura district. Moiddin Kutti, state president, SDMC, said the government announced resumption of the Vidyagama programmed to derail SDMC’s campaign. He said the government had set a deadline of December 17 to collect information from teachers on whether the programme was needed, but it made the announcement even before the deadline expired. He said in areas close to the border with Kerala, which he personally visited, parents accompanying their children requested SDMC to continue classes over the coming days. “This highlights the mindset of parents.” Kutti said. Niranjanaradhya VP, education expert, said the government circular on Vidyagama is confusing. “One, the state has not mentioned the date of recommencement of the scheme and two, there is no mention of the midday meal,” Niranjanaradhya said. “Three, for high school students they have prepared a schedule chart which is hard to understand. On the other hand the programme has been extended to private schools, but there are no rules for them on how to execute it on the ground. This shows the government's lack of interest in the scheme. This is why SDMCs are taking responsibility for children by opening schools.” Jyoti K, AISF, which has been at the forefront of the campaign to reopen schools, said children spent more than five hours on campuses on Wednesday. “AISF will continue to talk to parents in rural areas to get more schools to operate,” Jyothi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-sdmcs-defy-govt-get-students-back-on-campuses-for-games-lessons/articleshow/79769980.cms||Shreyas HS
December 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shift car shed to BKC or Kalina, say Greens||MUMBAI: Greens in Mumbai have expressed mixed reactions to the Bombay high court stay on the order transferring land at Kanjurmarg for the Metro car shed project. Amrita Bhattacharjee, member, Aarey Conservation Group, said all was not lost. “If the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is committed to moving the Metro car shed out of Aarey, then it can build it at Bandra-Kurla Complex where the land is owned by MMRDA or at Kalina. Both these options have been offered in the detailed project report for Line 3,” she said. D Stalin, director, NGO Vanashakti, said litigation will only increase the suffering of Mumbaikars while the threat to the environment will remain. “The order impacts all Metro projects not just in Mumbai, but in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region as well. The Kanjurmarg plot was to be used to build the Metro car shed for Lines 3, 6 and 4 and was to be a terminal station for Line 14,” he said. Activist Zoru Bhathena said for the past five years they have fought a good fight and they would continue it. Teacher and urban researcher Hussain Indorewala said, “If the planning authority with public consent decides that the land is to be used for the Metro car shed, it ought to be acquired for the purpose from the legal owner.” He said it was tragic that the state and central governments should squabble over who owns the land when it is aimed at being used for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-shift-car-shed-to-bkc-or-kalina-say-greens/articleshow/79769999.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||US slams defacing of Gandhi statue in Washington||NEW DELHI: The US administration has strongly condemned the defacing of a Mahatma Gandhi statue last week in front of the Indian embassy in Washington DC with the White House describing the incident as “terrible”, saying “Gandhi fought for the values that America represents”. In the second incident in the past six months, the Gandhi statue outside the Indian embassy on Massachusetts Avenue was attacked by what the Indian government described as Khalistani elements, coinciding with the farmers protests in India. “It’s terrible. No statue or memorial should be desecrated and certainly not one like that of Gandhi who really fought for the values that America represents of peace, justice and freedom,” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said during a briefing on Tuesday. The US reaction was in sharp contrast to Canada’s, whose PM Justin Trudeau supported the farmers protests in India, a move opposed by the government as being one interfering in India’s internal affairs. “It is appalling that it has happened more than once and we believe the reputation of Mahatma Gandhi should be respected, especially here in America’s capital,” the White House spokesperson said. The Indian embassy said in a statement that the statue at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Plaza “was defaced by Khalistani elements” on December 12. “The embassy strongly condemns this mischievous act by hooligans masquerading as protesters against the universally respected icon of peace and justice. The embassy has lodged a strong protest with US law enforcement agencies and has also taken up the matter with the US department of state for an early investigation and action against the culprits under the applicable law,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-slams-defacing-of-gandhi-statue-in-washington/articleshow/79770000.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Noida||Horticulture payments if deadline met, says GNIDA||GREATER NOIDA: A new action plan will be put in place from the next year to maintain flora and fauna in Greater Noida, officials have said. Taking note of frequent complaints sent by residents’ groups, the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) has decided to link billing of its contractor assigned with horticulture duties with productivity. The authority had set aside Rs 9.94 crore for horticulture works in the current fiscal. Divided into 40 residential blocks, Greater Noida has been split into eight work circles and water and sewerage divisions have been earmarked as ninth and tenth work circles.  Officials said that from now, all horticulture-related activities will be under the horticulture department and vendors and contractors will be appointed directly to make sure works such as tree plantation, grass bed, pathway, pruning, tree maintenance, pit area, watering, barbed wire fencing and boundary walls around park do not get delayed. The chief executive officer of the authority, Narendra Bhooshan, said that instead of appointing multiple vendors in a single residential block, only one contract will be awarded. A single contractor will be appointed for an area under the revised system. “The bond will remain effective for a year and will be renewed if the performance of the contractor is satisfactory,” said Bhooshan. The horticulture department will be responsible for checking the progress of maintenance and development works two times in a month and will have to submit two reports to the accounts department. “In case quality is poor or the time set for completing the project is not met with, payment will not be released for the said period,” added Bhooshan. Three annexures have been finalised this week for overseeing work within residential blocks, central verge and rotaries. Authority has already appointed composite tender covering 10 localities. General secretary of the Delta 2 residents welfare association, Alok Nagar said: “Every now and then we keep hearing about new schemes and initiatives but things rarely change on the ground. We have been complaining about the poor conditions of the boundary walls in different blocks in Delta to authority officials. But nothing much has been done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/horticulture-payments-if-deadline-met-says-gnida/articleshow/79769266.cms||Shalabh
December 17, 2020||India||By January, grain stock to be 2.7 times more than needed||NEW DELHI: Government figures show that Food Corporation of India procurement has far exceeded the buffer stock limit and by January 1,2021, India will have foodgrain reserves 2.7 times more that what is required, reflecting sustained procurement but also a massive problem of plenty. Figures show procurement continued even after FCI stocks met the demands of the country’s food security and other welfare schemes. The stock is high despite the government offloading a large quantity of wheat and rice under PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna. Even the high offloading during the Covid-19 pandemic to help the poor and migrants could not deplete India’s foodgrain mountain, underlining a robust procurement system as also the costs of pruchase and storage. Analysis of past data shows that the MSP of paddy increased by 43% in 2020-21 crop year compared to 2013-14, while the support price for wheat recorded an increase of 41% during the period. The hike can be attributed to the Centre’s decision to put the MSP of crops at a minimum 50% over the cost of production which also include imputed cost of family labour. These figures were also shared with farm unions by agriculture ministry officials during the first two round of talks, explaining how the mechanism will continue to sustain food security in the country without compromising on farmer incomes. Officials said the increase in MSP and procurement of two major crops —paddy and wheat — reflected the intent of the government to continue it without disruption. Though procurement of pulses and oilseeds has also gained momentum in past two-three years, its extent will depend on the states’ proposals. Procurement of paddy and wheat too recorded substantial increase during the 2013-14 to 2020-21 period. Though the procurement is mainly concentrated in few states including Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and Chhattisgarh, it has more to do with the marketable surplus and robust government-regulated ‘mandi’ system. “The intentions of the incumbent government regarding MSP and procurement should be better judged from its actions. During the last six years, the current government at the Centre has given three major pushes to the MSP regime,” said Ramesh Chand, member, Niti Aayog, in his working paper on new farm laws and its implication. These three major pushes include a new benchmark for MSP, which ensures 50% or higher margin on cost; expansion of procurement for ensuring MSP to some other crops such as oilseeds, and a new scheme to extend financial support and share cost/losses to states that pay MSP to farmers for pulses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/by-jan-grain-stock-to-be-2-7-times-more-than-needed/articleshow/79770001.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 17, 2020||India||Centre ready to discuss all demands of farmers: Puri||CHANDIGARH: Union minister for civil aviation and housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri has made it clear that the Centre was always ready to discuss all genuine demands of farmers across the table, but it was not the time to be stubborn. Puri said bringing tractors to Delhi to block roads was not the way to protest. He was addressing a “virtual kisan sammelan” from Delhi on Wednesday, which was attended by Punjab BJP leaders and party workers. “In a democracy every person has the right to voice his concerns and protest, but there is a way to protest,” Puri said. The Union minister said if people other than farmers were joining protests just for the sake of politics, their issues were non-relevant. He asked all Punjab BJP leaders and workers to reach out to the farmers and convey that the central government was ready to address all their genuine demands across the table in face-to-face discussions. He added that the main demands of farmers were regarding continuing the MSP on crops, mandis, and a better dispute redressal mechanism, to which the central government had already agreed. Puri pointed out that in the last six years the Union agriculture ministry’s annual budget had increased by six times to touch Rs 1,34,400 crore. He said that even under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, which has nearly 23 crore beneficiaries, the government has settled the claims of 7.2 crore beneficiaries for more than Rs 8,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-ready-to-discuss-all-demands-of-farmers-puri/articleshow/79770007.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Mumbai||Kanjur depot will save over Rs 4,650 crore, Bombay HC told||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court’s decision to stay the Metro car shed work at Kanjurmarg has created uncertainty about the fate of the Metro 3 (Colaba-Banndra-Seepz) underground project as it difficult to predict how much time the entire legal process will take. Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the 33.5km project, had set a deadline of September 2022 for Phase I between Aarey to BKC and March 2023 for the entire corridor up to Colaba. MMRDA through Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had planned a double-deck depot with the lower deck being used for Metro 3 and Metro 6 (Lokhanwala to Vikhroli) and the upper deck for other Metro lines, including 4 (Wadala-Kasarvadavli) and 14 (Badalpur-Kanjurmarg). MMRDA told the high court that till date, Rs 15,994 crore has been invested in the Line 3 project, Rs 547.83 crore in Line 4 and 4A (Kasarvadvli to Gaimukh), and Rs 350 crore in Line 6. A senior state government official said, “MMRC has finished more than 85% of tunneling work and 61% of civil works (a figure that MMRDA submitted to HC). If the depot location would not have changed, the project would have been ready in three years. Now, with the depot land unavailable, nobody can predict how long it will take for the line to open up.” MMRC had also weathered legal challenges like seeking approval from the courts for cutting of trees, and resolving other legal issues related to structures infringing along the alignment of the project. The official said, “Any major project has to face legal challenges but MMRC had also weathered that storm. Now, the issue is again in the court because of which we are back to square one.” MMRDA told HC that Metro project costs will substantially reduce if a common car shed for Lines 6, 4 and 3 is made at Kanjurmarg. It said that if the Kanjurmarg plot is not available, Line 6 will require a car shed at Pahadi Goregaon, Line 3 at Aarey and Line 4 at Mogharpada in Thane. MMRDA told the court that its costs would be Rs 220 crore for Line 4, Rs 2,108 crore for Line 3 and Rs 2,328 crore for Line 6, totalling Rs 4,656 crore just for property acquisition. It said that an integrated car shed would utilise synergies to avoid duplicating infrastructure and costs, and improve efficiency. MMRC had already claimed that the project is suffering a daily loss of Rs 5 crore because of delays in project execution. Now the project cost is going to balloon further because the court is going to begin hearing only in February. The official said, “Whichever way the verdict goes, either of the party will challenge the high court’s order in the Supreme Court, where too time will be lost before the final order is delivered.” Metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev refused to comment on the issue. Source said only preparatory works like shifting of utilities, laying of pipelines, barricading and digging of soil is being undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kanjur-depot-will-save-over-rs-4650-crore-bombay-hc-told/articleshow/79770010.cms||Manthan K Mehta
December 17, 2020||Business||China on mind, govt ring-fences telecom||NEW DELHI: The government’s decision to issue the National Security Directive on telecom comes after nearly six months of intense deliberations at the highest level seeking to restrict Chinese influence on what is seen as a strategic sector. A committee led by deputy NSA Rajinder Khanna will approve the designation of ‘trusted sources’ which will be approved, or not, by the ‘designated authority’. While discussions on restrictions had begun as far back as June, when the first round of Chinese apps were banned, the government spent considerable time looking at the best tool to impose the curbs, joining countries such as Australia and the UK that have banned Huawei and ZTE from participating in 5G equipment contracts. Although the government action only refers to “trusted sources and products”, the target is quite clear and is seen to be part of a strategy to hurt China, which is already complaining about scrutiny of FDI proposals and the ban on several apps. Interestingly, the directive “does not envisage mandatory replacement of existing equipment already inducted in the networks of TSPs”. The directive will also not affect ongoing annual maintenance contracts or updates to existing equipment already inducted in the network as on date of effect of the directive. This was one of the big demands of Indian telecom companies which had used Chinese hardware for both 3G and 4G services. The government’s move to confine telecom services to ‘trusted sources’ is also connected to a strategic decision to join partners like the US and Japan to design and build 5G networks without China’s involvement. The US and Japan have already announced a project to move ahead on this. India has been invited to join the endeavour. Within India, Jio and Tech Mahindra have announced that they would team up with Japanese and Korean companies for 5G. The Modi administration’s assessment is that cyber attacks apart, the telecom infrastructure that forms the backbone for the power, financial and other sectors is too sensitive to face any threat. Networks offering 5G services are seen to be even more vulnerable to be allowed to be handled by companies like Huawei, whose founder was part of the PLA. Restrictions have been debated for long, in India as well as in other countries, and gathered momentum after the Covid-19 outbreak and the Chinese aggression on the border. Few have so far moved on the checks. With India joining the small club, chances are that other countries may join the list amid intense discussions in Europe, which stands to gain the most. After all, New Delhi’s move to include the massively popular TikTok on the list of banned apps was followed by other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-on-mind-govt-ring-fences-telecom/articleshow/79770014.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||IIT-B to have ‘centre of excellence’, promote gaming and animation||NEW DELHI: The government is setting up a Centre of Excellence at IIT Bombay to promote courses in animation, visual effects, gaming and comic (AVGC), information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said while addressing the CII Big Picture Summit on Wednesday. Javadekar said India is a country where growth of communication technology is phenomenal and presents tremendous scope for the entertainment and media industry, calling it the sunrise sector for which the proposed Centre will undertake initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and encourage start-ups. I&B secretary Amit Khare also sought to clear the air on the recent move to bring all content, including OTTs, under the ambit of the I&B ministry and said the idea behind the change is only to bring content at one place ( I&B ministry) and keep platforms at another (ministry of Electronics and IT). He said the government’s role in the sector is less of a regulator and more of a facilitator. Khare also invited the industry for the 75th year of Indian independence and help project India’s soft power through media and entertainment. Prasar Bharti chief executive Shashi Shekhar Vempati said efforts like DD Free Dish are trendsetting initiatives across the world and added that emerging technologies like 5G provide an opportunity to take broadcasting to smart phones, an opportunity being tapped by start-ups in India. On Wednesday, Vempati was elected as Vice President of Asia Pacific Broadcasting Union (ABU), one of the largest broadcasting associations in the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iit-b-to-have-centre-of-excellence-promote-gaming-and-animation/articleshow/79770016.cms||---
December 17, 2020||India||TRP case: Republic TV CEO gets bail||Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani, arrested in the TRP manipulation scam, was granted bail by a magistrate’s court on Wednesday. His lawyer Niteen Pradhan said the bail was granted on a cash surety of Rs 50,000. Khanchandani was arrested on Sunday and had submitted a bail plea on Tuesday. Arguing for bail, he cited the state human rights commission directions to the crime branch to respond to a complaint of his alleged illegal arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-case-republic-tv-ceo-gets-bail/articleshow/79770019.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu reaches out to defiant Trinamool MP||ASANSOL/DIAMOND HARBOUR: Hours after putting in his papers as MLA, Trinamool rebel Suvendu Adhikari reached out to defiant party MP from East Burdwan, Sunil Mandal, on Wednesday evening, giving a new dimension to the rumblings in the Trinamool camp in Burdwan. The development came after Trinamool’s Pandabeswar MLA Jitendra Tiwari stepped up his defiance and reached out to an INTTUC rally in Durgapur on Wednesday, going against the party’s directive to stay away from rallies and meetings till his talks with party chief Mamata Banerjee on December 18. Even a phone call from Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee asking him to keep his cool till December 18 couldn’t stop Tiwari from paying a visit to Mandal’s place, where Suvendu reached later. The dissent bug also bit Trinamool no. 2 Abhishek Banerjee’s turf of Diamond Harbour. MLA Dipak Haldar was upset with the party’s ways. “I have been kept in the dark about development work in the constituency. I will contest the assembly polls,” Haldar said, without specifying whether he would fight elections on a Trinamool ticket or not. At the Durgapur rally, Tiwari, also the Asansol Municipal Corporation administrator, said he wouldn’t mind giving up the posts of Trinamool West Burdwan chairman and Asansol civic head. Tiwari shared the dais with Trinamool’s Durgapur Paschim MLA Biswanath Pariyal, who spoke against a small section of party leaders coming in the way of trade union activities. “The problem has been continuing for over two years. Didi tried to sort it out but to no avail,” Pariyal said. Mandal too gave vent to “disappointment” over the party’s ways. “Mamata Banerjee has been asking the old and the new to work together. (But) This is not working. A Trinamool MLA worked against me in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Party leader Arup Biswas warned him. But later, he became the party district coordinator,” he said. “The Trinamool district president,” Mandal continued, “didn’t call me to a single meeting after I got elected. People are not liking this.” Posters showing Adhikari and Mandal appeared in the neighbourhood. At the INTTUC rally held at Graphite India Ltd factory gates, Tiwari spoke his mind. “This is my last speech as district chairman. I have made up my mind. I have no hankering for posts. I will keep in touch with people of Asansol and Durgapur,” he said. According to Trinamool insiders, Tiwari felt let down by the way he was made party district chairman while Trinamool’s Moloy Ghatak took over reins of trade unions and the booth-level party organization. On the party directive from Kolkata, Tiwari said: “I got the directive yesterday (Tuesday) night that I should not participate in party meetings and trade union rallies. It was sent at the behest of only one leader. I defied the directive to come here. The party can take away two things from me; I am ready to give up the posts.” Tiwari said. “There is no use trying to browbeat me. I am answerable to people because we have the responsibility to keep the promises we made to them,” he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-reaches-out-to-defiant-trinamool-mp/articleshow/79768634.cms||Mohammad Asif
December 17, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat HC halts railway construction in palace garden||VADODARA: Heritage lovers of the Banyan City have heaved a huge sigh of relief after Gujarat high court on Wednesday stopped the ministry of railways from undertaking any construction activity at Rajabaug garden in Pratap Vilas Palace compound. The railways are planning to construct the National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI) right opposite the palace in the sprawling lawns of Rajabaug. The high court bench comprising justices J B Pardiwala and Ilesh Vora passed an interim order after Vadodara-based Heritage Trust recently filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against the Railways ministry, Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd and National Academy of Indian Railways through its advocate Salil Thakore. In its PIL, the trust, comprising heritage lovers of the city actively working towards conservation of monuments and ancient structures of the city and districts around, stated that the railways intend to house the NRTI temporarily in that building as the Gujarat government has already allocated 31 acres of land in Waghodiya taluka. The petition also argued that the makeshift arrangement will permanently destroy the beauty and the ambiance of the palace and also stated that the act contradicts Government of India’s 1954 and 1981 notification stating special need for protection and preservation of monuments yet to be declared as ‘protected’. Royal family member, Radhikaraje Gaekwad, had initiated a campaign against the proposed building opposite the palace. On Wednesday, accepting the argument that the railways’ action will destroy the beauty of the 106-year-old palace and the ground opposite it, the HC issued a notice in this regard to the railway authorities. The matter will come up again in the second week of January. Meanwhile, construction of the proposed building has been halted. When contacted, the joint secretary of the trust, Jaideep Verma, a lawyer himself, confirmed that the hearing took place on Wednesday but a written order was still awaited. He, however, declined to comment any further till the order was available. MSU chancellor, Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad, had written several letters to the railway ministry requesting them not to construct any building opposite the Pratap Vilas Palace. (With inputs from Tushar Tere)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hc-halts-rly-construction-in-palace-garden/articleshow/79765467.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||India reciprocating to PLA challenge: Army commander||Kolkata: China is building model villages across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to settle nomadic Tibetans, Lt Gen Anil Chauhan, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, said in Kolkata on Wednesday after wreaths were laid at Vijay Smarak in memory of those killed during the 1971 Indo-Pakistan War. Members of a Bangladeshi delegation, including Mukti Joddhas and serving military officers, also paid tribute at the war memorial close to the entrance of Fort William, headquarters of the Eastern Command. “There haven’t been any major face-offs or intrusions by the People’s Liberation Army along the eastern part of the LAC since the standoff in Ladakh. However, there was some precautionary deployment after the Galwan incident. There is de-escalation now along both sides of the LAC, now that winter has set in. It is true, though, that the mutual trust and bonhomie that existed between troops of the Army and the PLA have suffered after the Galwan episode and will take some time to rebuild,” the Eastern Army commander said. Though additional troops have pulled back from LAC in eastern sector, the Eastern Command is fully prepared to meet all challenges during the winter months, the GOC-in-C said. “We have witnessed rapid infrastructure development by PLA across LAC in Sikkim and Kameng districts of Arunachal Pradesh. We are maintaining watch and taking reciprocal measures to meet the emerging challenge. Most of the development carried out by the PLA is of roads and tracks,” the general said. On the situation in Doklam, Lt Gen Chauhan said the Bhutan government and the Royal Bhutan Army shared a very good relationship with India and were welcome to seek assistance if there was any dispute with the Chinese. He also expressed full confidence in Bhutan’s tackling of border issues with China. The Army commander also accused the PLA of falsely apprehending five persons from Arunachal Pradesh. According to him, these people, who were subsequently released, were on the Indian side of the LAC. He said there was a false perception, based on wrong conception of the McMohan Line. “But it is a double-sided game. We have also apprehended a PLA soldier who crossed the LAC. He is still in our custody. There are some areas where there is no deployment and troops come on patrol from time to time. These are the areas where such misconceptions take place. The youths from Arunachal were on the Indian side of the LAC,” Lt Gen Chauhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/india-reciprocating-to-pla-challenge-army-commander/articleshow/79768688.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Leopard attacks 4 in Bagdogra, killed||KOLKATA: A leopard sneaked into the premises of a cancer hospital and attacked four persons, including a range officer, in north Bengal on Wednesday evening before it was killed by forest officials who “had to fire in self-defence” during an attempt to tranquillize it. Chief wildlife warden V K Yadav said wounded STF range officer Sanjay Dutta had been admitted to a private hospital in Siliguri and was out of danger. A 60-year-old man, who is probably a relative of a patient at Rangapani Cancer Hospital in Bagdogra, is being treated at North Bengal Medical College. The others escaped with minor injuries. According to forest department sources, the big cat may have strayed into the hospital area from Gangarampur tea garden. Yadav said the animal took shelter behind a row of trees in the hospital backyard and first attacked the elderly man around 6.30pm. Forest staff from Bagdogra, Baikunthapur and Sukna rushed to the spot with tranquillizer guns. The leopard attacked Dutta during the capture and his teammates had to open fire in self-defence, Yadav said. The carcass has been taken to the range office for autopsy, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/leopard-attacks-4-in-bagdogra-killed/articleshow/79768689.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Procure paddy, Bengal farmers urge govt||KOLKATA: Farmers in Bengal marched to the state capital on Wednesday raising slogans like ‘Duare sarkar, dhan kena darkar’ to demand minimum support price (MSP) for paddy, and in the process expressed solidarity with their counterparts protesting for weeks on Delhi-Haryana border against the Centre’s controversial farm laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Centre (AIKSCC) organized the march when poor and marginal farmers were making distress sale of their yield to middlemen at much less than the government-declared MSP. The protesters demanded repeal of the three central laws in addition to procurement of paddy at MSP rates by the government. Left-led peasant organizations are planning to reach out to rural households in Bengal on the issues. “We will take out jathas (rallies) in villages from December 20 to uphold the cause of farmers. There will be dharnas in blocks and district towns to demand fair prices for agricultural produce. Our programmes will continue for weeks,” said Bangiya Pradeshik Krishak Sabha leader Amal Haldar. A delegation later submitted a memorandum to the governor. Haldar, however, made a distinction between poor and marginal farmers in Bengal and “the rich ones” in Punjab and Haryana. “Farmers there are fighting for restoration of mandis. Here, farmers don’t go to mandis. They want the government to procure paddy, which is currently selling at nearly half the announced MSP rates. These farmers will become agricultural labourers if the sector is thrown open to corporate entities,” the Krishak Sabha leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/procure-paddy-bengal-farmers-urge-govt/articleshow/79768798.cms||---
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Kin of those killed in road mishaps to get Rs 1L compensation||Ranchi: Family members of those who die in road accidents will now get Rs 1 lakh compensation from the state government, disaster management minister Banna Gupta said on Wednesday. Gupta said, “This is one of the biggest steps taken by the disaster management department. Compensations will be paid irrespective of one’s financial status. While the different government stakeholders are working on ways to curb accidents, the compensation will be given on compassionate grounds.” A decision to this effect was approved by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday who chaired a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA). Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and other officials of the department were also present. On the accident relief measure, Manish Tiwari, special secretary of the department, said they are now readying a cabinet note to include road accidents in the list of disasters notified by the state government. “Road mishap isn’t recognised as a disaster in the Centre’s list, but we will notify it in the state list. Soon after the cabinet’s approval, the department will formally notify it to start disbursing compensation for all accident casualties thereafter, following recommendations by districts where the mishaps take place,” he said. Figures procured from the state transport department suggests over 3,500 people die in road accidents annually in Jharkhand. Till October this year, of the 3,366 road accidents, 2,294 have died while 3,800 succumbed in 2019 out of the 5,215 accidents. In 2018, 3,542 people died in 5,394 incidents, 3,256 died in 2017 out of 5,198 mishaps while in 2016, 3,027 persons died in 4,932 accidents. Notably, if compared to 2019, five new black spots (accident prone zones) were added from across the state to the existing list this year, taking the total to 95.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/kin-of-those-killed-in-road-mishaps-to-get-rs-1l-compensation/articleshow/79766313.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Didi asks foot soldiers to step up, says deserters ‘came in with the tide’||COOCHBEHAR: Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called upon mid-level leaders and lower-rung workers to step forward and take responsibility for the electoral battle ahead, adding that desertion by leaders not sure of getting party tickets in the 2021 assembly poll would not matter. “A few leaders are scared they will not get the Trinamool nomination and want to leave before that happens. We cannot give tickets to everyone. Those who have worked well will be nominated,” Banerjee said. “Some are afraid of losing their wealth. They fear they may go to jail. The BJP has sent out a message: either rest at home or go to jail. I will be proud if I am taken to jail. I will not surrender to the BJP, the Congress or the CPM,” Banerjee said at a rally in Coochbehar on Wednesday, insisting that those who were leaving “came in with the tide” and no one from the Trinamool’s old guard would leave her: “Rabi (minister Rabindranath Ghosh), who has been working with me for a long time, is with me. Some of those who came in with the tide are leaving with the ebb,” she said. Banerjee attacked the BJP for “approaching” Trinamool president and MP Subrata Bakshi. “They (BJP) do not have the basic courtesy. One of them called our party president, Subrata Bakshi, and told him that he wanted to talk. Anubrata Mandal from Birbhum called me the other day to say that someone from the BJP called him. Anubrata told him that he was not interested,” the Trinamool chief said. Banerjee asked the audience what they had got from the BJP in Coochbehar after voting for it in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. “The people you voted for are behaving like goons, destroying peaceful Coochbehar. The BJP is trying to drive a wedge in our social fabric, dividing Bengalis and Rajbanshis, refugees and Bengalis. They are creating problems within families, breaking up households. Sometimes they say they will implement CAA but not NRC. Don’t fall in this trap. They will implement CAA and later strike out your names as part of NRC and NPR. I did not allow NRC in Bengal,” Banerjee said. Calling the BJP descendants of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassins, she added: “Don’t touch the money they will offer you ahead of polls. Have faith in me. We have set up a new medical college here. I inaugurated the Panchanan Barma University campus on Tuesday. We have announced a state holiday on Panchanan Thakur’s birthday and the government has also drawn up a Rs-300 crore plan for developing Coochbehar as a heritage city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-asks-foot-soldiers-to-step-up-says-deserters-came-in-with-the-tide/articleshow/79769225.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Cong, BJP lock horns over panchayat polls, price rise||Ranchi: Opposition BJP and Ajsu Party upped their ante against the ruling mahagathbandhan government on Wednesday and accused the latter of deliberately delaying panchayat polls. The saffron party held demonstrations and sit-ins across the state on Wednesday. BJP state president Deepak Prakash, who took part in the protest organised by the party’s Ratu mandal unit, said: “Panchayats are key for the development of villages but by deliberately delaying the elections, the government is trying to install administrative officials in local village committees with an aim to indulge in more corruption.” “They promised to create 5 lakh jobs every year during the assembly polls but the situation is such that youths are being forced to hold demonstrations demanding jobs on a daily basis. Also, they promised a minimum support price of Rs 2,500 to farmers, but the government isn’t even procuring paddy,” Prakash said, adding that the law-and-order situation has worsened and corruption has increased in the last one year since the mahagathbandhan government came to power. “We will oppose the anti-people policies of the state government,” Prakash said. BJP ally and Ajsu Party chief Sudesh Mahto, too, shot off a letter to chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday demanding panchayat elections. He said, “The term of all panchayat bodies in the state will come to an end this month, but the state government hasn’t even begun the ground work for conducting the polls. Functional panchayat bodies are important for rural and women empowerment. It seems that the government isn’t serious about these issues.” The Congress, which is a part of the ruling alliance, termed the protests by BJP as a ‘tamasha’ to divert people’s attention from the real issues affecting the nation. State party president Rameshwar Oraon said: “The price of cooking gas has increased by Rs 100 in the last 20 days but BJP is silent on the matter. Farmers across the country are protesting, but BJP is mum. There is hardly any difference between the cost of petrol and diesel these days, but they are still silent. BJP leaders are instead doing tamasha to divert the growing anger of the people against the Narendra Modi government.” The Congress later took out rallies in Ranchi condemning the rise in prices of cooking gas, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-bjp-lock-horns-over-panchayat-polls-price-rise/articleshow/79766395.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 17, 2020||Ranchi||Nearly 4k health workers give consent for vaccination in 1st phase||Bokaro: Almost all the 4,000 frontline health workers identified by the Bokaro district administration have given their consent to get vaccinated against Covid-19 in the first phase. Although the officials are finding it difficult to procure the consent as most of the frontline health workers are not approaching on their own, the number of consents procured till date is an achievement of the administration. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “We have to be accurate in mentioning the numbers of health professionals and health workers in the report to the state headquarters for Covid-19. To ensure this, we are collecting Aadhaar or voter ID details or details of any other valid identity proof of each person. Once registered, an OTP will be sent to the mobile number of a recipient.” Pathak also said there is no possibility of discrimination. Vaccination will be given on the basis of identity proof and phone number which will be fed in the database. However, he said compliance of the laid out norms among the health professionals is low. “We had sent letters directly to all clinics and hospitals, asking them to provide names of their staff. We also warned them of strict action but, despite that, there are many dental clinics, path labs and other medical institutions that have not provided names and their consent.” There are 132 hospitals, nursing homes, dental clinics, and path labs registered under the Clinical Establishment Act in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nearly-4k-health-workers-give-consent-for-vaccination-in-1st-phase/articleshow/79766350.cms||Divy Khare
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Covid trail packs PIMS punch for children, Kolkata doctors report||KOLKATA: It’s not only adults who are fighting complications after recovering from Covid; children, too, are suffering its after-effects, often with damaging consequences, challenging the perception that the disease goes ‘soft’ on them. Even though Covid itself has not been causing major harm to children, an increasing number of them are being rushed to hospitals with Paediatric Inflammatory Multisystem Syndrome (PIMS), an after-effect of the virus. “Many of these children are getting cardiogenic shock, necessitating ICU care,” said paediatric rheumatologist Priyankar Pal, professor of paediatrics at the Institute of Child Health (ICH) Kolkata. “The symptoms include high-grade fever, rashes, red eyes and gastrointestinal problems and have some resemblance to Kawasaki disease.” PIMS, according to experts, was first reported in the UK in April. Also known as MIS-C (multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children), the first case was detected in Kolkata in early July. Since then, several children have suffered from the condition. “Between July and October, I came across about 25 cases but the number surged to 30 in November alone. This is because children tend to get affected about four to six weeks after exposure to Covid. There has been a surge post Durga Puja,” added Pal. Doctors reported that most of these children were testing positive to the Covid antibody in hospital. This indicates that they had the infection earlier, but several of them remained completely asymptomatic or suffered only mild symptoms, which may have been taken for the common flu. “This is a post-infection complication in children, a kind of delayed immune response. We have treated about 22 children in the past three months in our hospital, and half of them landed in ICU. Now that we know the disease better, we are better equipped to tackle it,” said Avishek Poddar, a paediatric intensivist at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. While doctors found significant cardiac involvement in a large chunk of patients, there were cases where multiple organs were affected. “Covid-19 was initially thought to be a serious disease only for the elderly and those with pre-existing conditions. But now, 10 months into the pandemic, younger patients who have had relatively mild Covid infections are showing up in emergency wards with mysterious, debilitating symptoms. It’s not unusual for viruses to cause after-effects, but we’ve never seen anything like this before,” said paediatric intensivist Samuel Vaddeswaram, PICU in-charge at Medica Superspecialty Hospital. “Some children are even needing ventilation and other life support. Thankfully, we have not yet lost a single child to this acute post-Covid syndrome.” Doctors said it was important to keep children under close watch for four to six weeks after Covid detection. “Many are asymptomatically infected, so one never knows if a child has Covid. Therefore, if parents notice high fever, red lips or tongue, redness in the eyes or rashes, they should consult a doctor,” Poddar said. In an observational study by a team of doctors that included Pal, Poddar and Vaddeswaram, based on cases in three tertiary hospitals in Kolkata — ICH, Apollo and Medica — 70% of these children tested positive to Covid antibodies. Eighty per cent of them had rashes, red lips and red eyes, whereas 50% of the affected had disproportionate tachycardia and hypotension and 40% had gastrointestinal complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-trail-packs-pims-punch-for-children-city-docs-report/articleshow/79769125.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 17, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari quits as MLA 3 days before Shah lands in Bengal||KOLKATA: Trinamool rebel and Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the assembly on Wednesday, more than a fortnight after he resigned from the state cabinet and three days before Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to land in Bengal for a string of pre-election rallies. Adhikari reached the state assembly around 3.55pm and his letter, addressed to assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, asked for “immediate acceptance” of his resignation. Adhikari now remains a primary member of the Trinamool but his loyalists have said their “Dada” will be joining the BJP at Shah’s public meeting in Midnapore this Saturday. The Trinamool reacted with apparent nonchalance. MP Kalyan Banerjee called it good riddance. “Dushtu goru-r theke shunya gowal bhalo,” he said (loosely translated as “it is better to have an empty cattle shed than one filled with mischief makers”). “These are people who have enjoyed the perks of office till the last moment. The same set of people will make a beeline back to the party when CM Mamata Banerjee is voted back to office. The earlier they leave the Trinamool, the better it will be for the party,” he added. “This is nothing about ideology. This is bargaining for positions. He (Adhikari) held three state cabinet posts. He wanted to be deputy chief minister, maybe even chief minister. There is no end to people’s aspirations. I don’t know what the BJP has offered him. We knew where he was headed. This does not come as a surprise,” MP Saugata Roy, who was talking to Adhikari on the Trinamool’s behalf till December 2, said. BJP leaders welcomed the developments. “Many more” Trinamool Congress leaders would be crossing over to the BJP in the near future, they claimed. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said Adhikari’s resignation pointed to something “gravely wrong” in the Trinamool camp. “The flow of things seems to be leading to where you have been speculating,” he said, alluding to speculation about Adhikari joining the BJP. “It is not just Adhikari. Many party seniors are set to leave the Trinamool,” Ghosh added. Adhikari made another significant move on Wednesday after submitting his resignation. He wrote to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar about his apprehensions of “political vendetta” against him by “unleashing police repression by implication in criminal cases” and asked for gubernatorial “intervention”. The Adhikari family is immensely influential in East Midnapore: his father, Sisir Adhikari, is Contai MP; one brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, is Tamluk MP; another brother, Soumendu Adhikari, is the Contai Municipality chairman. But Adhikari’s influence extends to several other Bengal districts, like Murshidabad and neighbouring West Midnapore (where he has been the party’s minder). A clutch of other leaders — who have started echoing Adhikari — leaving the Trinamool will mean the party will have to reorganise its strategy for the 2021 election if it wants to prevent opposition incursions in its south Bengal fortress. Adhikari has been raising the political pitch progressively since end-November, when a flurry of resignations happened. He quit the chairmanship of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners on November 26 and resigned from the state cabinet (he held the transport, water resources and irrigation portfolios) a day later; he also gave up his government accommodation and state security on the same day. Adhikari held his first “apolitical public rally” without Trinamool flags and banners on November 29, calling himself “janagan-er sevak (people’s servant)”. He did not name the Trinamool even once in these rallies but his attacks on his party and its policies grew sharper, culminating on Tuesday when he spoke against his party’s use of the “outsider” tag for BJP central leaders (without naming either the Trinamool or the BJP) and single-party hegemony in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-quits-as-mla-3-days-before-shah-lands-in-bengal/articleshow/79769130.cms||---
