December 18, 2020||Chennai||Sonia Agarwal sizzles in yellow as she attends the launch of Nakshatra Enclave at Radio Room, Somerset Hotel||Social gatherings, for sure, was one thing many missed a lot during the lockdown. Now, in the unlocking phase, parties are back again in the city. We saw this event happening at a watering hole in Chennai. Making it a glamorous one was the fashion show that was held. The presence of celebrities, like Sanjana and Sonia Aggarwal, at the do further upped its glam-o-meter. The guests turned up in cool and comfy outfits. Sporting a printed slim-fit outfit, Sanjana flaunted her toned physique, grabbing the attention of other fitness enthusiasts at the event. After catching up with their pals, the guests settled down for a relaxed time and watched models sashaying down the aisle while they enjoyed some short eats and beverages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sonia-agarwal-sizzles-in-yellow-as-she-attends-the-launch-of-nakshatra-enclave-at-radio-room-somerset-hotel/articleshow/79782980.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bizman RN Shetty, 92, passes away in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Businessman and philanthropist Rama Nagappa Shetty, popularly known as RN Shetty, died of cardiac arrest at his Cunningham Road residence on Thursday. He was 92 and is survived by his wife and three sons. Born at Murudeshwar in Uttara Kannada district, he founded RN Shetty and Company in 1961 and ventured into the construction business. Later, he entered the hospitality and education sectors and left a mark there as well. Recognising his contributions, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI) honoured him with the Visvesvaraya Memorial Award in 2004. In 2009, Bengaluru University conferred an honorary doctorate on him. Shetty had restored the historic Murudeshwar temple and was instrumental in building the 249-foot-tall Raja Gopura, considered to be the tallest. “Deep condolences on RN Shetty’s demise. Shetty, who was born in a peasant family, ventured into various businesses and left a deep imprint in construction, infrastructure development, hospitality and education sector,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bizman-rn-shetty-92-passes-away-in-bluru/articleshow/79784962.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hubballi||This village near Hubballi has one-man messaging service||HUBBALLI: More than SMS and a phone call, Bidnal village near Hubballi trusts one mode of communication: Ashok Bheemappa Pujar, who delivers the message and follows up with reminders if needed, replete with personal courtesies. Should he be inviting someone to a wedding, for instance, he will insist they stay for lunch after blessing the couple. Ashok, who is 62, has been the village messenger since 1976. He took up the job as a teenager after his ageing father found it difficult to go around the village. “People contact me when they have a housewarming, wedding, reception, birthday function or even tithi (death anniversary) and ask me to invite their guests. I visit their homes along with one of the family members a day before the function and inform them about the place and time. The morning of the function, I visit them again to remind them they should go,” says Ashok. Besides inviting villagers to personal functions, he informs them of decisions taken by the village heads and about special pujas, local fairs and other events.“I don’t think even today, people trust messages through mobile or other communication modes. When I took over my father’s duties, there were less than 100 houses here. Now, there are nearly 2,000 families,” he adds. “Those who have lived here a long time don’t distribute wedding cards to invite people,” says 84-year-old Malleshappa Hirur. “Ashok will be informed about the function and whom to invite and he takes care of it.” “The messenger is paid by villagers according to their convenience,” says 82-year-old Siddappa Meti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-village-near-hubballi-has-one-man-messaging-service/articleshow/79784963.cms||J Abbas Mulla
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP farmer gets record Rs 37,000 a quintal for chilli at Byadagi||HAVERI: An Andhra Pradesh farmer got an all-time high price of Rs 36,999 per quintal in Asia’s biggest chilli market at Byadagi on Thursday. Gulleppa from Avuladatta village in Anantapur district, got the bumper price for his Dabbi variety chilli which was bought by Kishor and Company. Chilli was sold at a high price of Rs 35,555 per quintal last week. The same variety was sold at Rs 33,333 per quintal in 2019. The trade, which began at the beginning of this month, has not picked up as not many farmers are bringing their produce to the market due to the gram panchayat polls. On Thursday, 60,957 bags of chilli arrived at the market. An Andhra Pradesh farmer got an all-time high price of Rs 36,999 per quintal in Asia’s biggest chilli market at… https://t.co/v4FkRjTYJZ— TOI Vizag (@TOIVizagNews) 1608264973000“It’s the first time I’m at the Byadagi chilli market to sell my produce and never expected this price. Last year, I sold my produce at Guntur market, but didn’t get a good rate. I had invested Rs 10,500 per quintal for producing and harvesting,” said Gulleppa. Byadagi’s APMC authorities appreciated him for this achievement. Prabhu Doddamani, officer, Byadagi Chilli Market (APMC), said: “Our market has been a good platform for farmers as well as buyers for the past five decades. Chilli growers can get better if they maintain them — clean and dry them while selling their produce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-farmer-gets-record-37k-a-quintal-for-chilli-at-byadagi/articleshow/79790338.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||AP farmer gets record Rs 37,000 a quintal for chilli at Byadagi||HAVERI: An Andhra Pradesh farmer got an all-time high price of Rs 36,999 per quintal in Asia’s biggest chilli market at Byadagi on Thursday. Gulleppa from Avuladatta village in Anantapur district, got the bumper price for his Dabbi variety chilli which was bought by Kishor and Company. Chilli was sold at a high price of Rs 35,555 per quintal last week. The same variety was sold at Rs 33,333 per quintal in 2019. The trade, which began at the beginning of this month, has not picked up as not many farmers are bringing their produce to the market due to the gram panchayat polls. On Thursday, 60,957 bags of chilli arrived at the market. An Andhra Pradesh farmer got an all-time high price of Rs 36,999 per quintal in Asia’s biggest chilli market at… https://t.co/v4FkRjTYJZ— TOI Vizag (@TOIVizagNews) 1608264973000“It’s the first time I’m at the Byadagi chilli market to sell my produce and never expected this price. Last year, I sold my produce at Guntur market, but didn’t get a good rate. I had invested Rs 10,500 per quintal for producing and harvesting,” said Gulleppa. Byadagi’s APMC authorities appreciated him for this achievement. Prabhu Doddamani, officer, Byadagi Chilli Market (APMC), said: “Our market has been a good platform for farmers as well as buyers for the past five decades. Chilli growers can get better if they maintain them — clean and dry them while selling their produce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ap-farmer-gets-record-37k-a-quintal-for-chilli-at-byadagi/articleshow/79784965.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP chief tweets about beautified median; citizens say fix roads first||BENGALURU: Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s attempt to ride high on the success of its beautification initiative at the median on Ballari Road (near Cauvery Junction) has evoked snarky reactions on social media. “First build roads, beautification can come later,” said many Bengalureans, who are tired of enduring backbreaking rides across the city. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad’s tweet, which contained two photographs of the aesthetically landscaped median and a traffic island near Cauvery Theatre, is what triggered the discussion. While a few netizens appreciated BBMP’s work, many slammed the agency for turning a blind eye to the condition of roads in their localities. “Come to Thanisandra and you can drive my car, I will sit next to you as navigator and if you dont get frustrated I will owe you a dinner at my home!!” a citizen posted. Roads have become pain points in Bengaluru as citizens, especially those living in the outlying areas, attempt to return to normalcy. While some are dug up, many are not asphalted. Many netizens accused BBMP bigwigs of selectively beautifying streets that lead to the offices and residences of the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues. “You are only digging roads and not rebuilding them,” Tweeple said, suggesting the Palike get its priorities right as broken or bad infrastructure could be life-threatening. Work being expedited: OfficialsSenior BBMP officials maintained they are working towards making Bengaluru a better city. “The pandemic has been a hurdle; road work is being expedited,” an official said. Civic activist and Janaagraha head (civic participation) Srinivas Alavilli said: “The reaction is understandable but somewhat misplaced. BBMP is a huge organisation with many moving parts. The beautification project is likely to have been executed by a team other than road maintenance. If a ward panel takes decisions about public work within the ward instead of the headquarters, locals would point to the incongruity in taking up beautification when the road is in terrible shape and prioritised their budget better. Lack of citizen participation in ward-level governance, especially in outer areas, is a problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-chief-tweets-about-beautified-median-citizens-say-fix-roads-first/articleshow/79784968.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Colombian held with skimming machine at ATM||BENGALURU: Staff at IDBI Bank’s Gandhinagar branch caught a Colombian on Thursday with a skimming device which he was trying to install into an ATM machine. Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police (west), said: “Christino, 35, was at the ATM kiosk and began to run when suspicious bank staff questioned him. The employees caught him with the help of passersby. Upparpet police found a skimming device with him.” Police suspect the Colombian has fixed skimming devices at multiple ATM kiosks in east Bengaluru. Cops, however, are yet to complete his interrogation as he claims he speaks only Spanish. Christino may have stolen debit card credentials of many customers. “Recently, cybercriminals had withdrawn Rs 7.2 lakh using a blocked debit card,” an officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colombian-held-with-skimming-machine-at-atm/articleshow/79784972.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||SC dismisses Alva’s plea seeking quashing of FIR||BENGALURU: The Supreme Court dismissed a petition filed by absconding accused Aditya Alva, seeking quashing of the FIR registered against him in a drug-peddling case. Alva, who has been evading police since September 4, has been directed to approach the high court. Central Crime Branch sleuths, who registered the case against Alva on September 4 under the Narcotic Substances and Psychotropic Act, 1985, had filed a caveat against him earlier. “We had anticipated that he would approach the apex court, so we filed a caveat weeks ago,” joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said. On September 4, the FIR was registered against Alva and 12 others. Alva then applied for anticipatory bail with the trial court but it was rejected. He moved the high court with his bail petition, but the matter was dismissed on December 1 after his counsel skipped four hearings. CCB police have so far arrested 13 suspects in the drug-peddling case. One of them, actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, got conditional bail on December 11 due to health reasons. PIL against amendmentsThe high court ordered notice to the government and the Bangalore Development Authority on Thursday in response to a PIL challenging recent amendments to the BDA and KTCP Acts. The petitioners claimed through the amendments to BDA Act and Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, the government is seeking to legalise illegal occupation of government land, thereby indirectly trying to implement the Akrama-Sakrama scheme, which was stayed by the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sc-dismisses-alvas-plea-seeking-quashing-of-fir/articleshow/79784975.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Memorial Church, which contributed to 1876 famine relief in Bengaluru, turns 200||BENGALURU: Memorial Church in Bharathinagar, one of the oldest churches in Bengaluru, recently turned 200. On December 12, the department of posts, Karnataka Circle, commemorated its bicentenary by releasing a special cover with an image of the old red structure. Tucked in a bylane behind Bharathinagar police station in east Bengaluru, the church has a rich history. In 1820, missionaries Stephen Laidler and Andrew Forbes from the London Missionary Society set up a chapel in Bourdillon (now Infantry Road) in old Bangalore’s Cantonment area. The church, which was initially meant for British service personnel, gradually started attracting local worshippers over the years. The history of the present building dates back to 1876 when a severe famine struck the erstwhile Mysore State. Records say Benjamin Rice, a missionary in Bangalore, helped starving citizens with food and shelter from the present location. With 1878 resulting in a good harvest, a foundation was laid for a church by the Methodist Episcopal on December 12. It was christened Memorial Chapel in memory of the harvest. Later, the stretch where the structure stood was named Memorial Street. One can still see a black stone plaque on the church façade, which commemorates arrival of the harvest. With the Methodists deciding to sell the property, London Missionary Society purchased it in 1916 and moved their ministry from Infantry Road to Memorial Street. Post Independence, the church came under The Church of South India’s Karnataka Central Diocese. While the altar is still adorned by colonial-style furniture, the roof and windows were revamped in 1986. A brass plaque in honour of a soldier killed during World War II can also be found here. It was erected by a serving pastor and a family in memory of their son who served as an intelligence officer in the British Indian Army, parishioners reveal. According to its present presbyter Rev J Paul Dhanasegaran, over 270 families are part of the historical church. It recently celebrated its bicentenary in a small way due to the ongoing pandemic. The church committee has planned a grand event to mark the 200th year once the Covid crisis ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/memorial-church-which-contributed-to-1876-famine-relief-in-city-turns-200/articleshow/79784993.cms||Petlee Peter
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Metro worker dies after cable pierces head||BENGALURU: A youth working at a Metro construction site in Jayanagar 9th Block died after a 16mm cable pierced his head in the early hours of Wednesday. The incident occurred around 4.45am when Santosh Hansda, 21, was engaged in cable-stressing work. Police registered a case of criminal negligence against the cable-stressing machine operator and representatives of Utracon, the firm responsible for the work. Hansda and his cousin Ulisal Basky were assigned to assist Jeevan Marandi, who was operating the machine, on Tuesday night. The trio was busy working on a 30-ft tall Metro pillar when a wedge plate fell on the other side and put pressure on the machine. As a result, the cable jutted out and pierced Hansda’s head from the left side. Hansda fell unconscious and was hanging in the air with his safety belt. He was declared dead in hospital. Police have booked Marandi, Utracon general manager Suresh, site manager Veeramani and site engineer Navaneeda Krishnan. BMRCL MD Ajay Seth said: “This is the second accident at the same stretch in recent times. BMRCL will actively help its contractors to improve their safety practices, including getting a safety audit done" he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/metro-worker-dies-after-cable-pierces-head/articleshow/79784994.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Earthquake of 4.2 magnitude hits Alwar; tremors felt in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: An earthquake of medium intensity of magnitude 4.2 hit Rajasthan's Alwar on Thursday, with its tremors being felt in Delhi-NCR, National Center for Seismology has said. The epicentre of the earthquake was Alwar. The tremors prompted people to venture out of their homes in fear. No casualties or damage to properties have been reported so far. The tremors were felt in Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Noida, according to Skymet Weather. The earthquake of magnitude 4.2 occurred at 11.46 pm at a depth of five kilometres, NCS said. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/earthquake-tremors-felt-in-parts-of-delhi/articleshow/79784840.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kochi||Makeup artiste Jaanmoni Das marks decade in industry with grand party||Prominent makeup artiste Jaanmoni Das, celebrated a decade in the Malayalam movie industry, with a gettogether of celebrity friends at a hotel in Kochi. She also launched a celebrity 2021 calendar and a bridal studio in the city to mark the milestone. Present at the function were actor-entrepreneur Poornima Indrajith, TV presenter Ranjini Haridas, singer Ranjini Jose, and actors Arya, Archana Susheelan and Krishna Praba and among others. Recounting her journey on the occasion, Jaanmoni, who hails from Assam, speaking in Hindi said she was grateful to Malayalees for accepting her with love and support. She said when she first came to the State as a 19-year-old, she did not even know where Kerala was, and thought she was travelling out of the country. The professionally trained classical dancer is also proud of her identity as a transgender, she asserts. Apart from working with Mohanlal, she has worked with everyone from Manju Warrier to Nazriya, Namitha Pramod and Revathy. "I’m really lucky to work with Mohanlal in two movies and with top directors like Satyan Anthikad, Dr. Biju, Rosshan Andrrews etc," said Jaanmoni, who was dressed in a red sari for the party. Jaanmoni's celebrity friends also spoke with appreciation about her work. Poornima Indrajith spoke about the artiste's dedication and passion for her craft, as did Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/makeup-artiste-jaanmoni-das-marks-decade-in-industry-with-grand-party/articleshow/79785058.cms||Anna Mathews
December 18, 2020||India||MHA asks 3 Bengal IPS officers to join central duty||NEW DELHI: Making it clear that it was not relenting on disciplinary action relating to an attack on BJP chief J P Nadda’s cavalcade in Kolkata, the home ministry on Thursday wrote to the West Bengal chief secretary reaffirming its decision to call three IPS officers on central deputation, while also finalising their new postings against existing vacancies in police organisations. The move saw chief minister Mamata Banerjee express annoyance on social media against the Centre’s “deliberate attempt to encroach upon state’s jurisdiction and demoralise serving officers in West Bengal”. In the letter copied to the DGP, the home ministry said it examined the state government’s reply refusing to spare the three officers — Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal), Bhola Nath Pandey (SP, Diamond Harbour) and Praveen Kumar Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) — despite the Centre’s decision to call them on deputation. Citing Rule 6(1) of IPS cadre rules, which relate to deputation of cadre officers and which clearly state that the Centre’s decision will prevail in the event of any disagreement, the home ministry said the three officers, whose appointment it had already approved against existing vacancies, be relieved immediately so that they could join their new postings. The three officers, who were directly handling Nadda’s security, were also sent separate letters asking them to join their central postings at the earliest. While Mishra has been appointed an IG in Indo-Tibetan Border Police for five years, Tripathi has been appointed DIG, Sashastra Seema Bal, also for five years. Pandey has been deputed as SP, Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) for four years. Banerjee warned that West Bengal “wouldn’t allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the state machinery by proxy... West Bengal is not going to cow down in front of expansionist and undemocratic forces”. While the state may be able to delay matters, the rules make it difficult to prevent the orders from being carried out. Sources in the home ministry said Rule 6(1) of IPS cadre clearly establishes the Centre’s precedence in matters relating to central deputation of All-India Services officers belonging to various state cadres. “The state may play difficult but ultimately will have little choice but to part with the IPS officers, particularly as their appointment in central police organisations has already been cleared,” said an officer. It remains to be seen if the matter will end up in court, as in an earlier case of deputation of Tamil Nadu cadre IPS officer (now retired) Archana Ramasundaram in CBI. The Tamil Nadu government had suspended and chargesheeted Ramasundaram for relieving herself for CBI deputation despite lack of concurrence from the state. The Delhi high court later held that the suspension and chargesheet against Ramasundaram, who retired as DG of Sashastra Seema Bal, was prompted by “legal malice”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-asks-3-bengal-ips-officers-to-join-central-duty/articleshow/79787242.cms||Bharti Jain
December 18, 2020||India||SC dismisses plea against HC order that freed Dr Kafeel Khan||AGRA/LUCKNOW: The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal by the Uttar Pradesh government against the Allahabad high court order that had quashed Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention under the National Security Act (NSA) in September. "We see no reason to interfere," a three-judge bench of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Criminal cases against Khan will be decided "on their own merits", the bench added. Khan had been held at Mathura jail for seven months after he delivered a speech during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Aligarh Muslim University which the government deemed "provocative". The high court had, while allowing his release, observed that his speech does not "disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence". It, instead, "gives a call for national integrity and unity… (and) deprecates any kind of violence". For Khan, the Supreme Court’s decision came as a reprieve in what has been three years of intermittent legal battles. "My youngest brother is getting married today (Thursday). All I wanted was to be there for him, even if the verdict didn’t go my way. The past few days, we have been under extreme stress," he told TOI from Delhi. The pre-wedding ceremony on Wednesday had been an uneasy event. Khan said he couldn’t sleep at night. "In the morning, I wore a sherwani and entered my lawyer’s office wondering if I would get a chance to see my family before I was carted off… I hugged my children goodbye before leaving for court and held on to Ammi jaan." His wife, Dr Shabista Khan, and mother, Nuzhat Parveen, had been impatiently waiting at the wedding venue. "The rituals were on. But we were all waiting. We didn’t know if he’d get here or be arrested from there," Shabista said. After the Supreme Court decision, he called his mother. "Other family members joined in the video call. We broke into tears." Khan has been locked in a battle with the state government since 2017, when over 70 children died at the Baba Raghav Das Medical College in Gorakhpur in just a month because there weren’t enough oxygen cylinders. Khan was suspended from his position as the nodal officer for the paediatric department at the hospital. "My family and I have been suffering for more than three years. I never did anything wrong," he said. He has not been reinstated yet. "I will continue practising as a doctor and helping those who need me," he said. "I have organised 100-odd medical camps so far. With help from health activists across the nation, I will do more. No one should be cut off from healthcare because of money, age, caste, religion or gender."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-dismisses-plea-against-hc-order-that-freed-dr-kafeel-khan/articleshow/79787457.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 18, 2020||India||House Panel should discuss critical national security matters, not uniforms and badges: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: A day after he walked out of the defence committee’s meeting after not being allowed to speak, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking his intervention to ensure that discussions and presentations in the defence committee meetings are in “consonance” with the role and objective of House committees, and that members’ right to speak freely is protected. In his letter, Gandhi said the standing committee on defence is meant to “provide legislative oversight for policies and decisions of the ministry of Defence”, and that he had written to committee chairman Jual Oram explaining his absence from the previous meeting, and seeking discussions on India’s strategy against China's aggressive posture in coordination with Pakistan, as well as the inter-governmental agreement on the purchase of the Rafale aircraft. Instead, he said, the committee decided to discuss military uniforms. “I felt this was a surprising subject, but I assumed that there would be a presentation about the logistics or procurement of uniforms, which have a strategic bearing....I was therefore extremely disturbed to find that the Chief of Defence Staff and the top brass of the Army, Navy and Air Force, who have important matters to deal with, had been asked by the chairman to spend an entire afternoon explaining the colours and different types of uniforms and insignia worn by the different ranks in our forces,” Gandhi said in the letter. He also said some MPs said uniforms worn by Indian forces ought to be “simplified and rationalised” along the lines of those worn by US forces, and when he intervened to point out that the committee’s job was to discuss “critical national security matters of strategic nature”, instead of disrespecting senior officers by getting them to make presentations on uniforms and badges, the committee chairman Jual Oram did not allow him to speak. Gandhi added that while the committee was free to disagree with his views, not being allowed to speak and to complete his intervention was a “sad comment” on how government handles military affairs. Congress also fielded two senior leaders and service veterans, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Telangana Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy, a former Air Force fighter pilot, to back Gandhi’s assertions that discussions on uniforms and badges when Indian soldiers are facing Chinese and Pakistani aggression were “irrelevant and trivial”. “The CDS was there and senior officers were present. Instead of discussing the situation with China and Pakistan, and the situation in Ladakh and about defence policies, they discuss button and badges. What kind of joke is this? Rahul was absolutely right. People should read about the ethos of our forces and understand their history.…shocked with the discussion in our Parliamentary Defence Committee where members were discussing the type of polish to be used for buttons on the Armed Forces Uniform instead of finding ways to counter the joint China-Pak threat,” Singh, a decorated war veteran, said. Reddy said Gandhi was right in walking out of the defence committee meeting. “At a time when Chinese troops have intruded our borders in Ladakh, the committee on Defence Security is discussing trivial issues like change in uniforms. As a fmr. member of armed forces, I support the walk-out by RahulGandhi and his condemnation of BJP’s misplaced priorities,” he said on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/house-panel-should-discuss-critical-national-security-matters-not-uniforms-and-badges-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/79787596.cms||Swati Mathur
December 18, 2020||India||Sonia Gandhi to meet ‘G23’ partymen tomorrow||NEW DELHI: Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has invited the G23 functionaries — who wrote to her in August seeking "full time" leadership and elections to party posts — for a discussion on Saturday where the latter are expected to seek a response on progress with regard to their demands. While there was no official word on the development, dissenting functionaries said they had written to Sonia last week. An AICC manager claimed the Congress chief was beginning the process of meeting senior leaders and this may include a small group of the letter writers, with issues like alliances in election-going states and farm agitation on the table. Rahul Gandhi may also attend the discussions. However, sources said senior leaders who had vented their angst about Rahul's functioning saw the latest results in the Kerala panchayat polls to underline the relevance of issues they raised a few months ago. They are likely to enquire about the process of election of the party chief and also the working committee. The view in a section of the party is that the election process may well throw up contenders for the party chief's posts even as Rahul has not indicated whether he is ready to take charge again. The fear of letter writers and those aligned with them is that a proxy candidate may be foisted on to the leadership position. While the G23 is prepared to consider a Gandhi family member being the party president, as was said by leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad in a recent interview, it may not accept anyone else. This may turn the internal polls into a contest. On top of their mind are the decisions taken at the eventful CWC meeting in August where the G23 missive was debated. A key decision was the announcement of the process for the election to the post of president — a demand of letter writers besides their push for election to the CWC. It is learned that a key member of the "first family" reportedly spoke over telephone to the principals of the G23, Azad and Anand Sharma among a few, over last month — making up for the absence of long-time family confidant Ahmed Patel who passed away recently. Sources said the key concern of the dissidents is what happens to the leadership of Congress since Sonia Gandhi is an interim president and internal polls have been announced. "They want clarity on this," a veteran said. The scenarios are tricky. Insiders say if not Rahul, then Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should take charge to keep the party cohesive. The leadership issue, a party veteran stressed, will have to be resolved through consensus — either a Gandhi, else a non-Gandhi member acceptable to all. The dissidents also want a change in Rahul’s style of leadership — a message they have conveyed during the back-channel talks. Concerned Congress functionaries say besides G23 members, even veterans who did not sign the letter have jumped in to convey to the leadership the need for stabilising the organisation. Among them are said to be Kamal Nath and P Chidambaram. Even chief ministers like Ashok Gehlot and Amarinder Singh have repeatedly voiced the need for Rahul to take back the reins of the party, arguing that Congress was passing through a tough phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-gandhi-to-meet-g23-partymen-tomorrow/articleshow/79787622.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||BJP, Congress spar after Rahul’s walkout during defence panel meet||NEW DELHI: The BJP-Congress spat in the defence standing committee continued on Thursday with Rahul Gandhi asking the Speaker to ensure discussions take place and BJP hitting back, pointing out that the Gandhi scion had attended just two of 14 meetings of the panel in the last one and half years. Rahul Gandhi wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, seeking intervention to ensure discussions and presentations in the panel meetings are in “consonance” with the role and objective of House committees, and that members’ right to speak freely is protected. Responding to Rahul's submissions, BJP slammed the Congress leader for walking out of the parliamentary committee meeting with I&B minister Prakash Javadekar saying the leader was absent when the panel met to finalise its agenda. “Rahul Gandhi himself remains absent and then blames the government and all procedures,” the minister said. Noting that proceedings of the committees are secret, the minister said parliamentary panels are not meant for delivering speeches or staging political protests. “Rahul Gandhi was not even aware that the agenda for the standing committee is also decided in a meeting (by the panel),” he said. The BJP leader said when UPA was in office, Rahul had torn up a copy of an ordinance and his behaviour reflected that he had no respect for the constitutional norms. Congress fielded two senior leaders and service veterans, Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh and Telangana Congress chief Uttam Kumar Reddy, a former Air Force fighter pilot, to back Rahul’s assertions that the parliamentary committee’s discussions on uniforms, badges and stars at a time when Indian soldiers are facing Chinese and Pakistani aggression was “irrelevant and trivial”. Insisting that the standing committee on defence is meant to “provide legislative oversight for policies and decisions of the ministry of defence”, Rahul, in his letter, said he had written to committee chairman Jual Oram explaining his absence and seeking discussions on India’s strategy against China’s aggressive posture in coordination with Pakistan, as well as the inter-governmental agreement on the purchase of Rafale aircraft. Instead, he said, the committee decided to discuss military uniforms. “I felt this was a surprising subject, but I assumed that there would be a presentation about the logistics or procurement of uniforms, which have a strategic bearing... I was therefore extremely disturbed to find that the Chief of Defence Staff and the brass of the Army, Navy and Air Force, who have important matters to deal with, had been asked by the chairman to spend an entire afternoon explaining the colours and different types of uniforms and insignia worn by the different ranks in our forces,” Gandhi said. He also said some MPs said uniforms worn by Indian forces ought to be “simplified and rationalised” along the lines of those worn by US forces, and when he intervened to point out that the committee’s job was to discuss “critical national security matters of strategic nature”, instead of disrespecting senior officers by getting them to make presentations on uniforms and badges, the chairman did not allow him to speak. “What kind of joke is this? Rahul was absolutely right. People should read about the ethos of our forces and understand their history.…shocked with the discussion in our parliamentary defence committee where members were discussing the type of polish to be used for buttons on the armed forces uniform instead of finding ways to counter the joint China-Pak threat,” said Singh, a decorated war veteran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-congress-spar-after-rahuls-walkout-during-defence-panel-meet/articleshow/79787680.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Business||Sensex nears 47k on record buying by foreign investors||MUMBAI: Yearly net inflow in the stock market from foreign funds has topped the Rs 1.5 lakh crore mark, an all-time record, as overseas fund managers poured money into India since October, pushing the sensex to new peaks on a regular basis. In fact, backed by FPI (foreign portflio investors) buying, the sensex on Thursday closed near the 47k mark, up 224 points at 46,890. In dollar terms, the year-to-date inflow is at $21 billion, official data show. In terms of annual flows, the second highest figure of Rs 1.3 lakh crore was recorded in 2012. Till date this year, among the emerging markets in Asia, India has recorded the biggest foreign fund flow, according to Bloomberg data. A host of factors have led to this deluge. According to Rusmik Oza, EVP at Kotak Securities, post the pandemic, central banks globally have poured record amounts into the market, mainly to stabilise the economies. “A big chunk of the same is chasing risky assets. Also, it is expected that the dollar will continue to remain weak, which, in turn, will give stability to emerging market currencies; hence more money is flowing into EMs, which should continue in 2021,” Oza said. The rupee, after weakening below the Rs 75-per-dollar mark during the early part of the pandemic, has stabilised between 73 and 74 levels, which also inspires confidence in FPIs to invest in India, Oza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nears-47k-on-record-buying-by-foreign-investors/articleshow/79787752.cms||Partha Sinha
December 18, 2020||India||Didi aide Suvendu Adhikari exits TMC, sparks a spate of resignations||KOLKATA: Former Bengal minister and estranged Mamata Banerjee aide Suvendu Adhikari quit Trinamool Congress on Thursday, taking the third and possibly final step in his journey to BJP and opening the floodgates for a bunch of resignations by his loyalists and at least one disgruntled senior colleague — MLA Jitendra Tiwari from West Burdwan. By evening, the rumblings of discontent had become a roar of rebellion that cleaved Trinamool-run civic bodies in West Burdwan and Hooghly, besides jolting the party organisation in Adhikari’s home turf East Midnapore and Jangalmahal. In Hooghly, Dankuni municipality vicechairman Debashis Mukherjee gave up his civic post, announcing he was with “Dada”. In West Midnapore, Trinamool Kishan-Khet Mazdoor cell president Dulal Mandal put in his papers. Pandabeswar MLA Tiwari, who had defied CM Mamata Banerjee’s directive not to attend any rally or meeting till they met on Friday, cited an alleged attack on his office in West Burdwan’s Haripur by TMC block president Narendranath Chakraborty for exiting the party immediately. Taking the cue, three senior Tiwari loyalists, including TMC’s West Burdwan general secretary and a district vice-president, resigned. Four grassroots workers of the party put in their papers, too. Adhikari’s separation from the party he had been associated with for over two decades had been set in motion on November 27, when he stepped down from the Mamata Banerjee cabinet and other administrative posts. He followed it up with his resignation from the assembly on Wednesday. “I am thankful for all the challenges and opportunities afforded to me,” Adhikari said in a letter addressed to Mamata. He made no mention of any grievance or grudge either with the party or his former colleagues. With the final parting of ways coming just two days before Union home minister Amit Shah’s scheduled visit to Midnapore, Adhikari looks set to make his much-speculated transition to the saffron party at that very event. Trinamool called his resignation “a drama on a delayed reawakening of the conscience”. “BJP old-timers won’t get a chair in their party office, given the manner these ‘tatkal’ BJP leaders are flocking to their party,” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. BJP state chief Dilip Ghosh said this was the start of a process that would end with everyone — except CM Mamata, nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee, and state urban development minister Firhad Hakim — leaving the party. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar appeared to wade into the controversy, forwarding to CM Mamata a letter written by Adhikari in which he purportedly speaks of his apprehensions about being harassed by state government agencies. (With inputs from Mohammad Asif, Suman Mandal, Falguni Banerjee, Subhro Maitra & Sujoy Khanra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didi-aide-suvendu-adhikari-exits-tmc-sparks-a-spate-of-resignations/articleshow/79787773.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Make faculty appointments in IITs quota-exempt: Panel||NEW DELHI: The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) should be exempt from reservations in faculty positions as these are “institutes of national importance and involved in research” and the power of appointment should be vested with their Board of Governors, an eight -member panel, set up by the ministry of education, said in its report. The panel said rather than specific quotas, diversity issues should be addressed through outreach campaigns and targeted recruitment of faculty in IITs. There are 23 IITs. The report, submitted in June and accessed by TOI, said, “Being established and recognised as institutions of national importance under an Act of Parliament, IITs ought to be listed under (Clause 4) of the CEI (Reservation in Teacher’s Cadre) Act 2019, for exemption from reservations. This must be reconsidered for inclusion of IITs in the Schedule taking into account the nature of these institutions, duties and their activities. The matter of reservations in these institutions may be vested with their respective Board of Governors as per the Board resolutions, statutes and bye-laws.” According to the CEI Act, institutions of excellence, research institutions and institutions of national and strategic importance are exempt from caste-based reservations in faculty appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/make-faculty-appointments-in-iits-quota-exempt-panel/articleshow/79787786.cms||---
December 18, 2020||World||Oxford says vaccine has good immune response with two-dose regime||LONDON: Oxford's Covid-19 vaccine candidate has a better immune response when a two full-dose regime is used rather than a full-dose followed by a half-dose booster, the university said on Thursday. The vaccine candidate, which has been licensed to AstraZeneca, has published interim late stage trial results showing higher efficacy when a half dose is followed by a full dose, compared to a two full-dose regime, though more work needs to be done to affirm the result. The details from the Phase I/II clinical trials released on Thursday made no reference to the half-dose/full-dose regime, which Oxford has said had been "unplanned" but approved by regulators. The university said it had explored two dosing regimes in early stage trials, a full-dose/full-dose regime and a full-dose/half-dose regime, investigated as a possible "dose sparing" strategy. "The booster doses of the vaccine are both shown to induce stronger antibody responses than a single dose, the standard dose/standard dose inducing the best response," the university said in a statement. The vaccine "stimulates broad antibody and T cell functions," it said after publishing further data from the Phase I/II clinical trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/oxford-says-vaccine-has-good-immune-response-with-two-dose-regime/articleshow/79787802.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Business||Mrs Bector’s Food: From Rs 300 home kitchen to Rs 1,000cr co||Mumbai/New Delhi/Chandigarh: Almost four-and-a-half decades after Rajni Bector, then a young bakery-course graduate from Ludhiana’s Punjab Agricultural University, baked cakes and made ice-creams for women in the city’s social circuit, the maiden public offer of Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities — the company she built over the years — was subscribed 198 times. This made the company’s IPO, which closed on Thursday, the most successful maiden offering this year. In the Rs 541-crore IPO, the high net worth investors’ part was subscribed 621 times, while the institutional part 177 times, BSE data showed. The retail part was subscribed a little over 45 times, showing widespread interest in the share issue. Following the initial public issue, the company — which sells Cremica biscuits and bread under the English Oven brand — will see its promoters’ wealth at over Rs 550 crore, assuming the stock is listed at Rs 288, the upper end of the price band for the IPO. If the recent trend of listings is extrapolated with IPOs that got more than 150 times subscription, the stock price of Mrs Bector’s Food could double on the first day itself. Back in 1976, when her husband remained busy with his business, Rajni Bector began making ice creams with a hand churner in the backyard of her house in Ludhiana’s upmarket Sarabha Nagar area. Soon she began getting orders for birthday and kitty parties. An oven costing Rs 300 was soon added to her kitchen. Two years later, impressed with her culinary skills, her husband Dharamvir gave her Rs 20,000 which catapulted her craft into a full grown business. “My husband showed his trust in a woman’s entrepreneurial dream in 1978. Unfortunately, I lost him three years ago. With such a big response in the IPO, it’s a lesson on what small town housewomen can do with startups. Till date, I work in Cremica as a shareholder and still advise my kids on ingredients on dough, spices to tomatoes for our products,” Bector told TOI. At the end of the last financial year, the company was raking in revenue of over Rs 700 crore and notched up a profit of Rs 28 crore.Bector’s grandson Ishaan, who studied supply chain management at Michigan State University followed by a degree at Indian School of Business, insists that the family’s bonding at home has helped the company grow. “Dadi and all of us still have our meals together. We are still running the bakery in-house, serving Ludhiana. So we have desserts such as tiramisu tonight. That keeps our business spirit intact,” Ishaan, a member of the company’s board, told TOI. What also helped the issue is also the huge amount of liquidity flowing into the stock market and strong interest in IPOs in recent months. For instance, the IPOs for Mazgaon Dock and Burger King were subscribed 157 times each while the offer for Happiest Minds was subscribed 151 times, official data showed. In Mrs Bector’s IPO nearly 1.9 crore shares were offered in the price band of Rs 286-288. The stock is expected to be listed around December 28, on BSE and NSE. Of the total offering, Rs 500 crore is offer-for-sale by four of its existing shareholders while the balance, nearly Rs 41 crore, will accrue to the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mrs-bectors-food-from-rs-300-home-kitchen-to-rs-1000cr-co/articleshow/79787608.cms||Partha Sinha
December 18, 2020||Business||TVS Industrial & Logistics Parks to get ‘growth capital’ from CDC Group||Chennai: TVS Industrial and Logistics Parks, (TVS ILP) a 50:50 joint venture between TVS Supply Chain Solutions and Ravi Swaminathan Associates, has announced that it will raise undisclosed ‘growth capital’ from CDC Group, the UK’s publicly owned impact investor. It is the first time that TVS ILP has raised institutional investment. CDC will become a significant minority shareholder in the business. “To propel the company to the next level of growth, we feel bringing in a strategic investment partner is the ideal next step. TVS ILP and CDC have a similar vision to bring in the best-in-class environmental and sustainable practices to this industry,” said R Dinesh, director, TVS ILP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-industrial-logistics-parks-to-get-growth-capital-from-cdc-group/articleshow/79786321.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||'Bihar shows improvement in child health'||PATNA: In a significant development, the state has shown remarkable improvement in child health and nutrition along with women empowerment in the last five years. At the first inter-departmental review meeting on Bihar State Plan for Action (SPAC) here on Thursday, social welfare department additional chief secretary Atul Prasad quoted the Fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare last week and said stunting has seen a significant improvement from 48.3% in the fourth NFHS to 42.9% now, the biggest decline among all states. The state health department has also witnessed a noteworthy improvement in immunisation coverage of 71%, up from 61.7% in the last five years. Similarly, institutional delivery went up to 76.2% from 63.8% during the period, Prasad said. The Bihar SPAC provides a road map linking the state child policy to actionable strategies with a view to achieving better lives for children under key priority areas of child survival, child development, child protection and child participation. It aims at establishing effective coordination among all stakeholders, including state government departments and civil society organisations to address key issues pertaining to child rights. Representatives of the departments of health, social welfare, education, home, rural development, PHED, planning, finance, panchayati raj, disaster management, labour resources, information and public relations, SC and ST welfare and minority welfare participated in the meeting. State programme director Sanjay Singh said continuous work through online learning initiatives like Unnayan App, Mera Mobile App, and Mera Vidyalaya App and teaching through Doordarshan have ensured the continuity of learning aid Covid pandemic. State UNICEF chief Asadur Rahman thanked the state government departments for their work in ensuring overall development of children. “In spite of the pandemic, all of us will join hands to make things better for the most vulnerable sections of the society, especially women and children,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-shows-improvement-in-child-health-says-survey/articleshow/79784473.cms||B K Mishra
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Protesters at Singhu border pay tribute to ‘baba’ who shot himself||NEW DELHI: On Thursday, most people who addressed the gathering from the stage erected at Singhu border remembered Baba Ram Singh, a religious leader who had shot himself dead on Wednesday. Most of them called him a “shaheed” who had sacrificed his life for a cause. While many shared how his sacrifice had emboldened them to fight, others said their struggle was like that of Mata Gujri, the mother of Guru Gobind Singh. A farmer spoke, “Baba Ram Singh is a shaheed. We have to ensure his life and of other farmers who have died do not go to waste.” A few others talked about Ram Singh and how farmers were dying due to the cold and accidents, but the government wasn’t bothered at all. Swarna Singh, a farmer from Fatehgarh, said, “With our farmer brothers dying, we are now not going to give up our fight. Even if it lasts for years, we will stay and return only when the three black agri laws are repealed.” Raghubir Singh, a farmer in his early 60s, shared that “Poh ka mahina” had been full of struggle for Sikhs. “It was during this month when Mata Gujri and her grandson were bricked alive. Like she resisted converting to Islam and fought bravely, we will also resist these laws,” he added. Nirmal Singh, another farmer, said, “Mata Gujri and her two grandsons, Zorawar Singh and Fateh Singh, were kept in a cold tower for several days and nights without food and warm clothes. Even we are braving this cold. The government should remember history. We have nothing to worry as we are prepared with everything, be it food or clothes.” His friend Joginder Pal added, “If 10 farmers are returning to the villages, another 20 are taking their place at the protest site. Our spirits are not going to get destroyed easily. At this time, we have to just irrigate our fields. God is on our side as there has been some rain.” With the cold increasing in the region, a large number of angeethi and boilers were supplied to the farmers on Thursday to keep them warm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/protesters-pay-tribute-to-baba-who-shot-himself/articleshow/79786486.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops’ riding lessons for bikers to avert accidents||KOLKATA: Multiple fatal accidents since the end of November where bikers and pedestrians were hit by heavy commercial vehicles, like trucks and buses, have prompted Kolkata traffic police to launch a two-wheeler and pedestrian refresher’s course across Shyambazar, Park Circus and Girish Park crossings from Thursday. There was also a workshop for drivers of heavy vehicles at Hastings where a 20-year-old pillion rider died in a hit-and-run case on Tuesday night. The focus at the busy city crossings was on making two-wheeler riders and pedestrians aware of the blind spots for drivers of buses and trucks. Attempted by the southwest traffic guard twice before, this was the first time that traffic cops tried to provide hands-on training. Hundreds of bikers and pedestrians were asked to take the driver’s seat on a parked bus. They were then taught about the zones around the vehicle that the driver can’t see — especially bikes overtaking from the left or pedestrians making a dash in front of the bus. Blind spots are locations around a moving vehicle that cannot be seen in the side or rear-view mirrors. “If a driver cannot see a vehicle next to him, s/he is more likely to crash into it when switching lanes,” said an officer. Pankaj Roy, a biker from Behala, was asked to board a parked bus at Park Circus crossing. Roy said that the practical exposure was sure to make him think twice before attempting to cross a bus from now. “I would ideally like to overtake from the right. But motorists and bus drivers, too, must respect the lane system. The onus must not be on the biker alone,” he said. Subhendu Pramanik, a biker who was taken inside a parked bus at Shyambazar crossing, said, “The moment I went inside, I realized that my natural vision made it difficult to know what was lying in front to my left,” he said. At Girish Park, where senior officers will be present on Friday, the focus was on how accidents related to blind spots usually increase in the late evening when there is maximum truck movement. The cops also cited examples of a cyclist and a biker who met with an accident after swerving into a truck’s way on Basanti Highway some time ago, as well as a fatal incident in Moulali when two brothers overtook a bus from the left but hit by the vehicle. “These are real-life incidents we are sharing so that bikers think twice before taking a risk,” said a Jorabagan traffic guard officer. The bikers were also taught about the signalling system and how to cross an intersection at night when most signals are kept in amber mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-riding-lessons-for-bikers-to-avert-accidents/articleshow/79785126.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 18, 2020||Delhi||‘Pedestrianisation of Chandni Chowk stretch almost done’||NEW DELHI: The AAP government on Thursday told Delhi High Court that the stretch of road between the Red Fort intersection and the Fatehpuri Masjid in Chandni Chowk will be inaugurated on December 31 following its pedestrianisation. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was informed by various local bodies and Delhi government that most of the work related to the pedestrianisation of the stretch has been completed and the road should be ready for inauguration in the next fortnight. What remains to be done is joining of some intersections with the main road, installation of CCTVs and street lights on certain stretches, development of pavements, etc, the court was further informed. Taking note of the submissions by the various local authorities in their respective status reports, the bench listed the matter for hearing on January 18, 2021. It is hearing a PIL initiated by it on the basis of TOI reports that the project has been derailed. The bench had on October 8 taken suo motu notice of the “pathetic condition of the area” based on photographs in the news report, and directed the high court registry to register a petition in public interest. It had decided to start a PIL after taking into account the “complete apathy and mismanagement on the part of the authorities and the stakeholders” and to fast track the long-pending project. According to the news reports, the pedestrianisation of the stretch of road between the Red Fort intersection and Fatehpuri Masjid at Chandni Chowk has been derailed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pedestrianisation-of-chandni-chowk-stretch-almost-done/articleshow/79784973.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rabri Devi’s claim as council leader of opposition faces road block||PATNA: Former CM and senior RJD leader Rabri Devi’s claim to the post of leader of opposition in the Upper House of the state legislature is proving to be difficult as the party does not have the requisite strength to sustain it. “At present, the RJD does not have the required strength in the legislative council to clinch the post of the leader of opposition in the House,” acting chairman of the council Awadhesh Narayan Singh said on Thursday, without giving any inkling as to what might follow the next. While the state legislative council has 75 members, RJD would require 7.5% of the total House strength to claim the post of the leader of opposition in the House. Against that, RJD has currently only six members – Rabri Devi, Ram Chandra Purbey, Subodh Kumar, Sunil Kumar Singh, Rambali Chandravanshi and Mohammad Farooq. However, party sources said an application to claim the post of the leader of opposition in the Upper House had been sent to the acting chairman of the council around a fortnight ago, but no follow-up action has yet been taken. That notwithstanding, as per rules, RJD might remain deprived of the post in the situation as it exists. However, the only way out of the impasse for RJD is to stake a claim for the post as part of the Grand Alliance that it leads in the House, as the alliance members together add up to a number greater than that required, sources said. Recently, RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI and CPM constitute Grand Alliance and contested the state assembly election this year together, winning 110 of the 243 seats. Besides, of the eight council seats, RJD contested five and Congress three together. While Congress won all the three Council seats, RJD lost all five that had gone into its kitty. As to the existing relative strength of the alliance partners in the legislative council, RJD has six members, Congress three and CPI two. Together, they add up to 11 members, which is three more than the requisite number to claim and clinch the post of the leader of opposition in the upper House, depending on the ruling of the acting chairman of the council, grand alliance sources said. As of now, RJD appears to have come round this view of approaching the nub of the matter. Sources said the RJD state president Jagadanand Singh discussed the matter and the prevailing situation, along with the way to break the deadlock, with his Congress counterpart Madan Mohan Jha over the telephone around six days ago. As to the next step, the Grand Alliance leaders would have to informally meet with the council chairman, and then the Congress and CPI will have to present to him the letters of their support favouring Rabri as the leader of opposition in the council, sources also said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rabris-claim-as-council-leader-of-oppn-faces-road-block/articleshow/79784228.cms||Abhay Singh
December 18, 2020||Patna||Homeopath practitioner held in Gopalganj for arms smuggling||PATNA: A homeopath practitioner was arrested in Gopalganj on Thursday in connection with arms smuggling. Two country-made pistols and five live cartridges were recovered from his possession. A police team led by SHO of Mirganj police station intercepted Krishna Thakur alias Buchar Thakur when he was on way to his clinic at Barkagaon under Mirganj police station on his motorcycle. During search of the two-wheeler, police found two country-made pistols and five live cartridges. Thakur, a resident of Jagtauli village in Gopalganj, revealed that he used to supply illegal weapons to local criminals. Gopalganj SDPO Naresh Kumar said the arrested homeopath practitioner initially tried to mislead the police, but confessed to the crime later. “He has disclosed the names of some criminals who used to buy weapons from him,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, the Sitamarhi police arrested a constable for his alleged involvement in theft of 30 live cartridges from a police station. The arrested constable, Akhilesh Singh, had allegedly sold four cartridges to a criminal, Mukesh Yadav, for Rs 500 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/homeopath-practitioner-held-for-arms-smuggling/articleshow/79784347.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Former JD(U) MLA’s son among four killed in Bihar||PATNA/CHHAPRA: A former JD(U) MLA’s son and a fruit seller were among four people killed in separate incidents in the state in the last 24 hours, leaving the senior police officers red faced. A 28-year-old businessman, Prince Kumar, son of former Chhapra MLA late Ram Pravesh Rai, was found dead near an old morgue under Bhagwan Bazar police station in Saran district on Thursday. A pellet was recovered from the spot. SHO (incharge) of Bhagwan Bazar police station Vikas Kumar Singh said marks of bullet injuries were found on the body of the deceased, who used to run a tyre shop near the office of the district board. Prince’s relatives told police he had left home with some acquaintances late on Wednesday night for some work. Rai was elected twice as MLA from Chhapra — first in February 2005 and then in October-November 2005. He had also served as chairman of the district board. In Patna, a 17-year-old fruit seller, Ankit Kumar, was shot dead by criminals near Begampur under Bypass police station late on Wednesday night. The incident took place when Kumar was returning home at Madai from the local market. SHO of Bypass police station Mukesh Paswan said raids were on to arrest the criminals involved in the murder. In another incident, a 26-year-old man, Alamgir, was beaten to death by some residents near FCI godown under the Phulwarisharif police station area in Patna. He was allegedly caught while fleeing with a buffalo and subsequently thrashed. The victim’s wife, Noor Jahan, lodged an FIR against seven people. Police have already arrested five of the accused. In Aurangabad, a minor boy was killed and his body dumped in a septic tank at Charan village under the Mali police station area on Thursday. SHO of Mali police station Ramesh Kumar Singh said the incident was probably the fallout of a property dispute. Meanwhile, armed dacoits looted cash and property worth Rs 20 lakh from the house of a retired Army jawan, Manoj Singh, at Sukhnagar under Madhubani police outpost in Purnia on Wednesday night. Incharge of Madhubani police outpost Shailesh Pandey said raids were on to arrest the robbers. Two girls raped in Vaishali, Banka: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped at a village under the Lalganj police station area in Vaishali district. The survivor was later sent to the sadar hospital at Hajipur for medical examination. In another incident, an 18-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped and subsequently gang-raped by four youths under Anandpur police outpost in Banka district. The girl was later admitted to the sadar hospital for treatment. Police have arrested the four accused – Arvind Yadav, Arif Ansari, Ravi Thakur and Mantu Kumar. A local court remanded them in judicial custody for 14 days. Banka SP Arvind Gupta has directed the investigating officer to list the case for speedy trial. The SP said the autorickshaw which was used in the girl’s kidnapping was also seized by the police. The girl was lured on the pretext of marriage, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/former-jdu-mlas-son-among-four-killed-in-state/articleshow/79784297.cms||Ramashankar
December 18, 2020||Patna||89,000 cops to take ‘no booze’ pledge on December 21||PATNA: Around 89,000 police personnel of the state will take a pledge not to consume liquor or work in tandem with liquor smugglers once again on December 21, a senior police officer posted at the police headquarters said on Thursday. The pledge will be administered by senior officers to their subordinates in their respective offices at 11am on the directive of CM Nitish Kumar. The police personnel posted in the rail districts will also have to adhere to the directive of the CM. According to a letter issued by DGP S K Singhal to all IGs, DIGs, SSPs and the SPs, the CM had issued a directive to this effect during the review meeting on law and order in the state on December 9. The police headquarters has already sent the format of the oath message to the respective police districts, including rail. “All the policemen have already been intimated about the CM’s directive,” a DIG-rank officer said. Earlier, on April 4, 2016, all police personnel, including home guards, had taken a similar pledge not to consume liquor and allow its sale in the state. All other government employees had taken a similar pledge the next day. In 2019 also, the exercise was repeated on the CM’s directive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/89k-cops-to-take-no-booze-pledge-on-dec-21/articleshow/79784428.cms||Ramashankar
December 18, 2020||Patna||Students hail Centre’s decision to hold JEE-Mains 4 times a year||PATNA: Engineering aspirants and experts have welcomed the decision of the Centre to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Mains four times a year in 2021. “Keeping in mind the various suggestions and requests received from aspirants of JEE-Mains across the nation, it has been decided to conduct JEE-Mains four times a year (February, March, April & May). The move will ensure that students do not miss out on opportunities due to clash of exams or Covid-19 pandemic,” Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ had tweeted on Wednesday. Class XII students, who will appear for JEE-Mains, the gateway to engineering institutes across the country, have welcomed the move. Utkarsh Singh, a Class XII student of St Karen’s High School, said, “The pandemic has increased the study pressure on us. Since it will be our first competitive exam, we need to understand the pattern of the exam. The move will also give us enough chances to crack the exam, without dropping a year.” Swati Suman, another engineering aspirant from Patna Central School, said, “We never know what will happen in future as the pandemic is still alive. The Centre has taken the right step by deciding to hold the exams four times a year,” she said. “We face problems in online studies and need time to understand the pattern of JEE-Mains,” said Abhishek Kumar of St Michael’s High School. The decision has also come as a boon for students who missed the JEE-Mains II exam this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Apoorva, an engineering aspirant, said, “I am sure of performing better this time. I could not take the exam last time due to the pandemic.” Abha Choudhary, a chemistry teacher at Notre Dame Academy, said amid pandemic, the decision to conduct the JEE-Mains four times a year would be a boon for kids. Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar has also hailed the decision of the Centre and suggested that the pattern of JEE-Advanced should also be clear like JEE-Mains. “It would make it easier for students to learn from experiences and qualify the exams,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/students-hail-centres-decision-to-hold-jee-mains-4-times-a-year/articleshow/79784483.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 18, 2020||Business||Mistry ouster premeditated, ambush by Tatas: SP Group||MUMBAI: Shapoorji Pallonji Group argued before the Supreme Court on Thursday that the premeditated removal of Cyrus Mistry as Tata Sons chairman was an ambush by majority shareholder Tata Trusts and was violative of the company’s articles and the Companies Act. SP said that the October 24, 2016 board meeting of Tata Sons, where Mistry was removed, was the first one attended by Ratan Tata after he retired as the company’s director in December 2012. It added that no document was placed before the board to support the removal of Mistry. The directors did not even seek to review the legal opinion that the majority shareholder claimed to have taken, thereby showing how they failed to exercise independent judgment as required under Section 166 of the Companies Act. SP highlighted that Mistry’s removal also violated the company’s articles requiring a committee to be formed to recommend removal of an incumbent chairman and necessitated shareholder approval for premature termination of the chairman. “Was Mistry the MD?” the apex court asked. Tata Sons replied that there is no such contract and it was by operation of law that he becomes MD. Once he was removed as chairman, he also ceased to be the MD. The SC was hearing appeals and cross-appeals against the December 18, 2019 NCLAT order that reinstated Mistry as Tata Sons chairman. With both sides concluding their arguments, the verdict on the long-fought case is expected to be delivered by the court next year. Tata Sons said that a selection committee recommends a candidate for the chairman’s post. But, his removal can be done by the board as it is privy to his work. SP submitted that Tata Sons’s nominations and remuneration committee, including Tata Trusts nominees, had recorded its appreciation of Mistry’s performance in June 2016, a few months prior to the boardroom coup. Tata Sons said that the board was the appointing authority and it can revoke and alter any power of the MD (Tata Sons chairman has management powers like an MD). It further said that the 9-member board decided in near unanimity with regard to Mistry’s removal. However, Mistry himself did not participate in the voting process as the resolution was about him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mistry-ouster-premeditated-ambush-by-tatas-sp-group/articleshow/79787618.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Business||Brazil’s bus co Marcopolo exits Tata JV||MUMBAI: Brazilian bus and coach body builder Marcopolo is exiting India by selling its 49% stake in local joint venture to partner Tata Motors for around Rs 100 crore. Marcopolo joined Tata Motors 14 years ago to “extend its presence in the high-potential Indian market”. But due to a “refreshed business strategy”, it has now decided to exit India and has offered to sell its 49% stake back to Tata Motors. The joint venture builds bus bodies on chassis supplied by Tata Motors at its manufacturing facilities in Dharwad and Lucknow and the Indian company marketed them under the Starbus brand. The Brazilian company, however, has allowed Tata Motors to continue to use the ‘Marcopolo’ trademark for another three years in India. The two partners said that they intend to maintain an open channel for future collaboration opportunities around bus body designs and technical consulting services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/brazils-bus-co-marcopolo-exits-tata-jv/articleshow/79787623.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Allen Park gears up for low-key celebration||KOLKATA: In its 10th year, the Kolkata Christmas Festival that starts on December 21 in Allen Park will keep its date with the city, albeit with a number of cautionary changes due to Covid restrictions. The festival details were announced by Indranil Sen, minister of state for information and cultural affairs at Nandan on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will inaugurate the festival in the presence of archbishop Thomas D’Souza of the Roman Catholic Church. Unlike previous years, no food or cake stalls will be allowed on the walkways of Park Street and inside Allen Park this time. Street musicians, too, will not be allowed. “We have to be careful. The same restrictions that were put on Durga Puja pandals will be applied around Allen Park. A limited number of people will be allowed to enter the open space and cops will ensure there is no crowding outside the park,” said Shane Calvert, the Anglo-Indian MLA who will conduct the programme. The Christmas tree will be outside the park like in previous years and the crib depicting the Nativity will be placed near it. “There will be no school bands, but we will have church choirs and some popular bands and singers, Calvert added. The festival will continue till December 30. Since the citizens cannot participate in large numbers this time, all programmes will be live streamed on social media with interactive links. “From December 21 till January 10, however, Park Street will be illuminated like previous years,” said Nandini Chakraborty, state tourism secretary. Some other prominent locations, like the churches in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Siliguri, Jalpaiguri, Chandernagore, Bandel, Krishnagore and Baruipur, will be illuminated, it was said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/allen-park-gears-up-for-low-key-celebration/articleshow/79785114.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 18, 2020||Business||‘Our vaccine should be ready by March’||Rupali.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Zydus Cadila is among the few companies that increased their workforce amid the pandemic, when most firms were downsizing due to the demand slowdown. The pharmaceutical company’s chairman Pankaj R Patel says performance rewards were declared as usual in March-April. Salary hikes and promotions too were rolled out across all levels... How far has your business returned to normal? Apart from the initial days of the lockdown, when there was restricted movement in terms of people and supplies, things have returned to normal and we have been quite busy. We scaled up our operations and supplies of Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), Dexamethasone, Remdac (Remdesvir), which was completely backward integrated. Our marketing teams have launched products from immunity boosters to sanitisers. We are also re-purposing drugs like Pegylated Interferon Alpha 2b and are conducting trials to see if they can be used for Covid-19. We also developed a vaccine, which is now in adaptive clinical trials. What challenges has the new normal posed? We believe the challenge that we set for ourselves is to see in how many different ways can we support people. We have been upscaling production, exploring new research programmes, going digital in our interfaces, and supporting patients and doctors in every way possible, and doing all of this in accelerated response time. Has Covid impacted remuneration, resulted in downsizing? There’s been no impact on remuneration. In fact, our performance rewards were declared as usual in March-April and we rolled out salary increases and even promotions across all levels. There’s been no downsizing of operations — we have actually added people in manufacturing. Updates on vaccine trials... Our vaccine candidate, ZyCoV-D has completed phase-2 clinical trials. Depending on the outcome and approvals from regulators, we hope to be ready with the vaccine by March 2021. Another vaccine candidate developed by our research team in Italy, which is a measles vector-based candidate, is currently in pre-clinical studies at our Vaccine Technology Centre in Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/our-vaccine-should-be-ready-by-march/articleshow/79781448.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 18, 2020||Patna||Magazine of state assembly on cards||PATNA: State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Thursday sought suggestions from the members of the library and various other House committees with regard to bringing out a magazine of the state assembly. Sinha was holding a meeting with the chairmen and other members of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC), estimate committee and library committee. Those who participated in the meeting included PAC chairman Surendra Prasad Yadav, estimate committee chairman Nand Kishore Yadav and library committee chairman Sudama Prasad as well as other members of the three committees. The Speaker informed them about the rules of the House business that would have bearing on their functioning and the delivery of various kinds of work. He said the members of the House, who have experience and interest in legislative business, have been included in various committees. The Speaker sought the cooperation of the offices of the PAG and state finance department for the efficient functioning and delivery of the work by the PAC and estimate committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/magazine-of-state-assembly-on-cards/articleshow/79784404.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Danapur station to get a facelift by ’22||PATNA: Work on giving a facelift to Danapur station, one of the oldest stations of the railways, is likely to be completed by 2021-22 fiscal at an expenditure of more than Rs 12 crore, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said. Kumar said an additional platform is being built at the southern end of the station. “A stabling yard line is also being built at the southern side to cope with huge traffic flow,” he said, adding Danapur is presently coping with the load of about 260 pairs of passenger trains. At least eight pairs of mail and express trains originate from Danapur station daily and many long-distance passenger trains pass through it. The Guwahati and Agartala-bound Rajdhani Express trains have been given stoppages at Danapur, a class A category station. “The railways is building two new foot over bridges (FOBs) having three metre width at the Danapur station to provide connectivity to each platform. The station has witnessed sudden increase in footfall of passengers. Escalators will also become functional at the station by next year,” the DRM said, adding railways has installed a large size train indication board outside the main station building so that passengers could see train position easily while entering the station premises. Danapur station has also been equipped with a VIP lounge, a spacious refreshment hall, new waiting hall, retiring room and new passenger reservation system counters. The old structures and quarters at the southern side have been demolished to pave way for construction of circulating area and parking facilities. “Platform sheds, benches, modular food stalls and platform surfaces have been spruced up on the station premises,” the DRM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/danapur-station-to-get-a-facelift-by-22/articleshow/79784466.cms||Kumod Verma
December 18, 2020||Rajkot||Stones pelted on police vans after bootleggers’ arrest||RAJKOT: More than 10 persons have been booked and one of them has also been arrested on charges of pelting stones on police vehicles ferrying two arrested bootleggers in Navdurgapara of Mota Mava Gam locality in Rajkot on Wednesday night. Police said they had detained bootleggers duo — Siddharth Vaghela and his brother Dharmadeep Vaghela — and also seized 27 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 12,000. “While we were taking the accused to the police station, a mob of around dozen-odd people, mostly consisting of the family members of the accused, waylaid our two vehicles — an official vehicle of the police and a private vehicle — and started pelting stones," said A B Jadeja, sub-inspector with University police station. The mob, however, dispersed when the cops got down from the vehicles. The police took the duo to the police station. Cops later arrested one Ratilal Vaghela who had allegedly led the mob attack on the police. During investigation it was also found that the accused hoarded liquor bottles in Ratilal's house. The kingpin in the bootlegging racket, Ankit Parmar, is however, absconding. Parmar, a history-sheeter bought the liquor cache and used to ask Siddharth and Dharmadeep to store it. The police have launched a manhunt for Parmar, who is wanted in several cases of bootlegging. Parmar had earlier been arrested in a murder case. The other accused who indulged in the stone pelting were identified as Tulsi Vaghela, Hiren Parmar, Lakshmi Vaghela, Jaya Parmar, Jyoti Vaghela and Ranjan Vaghela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stones-pelted-on-police-vans-after-bootleggers-arrest/articleshow/79784888.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Patna: PMCH set to get 46 CCTV cameras||PATNA: The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) administration has started installing CCTV cameras in all the departments for monitoring the attendance of doctors and paramedical staff. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak on Thursday said altogether 46 cameras were being installed and these would become functional by the end of this month. A control room for monitoring the cameras is being set up near the superintendent’s office. These cameras will be installed in emergency Covid ward, departments and offices of principal and superintendent. Dr Karak said besides monitoring attendance of medical staff, these cameras would also help in maintaining law and order on the hospital campus. “There were several complaints of scuffle between patient’s attendants and hospital staff. With the installation of CCTV cameras, it would be easier for the administration to take notice of such incidents and initiate prompt action,” he said. The PMCH administration has also issued show-cause notices to about 10 doctors and some paramedical staff who were found absent during a surprise inspection made by Dr Karak and principal Dr V P Choudhary. “There was no doctor and staff in the radiotherapy department while seven doctors of medicine department were also found absent,” Dr Karak said. Dr Choudhary said since patients from across the state visit the PMCH for treatment, the CCTV cameras would help watch the activities of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-set-to-get-46-cctv-cameras/articleshow/79784492.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Patna: Trash collection goes hi-tech as 33 houses get unique QR codes||PATNA: With a view to monitoring the door-to-door trash collection system and addressing its shortcomings, a private firm hired by the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) began pasting unique QR (quick response) codes outside the houses in ward 23 of the Patliputra circle on Thursday. The civic body’s target is to cover 2.50 lakh households in the 75 wards of Patna by April, 2021 at an estimated cost of Rs 13 crore. The QR codes have been pasted outside 33 houses so far. QR codes are machine-readable codes that are made up of black and white squares and scanned using smartphones or readers. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper that the new procedure would increase the efficiency of solid waste management and help keep the city clean. “As part of the Intelligent Solid Waste Management Project, all PMC vehicles, including auto tippers and tractors, will soon be fitted with tracking units that use GPS to determine their movement,” he said, adding that altogether 800 of the 1,100 vehicles were equipped with this technology. If the vehicles are not moving in their designated areas, an alert will be sent to the PMC’s control room being set up at Maurya Tower. It will track the movement of the vehicles, monitor the status of garbage collection and address the grievances of the public. In fact, Patnaites will also be able to track the movement of the garbage collection vehicles with the help of a mobile app. “Once developed, the app will help people see where the auto tippers are,” Sharma said. Explaining how the new system works, PMC’s public relations officer, Harshita, pointed out that as soon as the sanitary workers scanned the QR codes after collecting trash from a house, a message would be sent to the control room as well as the residents. “The system will ensure that sanitary workers cover every area without skipping houses. In case a house is left out, the control room will get an alert. Besides, information related to the quantum of collection, time and household coverage will automatically be fed into the online database of the PMC every day and help the officials keep tabs on the vehicles in all the six circles,” Harshita added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trash-collection-goes-hi-tech-as-33-houses-get-unique-qr-codes/articleshow/79784417.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Park Street food festival shifts to Picnic Garden||KOLKATA: With the week-long Bow Barracks celebrations and most Christmas events being called off, the city’s Anglo-Indians are having a food fest of home-cooked delicacies at Picnic Garden on December 28 instead. Since no food stalls have been allowed in the low-key carnival at Allen Park on Park Street, the Picnic Garden food fest will be an alternative platform. But the fare dished out here will be elaborate. The stalls, set up at 2m gaps, will display a variety of Anglo-Indian cuisine comprising kulkuls, meat croquettes, aloo chops, jalfrezi, yellow rice, pantras, bhuni vindaloo and more. The food fest at the KMC-owned Kustia Park is being organized by Catholic Association of Bengal (CAB). Faiz Ahmed Khan, coordinator, Ward 66, said, “In the past decade, the Anglo-Indian community, which provides a key menu in Kolkata’s diverse culinary heritage, has migrated to this neighbourhood in south Kolkata. But all major Christmas events are only planned around Park Street and the central part of the city. This year, since most get-togethers have been cancelled, we requested the CAB to do something special in Picnic Garden.” The food festival will be restrictive — with only 200 people allowed at a time. The stall-owners must sanitize their space, don face-gear and wear gloves. “There are no seating arrangements and only a few chairs will be scattered here and there for the elderly. We will encourage takeaway,” said CAB president Angelina Mantosh Jasnani. While people delve into the snacks, carol singers Michelle Manuel, Christopher Lobo and Rodney Rodrick will belt out popular numbers. Usha Uthup, who isn’t attending public programmes, will record a song to be played at the festival. Former Ripon Street resident Margaret Coelho, 75, who lives in Picnic Garden, said, “I think this the first major event for our community in Picnic Garden. We have started informing friends and relatives about it so they can start planning what they want to cook and bring.” Jasnani said, “We are grateful to Faiz and the local MLA of Picnic Garden, Javed Khan, for helping us organize this event on such short notice. Being a mother of teenagers, I feel for the children who can’t even visit their relatives this Christmas, and for the elderly, who are more lonely than ever in the pandemic. We will also be streaming the festival live for those who can’t attend.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/park-street-food-festival-shifts-to-picnic-garden/articleshow/79785077.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Engine switch-off drive: New Town breathes cleaner air||KOLKATA: The 15-day campaign conducted by Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) and Bidhannagar traffic police at five busy crossings of New Town and Sector V from December 1 — to switch off car engines at red signals — has resulted in an estimated cumulative reduction of 37,000kg of CO2 and other air pollutants. Officials said the emission reduction figures are cumulative estimations for the 15 days in which, on an average, 6,887 vehicles stopped at each of the five traffic signals everyday for 30 seconds. The reduced emission data was shown in a presentation by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) at Hidco Bhavan and revealed the per minute emission reduction. “The estimated calculation was based on the traffic data provided by the police,” said a Hidco official. Kiosks were set up at the five traffic crossings — Owl More, Nababpur junction and Biswa Bangla Gate crossing in New Town and Technolpolis and Nabadiganta junction in Sector V. A total of 24 volunteers were deployed at the intersections. Assuming that engines were switched off for 30 seconds, the authorities have come up with estimated reduced emission of 36,901kg carbon dioxide, 157kg carbon monoxide, 24kg hydrocarbon, 181kg nitrogen oxide and 2kg particulate matter. “It was a good initiative. The authorities can also think of installing permanent banners urging motorists to switch off their engines while waiting at a red light. This will help build up awareness,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News ((NTFN), a local NGO that has been promoting cycling and taking part in a num-ber of cycling events in the township. Hidco and New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) are also planning to take up more such green initiatives to reduce air pollution to develop New Town as a green and sustainable smart city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/engine-switch-off-drive-new-town-breathes-cleaner-air/articleshow/79785121.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 18, 2020||Patna||SpiceJet to launch three more flights from Darbhanga in January||PATNA: Budget carrier SpiceJet has planned to launch three more flights to Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad in January to cater to the rapidly growing passenger traffic at the Darbhanga airport. The SG-119/120, flying on the Ahmedabad-Darbhanga-Ahmedabad route, will leave Ahmedabad at 9.55am and reach Darbhanga at 12.15pm from January 11. On its return journey, it will depart at 12.45pm and reach Ahmedabad at 3.05pm. The flight will cover its one-way journey in 140 minutes. Similarly, the SG-113/116 between Darbhanga and Hyderabad and the SG-114/115 between Darbhanga and Pune will start operating from January 18. While the former will arrive at 9.40am and leave for Hyderabad at 4.40pm, the latter will take off for Pune at 10.20am and return to Darbhanga at 4pm. Chief commercial officer of SpiceJet, Shilpa Bhatia, told this newspaper on Thursday, “In view of the rapidly growing passenger flow, we have decided to connect Darbhanga to Pune, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad. We will keep launching more flights in future.” Bookings for the three new destinations from Darbhanga have begun on different web portals and at the ticket counters of the airport. At present, the Darbhanga airport operates three flights on the Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai routes between 9.40am and 6.55pm. More than 30,000 passengers have arrived at or left the airport in the last one month. The Airports Authority of India tweeted on Tuesday, “#AAI's Darbhanga @aaidarairport touched 30K mark in terms of passenger traffic through 170 flights in Nov ’20. Being a newly operationalized airport under RCS-UDAN, the progress made in a month is noteworthy, all thanks to cooperation of passengers & airport staff.#IndiaFliesHigh (sic)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spicejet-to-launch-three-more-flights-from-darbhanga-in-jan/articleshow/79784414.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||VIP Road stretch blocked for Metro work, cops keep fingers crossed||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar cops are gearing up for a traffic mess outside the airport around the end of next month when more than half the width of VIP Road between Jessore Road connector and VIP Road-Airport Road crossing will be dug up at least till April to facilitate Metro construction. From Tuesday evening, a 60m portion of the Jessore Road-bound flank has been blocked off and a concrete road has been built to the left of the carriageway for traffic from Kaikhali-end. The other set of vehicles are allowed to take a right towards Arhai No. Gate from the point of diversion. However, cops said the existing set up was actually helping maintain traffic in a better way because of the clear demarcation. But they feared it will become a huge challenge when the Kaikhali-bound flank will be dug up and two-way traffic will have to move along one four-lane flank next month. “There may be traffic snarls. We will need to sit with the Metro authorities again to finalize traffic planning before we block off the other flank,” said an officer. The current Metro work is part of the 7km Noapara-Airport project that requires tunnelling in the cut-and-cover method. It requires digging up to 13m across VIP Road outside. The total underground tunnelling part from Jessore Road till airport is 2km. “We can’t close the entire road at once. This flank will remain closed for a month,” said Devendra Kumar, chief engineer, Metro Railway, adding, “We are working in close coordination with the traffic department to minimize commuter inconvenience. Various agencies have been contracted to build the stretch. The top-slab work will be over in the next month. Construction will be underway inside the tunnel after that, but it will not affect the traffic movement.” Although Metro officials said the temporary passage will be closed as soon as the work on the particular flank is over, Bidhannagar cops said they will request the authorities to keep the new road. “The new concrete road has been a vital infrastructure addition to this part of the city which is narrow and congested and creates a logjam even if a small vehicle breaks down on the road. The additional space will help us manage traffic in a better way once the Metro work is over,” said an officer. Metro officials said they want to complete this extension by December 2021. “Work is going on in full steam despite the pandemic restrictions. We are striving hard to meet this deadline,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vip-rd-stretch-blocked-for-metro-work-cops-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/79785020.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar government to take call on reopening of schools and colleges today||PATNA: The Bihar government will take a decision on reopening of educational institutions on Friday after taking feedback from the other states where schools and colleges are functioning amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A meeting chaired by chief secretary Deepak Kumar has been convened for the purpose. A letter in this regard was issued to the officials of home, education, health, transport, panchayati raj and urban development and housing departments on Thursday. Education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar told this newspaper on Thursday that the officials concerned would find out which states had reopened their schools and colleges and how they were functioning. “All this information is being collected from across the country so that it can be presented at the crisis management meeting at 4pm on Friday. Subsequently, we will plan how and when the educational institutes will reopen,” Kumar said, adding that all schools, colleges and coaching institutes would have to follow the standard operating procedure issued by the Centre. Laying stress on the safety of the students and the teachers, education minister Ashok Choudhary pointed out that the crisis management committee would take a decision only after analysing the Covid situation in the state. Meanwhile, HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi has urged chief minister Nitish Kumar and education minister Ashok Choudhary to reopen schools in the larger interest of the public. “I request Nitish Kumar and Ashok Choudhary to reopen government schools by following the Covid safety protocols. The children of the poor are being affected,” he tweeted on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-take-call-on-reopening-of-schools-and-colleges-today/articleshow/79784429.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 18, 2020||Patna||West Bengal polls: JD(U) likely to contest 75 seats||PATNA: The Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) may contest 75 of the 294 assembly seats in neighbouring West Bengal, which goes to the polls next year. It also plans to contest the Assam election next year, either on its own or as part of an alliance. According to Ghulam Rasool Baliyawi, the JD(U) incharge for the coming assembly election in West Bengal, the party has assessed its relative strength in various constituencies of the poll-bound state and has identified 75 seats where it is capable of contesting on its own. “The West Bengal state JD(U) president and general secretaries came to Patna and met our party’s national president (Nitish) some eight days ago. They apprised him of the mood of the people there,” Baliyawi said on Thursday. On its alliance with BJP in Bihar, Baliyawi said, “We are a part of the NDA only in Bihar, not in other states, and have also been contesting elections in other states.” He added, “In Assam, JD(U) contested the 2016 assembly election in alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF).” According to Baliyawi, the West Bengal JD(U) unit leaders are scheduled to meet Nitish next week again to give him an update on the party’s position on contesting the assembly election there. “Whether JD(U) goes with BJP or any other alliance is in the domain of the party’s national president,” Baliyawi said, adding, the final clearance will be given at the two-day national executive committee meeting of the party to be held here from December 26. Baliyawi said the prohibition imposed in Bihar in 2016 has caught the imagination of the electorate in the 75 selected constituencies in West Bengal. “People here feel if Bihar with its resource crunch can impose prohibition to improve the living standards of the poor and reduce domestic violence, Bengal, which is more resource-rich than Bihar, can do it too,” Baliyawi said. JD(U)’s two-day national executive committee meet is slated to discuss the party’s national plans and dissect its less than expected performance in the Bihar assembly election held last month. Around 60 delegates from the party’s 28 state units will take part in the meet. Besides discussing the party’s stakes in poll-bound West Bengal and Assam, they will also deliberate on whether to join an alliance or go it alone in the coming assembly polls. The JD)U)’s last national executive committee meet was held at Patna in October last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-likely-to-contest-75-seats-in-bengal/articleshow/79784255.cms||Abhay Singh
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t take up field visits after occupation: Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: The state government has given instructions to officials not to take up field visits after the property is occupied by the sellers. The instructions were given during the workshop held at Marri Chenaa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute of Telangana on the new registrations system with stakeholders. Several builders, during the course of interaction, brought to the notice of officials that some officials are visiting the properties even after the occupancy and due diligence was completed. The builders also brought to the notice of the government that market value is system generated. If the premium sale happens for more than market value, the new requisition system is adopted rather than what is already uploaded in the software. Currently, property tax stands at 6% of the market value, so this system will dent government income. “Officials promised us that online redresseal system will be activated soon on the registration system. Several issues of builders were fixed on spot,” said Srinivas, Telangana Builders Forum vice-president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-take-up-field-visits-after-occupation-t/articleshow/79787405.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 18, 2020||Patna||State’s Covid tally jumps to 2.45L with 588 fresh cases||PATNA: Covid-19 cases continue to surge in the state with 588 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, Bihar’s Covid tally reached 2,45,397 on Thursday. However, active cases stood at 5,103. According to the daily Covid bulletin issued by the health department, five deaths were also reported in 24 hours. Besides, six deaths were registered at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna on Thursday evening. Although no death was reported from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, eight Covid patients were admitted there. Of the 588 new Covid cases, 262 were reported from Patna. Other districts where people tested positive for corona were Saran (26), Jehanabad (25), West Champaran (18), Vaishali (17), Gaya (17), Muzaffarpur (16) and Siwan (16). Meanwhile, altogether 495 people recovered from Covid in the last 24 hours, taking the number to 2,38,957. The state’s recovery rate stood at 97.38% on Thursday evening, almost 2.07% higher than the national average of 95.31%. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Thursday that as many as 1,22,591 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories in Bihar in the last 24 hours. Earlier, a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the health minister on Wednesday to review the process to be adopted for free distribution of the Covid vaccine in Bihar. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit and other officials were also present in the meeting. COVID STATUS Cases today: 588 Total cases: 2,45,397 Total recoveries: 2,38,957 Active cases: 5,103 Total deaths: 1,337, including two suicides||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-covid-tally-jumps-to-2-45l-with-588-fresh-cases/articleshow/79784330.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 18, 2020||Patna||Vishnupad temple mgmt row: Pandas to move HC||GAYA: Gayapal pandas are in no mood to accept the judgment of a Gaya court which authorised the Bihar State Religious Trust Board (BSRTB) to take control of the management of world-famous Vishnupad temple here. The Gayapal pandas have decided to file an appeal in Patna high court through their counsel, Rakesh Kumar Verma, challenging the order of the court of ADJ-I B K Mishra. “We will discuss the matter with our counsel and other members of the committee after procuring copy of the judgment from the court,” Vishnupad Temple Management committee (VTMC) president Kanhaiya Lal Mishra said. VTMC secretary Gajadhar Lal Pathak said, “We will fight for our right and move even Supreme Court. Vishnupad is a ‘pind vedi’ and not a temple. Hindu devotees from across the world have been performing ‘pinddaan’ rituals here since ancient times. The footprints of Lord Vishnu exist in the sanctum sanctorum where the ‘pind’ is offered. At least 10,000 members of the panda samaj, who lead the devotees to perform the ‘pinddaan’ ritual, depend on the earnings which they receive in form of ‘dakshina’ offered by the devotees.” Another senior member of the panda samaj, Mahesh Guput, said, “Since immoral times, the management of Vishnupad temple is being looked after by the panda samaj members. Even during Mughal regime and British rule, the right remained intact. Pinddaan is performed at some other places too, including Ayodhya, Mathura, Kashi and Haridwar where the management is in the hands of local priests. If the management of Vishnupad temple goes into the hands of BSRTB, there are apprehensions that it may lead to encroachment of the financial rights of the panda samaj members”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vishnupad-temple-mgmt-row-pandas-to-move-hc/articleshow/79784448.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||600 to attend BOGSCON on Dec 19 and 20||PATNA: Over 600 delegates from Bihar and other states are likely to participate in BOGSCON-2020, the 26th biennial conference of the Patna Obstetric and Gynaecological Society, on December 19 and 20. Based on the theme ‘Quality Care within her Reach’, the virtual conference will be inaugurated by the former president of the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Dr C N Purandare. The guests of honour will be the president of the Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India, Dr Alpesh Gandhi, and Padma Shri awardee, Dr Ramjee Singh. “A cultural programme and a scientific session will also be organized on the occasion,” senior gynaecologist Dr Ranu Singh told this newspaper on Thursday. Dr Neelam is the organizing chairperson of the virtual conference and Dr Zarin Rahman the secretary. Earlier, a public forum on ‘Violence against Doctors’ was organized on December 12 and an e-poster session on December 13. A talk on ‘Anaemia among Adolescents’ and ‘Uses of Vitamin D’ was also delivered by Dr Anita Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/600-to-attend-bogscon-on-dec-19-and-20/articleshow/79784405.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Post-Covid lung scarring not always fibrosis: Medical experts||PUNE: Medical experts in the country have called for an urgent rethink on a key term that’s being used to describe Covid-linked lung damage. “Post-Covid lung fibrosis” has been widely used to indicate lung scarring after the infection. But doctors now believe it’s wrong to call every Covid-triggered lung scarring “fibrosis”. Their rationale is simple: Fibrosis is long-term sequelae, or lasting damage from a lung infection or injury that usually doesn’t heal easily. But lung scarring in a majority of those who have recovered from Covid-19 (as much as 90% of cases) has gone away completely, with lungs resetting to normal. Doctors said instead of calling it fibrosis, which could trigger alarm, it is time to carefully grade the severity of impact. In fact, the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA), a pan-India body of radiologists, is even thinking of replacing “post-Covid fibrosis” with a more “apt term” in chest-computed tomography (CT) reports. “Covid lung fibrosis is the most abused terminology,” said Pune-based critical care expert Kapil Zirpe. “Fibrosis may happen in a small subset (10%) of Covid patients after recovery. But not every patient with lung scarring should be labelled as having post-Covid fibrosis. It’s time we have a change in terminology in the chest CT report.” Zirpe said “post-Covid sequelae” or “temporary structural lung changes” could be more appropriate terms to describe lung scar after infection. “But if scarring remains — even six to ten months after recovery — we could call it fibrosis,” he said. Radiologist Anirudh Kohli, head of imaging at Mumbai’s Breach Candy Hospital, said, “What we have observed is that there are subpleural (periphery of the lung) and peribronchial (central part of the lung) opacities (white areas on CT scan) which in interstitial lung disease may be considered as fibrosis. However, four to six months of follow-up scans with Covid patients have revealed that a lot of these issues tend to resolve. Only a few persist.” Kohli added, “The belief that a number of Covid patients will have lung fibrosis may not be actually true, because the so-called fibrosis tends to ease over months.” Pune-based radiologist Avinash Nanivadekar called for caution before labelling all post-Covid sequelae as fibrosis. “Chinese experts were the first to report the radiological diagnosis of post-Covid lung scarring as lung fibrosis. Many countries went on to follow the practice of radiological diagnosis, creating concerns among the general public and the medical community,” said Nanivadekar, director of radiology services at Ruby Hall Clinic. In very few severe Covid cases did doctors spot advanced lung affection. “This will eventually get labelled as fibrosis. But caution needs to be exercised while reporting such cases,” Nanivadekar said. Chest physician Mahavir Modi said, “The term fibrosis has been used very liberally, but it is wrong because many patients have shown good resolution over time. A few cases, with long-standing ventilator dependency, had chronic lung scars that could be termed as fibrosis. But such cases have been minuscule in number. So, post-Covid lung fibrosis is a reality only in few and myth in many.” Office-bearers of the IRIA said there is a need to replace “fibrosis” with a more suitable term in the chest CT report. “I believe the term ‘post-Covid interstitial lung disease’ (PC-ILD) or ‘post-Covid ILD’ seems more accurate and useful than post-covid fibrosis,” radiologist Deepak Patkar, the national president of the IRIA, said. Radiologist Ashu Seth Bhalla from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi said, “Covid-recovered patients with lung scar will either improve, remain stable or progress. Going by recent observations, it is expected that a majority will fall into the first category. So, there's no need to panic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/post-covid-lung-scarring-not-always-fibrosis-medical-experts/articleshow/79786390.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 18, 2020||Rajkot||Southern Naval Command chief visits INS Valsura||RAJKOT: Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command began his two-day visit to INS Valsura, the premier Electrical Training Establishment of the Indian Navy at Jamnagar on Wednesday. He was accompanied by his wife Sapana Chawla, who is also president of Navy Wives Welfare Association (Southern Region). Vice Admiral Chawla was presented with a 50-men Guard of Honour at INS Valusra. During his visit Chawla reviewed the progress of various infrastructure projects and training facilities of the establishment. While reviewing the training and skill set of trainees, the Vice Admiral appreciated the augmented training facilities in the field of electrical, weapons and information technology. The Flag Officer was also appraised on the various initiatives taken by the unit in the niche fields of artificial intelligence (AI) and big data & analytics. Chawla also inaugurated 36-Single DSC Accommodation ‘Chand Block’, named as a tribute to Sepoy Jagdish Chand, Kirti Chakra (Posthumous) and 8 Single Officers accommodation. The Vice Admiral and his wife also witnessed the colourful Valsura Day celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/southern-naval-command-chief-visits-ins-valsura/articleshow/79784874.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man involved in Rs 14 lakh gold burglary nabbed||RAJKOT: A 40-year-old man involved in Rs 14 lakh theft in Bhuj was arrested in Morbi on Thursday. Police said the accused, Firozali Shiya, a resident of Sanjaynagar Colony in Bhopal of Madhya Pradesh, was caught with a two-wheeler.Shiya along with Gulam Abbas Sheikh and Gulam Nasirhussein Sheikh from Mumbai had stolen gold bars and gold coins worth Rs 14 lakh from a jewellery shop in Sevanti Complex near district panchayat office in Bhuj on Tuesday. "The accused trio had visited the jewellery shop in the garb of customers and had committed the theft. They were caught on the CCTV footage. We found that one of the accused, Shiya, had fled on a two-wheeler, the number of which had been captured on a CCTV footage. We sent the numbers to the police of adjoining district. Meanwhile, Morbi police station found the vehicle with the number and nabbed Shiya," said V B Jadeja, inspector with Morbi local crime branch. During his interrogation, Shiya told the cops that the accused were supposed to meet in Ahmedabad to divide the share of booty, which is in the possession of Gulam Abbas Sheikh and Gulam Nasirhussein Sheikh for whom the police have launched a manhunt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-involved-in-rs-14l-gold-burglary-nabbed/articleshow/79784838.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Rajkot||RTO agent murdered over extra-marital affair||RAJKOT: Two persons have been booked on allegations of killing an RTO agent in Gandhidham. The man was found murdered in Kunjisar village of Bhachau taluka in Kutch district on Wednesday. While cops are trying to ascertain the motive behind the crime, cops suspect it to be a case of extra-marital affair with the wife of one of the accused. Police said the accused Kana Rabari and Pravin Rabari had allegedly stabbed Jivan Rabari (24) multiple times and dumped the body on the banks of a pond on the outskirts of Kunjisar village. The accused had kidnapped the victim from Bhuj RTO on Tuesday on their motorcycle. The duo was booked on the complaint lodged by father of the deceased, Pachan Rabari (55), a resident of Velapara in Saigam village of Rapar taluka in Kutch district. In his complaint, Pachan said that as Jivan was having an affair with Kana’s wife for which the latter decided to kill him. “Kana, a native of Fatehgadh village in Rapar taluka, had come to Bhuj RTO with the intention to kill Jivan, who too had come there with his friend Durgesh Ahir. According to the statement of Ahir, both Kana and Pravin were seen talking to Jivan after which the duo forcibly made him sit on their bike and drove away,” said S B Vasava, inspector with Bhuj B division police station. After Jivan failed to return, Ahir disclosed the happenings to one Vishal Rabari, who informed the victim’s father, who had reached Bhuj from Rapar in search of his son. As Jivan was nowhere to be found, Pachan lodged a missing persons complaint. Next day, Pachan received the news that Jivan’s body was lying on the banks of a pond on the outskirts of Kunjisar village, following which he alerted Bhachau police station officials. As the FIR was filed with Bhuj B division police station, the investigation was transferred there. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for both the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rto-agent-murdered-over-extra-marital-affair/articleshow/79784813.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Release poor jailed for booze ban violation, Jitan Ram Manjhi asks Bihar CM||PATNA: A day after the Congress demanded review of the prohibition policy, HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi urged chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar to ensure early release of the poor, who were behind bars for over three months due to violation of the law. Manjhi, who had recently tested positive for coronavirus, tweeted on Thursday, “The heads of many poor families have been in judicial custody for more than three months or so due to violation of the prohibition law. They have to face a lot of problems.” The HAM(S) chief urged the CM to ensure the release of such people on bail as early as possible and said, “The children of some poor families are on the verge of starvation as their earning members are in judicial custody.” He, however, praised Nitish for implementing the prohibition law effectively in the state. Manjhi’s remarks came a day after Congress legislator party leader and Bhagalpur MLA Ajeet Sharma wrote a letter to Nitish urging the latter to review the prohibition law. Another senior leader and Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Singh corroborated Sharma’s demand, saying it was time to review the prohibition policy in the larger interest of the state and its people. Meanwhile, the director of Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies, Vinod Giri, also urged the CM to bring about some changes in the existing policy and allow “controlled” sale of liquor in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/release-poor-jailed-for-booze-ban-violation-manjhi-asks-cm/articleshow/79784437.cms||Ramashankar
December 18, 2020||Agra||No politics, urges AMU faculty, students oppose invite to PM Modi||AGRA: Even as senior faculty members of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on Thursday urged everyone to “rise above politics” to make the varsity’s centenary celebrations a great success, scores of students have expressed their strong reservations against the administration’s decision to make Prime Minister Narender Modi the chief guest for the function on December 22. In a signed statement, varsity’s academicians said, “The centenary celebrations are to be kept above differences. We need to work together in the interest of the university…. Our unity on the occasion will bring greater confidence among various university units and alumni associations, who are engaged in organising programmes with illustrious people as guests.” On the other hand, several students opposed the invite to the PM for the celebrations. Ravish Ali Khan, a DSW final year student, threatened that he would oppose the VC’s decision and read out his ‘funeral prayer’ (namaz-e-janaza) if he did not withdraw the invitation to the PM. Mohammad Aarif Khan, another postgraduate student, said, “The PM never stands in favour of our community. We may show him black flags, if he does not support the Muslim community or talk about minority character of our varsity.” Former secretary of AMU students’ union, Fahad Khan, said the VC’s decision of inviting the PM was a personal one and the students are against this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-faculty-urges-everyone-to-rise-above-politics-for-varsitys-centenary-celebrations-students-oppose-invite-to-pm/articleshow/79784157.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 18, 2020||India||Covid-19 positive Anil Vij's condition stable||ROHTAK: The condition of Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, is stable and his vitals parameters are normal, Dr AK Dubey, Medical Superintendent, of the hospital on Thursday. "Haryana Health Minister is undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) ward of Medanta hospital in Gurgaon. His health condition is stable and his vitals parameters are normal," Dubey said. Vij, who had tested positive for coronavirus after taking a trial dose of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' was recently referred to Medanta Hospital Gurugram.A team of doctors from Medanta had reached Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) Rohtak for the treatment of the Haryana Minister. Vij, who had tested positive for coronavirus on December 5, was shifted to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) in Rohtak from Ambala's civil hospital on December 14.According to an official, Vij's was given a course of Remdesivir. Vij was administered a trial dose of Bharat Biotech's COVID-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' at a hospital in Ambala on November 20. He had offered to be the first volunteer for the third phase trial of Covaxin, which started in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-positive-anil-vijs-condition-stable/articleshow/79787814.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Girl leaves home after scolding||AHMEDABAD: A Class-10 girl, aged 15 years and studying at a leading English medium school in the city left her home in the Navrangpura area on Thursday morning after her parents scolded her over excessive use of cellphone. Her parents, residents of a housing society near Darpan Circle in Navrangpura, on Thursday afternoon approached Gujarat University police and filed a complaint of missing person stating that she had left a note at her home saying she will not live with them. Inspector V J Jadeja of Gujarat University police said that the girl was scolded by her parents on Wednesday as they found her indulging in cellphone use too much. Later on Thursday morning, when they woke up and did not find their daughter, they searched for her in the house and nearby areas. After extensive search, they found she had left her cellphone at home and also dropped a note for them in which she stated that she was fed up with them scolding her over use of cellphone, so she was leaving home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/girl-leaves-home-after-scolding/articleshow/79785019.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Move afoot to shift IML from Kamptee||NAGPUR: The Institute of Military Law (IML), a 30-year-old establishment said to be one of its kind in Asia, is set to be shifted from the Kamptee cantonment to Delhi. This follows shifting of the 118 Territorial Army battalion, which had been at city’s Sitabuldi fort for nearly 80 years, to Bhusawal. IML, which trains officers of judge advocate general (JAG) branch of the armed forces, was established in 1990 at Kamptee, one of the British time cantonments of the country. JAG officers form the legal branch of three services. They are trained here recruited after being recruited in the cadre. IML has also conducted courses for foreign officers. IML is learnt to be spread on an area of 30 to 40 acres. There are no immediate plans to replace it with any other defence establishment, said a source. There are plans to take IML to Delhi, that the top brass thinks is a more suitable with modern facilities and better exposure for trainees. The move has, however, raised concerns about city losing one more important defence establishment. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, who is also the MP from Nagpur, said he had no official information about any such move. However, in case any such move is happening he would certainly oppose it, he said. IML was brought to Nagpur from Shimla in 1990, considering the city’s better accessibility from different parts of the country. In between there were plans to take it to Kolkata that were eventually dropped. The land at Kamptee cantonment was provided to IML on a temporary basis for more than two decades. It was only in 2016-17 that it was granted permanent status. Hence, the move to shift in less than four years after that is baffling, said sources. For all these years the training was conducted in old buildings. In fact, it was expected the Institute could now go ahead with developing proper infrastructure. IML is headed by an officer of Brigadier rank as the commandant. There was no reply from the commandant’s office to TOI’s query on the move to shift it. Sources though said even as there have been no final orders, the process of shifting IML was at an advanced stage. IML held an auction of its old items last week. A TOI team was present during the auction. It was a routine auction of unserviceable items but before it began, a staff member had mentioned to the bidders that the establishment was shifting and so the old items were being disposed of. There was no reply when the commandant was contacted by TOI on this. Sources said Kamptee was seen as rather cut-off place that guest faculties found difficult to travel to. They said being in Delhi will improve training standards as would be access to the supreme court, parliament and the armed forces tribunal (AFT). Even the headquartes of JAG branch is at Delhi. Those questioning the move said Kamptee’s central location was primary consideration for bringing IML here, so how did it become isolated all of a sudden. Trainings have successfully been conducted here. Besides, being well connected Nagpur too has High Court and an active Bar from where a legal experts have been invited as guest speakers. Courses have been conducted for officers from Iran, African countries and even US, a source said. Major (retd) M B Deshpande said he had also attended courses at IML and none of the other officers ever faced any inconvenience. He said the entire batch enjoyed stay at Kamptee especially due to its serene environment. All the requirements including availability of guest faculty were met. Major General Achyut Deo, who was the general manager of BrahMos’ Aerospace’s Nagpur unit, said may be army has other considerations for being in Delhi. He said IML could make space for other units as Kamptee was an ideal location as a peace station for fighting units. Over the years, key officers that Nagpur has lost include National Savings Institute (NSI), Western regional office of NTPC, Survey of India. There were also plans to shift the headquarters of Central Board of Workers Education to Delhi that were dropped later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/move-afoot-to-shift-iml-from-kamptee/articleshow/79785022.cms||Shishir Arya
December 18, 2020||Pune||Civic officer’s son, two others held for police station ruckus||Pune: A civic officer’s son and two others, all in their early 20s, were arrested on the charge of abusing as well as threatening police personnel, tearing uniform of a constable and creating ruckus after they were brought to the Shivajinagar police station for questioning during the early hours of Thursday. Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of the Shivajinagar police said, “We arrested Yogiraj Somnath Bankar (23), Vinod Kudale (20) and Rohit Shinde (24), all residents of Hadapsar, based on an FIR lodged by constable Dinesh Veer for offences under sections 352 and 353 (both related to assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insults), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.” A local court on Thursday remanded the trio in magisterial custody for 14 days. Bankar’s father, Somnath, the Ahmednagar Road civic ward officer, told TOI, “I have nothing to say regarding this matter.” Kudale and Shinde are from middle class families, the police said. Senior inspector Kopnar said, “Our night patrol team spotted Bankar, Kudale and Shinde standing at a chowk in Model Colony around 1am on Thursday and asked them to go home. The youths told the police that they were busy with some work related to the inauguration of a hotel there later in the day. The patrol team told them to wind up their work and go home. An hour later, the patrol team again spotted the trio at the chowk and asked them to go home.” Kopnar said, “The three youths started threatening and abusing the personnel instead. They also indulged in names dropping and told the policemen that they could get the latter suspended. Our patrol team then brought the trio to the police station, where they abused the policemen, pushed the constable and tore his uniform.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-officers-son-two-others-held-for-police-station-ruckus/articleshow/79785030.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||PCNTDA to be scrapped & absorbed into PMRDA||PUNE: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday directed the scrapping of the Pimpri Chinchwad New Town Development Authority (PCNDTA) and its merger with the PMRDA, while its developed land would be allotted to the PCMC. PCNTDA was established in 1972 and has been instrumental in developing urban housing and commercial infrastructure for the rapidly growing population of Pimpri Chinchwad. The PCMC is spread over 172sqkm and its area will increase by 5-6sqkm after the addition of the developed land. PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase, who attended the meeting, confirmed the development. CM, who is the PMRDA in-charge, held the meeting via video-conferencing, during which it was felt that the role of PCNDTA had diminished. Diwase said, “The PCNTDA developed area will be merged with PCMC and its vacant land bank will be given to Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA).” The chief minister also asked Pune and Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authorities to complete the ongoing project within stipulated time frame. During the meet, Diwase presented the surplus budget of Rs 960 crore before the CM and informed that 53% fund of the total budget was to be spent on Metro project. The CM, deputy chief minister, chief secretary, assistant chief secretary and PMRDA officials participated in the meeting at Thackeray’s bungalow Varsha, while the remaining officials joined through video-conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcntda-to-be-scrapped-absorbed-into-pmrda/articleshow/79784995.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Ball in PMC’s court as govt approves merger proposal of 23 villages||PUNE: The merger of 23 villages in Pune municipal limits took an important step forward after the state government approved the proposal. While an official notification detailing the merger plan has yet to be issued, citizens and town-planning experts suggested that the civic administration get a head-start by chalking out a holistic planning for infrastructure development and basic amenities in these areas, as well as curbing illegal constructions and encroachments. The Nationalist Congress Party has a hold on the city’s outskirts and has been pushing for the merger in time for the 2022 municipal elections. The original proposal involved merging 34 villages in Pune Municipal Corporation limits. Eleven villages were merged in 2017. Hadapsar MLA Chetan Tupe of the NCP confirmed to TOI that the decks have been cleared to merge the remainder in the next one month. Tupe said the merger would ensure planned development in the city’s peripheries. “State urban development minister Eknath Shinde has approved the merger proposal. Residents of these peripheral villages want improved basic public services and amenities,” Tupe said. However, experts have questioned the need for the merger as the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority was already in place to administer peripheral areas. “The merger will only increase the burden on PMC, which is already struggling to handle the existing area and population with limited resources and manpower. Also, PMC will have to find funds for the development of basic amenities in the newly merged areas,” town-planning expert Ramchandra Gohad said. He said it was imperative that the authorities start planning and executing town-planning schemes in these villages with a focus on water, drainage and public spaces. At the moment, these 23 villages are witnessing haphazard development, Gohad further said. “There are illegal constructions everywhere and open spaces are encroached upon because there is a lack of monitoring and strong regulations. TP schemes would help the civic body curb such activities,” he said. Anita Gokhale Benninger, a senior urban planner, opposed the merger and said a separate, smaller municipal corporation should have been created to cater to these villages. “A decentralized system for urban planning and municipal administration is the way forward. The soon-to-be-merged villages are likely to get secondary treatment,” she said. An source in PMC said a proposal for the formation of another municipal corporation was under consideration. Rajendra Raut, a senior civic official, said, “Once the notification issued, PMC will chalk out a development plan for these villages [on the same lines as the 11 other villages] and then start the process of property assessment.” Shrirang Chavan of Haveli Taluka Nagari Kriti Samiti, a citizens’ group, said the merger should be completed at the earliest. “Ward arrangement and delimitation must be carried out before the 2022 municipal elections, which would be possible only after the merger,” he said. In 2014, the group had filed a petition in Bombay high court seeking the merger. In 2017, the 11 villages were merged. Nine villages were merged partly, while two villages — Uruli and Phursungi — were merged completely. The population in Pune municipal limits had gone up by 2 lakh. Two corporators were elected from these areas in 2018. Following the fresh merger, the population could increase by 6 lakh. Six more corporators are expected to be added to the PMC’s current strength of 163.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ball-in-pmcs-court-as-govt-approves-merger-proposal/articleshow/79785017.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF retains power, but suffers major casualties||Thiruvananthapuram: LDF made sure that the city corporation will be under its rule for the next five years after it won 51 seats to ensure absolute majority. BJP finished second with 34 seats. UDF seemed like a party in tatters as it ended up with 10 seats. Five candidates, who contested as independents, also registered victory in the civic body . Unlike in previous polls, LDF leaders have been extremely cautious in projecting the seats in city corporation. Sensing a persistent threat from BJP, LDF never made extravagant claims but exuded confidence of winning what was necessary to be in power. If LDF panicked in 2015 after being caught in a ‘BJP storm’, things were calmer on Wednesday. LDF got off to a confident start, maintained the lead in various wards and never slipped behind BJP. However, the front suffered a series of casualties in the battle of titans. S Pushpalatha, who had never been defeated at Nedumcad, lost to Karamana Ajith of the BJP. R P Shivaji, the LDF veteran, was trounced by Anilkumar of BJP at Thirumala. Former deputy mayor Happy Kumar, who was set for a tight but positive finish in his home turf PTP Nagar, endured a shocking loss to BJP’s Girikumar. Mayor K Sreekumar, who made a surprise decision to contest from BJP ward Karikkakom, failed to make it to the council this year. He was defeated by Kumaran Nair of BJP by 116 votes. LDF’s mayor probable A G Oleena lost to Mary Pushpam, the UDF candidate at Kunnukuzhy. Earlier, in 2010, Aisha Baker, who was projected as the mayor candidate in 2010, was defeated by Mary Pushpam. LDF’s young gun Vidya Mohan also perished at the hands of BJP’s seasoned campaigner Sheeja Madhu at Jagathy. Madhusoodanan Nair of the BJP, who has made it a habit to pull off rude surprises, stuck to his habit as he defeated LDF’s sitting councillor Bindu Sreekumar at Sasthamangalam. Former standing committee head Safeera Beegam lost to Gopakumar of BJP, who was the parliamentary party leader in the previous council. K S Sheela, former head of standing committee and LDF’s guaranteed addition to new council met with a shocking defeat at Chellamangalam from where she had won in 2010. LDF won in two wards where a tough clash was expected. Former deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar braved a bevy of allegations to win at Vazhuthacaud. In the process she pushed UDF candidate Suresh Kumar to third spot and increased her majority from a scant 27 votes in 2015 to 364 in 2020. UDF parliamentary party leader Anilkumar was hardly a match for LDF candidate P K Gopakumar at Kadakampally as he finished a distant third in the election. UDF struck a pathetic figure in civic body elections. Its tally had slid from 42 in 2010 to 10 in 2020. LDF will walk into the council, relieved and confident but it faces a mighty BJP line up which includes BJP district president V V Rajesh; Girikumar and M R Gopan, who had been parliamentary party leaders; and Anilkumar, Karamana Ajith and Simi Jyothish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-retains-power-but-suffers-major-casualties/articleshow/79781983.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||After IPB nod, Delta Corp readies to take casinos to its entertainment zone at Pernem||PANAJI: Delta Corp has acquired close to 100 acres of land where it plans to shift all its off-shore casinos and initial estimates by the firm had pegged the total cost of the shift to Rs 1,200 crore to Rs 1,500 crore. “The integrated resort is expected to be one of its kind in the country,” Delta Corp’s company secretary Dilip Vaidya stated in a statement to the bourses. Goa Investment Promotion Board had discussed Delta Corp’s proposal earlier in October based on which an in-principle approval was granted. The letter granting in-principle approval was issued in December. In compliance with SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, Delta Corp issued a statement to inform investors about the development. “We hereby inform you that the company has received an in-principle approval from the Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board for setting up of an integrated resort consisting of hotels, convention centre, multiplex cinema, retail area, electronic casino, water park and other facilities at Pernem, Goa,” the company statement said. Delta Corp chief financial officer Hardik Dhebar had, in 2018, outlined the firm’s plans for the integrated resort complex, which will come up about five km away from the new airport. Records show that two years before the state government formulated its policy to shift casinos on-shore, Delta Corp had already crystallised its plans at Mopa. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has affected these plans as the casinos were shut for a significant part of 2020-21, which in turn has affected cash flow. “The general expectations are that normalcy could be gradually restored by the end of financial year 2020-2021,” the company said recently in its financial statement. The firm’s initial plan estimated that it would take 36-48 months to build the entire entertainment zone at Mopa and subsequently, shift all casino operations to the location. The Goa government’s present policy allows live gaming only on off-shore casinos and on-shore gambling is only via electronic means. Delta Corp’s own records suggest that investment for the entertainment zone will come from multiple sources and firms and not only from the Jaydev Mody-led firm. If completed, the project is expected to boost tourism, employment and infrastructure, particularly in Pernem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-ipb-nod-delta-corp-readies-to-take-casinos-to-its-entertainment-zone-at-pernem/articleshow/79787604.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||31-year-old Hyderabad-origin doctor face of Chicago’s Covid-19 vaccine roll-out||HYDERABAD: Hyderabad-origin Dr Nikhila Juvvadi was the first to administer the Covid vaccine in Chicago, USA, a day ago. The youngest chief clinical officer in the city, the 31-year-old heads a Covid task force that helped her hospital tackle the pandemic head-on. Juvvadi works at the Loretto hospital, a 122-bed medical facility in Austin, Chicago. The hospital has faced the brunt of the pandemic, catering to the most vulnerable sections of society including minority groups. The area saw the second-highest number of Covid positive cases in the state of Illinois. On being the face of the Chicago’s medical care in times of the pandemic, Juvvadi says the hospital wanted to send a message that every section will be catered to equitably through the vaccine roll-out process. “As an Indian-American, I administered the first vaccine and the first recipients belonged to the Asian-American, African-American and Latin American sections of the community." She likens Loretto Hospital to the Osmania General Hospital in Hyderabad that provides affordable healthcare to the weakest sections. Born in Chicago, Juvvadi attended Nasr School, finished her intermediate from Kakatiya Junior College and graduated from Bhaskar Medical College. As the chief clinical officer, she says the hospital is ensuring an elaborate protocol is in place to ensure safety. “From police escorting the vaccines to the hospital, designating who will touch them and deciding patient priority, the entire project is a large and challenging one," she says. As per guidelines, hospital healthcare workers are the first to get the vaccine, including those in the emergency and critical care departments, this is followed by other staff such as cleaners and those serving food. Among medical staff, patients and workers at the nursing home will be given the dose last. In all categories, those over 65 years are prioritised. With the roll-out at a very nascent stage, Juvvadi says apprehensions regarding the vaccine itself have been hard to address. “I assure every patient that we have gone through the data and there is only a 0.5% chance of side effects,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/31-year-old-hyd-origin-doctor-face-of-chicagos-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out/articleshow/79787424.cms||Uttara Varma
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Four-year undergrad programme on comeback trail||NEW DELHI: The four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) may make a comeback at Delhi University. The National Education Policy implementation committee has moved a draft proposal on the structure of the four-year course. However, some panel members and teachers are apprehensive about its implementation without wider consultations. FYUP was implemented in 2013 by then vice-chancellor Dinesh Singh, but was scrapped after a year by the central government. Now, with NEP underscoring a four-year programme, the university seems to be revisiting the programme. While the NEP implementation committee chairperson has shared with members the changes in the university under FYUP and how the credit system would work, Nandita Narain, former DUTA president, alleged, “This committee has been instructed by the Union government to oversee the aligning of DU with the dubious provisions of NEP.” Teachers worry that the honours courses will now be recast as a “major programme” and students will not obtain an honours degree after three years of study. “The course structure leading to the exit points in the first and second year show that coursework cannot add to their abilities, knowledge and worth,” maintained Narain. Other teachers are concerned that FYUP will be implemented without wide consultation. A committee member, however, assured, “Consultations and discussions will be carried out.” Rajib Ray, DUTA president, added, “The rushed and mindless restructuring have compromised quality and harmed students time and again. There’s opposition to NEP as the thrust remains commercialisation of education sector.” Seema Das, implementation committee member and academic council member, suggested not reducing the number of core papers up to the third year and leaving the fourth year for research. “The academic rigour of the three-year bachelor’s programme will be diluted with the deletion of four core/major papers,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-yr-undergrad-prog-on-comeback-trail/articleshow/79785074.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 18, 2020||Pune||RTO lens on drivers to avert accidents near Navale bridge||Pune: RTO officials have blamed the drivers’ trend to speed and their fatigue, and tendency to switch off vehicles’ engines on a slope near Navale bridge to save fuel for the frequent accidents along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. An autorickshaw driver was injured and 10 vehicles were damaged after a truck, on its way to Navale bridge from Katraj, ploughed through the vehicles at Dattanagar along the bypass on Wednesday.An official of the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) said brake failures and other technical problems were not the main reasons for the accidents. “Our inspectors check the vehicles, mainly buses, trucks and trailers, on the bypass. All documents, including the vehicles’ fitness certificates, are also checked. We will contact the highway police teams to ensure stricter enforcement of the road rules,” an RTO official said on Thursday. “There is a 2km-slope leading to the Navale bridge. Studies revealed the heavy vehicle drivers often switch off the engines along the slope. Many drivers lose control over the vehicles in the process. But this is one reason for the accidents. Last week, we discussed the issues with the police, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the concessionaire who had built the road,” he further said.Another official said the state would be requested to form a committee comprising experts from College of Engineering, Pune, Indian Institute of Technology, NHAI and the police to find sustainable solutions to the problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-lens-on-drivers-to-avert-accidents-near-navale-bridge/articleshow/79785053.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 18, 2020||Agra||SC upholds Allahabad HC order against Kafeel Khan’s NSA detention, dismisses UP plea||Agra: The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal by the Uttar Pradesh government against the Allahabad high court order that had quashed Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention under the National Security Act (NSA) in September. “We see no reason to interfere,” a three-judge bench of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Criminal cases against Khan will be decided “on their own merits,” the bench added. Khan had been held at Mathura jail for seven months after he delivered a speech during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests at Aligarh Muslim University which the government deemed “provocative.” The high court had, while allowing his release, observed that his speech does not “disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence”. It, instead, “gives a call for national integrity and unity … (and) deprecates any kind of violence.” For Khan, the Supreme Court’s decision came as a reprieve in what has been three years of intermittent legal battles. “My youngest brother is getting married today (Thursday). All I wanted was to be there for him, even if the verdict didn’t go my way. The past few days, we have been under extreme stress,” he told TOI from Delhi. The pre-wedding ceremony on Wednesday had been an uneasy event. Khan said he couldn’t sleep at night. “In the morning, I wore a sherwani and entered my lawyer’s office wondering if I would get a chance to see my family before I was carted off … I hugged my children goodbye before leaving for court and held on to Ammi jaan.” His wife, Dr Shabista Khan, and mother, Nuzhat Parveen, had been impatiently waiting at the wedding venue. “The rituals were on. But we were all waiting. We didn’t know if he’d get here or be arrested from there,” Shabista said. After the Supreme Court decision, he called his mother. “Other family members joined in the video call. We broke into tears.” Khan has been locked in a battle with the state government since 2017, when over 70 children died at the Baba Raghav Das Medical College in Gorakhpur in just a month because there weren’t enough oxygen cylinders. Khan was suspended from his position as the nodal officer for the paediatric department at the hospital. “My family and I have been suffering for more than three years. I never did anything wrong,” he said. He has not been reinstated yet. “I will continue practising as a doctor and helping those who need me,” he said. “I have organised 100-odd medical camps so far. With help from health activists across the nation, I will do more. No one should be cut off from healthcare because of money, age, caste, religion or gender.” (With inputs from Yusra Husain in Lucknow)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sc-upholds-allahabad-hc-order-against-kafeel-khans-nsa-detention-dismisses-up-plea/articleshow/79784183.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Go to magistrate for FIR, SC tells sadhu||AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court on Thursday asked a Swaminarayan sadhu to approach a magisterial court for registration of an FIR against the senior priest of Kandari Gurukul in Karjan, for sexually exploiting him for six years. The same 29-year-old sadhu had moved the Gujarat high court seeking directions to Karjan police to book his senior under Section 377 of the IPC for sodomy. Justice Paresh Upadhyay rejected his petition on October 29 and fined him Rs 25,000 for approaching the court with such a complaint at a belated stage with a view to make the court a tool to influence the temple’s administration. The petitioner had before the courts stated that he joined the Swaminarayan’s Vadtal sect in 2011 at the age of 20. He was a commerce graduate and had been pursuing his chartered accountancy studies when he decided to become a sanyasi and joined the Kandari Gurukul at Karjan in Vadodara district. He was sent to Kashi for education. He stayed in Kashi for eight years. When he used to come to the Gurukul for vacations, he was exploited by a senior. He alleged that he was sexually exploited 35 to 40 times in these years. He was seeking directions to Karjan police to register an FIR. When the HC heard his case, Justice Upadhyay had said, “This court should not appear to be a tool in the hands of a person like the petitioner. Any such attempt should be nipped in the bud,” while refusing to order the registration of an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/go-to-magistrate-for-fir-sc-tells-sadhu/articleshow/79785056.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Forest staff, guides to boycott tourism in Bor from today||NAGPUR: Bor Tiger Reserve (BTR) will remain closed for tourists from Friday as guides and forest staff have decided not to work till the culprits in Wednesday’s attack on range forest officer (RFO) and forest guard are arrested. On Wednesday afternoon, Mahesh Thakur, who is a history-sheeter having several offences registered against him at Wardha police station, had arrived at Bor booking office with his seven accomplices and attacked RFO Nilesh Gawande and forest guard Premdas Bhakre after they were refused entry in the park in private vehicles. Protesting the incident, over 40 forest staffers and over 30 guides, in a memorandum to CCF & field director of Pench RS Govekar, had warned of a stir if the goons were not arrested in 24 hours. However, even after 35 hours, the culprits were roaming free. On Thursday, tourism activity was as usual. Govekar reached Bor to pacify the staff and guides, but Maharashtra State Sanctuary Guides Union has decided not to accompany any tourist vehicle in the park. The forest staff, though would remain present at the headquarters, will keep away from tourism activity. The incident has evoked sharp reactions from forest unions, wildlife lovers, and even senior officials. On Thursday, top officials called up senior police officials to take immediate action in the matter. Earlier, the foresters’ union also submitted a memorandum to Wardha collector and superintendent of police demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. Till filing of this report, the culprits were not arrested. SP Prashant Holkar did not respond to calls from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-staff-guides-to-boycott-tourism-in-bor-from-todayno-tourism-in-bor-from-today/articleshow/79785041.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Forgery case suspect’s kin injure Delhi sub-inspector||PUNE: A Delhi police sub-inspector, who was in Chikhali to serve a non-bailable warrant to a man wanted in a cheating and forgery case in the national capital, suffered injuries after his relatives slammed their house gate shut on his hand and threw chilli powder in his eyes on Wednesday. Sub-inspector Narendrakumar Sehrawat’s fingers were stuck in the gate, police said. The Chikhali police later arrested Sandip Sable, brother of the wanted man, Deepak, and booked the mother and the wives of the two brothers, on the charge of voluntarily obstructing and causing hurt to a public servant, under sections 353, 186 and 332 of the Indian Penal Code. This was after Sehrawat, from the Parliament Steet police station, lodged an FIR against Sandip and the three women. When contacted over call, Sehrawat told TOI that he was busy and would call back. However, he did not return the call till the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forgery-case-suspects-kin-injure-delhi-sub-inspector/articleshow/79785042.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC fines builder for not disclosing full case details||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on a Vadodara-based builder who challenged the Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) order to auction his personal property to pay back a buyer who has booked a flat but never got it. One of the partners of Om Shiv Builders, Kalpesh Raiyani, was facing auction order for his personal property for not building a flat promised to Amey Jogalekar in Dove Deck project on Ajwa Road after receiving money from the latter. He approached the HC, but did not disclose full details about pending litigation and with a view to saving his property from auction. This led Justice Ashutosh Shastri to impose a penalty on him. The high court disposed of his petition after he promised the high court that he would pay an amount of Rs 28 lakh to Jogalekar within one month’s time. The high court also came down on the revenue authorities, who showed laxity in recovering Jogalekar’s money by auctioning Raiyani’s property in Akota area, though the order for recovery was passed by RERA in October 2018. The court said, “There appears to be lethargy on the part of revenue officers as well not to complete the process in a time scheduled manner.” The high court had a word of caution for the revenue authorities when it said that they have “to see that whenever such kind of recovery process are to be undertaken they shall keep in mind the guidelines framed by various circulars by the very government to which they are under an obligation to observe such guidelines”. According to Jogalekar’s advocate Hetu Sudarshan, “This order gives hopes to aggrieved home buyers who have put in all their life savings into home projects and are deprived of real justice even after getting orders in their favour from RERA and reach a dead end with regards to recovery of money from errant builders as the revenue officials do not take necessary steps for the recovery, though they are obligated by law to do so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-fines-builder-for-not-disclosing-full-case-details/articleshow/79785043.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||HC adjourns hearing in Sherwood College case till Tuesday, Diocese of Lucknow stakes claim over school||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) will continue its hearing in Nainital’s Sherwood College dispute on Tuesday. The court adjourned its hearing on Thursday after it was informed that sitting principal Amandeep Sandhu has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court (SC) against the HC’s order which gave police protection to the newly-appointed interim principal Peter Dhiraj Emmanuel. The case was heard on Thursday by the bench of Acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma. Speaking to TOI, an official familiar with the issue said that the SLP has been filed by Sandhu on the grounds that they were not heard in the matter before the HC gave its order. “We are an affected party but we were deleted as respondents from the case before the HC passed its order. Therefore, we have approached the apex court,” the official said. Meanwhile, the Diocese of Lucknow has now staked claim to the ownership of Sherwood College. On Thursday its officials held a press conference in Nainital and argued that it has the legal right over the school. “Till 1976, the Diocese of Lucknow had control over the school. However, that year, the Diocese was bifurcated and the school was illegally given to the Diocese of Agra. Since then, we have been fighting legal battles, and in 2013, the HC had directed both the parties to file a civil suit to decide the ownership of the school,” the official said. The officials have now said that they will file an impleadment application in the HC and will become a party to the case. As reported by TOI earlier, Sandhu, who has served as Sherwood’s principal since January 2004 has also claimed that the school is under the jurisdiction of Diocese of Lucknow. However, the Diocese of Agra has argued that the school has been governed by them and it was they who appointed Sandhu. Sandhu was suspended by the Agra Diocese in October over allegations of financial irregularities, and Emmanuel, who was formerly with St Joseph’s College, was appointed the interim principal. Emmanuel had tried to take charge in October but was stopped. After the HC’s December 9 order, Emmanuel again tried to take charge on Saturday but was not allowed into the school. He along with several officials of the Diocese of Agra once again went to the school on Sunday but to no avail. Meanwhile, Sandhu has refused to give up his post alleging there is a conspiracy against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-adjourns-hearing-in-sherwood-college-case-till-tuesday-diocese-of-lucknow-stakes-claim-over-school/articleshow/79784210.cms||Prashant Jha
December 18, 2020||Pune||Action against cop filmed taking bribe||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad traffic branch on Thursday initiated action against a woman constable, who was recently filmed taking a bribe. The video shot by a bystander — showing the constable accepting a bribe from an offender at Shagun Chowk in Pimpri — was widely circulated on social media, spurring the top brass into action. ACP (traffic) Shrikant Disale told TOI that the constable faces suspension and an inquiry. “This incident as maligned the image of the Pimpri Chinchwad police. After a preliminary inquiry, we have sent a default report to her senior officers,” he said. The constable stopping two women over some violation. She beckoned one of the women over and spoke to her. The constable then turned around, and the woman put some currency notes in the back pocket of her trousers. The entire incident was captured on video by a bystander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/action-against-cop-filmed-taking-bribe/articleshow/79785057.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Defence alludes to Ramayana, says clients can’t wait for 14 years||NEW DELHI: When the prosecution referred to the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case related to the northeast Delhi riots against Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and others as Mahabharata, the defence drew another parallel with Ramayana, stating that his clients were not going to wait for 14 years to walk out of jail. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat was hearing arguments regarding the bail plea filed by the two women. The prosecution, represented by special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, and defence counsel Adit S Pujari concluded their arguments on Thursday, following which the court scheduled the matter for passing orders on December 23. Prasad had earlier contested the bail plea arguing, “Mahabharata is a story of conspiracy and this is also the story of conspiracy. Sanjay of this conspiracy was DPSG (Delhi Protest Support Group)... Dhritrashtra is yet to be identified and investigation is still going on.” The arguments were in context of an alleged meeting that took place among the members of DPSG. Relying on WhatsApp chats mentioned in Delhi Police’s chargesheet in the case, Prasad elaborated on how the protests weren’t dominated by the women as claimed by the defence. Pujari contended that the prosecution had started its arguments with mythology as it was unable to show a prima facie case against his clients. The counsel said there was no case made out in the chargesheet and, therefore, the prosecution was not arguing on merits. He also pointed out that the chargesheet revolved around the deaths of head constable Ratan Lal and a few others, leaving out the death of 48 others. “Are we living in a society where the life of one policeman is more important than 48 civilians? You name 53 persons having died. However, the chargesheet is surrounding Ratan Lal… According to the prosecution, it was a conspiracy to create disaffection against India in order to attract UAPA.” The counsel shared some pictures of the protest at Jaffrabad Metro station reportedly taken on February 23, 24 and 25 to demonstrate that protests were under the watch of policemen but the prosecution was “creating one point of view about the conspiracy”. He pointed out that right before the assembly polls, a “vicious campaign of communal divide” was being propagated and the Election Commission had “repeatedly told a particular party not to do it”. “This is not going to be a Ramayana, where we are to going to wait for 14 years to see if we can finally come out,” the defence claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-defence-alludes-to-ramayana-says-clients-cant-wait-for-14-years/articleshow/79785059.cms||Aamir Khan
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||CBI searches places in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar in two bank frauds||AHMEDABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation, Mumbai, (Bank Securities and Fraud) registered two separate bank fraud cases, for Rs 452 crore, and Rs 72 crore, on December 15. The first case was registered based on a complaint from the State Bank of India against a private company based in Ahmedabad, M/s Varia Engineering Works Pvt Ltd, Himanshu Prafulchand Varia , Sejal Varia, M/s Krish Tech-Con Pvt Ltd, unknown public servants and unknown others, on allegations of cheating a consortium of banks including State Bank of India of approximately Rs 452 crore between 2013 and 2017. CBI sources said it was alleged that from 2013 to 2017, the accused entered a criminal conspiracy to defraud and cheat the consortium of banks — comprising the State Bank of India, Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Central Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Punjab National Bank and Vijaya Bank — with regard to various credit facilities. In pursuance of the conspiracy, the accused manipulated and falsified books of accounts and diverted and siphoned off the funds of the banks, thereby cheating the consortium. Searches were conducted on Thursday at four places, including the official and residential premises of the private company and its directors in Ahmedabad, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents and articles. The second case was registered on a complaint from Bank of Baroda against Gandhinagar-based M/s Gopala Polyplast Ltd, Manish Mahendra Somani, Manoj Mahendra Somani, Kishorilal Sonthalia, unknown public servants and unknown others, for cheating Bank of Baroda of Rs 72 crore, approximately between 2017 and 2019. CBI sources said it was alleged that during this period, the company availed of various credit facilities which were enhanced and reviewed by the bank. It was further alleged that the continuous overdraft in the account and devolvement resulted in the account becoming a non-performing asset (NPA). CBI sources said searches were conducted on Thursday at five places including the official and residential premises of the company and its directors in Gujarat and Mumbai, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents and articles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cbi-searches-places-in-city-gnagar-in-two-bank-frauds/articleshow/79785070.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Varanasi||Pradhan’s kin threaten power staff with pistol||Varanasi: High drama was created in Sohraiya Vajid village under the limits of Jiyanpur police station of Azamgarh district on Thursday morning when family members of the village head started threatening power employees with a pistol to stop them from disconnecting power supply of their house against non-payment of dues. After a video of the incident went viral on social media and the matter was reported to police by power employees, SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh raided the village along with a heavy police force. One of the accused was caught with a pistol while others managed to escape. Singh said that raids at all possible hideouts of the accused family members of the village head will continue to nab them as nobody will be allowed to spread terror. Junior engineer of electricity department Akash Tomar said that under the on-going drive against big debtors, who have not paid power dues for a long time despite issuance of reminders and other legal formalities, a team of power employees had reached the place of Sohraiya Vajid village head Angad’s house in morning to disconnect power supply of his house against non-payment of dues of over Rs 1.50 lakh. As his team members started climbing up the electric pole for disconnecting the power supply, Angad’s brother and two sons came out with a pistol and tried to target them. Terrorised by it, the power employees tried to run away but the trio chased them for several meters. Some villagers made videos of the incident and made it viral on social media. In the meantime, Kumar also reported the matter to the police. Taking a serious note of the incident, SP Azamgarh raided the village with a heavy police force, he said that Angad’s son has been arrested with the illegal arm used to terrorise power employees while other accused managed to escape. They would also be nabbed soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pradhans-kin-threaten-power-staff-with-pistol/articleshow/79787157.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man throws acid-like substance on ‘pregnant’ girlfriend in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A college girl, 22, who claimed to be pregnant, sustained burn injuries after her “boyfriend” allegedly threw acid-like liquid on her following an argument over marriage. The victim, who belongs to a minority community, was insisting on marriage which infuriated the accused who is from another faith. The girl was admitted at district hospital in Budaun with severe burn injuries. And the accused was booked for rape and acid attack on Thursday. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said, “The victim is a student of B.Sc. and was returning home when the accused stopped her at an isolated place and threw some chemical on her. She was rushed to a hospital. The girl has said that when she insisted on marriage, as she was pregnant, the youth threw the liquid on her.” “Based on her complaint, we have registered an FIR under IPC sections 376 (rape), 326-A (punishment for acid attack), 343 (wrongful confinement), 313 (causing miscarriage without consent) and 504 (intentional insult) against Mahesh Pal alias Bantu. The accused is absconding but we will arrest him soon,” the SSP said. Emergency medical officer at district hospital, Dr N K Singh, said, “The victim was brought to the hospital by two women constables on Wednesday night. She was saying that some acid-like liquid was thrown at her. Looking at her condition, we started her treatment and admitted her to the hospital. She has sustained burn injuries near shoulders and arms but her condition is stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-throws-acid-like-substance-on-pregnant-girlfriend-22-after-she-insists-on-marriage/articleshow/79784191.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Five arrested on charge of raping minor||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Wednesday arrested five youths on the charges of raping a 15-year-old girl and outraging the modesty of her 14-year-old cousin late on Tuesday night. The suspects abducted the girls after the incident. All of them were near the Chinchwad railway station around 5am on Wednesday. “We caught them when they were returning home with the girls,” assistant inspector Vijaykumar Dhumal of the Nigdi police said. The suspects have been arrested under sections 376 (rape), 363 (kidnapping) and 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-arrested-on-charge-of-raping-minor/articleshow/79785061.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Govt gives Rs 5cr tranche of funds for 2 bridges over Kukrail drain||Lucknow: Construction of two bridges over Kukrail drain on the Sarvodayanagar and Rahimnagar routes will start soon. The first instalment of Rs 5.8 crore for the project was released by the state government on Thursday after finance minister Suresh Khanna approved the project, which is worth mor than Rs 23 crore. The proposal was mooted by Union defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh a year ago in view of traffic jams in several areas as a result of increase in the number of vehicles after the existing bridge was expanded to six lanes from two lanes earlier. Singh had written to public works department minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in this regard. On completion, the project will ease traffic flow in several areas of trans- Gomti. The road transport and highways ministry has already given a green signal to the construction of a four-lane flyover between Khurramnagar and Indiranagar sector 25 and a flyover between IIM and Madiaon crossing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-gives-rs-5cr-tranche-of-funds-for-2-bridges-over-kukrail-drain/articleshow/79787380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Over 56k BC-Sakhis selected for training for rural banking service||Lucknow: Nearly seven months after chief minister Yogi Adityanath gave his nod to the appointment of Banking Correspondents-Sakhi (BC-Sakhi) as a measure to generate employment in rural areas, the state government on Thursday announced shortlisting of 56,875 candidates to be provided training for the purpose. According to additional chief secretary (rural development) Manoj Kumar Singh, all district magistrates have been directed to begin the process of training of shortlisted BC-Sakhis in their districts. The department had received 2.16 lakh applications, of which 56,875 were shortlisted. Singh said that every district administration has been asked to provide week-long training to BC-Sakhis in batches of 30. After this, they will be required to clear the exam conducted by Indian Institute of Banking and Finance as per the guidelines of Reserve Bank of India. Those who pass the exam will be selected by various banks and would be provided with laptops and other equipment. He said that BC-Sakhis would move from house to house and facilitate banking services in a digital manner. Singh said that this would help in lending a thrust to banking services in rural areas. The ACS said that the state government has also decided to enable BC-Sakhis to work for self-help groups (SHGs) and maintain records of their meetings and financial transactions. The additional responsibility would help them earn an additional income of Rs 1,200. Notably, the state government would be paying BC-Sakhis Rs 4,000 per month for the first six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-56k-bc-sakhis-selected-for-training-for-rural-banking-service/articleshow/79787270.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Govt says grant to aided schools will not be stopped||Dehradun: After suspense over the future of the grant being provided to the government-aided schools in Uttarakhand, the state education department has made it clear that the amount reserved for the schools will continue for the time being. The department cleared that the allotted budget and the use of the grant by schools will be reviewed for now, but no changes will be made.The decision has come as a relief for several stakeholders, especially the teachers’ association who had declared to stage an intensive protest on December 21 against the discontinuation of the grant. According to sources, the education department is mulling on review over the grant as crores of rupees is being spent on the grant.Meanwhile, the teachers’ association claimed that instead of discontinuing the grant, the education department should think of more ways to improve the standards of government-aided schools since they produce excellent results.Notably, the decision on the grant of 17 government-aided schools will be decided by Uttarakhand’s CMO. These schools have been accused of not meeting the required criteria for the government grant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-says-grant-to-aided-schools-will-not-be-stopped/articleshow/79784218.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Drunk youth rams bike into Durgam Cheruvu bridge, dies||HYDERABAD: An engineering student died and two of his friends suffered injuries when their bike rammed into the median on Durgam Cheruvu flyover on Thursday. According to police, the three youngsters were drunk and the rider, who lost his life in the mishap, did not have a driving license. Police charged his injured friends under Section 304 (II) (culpable homicide note amounting to murder). TimesViewNight patrol teams must carry out more checks at busy intersections to curb such incidents. Three youngsters, triple-riding without helmets or license, passed through several junctions of the city without being stopped. Traffic rule counselling meets must be held on a regular basis. Also, youngsters must be made aware by parents and officials of the dangers of drunk driving, besides the stringent punishment it entails.The deceased was identified as Shiva, 20, B Tech third-year student of Malla Reddy Engineering College in Sooraram. His injured friends were identified as Prashant, 22, an unemployed graduate, and Vijay, 22, a private employee. The three youngsters are natives of Sircilla town and they were also school mates. While Shiva and Prashant were staying at a flat in Yousufguda, Vijay was staying at Jeedimetla. On Wednesday night, the trio celebrated Prashant’s birthday in the Yousufguda flat. “The youngsters consumed liquor and started a joy ride during the early hours of Thursday on a bike belonging to a friend. While they were travelling from Road Number 45 of Jubilee Hills towards ITC Kohenur hotel, the bike went out of control on the flyover and crashed into the median at 3.30am,” Madhapur inspector P Ravindra Prasad said. Police rushed the three injured youngsters to a nearby hospital for treatment but Shiva succumbed to injuries. “Despite knowing that Shiva did not have a driving license and it was illegal to drive under the influence of liquor, Prashant and Vijay encouraged him to ride the bike. They also did not wear helmets. We have registered a case against the duo under sections 304 (II), 109 of the IPC, 184, 185, 188 of the MV Act,” the inspector said. The injured are out of danger and family members of Shiva donated his eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-youth-rams-bike-into-durgam-cheruvu-bridge-dies/articleshow/79787448.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kanpur||Charkhari BJP MLA alleges police laxity in vehicle attack probe||Jhansi:BJP MLA from Charkhari constituency in Mahoba district, Brijbhushan Rajpoot on Thursday announced giving up his security cover and bodyguards alleging police laxity and bias in probe into the attack on his vehicle on Saturday night. The MLA accused police of having a soft corner towards the accused who attacked his vehicle even though they are history sheeters. In a letter to Mahoba district magistrate and personal secretary to the chief minister, Rajpoot informed that he is returning the security officers provided to him since police officials are not taking interest in arresting those who had attacked his vehicle. Talking to TOI, Rajpoot said, “I am a people's representative and if I am not safe in my own constituency then how do you think a common man can be safe. There is no use of upgrading my security, rather police should arrest the criminals who attacked my vehicle, and then only will people feel safe. Those who attacked my vehicle are hardened criminals who have several cases, including that of murder, pending against them.” On Saturday night, four persons had attacked the vehicle of Charkhari MLA Brijbhushan Rajpoot in Karaira Kalan village over a trivial issue of crossing of vehicles. Incidentally, Rajpoot was not in the vehicle when the attack took place, and only few of his staff members and his personal gunner were in it. On being contacted, Mahoba SP A K Srivastav told TOI that there is no question of taking back the MLA’s security, rather he has deployed two more personnel as additional security. Two persons have been arrested in this connection and both have previous criminal record, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/charkhari-bjp-mla-alleges-police-laxity-in-vehicle-attack-probe/articleshow/79787193.cms||Arindam Ghosh
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Buddha head, copper coins found in ancient mound||Lucknow: Residents of Mahpur village in Gondhwakot area of Mau district were taken in for a surprise on the misty morning of December 13 when they came across terracotta artifacts including pottery, a Buddha head and a coin hoard which surfaced from a mound being dug up for the ongoing Purvanchal Expressway construction work. The expressway is barely at a stone’s throw away from the mound. While initial estimates were that the material belongs to the Kushan period, state archaeology directorate’s regional officer for Varanasi, Subhash Chandra paid a visit to the spot on Thursday. “Upon inspecting the site and after taking a look at the material unearthed including pottery, terracotta pieces, bricks and coins, the antiquity can be pegged from third Century BC to 12 Century AD. This means that the historical landscape of the place covers layers of Maurya, Sunga, Kushan, Gupta and subsequent rulers,” Chandra told TOI. In his report to the state culture department, Chandra has recommended that the material be handed over to a museum while a part of it may be used for scientifically establishing its age. He has also urged the government to commission a detailed project for the area. A locally significant Buddhist committee, Buddhankur Bhimjyoti Samiti has also written to the state government and Archaeological Survey of India to save the place. “Some coins and figurines were recovered from another side of the mound about 15 years ago. Our elders had then raised a demand for its protection but nothing happened. Now this second incident has strengthened the belief that the place is archaeologically important. Thus, we have reiterated our demand,” said a faculty member in sanskrit department at the Government PG College, Rakesh Kumar, who is also associated with the society. Asked to comment on the antiquity of the place, Chandra said: “the place has been excavated several times. The initial work was undertaken by the British. Thereafter, Rahul Sankrityayan drew inspiration from the site. Several research papers and doctorates may also be linked to the place. In short, yes the place is an archaeologically rich site.” Meanwhile, district magistrate Amit Bansal stopped the digging work, besides telling the local officers to demarcate the place. He also instructed preparation of an inventory of the material obtained and placed it into safe custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/buddha-head-copper-coins-found-in-ancient-mound/articleshow/79787293.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 18, 2020||Kanpur||57 accused identified by SIT, 10 already dead||Kanpur: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 cases in the city, has so far identified 57 men, 10 of whom have already died, allegedly involved in violence in various pockets, including Armapur, Naubasta, Kidwainagar and Govindnagar, on October 31 and November 1 after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The state government had set up the SIT on February 5, 2019 to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the Supreme Court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking a SIT probe into the riots. “In total, 57 of the 60 accused have been identified of which 10 have already died. After going through files of 10 cases, the SIT officers started visiting the victims’ families and local police to identify the attackers. The SIT has identified 57 accused so far, but 10 of them have died. Police have identified their homes and hideouts. They would be arrested in the coming days after getting permission from the state government,” said SP and SIT member Balendu Bhushan. A senior official meanwhile said that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) will visit Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, to record the statements of a family whose two members Wazir Singh and his son Simmi were killed by a mob in the Armapur area of the city during anti-Sikh riots. The family had migrated to Jabalpur after the trauma. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP Atul and comprises retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary. In November 2020, the state government gave another six-month extension — till May 2021 — to the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/57-accused-identified-by-sit-10-already-dead/articleshow/79787197.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 18, 2020||Kanpur||22-yr-old attacked on way home from coaching classes||Prayagraj: A group of unidentified persons attempted to kill a young man preparing for competitive exams, and injured his genitals near Jari village under Kaudhiyara police station in trans Yamuna area on late Wednesday night. The critically injured youth, identified as Parivartan Maurya (22) and resident of Jari village, is undergoing treatment at SRN hospital. SP (trans Yamuna) Saurabh Dixit told TOI that Maurya used to travel between Kydganj and Kaudhiayra (trans Yamuna) to attend coaching classes. He used to return from his classes at 6 pm. Around 8:30 pm on Wednesday, he received a call on his mobile, and left the house. As he not return home till late in the night, his family members started looking for him. Maurya was rescued by villagers from a field outside the village. Upon being alerted, a team of Kaudhiyara police rushed to the spot and brought him to SRN hospital for treatment. Police said Maurya suffered injuries on his neck and genitals. This revealed that a group of persons had made an abortive bid to kill the student. The SP claimed that the police have managed to ascertain the identity of the persons involved in the incident, and raids are being conducted to nab them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/22-yr-old-attacked-on-way-home-from-coaching-classes/articleshow/79787210.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tears into new laws, says he can’t betray farmers of country||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tore up copies of the three farm laws enacted by the central government in September that have triggered massive protests by farmers. Kejriwal said in the Delhi assembly on Thursday that he was doing so because he did not want to betray farmers and soldiers and appealed to the Centre to repeal the legislations immediately. Speaking during the special session of the assembly on Thursday, Kejriwal said, “I am in pain when I tear up these three farm laws because I did not intend to do this. But when farmers of the country are sleeping on the road in 2°C temperature, I cannot betray the soldiers and farmers of my country. I am a citizen of this country first, a chief minister later. This assembly rejects the three laws and appeals to the central government to meet the demands of farmers.” However, leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri noted that Delhi government notified one of the three farm laws — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020 — which permits trade of food grains and poultry outside the premises of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees and demanded to know why Kejriwal had notified one of the three laws if he really had misgivings about the central laws. Claiming that more than 20 farmers have lost their lives in the agitation, the CM said, “The protest started 20 days, which means one farmer is losing his life every day. I want to ask the Centre, how many lives will you take before you listen to the plight of the farmers?" Kejriwal also drew comparisons with the 1907’s Pagdi Sambhal Jatta protest by Punjab farmers against the British government in which they were adamant on the repeal of three laws even when the government suggested some amendments. “In the end, the British had to repeal the three laws,” noted Kejriwal. The CM derided the BJP leadership for not understanding the farm laws, pointing out that UP CM Yogi Adityanath had told 20,000 farmers in Bareilly that their land wouldn’t be taken away or the mandis shut down. “Can these be termed as advantages? Every BJP leader, when asked about the benefits of these farm laws, says just one thing, that a farmer can sell his produce anywhere in the country. But where?” Kejriwal asked. The CM indicated that it would be very difficult for the farmers to sell their products at reasonable rates under the new laws. He pointed out that while the minimum support price of wheat was Rs 1,868, it was being sold for Rs 900-1,000 in UP and Bihar. “In which part of the country should the farmers of UP and Bihar sell their produce to get the MSP due on wheat?” he asked. He also questioned the hurry in passing the bills without voting in the Rajya Sabha. “These laws are meant to fund elections for BJP because the saffron party has increased the election spending limits and made elections very expensive,” Kejriwal maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-tears-into-new-laws-says-he-cant-betray-farmers-of-country/articleshow/79785087.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||SIT identifies 57 accused of 1984 riots in Kanpur||KANPUR: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 cases in the city, has so far identified 57 accused, 10 of whom have already died, allegedly involved in violence in various pockets, including Armapur, Naubasta, Kidwainagar and Govindnagar, on October 31 and November 1 after the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The state government had set up the SIT on February 5, 2019 to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the Supreme Court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking a SIT probe into the riots. “In total, 57 of the 60 accused have been identified of which 10 are already dead. After going through files of 10 cases, the SIT officers started visiting the victims’ families and local police to identify the attackers. The SIT has identified 57 accused so far, but 10 of them have died. Police have identified their homes and hideouts. They would be arrested in the coming days after getting permission from the state government,” said SP and SIT member Balendu Bhushan. A senior official meanwhile said that the SIT will visit Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, to record the statements of a family whose two members Wazir Singh and his son Simmi were killed by a mob in the Armapur area of the city during anti-Sikh riots. The family had migrated to Jabalpur after the trauma. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP Atul and comprises retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary. In November 2020, the state government gave another six-month extension — till May 2021 — to the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sit-identifies-57-accused-of-84anti-sikh-riots-10-already-dead/articleshow/79787423.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 18, 2020||Allahabad||HC relief for man arrested under religious conversion ordinance||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the arrest of a man booked by UP Police under the recently promulgated Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, for allegedly trying to marry a woman with intentions of converting to her to other faith. This is the first time that an affected party has approached the High Court against this ordinance. Hearing a writ petition filed by one Nadeem from Haridwar, who was booked by UP Police, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal directed the state police not to take any coercive action against the accused, Nadeem who was booked by UP Police on November 29 on a complaint filed by one Akshay Kumar of Muzaffarnagar. The petitioner had taken the plea that constitutional validity of the said ordinance is before another division bench of this court. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued that the ordinance is ultra vires of the Constitution of India and any criminal proceeding initiated under the provisions of the ordinance shall be quashed. “Special Marriage Act is a Central Act which provides a special form of marriage for interfaith couples. By impugned ordinance new prohibited degrees are created on religious grounds and this amounts to creating a communal and divisive legislation which is not at all permissible in our constitutional scheme. Once the Central government has made the law over the subject of marriage, then there is no space available for the state government to pass the this ordinance,” argued Naqvi. Nadeem had sought quashing of the FIR lodged against him under Sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and sections 3 and 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. It was alleged in the FIR that Nadeem developed an illicit relation with the complainant’s wife with the purpose of converting her religion by marriage and was attempting to convert her by threat as well as by exerting undue pressure. Nadeem has denied all the allegations and asserted that he is a poor labourer who had been falsely implicated in the case by the complainant, merely to avoid payment of some dues which the complainant owes to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-relief-for-man-arrested-under-religious-conversion-ordinance/articleshow/79803550.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Single-use plastic waste for 1,500-km road in UP||LUCKNOW: In an ambitious pro-environmental measure, the state government has set a target of constructing 1500 km of roads in the state with the help of single-use plastic by the end of the current financial year. According to a proposal moved by the public works department (PWD), the step would not only expedite construction of roads but also help in getting rid of around 2,000 tonnes of single-use plastic. Talking to TOI, principal secretary, PWD, Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, said the use of plastic in road construction had already been adopted in the schedule of rate (SOR), which provides a basic framework to evaluate cost estimate of the projects. Over the last few years, the price of labour and material have increased appreciably necessitating a revision of the existing schedule of rates. PWD has given nod to build 75 roads with plastic waste“We initiated the project last year by constructing 12 roads in various parts of the state on a pilot basis. It was found suitable. We have now adopted the process in SOR and get it mainstreamed in road construction,” Gokarn said, affirming that the department would initiate construction of 1,500km road with single-use plastic. “We will gradually increase the target in future,” he added. PWD officials said the department had recently sanctioned construction of 75 roads spanning 94 km with the help of plastic waste. Construction has already started on 32 roads with combined length of 43km. Officials said the department has managed to dispose of 63 tonnes of waste plastic in road construction. According to experts, the entire process is very simple. The plastic waste material is first shredded to a particular size with the help of a shredding machine. The plastic waste coated aggregate is mixed with hot bitumen and the resulting mix is used for road construction. The road laying temperature is 110-120 degrees Celsius. Gokarn said the durability of roads constructed with the help of waste plastic had been found satisfactory. “There is no issue with durability. The exact durability will be ascertained on certain parameters in due course of time,” he said, adding that the department could take help of the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) for technical inputs. The concept of road construction with plastic waste started in 2015 when the Centre made it mandatory for all road developers in the country to use it after Padma Sri Rajagopalan Vasudevan, a professor from Madurai’s Thiagarajar College of Engineering, laid out the process. This initiative falls in line with the government’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan that aims at addressing India’s garbage crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/single-use-plastic-waste-for-1500-km-road-in-up/articleshow/79787328.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Now, industrial units can buy cheaper electricity in state||Lucknow: Making it easier for industrial units to purchase cheaper power, the state government has transferred the process of registration for short-term open access online. The facility of short-term open access was provided to industries in 2018, giving them the option of purchasing power from alternate, cheaper sources, as per their requirement. Additional chief secretary, power, Arvind Kumar said that Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited has made the ‘standard operating procedure’ available on its official website and integrated the ‘online availability based tariff (ABT) portal’ through which the department can grant permission, inspect and issue installation consent for ABT meters. “The ABT meters provide a flexible solution for energy monitoring and billing bulk inter utility power flows, particularly for power supply through open access,” explained an official. In fact, the application for a no-objection certificate for short-term open access can also be made online through the Uttar Pradesh State Load Dispatch Centre (UPSLDC) web portal where a one-time registration will have to be made on a prescribed application format. Calling the move a huge relief for the industry, industrial development minister Satish Mahana said that in the post Covid-19 economic slowdown, industries were under pressure to reduce operating costs.  “Electricity is one of the major input costs and any relief on that will help businesses to a great degree. By making it easier for manufacturing units to obtain power through open access, industries will be able to get affordable and optional source of power,” the minister said. ACS, infrastructure and industrial development, Alok Kumar said that the government had taken steps to reduce human interface by allowing online registration for open access and installation of ABT meters. “So far, 63 short-term open access consumers have registered, of which 58 are active registrations and consumers have already availed 224.42 MW out of a total of 347.56 MW power sanctioned under open access in UP,” he said, adding that the government had acted on a long pending demand by the industry, now even more necessary as the sector was trying to pull out of the Covid-19 economic slowdown. Kumar said that open access was a strategic measure to create a competitive and healthy industrial environment, in which medium and large consumers have access to power transmission and distribution networks other than the local distribution company. The UP Electricity Regulatory Commission regulations for open access define short-term access as not exceeding a period of three months at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-industrial-units-can-buy-cheaper-electricity-in-state/articleshow/79787269.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Mission Shakti contest to instil respect for women||Lucknow: The initiative of UP government for women empowerment and security, ‘Mission Shakti’ will be a topic for school-level competitions during the five-day celebrations to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25. The government aims to make the programme popular and increase public awareness about it by putting up ‘Mission Shakti ki safalta ke vibhinn aayam’ (Varied dimensions of the success of Mission Shakti) as a topic for an essay competition for school children. The programme was launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in October from Balrampur. He said that there is a need to make the new generation the carrier of this culture which guarantees respect for women. Officials said that students, mainly boys, at an early age should be exposed to such thoughts so that they learn to respect women. Besides, girl students who participate in the competition would also learn of ‘Mission Shakti’ programme and what it entails. The programme ensures women security at workplaces, strict and swift punishment in cases of crime against women and aims to make them aware of their rights. Under it, several government departments have already taken a few steps to ensure women security and empowerment like women help desks have been formed in police stations along with a separate room for women complainants. Besides, another major issue that the state government is grappling with is ‘rozgar’ (employment). Accordingly, it is another topic on which the students would be asked to write. ‘Naya Yug, Nayi Chunautiyan, Rozgar ki nayi sambhawnayein’ (New era, new challenges and new possibilities of employment) will make students, also from the higher education group, write their views on the current crisis of lack of employment. The best write-ups will be awarded. ‘Importance of Religion and Nation’ in a person’s life is the third topic for essay writing. Basic shiksha department under ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign is already reaching out to lakhs of students across state to spread awareness on women safety and instilling in students the virtues of growing up into a person who respects women. In November, over one lakh students from Lucknow from primary, upper primary and Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas participated in various events aimed at sensitising students on women empowerment. Following the Arman module which focuses on giving life skill training to children, teachers went from door to door and raised awareness about ‘Mission Shakti’ campaign. Students in all schools were taught lessons on gender equality and guided towards fixing goals in life. Likewise, parents participated in discussions on gender inequality existing in households and they were urged to treat their children equally. In the first week of November, the facilitators of Meena Manch organised programmes on a daily basis to sensitise people about gender specific crimes. Special sessions on menstrual hygiene were organised for girl students. Legal remedies against underage marriage, crime against women and harassment were also discussed. Over 7,000 students attended the self-defence training in different schools while 6,700 students were told about the dangers of drug addiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-shakti-contest-to-instil-respect-for-women/articleshow/79787265.cms||Neha Shukla
December 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TVM draws a blank in maiden poll battle||Thiruvananthapuram: Development has only one direction – forward. Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), the recently formed party with development as their main agenda, has also chosen to move in the same path despite abysmal performance in the city corporation . TVM had fielded their candidates in 14 wards in the city corporation as independent candidates. The leadership of the party has decided to go forward with their plans to register their organization as a political party and continue intervening in development issues concerning the capital city. They might even field a candidate in the upcoming assembly polls. While in majority of the wards TVM candidates ended up among those in the bottom of the table, their candidate in Kinavoor ward, Sheeja Varghese, gave a commendable fight, winning more votes than the UDF candidate and ended up in third position. S N Raghuchandran Nair, president of TVM, said that the party is not fazed by the outcome of the polls. “We still managed to get 6.9% of votes polled in 14 wards in which we contested. Candidates of the incumbent party failed in eight of those wards. Hence, we believe that our presence did impact the results,” said Nair. He further said that TVM have managed to get these votes despite having less resources compared to other political parties. Sheeja Varghese of Kinavoor ward won 1,026 votes, just 200 votes less than that won by LDF candidate, who emerged the winner. Sheeja is a political activist who defected from Congress. But the party leadership did not believe that it was her political background that helped her gain those votes. If that was the case, the UDF candidate would not have ended up behind her in the race. “This only proves that if the candidate’s track record is good, people would look beyond politics and cast their votes in their favour. That is exactly what we have decided to do in the coming days. Our activists will be actively intervening in social issues in their wards,” he said. Nair also said that one of the takeaways from this election was that they needed booth level committees to counter misinformation as there were strong campaigns that TVM was a B team of BJP. “We also need to adopt more conservative methods for campaigning rather than hi-tech methods, which we relied on this time to reach out to the masses,” added Nair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tvm-draws-a-blank-in-maiden-poll-battle/articleshow/79782000.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Struggling in school? Take help from artificial intelligence to improve grades||Lucknow: Students struggling to keep up with competition can now use artificial intelligence to map their ‘learning DNA’ on a platform designed by education startup Focus Project. “I wanted to build an enterprise that had a mission and could make an impact,” says Sachin Mishra, the 36-year-old founder of the startup. The idea of doing something in the field of education made Mishra opt out of the placement exercise at his management school in Milan, Italy. Mishra has his roots in UP and was brought up in Gujarat. Prior to pursuing his MBA, he worked with an IT firm in Pune. In Spain, when Sachin was helping a friend in searching for a perfect school for his daughter, he came across learning gaps in schools and career choices being provided by schools to students in an unscientific manner. Soon after, Focus Project was founded in 2019 and it started operations the same year from Spain as Mishra found schools there more open to innovation and trying out new technologies. After a year, Mishra decided to come to his homeland to launch his startup. “We leverage AI to predict and recommend a student’s future using his past data,” said Mishra, who visited Lucknow last week to keep his startup rolling. Edtech, which is in the form of a web browser, creates a learning DNA of a student which keeps updating acquired and lacking skills across grades and eventually recommends an optimal career path/stream. “The startup is not limited to mathematics or science, but also works with one or more, core and non-core subjects. It is developed in a modular way to be suitable for any subject and any curriculum,” said chief growth officer at Focus Project Nishant Reddy, an IIM Indore alumnus. The platform identifies skill-level gaps by analysing the student’s performance data in regular formative and summative assessments. “We do comprehensive skill-mapping and then use data analytics to analyse the performance data. The end result is identification of skill-level learning gaps,” Sachin explained. The focus then is on finding the root causes. This is done through a four step approach which begins with diagnosis, then analysis, followed by practice with the loop ending in proficiency. Subsequently, subject-wise remedial teaching plans with a curated list of skills and sub-skills that students need to focus upon is given to teachers. Students too can access personalised practice worksheets to master a particular skill at their own pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/struggling-in-school-take-help-from-artificial-intelligence-to-improve-grades/articleshow/79787346.cms||Isha Jain
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||50% new cases from 7 dists, including city||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed health officials to work towards bringing down the case positivity rates in Lucknow, Prayagraj and Ghaziabad. In addition to this, the CM said surveillance in Kanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar, Varanasi and Meerut must be increased. According to the official bulletin, nearly 50% of the fresh cases reported across the state in the past 24 hours were from the seven aforementioned districts. They also account for the major chunk of active infections in the state. In all, 1,539 new cases took the state’s tally to 570799 on Thursday. After a gap of almost two weeks, the number of recoveries reported in 24 hours was less than the new cases. The total number of recovered patients however reached 5,44,503, including 1159 new entries. Higher number of new cases reflected on the state’s overall recovery rate which dipped marginally from 95.5% earlier over the week to 95.3% on Thursday. As many as 18 persons succumbed to complications caused by the pandemic infection which took the total number of deaths to 8136. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation, the CM also told officials to ensure that testing and contact tracing remained in the top gear. “The average number of 1.5 lakh tests per day must be maintained under all circumstances,” the CM told officials. Later, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said that the progress of work on vaccination campaign was going on in full swing but he reiterated the importance of prevention. ACS, information, Navneet Sehgal stated that the declining numbers reflected on the shrinking number of containment zones as well. Reminding that the pandemic virus could easily upset lives, he urged people to follow preventive norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/50-new-cases-from-7-dists-including-city/articleshow/79787361.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||World’s largest mask with a dual message||LUCKNOW: UP's Khadi Gramodyog department has tied up with a Delhi-based designer for attempting a Guinness Book record by producing the world’s largest face mask. The state will contribute to the effort by sourcing two-meter pieces of cloth from each of 75 districts, for not just creating awareness about the need for masks right now but also showcasing UP’s rich khadi and handloom legacy.  The mask is likely to be launched on January 2 and after a few days, it will later be upcycled into hundreds of other smaller products. Khadi Gramodyog joins hands with Delhi designerAdditional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal said that the exercise would play a two-fold role, one in promoting the use of masks and the other in promoting khadi. Designer Manish Tripathi, a Lucknow boy, said that he came up with the idea of making the largest mask with 100 sq m of cloth initially, sourced from across the country. “I undertook a 10,000 km long journey across the country and met with women members of self-help groups. Many of them are producing masks but when the vaccine comes out, the demand for masks will fall. Where at one level I wanted to help them move to producing alternative products, I also wanted to showcase khadi, a material which is gaining a lot of popularity across the world,” Tripathi said. Now, with Khadi Gramodyog having joined hands with Tripathi, the 100 sq m mask is likely to double, with 75 pieces of cloth from just UP and some other pieces from other cities being used. A formal handover of material is scheduled for December 20. "We have taken up this endeavour so that people can understand how important it is to wear masks at this time. The mask will be launched on a hot air balloon over Lucknow so that it can even be seen from afar. We are also sourcing khadi material from all the districts which will be stitched together for the mask," said Sehgal. “I have been asked what the purpose of such an exercise is but the fabric used in making the mask will then be upcycled. Our plan is to showcase khadi and we will use the fabric for making purses etc. By this time, if we are able to enter the mask in the Guinness Book, the fabric itself would have become a brand and its products will acquire a higher worth,” Tripathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/worlds-largest-maskwith-a-dual-message/articleshow/79787308.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 18, 2020||Allahabad||In this real life ‘Vivah’, man marries girl after she suffers serious injuries hrs before wedding||PRAYAGRAJ: We all remember the 2006 Bollywood blockbuster “Vivah”, starring Shahid Kapoor and Amrita Rao. The movie chronicled the upheavals faced by the couple and their ultimate union in a traditional way.  Similarly, in Pratapgarh, the union of Awadesh Maurya and Arti Maurya has become the talk of the town. The groom Awadesh, despite knowing the fact that Arti suffered serious spinal injuries and fractured both her legs about eight hours before their wedding, insisted that he would still marry her at her native Mujheri village in Kunda tehsil of Pratapgarh district. As Awadesh was adamant to marry Arti, the family members brought Arti back home from the hospital through an ambulance and all the wedding rituals were performed on the scheduled wedding day (December 8). Arti’s brother Shailendra told TOI, “Arti is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Prayagraj. She is recovering fast and is now able to sit on the bed. Doctors have told us that she will recover fully within four months.” He further added, “In the afternoon of December 8, Arti fell off from the terrace of her house while she was trying to save the life of a child playing on the same terrace. We immediately took her to a nearby hospital in Kunda town where doctors referred her to Prayagraj for treatment. We then brought her to a private hospital in Prayagraj where doctors performed the operation.” Meanwhile, when Arti’s family informed Awadesh’s family about the incident, and suggested to solemnize Awadesh’s marriage with Arti’s younger sister, the groom candidly refused the proposal, and insisted that he would marry Arti only on the same scheduled day. Awadesh opined that the incident could have happened even after the marriage, and hence, this would not stop him from marrying her. Shailendra said, “We requested the doctors if we could take Arti to her native house in Kunda village to perform the wedding rituals. When the doctors granted permission, Arti was taken back to the house through an ambulance and the wedding was held in the presence of the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/in-this-real-life-vivah-man-marries-girl-after-she-suffers-serious-injuries-hrs-before-wedding/articleshow/79787206.cms||Kapil Dixit
December 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF’s major strategy was to take advantage of dissent in UDF camp||Thiruvananthapuram: LDF had identified BJP as its major opponent in city corporation  and their main strategy was to use UDF’s follies to good effect to neutralize the saffron wave. There was a mix of smartness and cunningness about the choices that LDF made in certain wards. LDF workers sniffed around UDF camps to sense traces of dissent and utilized discord in the ‘enemy camp’. At Manikyavilakom, LDF ally INL fielded former Congress leader P M Basheer, who retained the ward, but for LDF this time. He became an LDF candidate after an open rift arose over the choice of Congress candidate at Manikyavilakom. At Vettucaud, LDF saw Sabu Thomas drifting away from Congress and was quick to bring him to their fold. When the results were out UDF lost the sitting ward. Sabu Thomas won with a majority of 998 votes. Madhavadas, who was with UDF in the council in 2010, came to LDF camp this time and won from Thycaud. Even in places where LDF was short of confidence, it didn’t break much sweat to bag those wards. At Kinavoor, UDF’s bad choice meant their former member Sheeja Varghese fighting with Congress candidate Thressiamma Teacher. LDF candidate Surakumari won with a majority of 128 votes in the ward which had favoured UDF twice; in 2015 and later during the by-poll. Nanthencode, where Congress rebel Leelamma Issac and UDF candidate Sheela Ramani together got 1,305 votes, LDF candidate Dr Reena K S won by pocketing 1,273 votes. LDF was not afraid to take the gamble in wards like Valiyathura, which had always voted for UDF. Despite Irine Das losing elections in 2015, LDF gave her a second chance to make history and she delivered, winning Valiyathura for the first time for LDF. While being in power, LDF launched a series of initiatives to take relief measures to coastal homes during the time of Ockhi, floods and Covid-19. The wards, which earlier remained allergic to the Left were suddenly drawn to the Red camp. In the 26 wards under Vattiyoorkavu, where MLA V K Prasanth had made history in assembly polls, LDF increased its tally from 10 to 13 wards. It lost Nettayam and Kanjirampara mainly owing to its wrong decisions that dampened the morale of the cadre. Still, LDF made fresh headways in three new wards. LDF had done just enough to repair roads, light up streets and clear dump yards just in the nick of time to win the wavering voters. Even with bonus returns from coastal wards and Vattiyoorkavu belt, LDF may have reasons not to be content with just meeting the absolute majority. However, severe erosion of UDF votes, especially in wards like Nedumcadu and PTP Nagar, cost LDF dearly. These seats went to BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldfs-major-strategy-was-to-take-advantage-of-dissent-in-udf-camp/articleshow/79782013.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Sareshwala to train Muslim youths to enhance biz skill||Lucknow: In an outreach programme to win the confidence of Muslim community, prominent busiessman and educationist Zafar Sareshwala, considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will hold a workshop for counselling youths for jobs in the financial sector and enhance their entrepreneurship. Governor Anandiben Patel would be the chief guest at workshop “Atmnirbhar Ayodhya Ki Or” to be held in Ayodhya on December 24 , where youths of the adjoining districts have also been invited. Sareshwala is organising one-day programme under his banner of “Taleem-O-Tarbiyat”. Additional chief secretary, information and the MSME, Navneet Sehgal, who will also give a special lecture on this occasion, told TOI that he has requested Sareshwala to organise such programmes in all 75 districts in the state for promoting ODOP programme of the chief minister and also traditional art and handicraft. Sareshwala has been organising such conferences and programmes in different parts of the country to increase education and employment among the vulnerable sections of the society, mainly Muslims. Sareshwala explained to TOI that his organisation’s agenda was to spread positivity through education and employment among the vulnerable sections. In small cities like Ayodhya, the younger minds, mainly from the humble background, are not exposed to the financial sector and his organisation would be bringing the financial experts to counsel them on how to grow into an entrepreneur and also avail welfare schemes of the state and Central governments. Sareshwala said he did not want to get involved in contentious issues like 'love jihad' and UP's ordinance in this regard. "Why shall I worry for a few, when there are crores to be counselled and addressed,” he remarked. He also said that he would also meet the ACS MSME in this regard to explore the possibilities of the holding simultaneous exercise with the ODOP programme. “UP has immense potential and it has the largest number of youth in the country, so my organisation’s priority would obviously be this state for imparting skill training to make them employable and be self-reliant," Sareshwala said. Sareshwala has been working among Muslims, mainly to shape up the career of the youth of the community by counselling them to not to indulge in contentious and sensitive matters. "Instead they should focus on their career and education," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sareshwala-to-train-muslim-youths-to-enhance-biz-skill/articleshow/79787246.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Can take two steps back if govt does the same, says BKU chief||GHAZIABAD: Indicating a softening of stance, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) president Naresh Tikait on Thursday said farmers are willing to take “two steps back”, provided the Centre does the same. “We want to reach a conclusion. It is the 22nd day of our protest. For how long will it continue? We are now ready to move two steps back, but the government should do the same,” Tikait, who has been spearheading the agitation by west UP farmers against the three agriculture laws, said. The farmer leader later clarified that there was no change in the outfit’s demand that the laws should be repealed. Tikait said the government should apologise for “wasting the farmers’ time” for the past 22 days. “A loss of Rs 3,500 crore is being incurred every day. So why are farmers sitting here? The government should think about their future too,” he told a mahapanchayat of key khap leaders at the Ghazipur border. “We are not a political party. We are not doing any harm to anyone but are being defamed,” Tikait said. He also demanded that the MS Swaminathan report on the farm reforms should be implemented with intervention from the Supreme Court. Other union leaders also clarified Tikait’s remarks. “Our stand is clear -- the three laws should be rolled back completely. What Tikait ji meant was that the government should not be rigid or show strength of force. We are ready for peaceful talks with it,” said BKU press in-charge Shamsher Rana. A 'step back', he added, would mean a halt to the march towards Delhi’s borders. On Wednesday, the Cabinet had approved a subsidy of Rs 3,500 crore to sugar mills for the export of six million tonnes of sweetener in the ongoing marketing season 2020-21 to help clear outstanding dues to sugarcane farmers. Rana clarified that his outfit’s offer of dialogue had nothing to do with the government’s decision. “The protest is about the three laws. Other issues are definitely part of it, but we are here to get the laws repealed,” he said. BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait stressed that talks and protests would go hand in hand. “Without talks, no solution can be reached. But the next round of talks will also fail as the government is not in the mood to listen,” he said, adding that they had not given any proposal on amendments. To counter the BJP’s decision to send representatives to hold meetings with farmers, khap leaders on Thursday decided to launch a ‘Jan Jagran Andolan’ in villages to spread awareness about the new laws. Tikait said the assistance of khap panchayats is usually taken when the matter becomes complicated and there is no visible solution. “Khap leaders are responsible persons in their areas and are doing social work. The government should listen to them,” he said. Earlier, many khap leaders, led by Naresh Tikait, who is also the head of the Balyan khap, began their march from Muzaffarnagar and reached Baghpat where Deshwal khap chief Surendra Chaudhary joined them. Leaders and representatives of other khaps like Nirwal, Battista, Hudda, Beniwal, Latiyan and Gathwala gathered at Sisauli village and started their journey for the UP-Delhi border. Around 2.45pm, they gathered at Ghazipur. BKU leaders claimed many khap representatives had been put under house arrest and were not allowed to leave. Khap leaders said they would request farmer leaders not to go to the government and instead ask its ministers to come to their protest sites for talks with them. Subhash Balyan, who is leader of the khaps, said, “The reason we have joined the stir is that we are farmers first and khap leaders later. When our farmers are on the road, how can we sleep at home?” Balyan claimed eight khap leaders had been taken into police custody. Sunil Talan, another khap leader, said, “If the government plans to hold 700 panchayats, we will hold our panchayats simultaneously. They are the real traitors and the ‘tukde-tukde’ gang. We will not go back till the laws are repealed.” (With inputs from Mohd Dilshad in Muzaffarnagar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/can-take-two-steps-back-if-govt-does-the-same-says-bku-chief/articleshow/79787540.cms||Aditya Dev
December 18, 2020||Meerut||Bike-lifter gang selling stolen vehicles online busted||MEERUT: With the arrest of two persons during routine checking, local police has busted an inter-state gang of bike-lifters who stole motorcycles, specially Bullets, and sold them online to gullible customers by using forged documents. Several cases of vehicle theft are registered against the duo, police said. Based on their inputs, police recovered seven motorcycles, including four Bullets. According to sources, the gang was aided by a broker in the road transport office (RTO) in Delhi. He procured forged documents for the stolen vehicles. Local police believes his arrest would lead to unearthing of a bigger nexus of such gangs operating in Delhi-NCR and western UP. Giving details, Suraj Rai, ASP (Meerut), said, “During checking, two suspicious persons were detained and they confessed to bike-lifting. The accused used to sell stolen motorcycles online, using forged documents. Multiple cases of bike-lifting are registered against them in several districts of western UP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bike-lifter-gang-selling-stolen-vehicles-online-busted/articleshow/79784235.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Allahabad||Land allotment for Magh Mela to start December 21 onwards||Prayagraj: Authorities would allot land to seers and organisations wanting to set up camps on the Magh Mela ground from December 21. Magh Mela authorities said that land allotment process would be completed between December 21 and January 5. Magh Mela will commence from January 14 next year. The land allotment for Dandi Swami Nagar and Dandi Bada Marg will be held on December 21 and 22. Land would be allotted for Chak Chowk area on December 23-24. On December 25-26, land allotment work for Acharya Bara will be held. On December 31, land would be alloted on Lower Sangam Marg, Upper Sangam Marg, Saraswati Marg, and Mahavirji Marg. On January 2, 2021, land allotment work on Tulsi Marg and GT road will completed. Land along Triveni Marg, Kali Marg and Sector 1 and 2 ( Parade, Shastri Gata, Kabir Nagar, Samudrakoop Marg and Ramanuj Marg) would be allotted on January 3, 4 and 5 respectively. Devotees wanting to get land allotted on the Magh Mela ground have been advised to carry photo ids and their Aadhaar cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/land-allotment-for-magh-mela-to-start-december-21-onwards/articleshow/79787224.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman files FIR against in-laws in US||AHMEDABAD: Two complaints were lodged at the Women’s police station (west) on Wednesday. In the first complaint, a 33-year-old resident of Ghatlodia, Ranita Patel, alleged that her husband Amit Patel, mother-in-law Madhu Patel, father-in-law Govind Patel — based in Texas — and sister-in-law Parul Patel, a resident of Kadi in Mehsana district, hounded her for dowry saying she would have to give them money if she wanted to stay with her husband in the US. The complainant stated that she married Amit in December 2104. She alleged that after their wedding, her husband had thrown a party for his friends and told her that she would have live according to their status and wear dresses. “She stated that he was drunk that night. When relatives from her parents’ side told him not to cultivate such a habit (drinking), he got angry. The other accused also sided with him at that time. When she was going to lodge a complaint, her in-laws urged her not to do so as it would ruin their son’s future, and she did not file an FIR,” a police official said. The FIR states that her in-laws told her that if she wants to go to the US with her husband, her parents should give them money. She also alleged that they fought with her over trivial domestic matters. “The complainant stated that in 2019, her husband went to Texas and she was living with her in-laws in Ghatlodia,” added a police official. She alleged that when she was at her sister-in-law’s house in Kadi, her mother-in-law and father-in-law first went to Canada and then to the US to stay with Amit. “She stated that in August 2020, she learned that her husband had filed a divorce petition in the US. They then stopped answering her phone calls. We are verifying the allegations and are gathering evidence,” said a senior police official. In the second complaint lodged at Women’s police station (west), a woman from Shahpur, Kajal Marwadi, alleged that her husband Rajesh, mother-in-law Jasi, father-in-law Mangaldas and her sisters-in-law Sangeeta, Ajay and Jyotsna Patel, all of whom are from Mansa in Gandhinagar, tormented her for giving birth to a girl and demanded dowry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-fir-against-in-laws-in-us/articleshow/79785120.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Yogendra Singh Rawat appointed Dehradun SSP||DEHRADUN: The state government on Thursday made a major rejig in the police department with transfers and posting of several officers. Tehri’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Yogendra Singh Rawat has been appointed the new SSP Dehradun while incumbent Dehradun SSP and senior IPS officer Arun Mohan Joshi has been transferred as DIG vigilance. In another important posting, 2005-batch IPS officer Neeru Garg has been made new DIG Garhwal Range, while Abhinav Kumar, who was serving as IG Garhwal, has been appointed as additional director general of police (administration) at police headquarters. Commandant State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) Tripti Bhatt has been appointed as new SSP Tehri Garhwal district, replacing Yogendra Singh Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/reshuffle-in-police-department-yogendra-singh-rawat-appointed-doon-ssp/articleshow/79784240.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rape complaint filed against army man||AHMEDABAD: A woman from Noblenagar area of the city lodged a complaint of rape against a man serving in the Indian Army, at airport police station late on Thursday evening. The airport police station inspector said they have booked the army man for the crime. “The accused is from Ahmedabad who is at present posted in Ladakh. He allegedly raped the woman after giving her a false promise of marriage. The woman also alleged that the accused would beat her up and had once confined her,” said R R Desai, inspector with the airport police station, while refusing to divulge the name of the accused, citing secrecy of the investigation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rape-plaint-filed-against-army-man/articleshow/79785123.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Ancient Buddhist statues, artworks unearthed at Uttarkashi village, ASI deploys officials for field survey||Uttarkashi: A remote village in Uttarkashi district has come into the spotlight after several villagers, while conducting restoration work of water sources at the site, unearthed stone statues, pillars and other remains believed to be of an ancient Buddhist site. The Doon Buddhist Committee, a local organisation comprising local Tibetan Buddhists, have asked the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the tourism department and the Uttarkashi district administration to conduct a proper survey and prepare plans for preservation of Ramnagar area in Panyasari village, which is situated around 30km from Dunda block. “It was in 1965 when the villagers first found the remains of an ancient site while they were digging soil for the foundation of a house. Since then, many other villagers found stone statues, pillars and other remains from this area. Recently in June, a few more remains were unearthed during the restoration work of a water source,” said TS Kumai, a 62-year-old retired government employee in Panyasari village. According to local folktales, a Buddhist king of Tibetan origin had ruled this region nearly 300 to 400 years ago, with his two queens. However, the king was an atheist and allegedly used to insult gods, which eventually lead to the devastation of his kingdom after a natural disaster occurred. “Even today, locals believe that this place is cursed and avoid any construction activity here,” claims Kumai. Another local villager and member of the Doon Buddhist Committee, Rajat Negi, said, “Some of the unearthed statues are kept in the village’s temple. However, due to lack of proper care, most of the other artefacts have either been damaged or lost.” Tsering Luding, vice-president of Doon Buddhist Committee, said, “On the basis of local folk tales and the art form, these artefacts indicate the presence of a Buddhist civilization here. Therefore, we have written a letter to ASI and other concerning agencies seeking immediate exploration and preservation of this site.” Superintending archaeologist of ASI, RK Patel, said they have deployed officials at the site to conduct a proper field survey and asked them to prepare a detailed report on it. "At first glance, these stone statues have some resemblance to ancient Buddhist artworks. But there is a need for proper research before coming to any conclusion. It could be an important archaeological discovery if the remains actually provide proof to the presence of a Buddhist civilization at this site,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ancient-buddhist-statues-artworks-unearthed-at-uttarkashi-village-asi-deploys-officials-for-field-survey/articleshow/79784233.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 18, 2020||Kanpur||Mayor injured as locals pelt stones during ‘Chatta Hatao’ campaign||Kanpur: Mayor Pramila Pandey on Thursday sustained injury in her foot while conducting the “Chatta Hatao” (remove dairies from city) campaign in the city. The mayor got injured when local residents and cattle owners started pelting stones opposing the move. As many as 18 cattle was caught during the campaign from the Gadiyana locality in Chakeri area. The mayor has launched a campaign in the city against the local dairies and has asked the dairy owners to fetch their cattle from city limits as their dung has choked the sewer systems at several places. The urban development ministry too had directed to remove all local dairies from the city limits. Acting on a tip off, the Mayor and her team had visited Gadiyana locality and found a large number of cattle. The cattle catching squad caught around 18 cattle and loaded them in a cattle vehicle. The owners and their supporters accosted them and tried to free their animals. Later, women also joined the protest and sat on dharna in front of vehicles and clearly said that they would not allow the municipal corporation team to take away their cattle. The local dairy owners stated that selling milk was their profession and source of bread and butter . They would fetch their cattle away when they would be provided land outside the city limits. During this, some people started pelting stones and the mayor got injured. Talking to TOI Mayor Pramila Pandey said the former corporator of the area had instigated the crowd for stone pelting from a mosque. She along with her staff had to take shelter at PAC ground. The situation came back to normal when additional police force and officials reached there. During the incident, two local MLAs too reached there and demanded land for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mayor-injured-as-locals-pelt-stones-during-chatta-hatao-campaign/articleshow/79787161.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Ex-UP minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati’s son arrested for fraud||LUCKNOW: Anil Prajapati, son of former UP minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, was arrested by the Lucknow police on Thursday. The arrest was made in connection with a case of fraud, misappropriation of land and criminal conspiracy lodged against him and his father with the Gomtinagar Extension police station here on September 17 this year. The FIR was lodged by Brij Bhawan Dubey, a former director in a company owned by Prajapati and his family. Anil was arrested from Hazratganj crossing in the afternoon by a team of Gomtinagar Extension police station, said ACP, Gomtinagar, Shweta Srivastava, adding "he would be produced before a court tomorrow." Dubey in his FIR had alleged that Gayatri, Anil and their aides had forced him to get a land worth Rs 2.5 crore registered in the name of a Chitrakoot-based woman, ACP said. Dubey had further alleged that she was the same woman who had accused Gayatri Prajapti and his aides of gangrape in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-mantri-prajapatis-son-arrested-for-fraud/articleshow/79787330.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||UGC questions VC appointment process||AHMEDABAD: In the 100th year of the inception of Gujarat Vidyapith by Mahatma Gandhi, the process of selection of its vice chancellor has been questioned by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Highly placed sources said the three-member selection committee appointed by Vidyapith trustees and management did not include a nominee of the UGC. Last week, the selection committee recommended the name of former Vidyapith registrar Rajendra Khimani for the vice chancellor’s post.  It is yet to send a formal letter to the UGC. The three-member committee included members such as Indira Hirve and Arvind Desai. In light of the latest development, the whole process may have to be repeated. This comes just as the UGC is to send a vigilance committee to investigate a number of appointments made by Vidyapith a few years ago and a submit a report on January 30, 2020. The UGC’s intervention was sought after a former employee moved the high court on procedural lapses in these appointments. The term of the present vice chancellor, Anamik Shah, ends on December 31. He was not available for comments. “We need to see the UGC’s objection in the light of the deemed status of the Vidyapith. UGC had in 2018-19 mandated that one of its nominees should be part of the selection committee. Whether Vidyapith’s process can be actually called a procedural lapse is yet to be seen,” a senior Vidyapith official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ugc-questions-vc-appointment-process/articleshow/79785127.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||After over a decade, Uttarakhand records lowest tiger deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand, which is home to India’s third largest tiger population in the country (442) after Madhya Pradesh (526) and Karnataka (524), manages to break its own record with five tiger deaths this year. Notably, the least number of tiger deaths (three) were recorded in 2008. This year the state hasn’t lost even a single human life to tigers in the human-tiger conflict. The wildlife crime bureau although had alerted the tiger reserve authorities across India about the possibility of escalated wildlife crime-related instances as poachers did not have sufficient mode of earning money due to Covid-induced lockdown. Despite the fact that the Corbett Tiger Reserve is housing more tigers than its actual carrying capacity, the department has succeeded in protecting their population. Due to the increased human-wildlife conflict, a carrying capacity survey was asked to be conducted by the forest minister Harak Singh Rawat and its results were shared in the latest state board for wildlife meeting held in November. “Our latest phase IV monitoring results showed that we have 252 tigers which is 19.4 tigers per 100 sq km while actually the capacity of the reserve is 238 tigers which is around 18.4 tigers per 100 sq km. The reserve is having a healthy population of tiger more than its capacity,” said Rahul (who goes by first name only), CTR’s director. The forest authorities also stated that it was years of habitat rejuvenation work across various tiger ranges of Uttarakhand which also played a key role in protecting the big cats along with added patrolling by the staff of wildlife cell. It was lantana, an invasive wild weed plant that was encroaching upon the grasslands of the reserves, which is systematically being removed for making a healthy habitat for herbivorous (deer, rabbit, etc) animals which are food of carnivorous ones (tigers, leopards, etc). “We could protect our tigers from poachers by reducing their movement in the buffer zone which was the outcome of increased food and water for herbivorous animals inside the reserve. We had removed lantana from at least 750 hectare this year and planted new grass. The abundance of food and water resulted in the increase of herbivorous population and these herbivores are best food items for our tigers, keeping tigers in their core areas mostly,” said JS Suhag, Chief Wildlife Warden, Uttarakhand forest department. Meanwhile, TOI got exclusive details of the tiger deaths in Uttarakhand since its formation, and found out that the state has lost 155 tigers — 76 died naturally, maximum 22 tigers died in mutual fight, 20 lost their lives to reasons unknown, 16 died in accidents, 6 died due to poaching, 4 were declared dangerous to human life, 2 died in fire-related incidents while one each died in road accident and due to snake bite and trapped in snare, according to the forest department data. Interestingly, just like the previous six years this year also the state has not recorded even a single poaching incident and not a single tiger was declared dangerous to human life, according to the data. The state lost its two tigers from Kotdwar forest division, and one each from Ramnagar, Haridwar and Pauri Garhwal forest division. In the past five years, the state has lost 13 tigers in 2019, 8 in 2018, 14 tigers in 2017, 7 in 2016 and 7 in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-over-a-decade-uttarakhand-records-lowest-tiger-deaths/articleshow/79784260.cms||Shivani Azad
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||De-rostered students facing boards back in virtual classroom; CNI breather for others||Kolkata: Board-year students at three schools in the city, who were de-rostered for defaulting on fees, were added back to the rolls late on Wednesday so that they could appear for their pre-board/assessment exams on Thursday. Also, schools run by the Kolkata diocese of the Church of North India (CNI), as directed by chairman Bishop Paritosh Canning, have decided not to remove students from online classes or other interactive facilities till the winter break is over even if their parents have failed to pay their fees over the pandemic months. The three schools had de-rostered the students after the court-sanctioned date of December 8 as their parents failed to pay the amounts calculated by the schools. Parents claimed they had offered to pay 80% tuition and sessions fees but the schools had calculated a different amount and refused to accept their sums. Shortly, the students’ smartphones showed they had been “removed” by the teacher concerned and they could not attend online classes. “My daughter is in Class XII and she was distraught that she would not be able to sit for the test. She kept pleading with the teachers, some of whom hinted she should not stop preparing for the exam. Finally, when a notification said she had been added back, she broke down in joy,” said a mother, whose husband has been forced to almost fold up his business in the pandemic. After the kids were de-rostered, parents at one of the schools in south Kolkata staged a demonstration outside the gate. After almost a week, some teachers reportedly intervened and allowed the board-year kids to be added back. “It’s a relief that my kid has been added back. We will take a loan to pay the fees,” said another mother. Even the 12 prominent CNI schools in the city, including La Martiniere schools, St James’ School, Pratt Memorial, St Thomas’ Boys and Girls and St John’s Diocesan School, said they would take a tally of the outstanding fees in the new year and then, decide on the next course of action. The Kolkata diocese of CNI took this decision immediately after member schools of West Bengal Association of Christian Schools came to a similar agreement on Tuesday. The CNI Kolkata diocese is not part of the association. “This is Christmas season and all our schools have closed for winter vacation. All of us, schools and parents, have gone through a disturbing year and nerves are frayed. In this season of sharing and praying, let us stay together and look for a solution together, our chairman, Bishop Canning has said,” said John Ghosh, secretary of the diocese. “A tally will be taken as schools re-open. School heads will send it to the diocese and then, we will take a call on defaulters.” Though online classes will not be conducted in the winter break, many CNI schools are holding debates and quiz and teachers are sending instructions on projects to be submitted, unit test details and syllabus. Debarring students from such interactions will be “the most unkind thing to do”, feels the diocese. In November, the central accounts department of the diocese prepared a dossier and reported negative income due to a shortfall of 24%-99% while paying salaries to teachers and staff in eight schools and 10% in three. The shortfall was the highest at St James’ School, followed by St John’s Diocesan. DPS Megacity on Thursday told parents the deadline was extended till December 24. The Heritage School, which had not collected fees since October 10, has sent a notice, saying they would like to take fees now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/de-rostered-students-facing-boards-back-in-virtual-classroom-cni-breather-for-others/articleshow/79785130.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 18, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur Metro: First I-girder placed near IIT-K station||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has erected the first ‘I-girder’ near IIT-Kanpur Metro station and the erection of four I-girders has been accomplished between Pillars no 9 and 10 near IIT-K station. ‘I-girder’ is an arrangement used in place of U-girder on elevated corridor for creating scope for track crossing or platform switching for Metro trains. Total 178 I-girders will be placed on the 9km long elevated Primary Section. Terminal Metro stations - IIT-K and Motijheel and the Polytechnic Metro Depot are the three designated spots where I-girders are to be placed. Approximately 27 meters long I-girders will be placed at the three designated spots. The width of one I-girder is about one meter while the weight would be around 58 tons. ‘I-girder’ is used instead of ‘U-girder’for the arrangement of cross-over or track change on the elevated corridor. Two U-girders can be placed above the Pier Cap between two piers or pillars while at the same space, there is an arrangement for the placement of four ‘I-girders’. There is no wall or boundary between I-girders and because of this competence, the train can easily move from one track to another. The ‘I-girder,’ shaped like the alphabet ‘I’ are also pre-cast and placed with the help of cranes on the corridor after which slabs are prepared on them while the U-girders are complete structures along with base and side walls. Parapet of ‘I-girder’ is prepared in the casting yard separately and then placed to side edges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-metro-first-i-girder-placed-near-iit-k-station/articleshow/79787166.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kanpur||Mental health review board set up||Kanpur: A mental health review board under the Mental Health Care Act 2017 was constituted under the chairmanship of district judge in the city on Thursday. According to Dr Anil Kumar Mishra, the mental health review board will have the right to settle and decide the complaints regarding any slackness during the treatment related to mental health issues. Under the act, there was a provision to raise a shelter accommodation for mentally weak and helpless persons so that the patients can get a place for shelter. People who have been cured would be given professional training for their rehabilitation, the CMO said. Members of the review board are as under- Chairman- District judge Kanpur nagar, Convener – Chief medical officer Kanpur nagar, Members—Sub Divisional Magistrate (Sadar), Dr Vipul Singh, Dr Manish Kumar Singh, Swaraj old age home gadarian Purwa, Shifa care center and Nasha Mukti Center Ratanlal Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mental-health-review-board-set-up/articleshow/79787189.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana endowment department files forgery plaint in land case||HYDERABAD: A day after tension prevailed in Bandlaguda when BJP activists staged a protest against the construction of temporary boundary wall in an 8-acre land by a private person with the help of protection given by Hyderabad police, a twist came on Thursday as Telangana Endowment department officials filed a criminal case with Hyderabad police against the land claimant, accusing him of allegedly forging the documents. CCS officials filed a First Information Report (FIR) on the charge of forgery after the officials of Telangana Endowment department lodged a complaint on Wednesday, hours after the controversy broke out. When contacted, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar confirmed to TOI that an FIR was registered on Wednesday. “The Endowment officials, in their complaint, claimed that the 8 acre land belongs to their department. They said that the private person who claimed the land allegedly forged the land documents in his favour, submitted it in the civil court and took an interim injection order over the land. An FIR was registered and investigation need to be done,” officials told TOI. On Wednesday, a large number of BJP leaders including state president Bandi Sanjay staged a protest, demanding from the government that this land be protected in favour of Endowment department and accused its claimant of allegedly creating forged land documents at the behest of a political party. However, investigators now need to verify the land documents, which dates to mid-1970s, by writing a letter to the concerned sub-registrar office, besides analysing various aspects like signature and others. Hyderabad police, following the incident on Wednesday, issued a statement that they gave protection to the claimant after he submitted a city civil court order directing the police to give him protection for the construction of temporary boundaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-endowment-dept-files-forgery-plaint-in-land-case/articleshow/79787452.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC sends notices to Centre, CAT chairman||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday issued notices to the chairman of central administrative tribunal (CAT), L Narsimha Reddy, as well as to the Centre, UPSC and the state government on a petition filed by whistleblower IFS officer Sanjeev Chaturvedi. Chaturvedi has challenged before the HC an order passed by Reddy earlier this month where he transferred Chaturvedi’s petition against the lateral entry of private professionals into the government services from Allahabad bench to its principal bench in Delhi. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma has given the respondents four weeks’ time to file their responses. In the petition, Chaturvedi has alleged that Reddy filed a petition against him in the Supreme Court and therefore his adjudication in transfer petition (PT) goes against the principal of natural justice. Chaturvedi further said Reddy has “had a long history of extreme personal bias” against him and that his order goes against “all the canons of propriety and reflects his personal spite”. As reported by TOI earlier, Chaturvedi had approached the Allahabad bench of the CAT in February challenging the government’s scheme allowing lateral entry of private professionals to the rank of joint secretaries on a contract basis. The officer, posted as chief conservator of forests (research) in Haldwani, sought restraint on any future hiring under the contractual system. However, the Centre, in October, moved a transfer petition (PT) demanding that the case should be heard by its principal bench in Delhi. On December 4, Justice Reddy passed the order transferring the petition to Delhi saying that the original application (OA) “deserved to be heard by the principal bench”. “The matters of this nature have their own impact on the very functioning of the Central Government. It is felt that the OA deserves to be heard by the Principal Bench. Since the hearings are taking place through video conferencing, no prejudice would be caused to the respondent in the PT i.e., applicant in the OA also… Hence, the PT is allowed, and the OA stands transferred to the Principal Bench,” read Justice Reddy’s order. The Modi government had introduced the lateral entry system in its first term and according to reports, nine professionals were hired at the rank of joint secretaries in 2019 in departments ranging from economic affairs to civil aviation and environment, forests and climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-sends-notices-to-centre-cat-chairman-after-plea-by-whistleblower-bureaucrat-sanjeev-chaturvedi/articleshow/79784263.cms||Prashant Jha
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Accused wanted in Abhimanyu Cricket Academy owner’s house robbery arrested from Meerut||DEHRADUN: A team of Dehradun police on Thursday claimed to have arrested one of the accused in the robbery case at RP Easwaran’s house, the owner of city-based Abhimanyu Cricket Academy (ACA) and father of India A cricket team player Abhimanyu Easwaran. The accused has been identified as Suresh Jatav alias 'Mishra', who is a history-sheeter and was carrying a reward of Rs 2,500 which was announced by Dehradun police in the robbery that took place on September 22, 2019. On the basis of a confirmed tip-off, a team of special operation group (SOG) of Dehradun police arrested Jatav from Meerut. The police also recovered jewellery worth several lakhs from his possession. Incidentally, armed robbers had entered the home of RP Easwaran late night through the main entrance and held him, his wife and two domestic helps hostage at gunpoint for around two hours, before decamping with cash and jewellery worth lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/accused-wanted-in-abhimanyu-cricket-academy-owners-house-robbery-arrested-from-meerut/articleshow/79784244.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 18, 2020||Varanasi||Adamchini rice, huge RamnangarBhanta next on export promotion||Varanasi: Adamchini Chawal (rice) and giant Ramnagar Bhanta (brinjal) of Varanasi region, both in process for Geographical Indication (GI) registration with support of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), caught the attention of Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) chairman Dr. M Angamuthu. Angamuthu, who inaugurated the project office of APEDA in the city on Thursday, liked the aroma of Adamchini Chawal (rice) of Chandauli district and the giant Ramnagar Bhanta (brinjal) of Varanasi district when he visited fields to see the crops a day earlier. After his field visit to see Adamchini rice and Ramnagar bhanta, the officials started exploring export possibilities for these products. “The chairman took keen interest in the agro products of this region,” APEDA AGM CB Singh told TOI adding that international branding of both would be done for export once they get GI certification. “Applications for GI registration of both the crops were filed in November and are in process. The GI certification will provide them legal protection and boost their exports,” said GI expert Dr. Rajani Kant of Human Welfare Association (HWA), which is playing the role of facilitator. According to Chennai-based GI Registry records, an application was filed on November 4 for the GI certification for three agricultural products, including Adamchini rice, Ramnagar Bhanta and Langda Aam (mango). Varanasi-based Kashi Vishwanath Farmer Producer Company has filed an application for GI tag to Ramnagar Bhanta. “The specialty of Ramnagar Bhanta is that it grows bigger in size when fog starts in winter,” said Kant, adding the plants with dark green broad foliage bear huge rounded fruits of light green colour. There are 3-4 fruits per plant, each weighing 0.8-2.5 kg. Ramnagar Bhanta is popularly used for preparing Chokha (bharta), and is in high demand and is cultivated in 100 hectare in Ramnagar, Varanasi and Chandauli. Similarly, Ishani Agro Producer Company Limited has filed an application for GI tag to Adamchini rice. Adamchini landrace is a traditional variety being cultivated in eastern UP since time immemorial and has unique taste and fragrance. Kant said farmers of Mirzapur, Chandauli, Varanasi and Sonbhadra districts grow Adamchini, which is one of the finest quality aromatic rice varieties. It is a unique landrace which is believed to be Nature’s gift to the Vindhya region. So far, UP’s 26 products of specific geographical origin and having qualities, reputation have received GI certification. Applications have also been submitted for GI registration of Banarasi paan, Barabanki handloom, Muzaffarnagar gud (jaggery), Agra leather footwear, Baghpat handloom, Jalaon handmade paper and Jailsar Ghati ghunghroo, said Kant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/adamchini-rice-huge-ramnangarbhanta-next-on-export-promotion/articleshow/79787151.cms||Binay Singh
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||LU profs turn students to imbibe Gita wisdom||Lucknow: The teachers of Lucknow University transformed into students and learnt lessons from the Bhagwad Gita as they started a seven-day certificate course on Thursday. Teachers from all the faculties imbibed learnings to face challenges in life, stay motivated and face hardships with a positive mind. The teaching of Bhagwad Gita was organized by Iskon Youth Forum at the public administration department hall. Around 15 teachers joined the course in offline mode and rest in online. The lecture in course ‘Discover Yourself’ based on teachings from Bhagwad Gita was delivered by engineering and management graduate-turned monk Madhusmita Das from ISKCON Youth Forum. The certificate course will have sessions on topics like ‘Can a scientist believe in God, Getting eyes to see God, Vedas — Privilege of humanity, The science of the soul, Material versus spiritual world, If God is one, why so many religions and Yoga for the Modern age. “Citing that some scientists believe in god, some believe partially and some don’t, he explained whether one believes or not, but should think that there is a creator behind the universe else it would have not been there. The session was of great help as it taught about having a positive approach in life,” said dean, student welfare, Prof Poonam Tandon.  “The scientific orientation of spirituality and interpretation of Bhagwad Gita has given a new perspective and the ability to think differently,” said another professor. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said, “LU and ISKCON had recently signed an MoU to strengthen the spiritual health and well-being of students and teachers with a special crash course on the teachings of Gita delivered online as well as offline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-profs-turn-students-to-imbibe-gita-wisdom/articleshow/79787407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Father-in-law arrested for paying to kill man in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two weeks after a man working for a private company was shot at from point blank range in Vasant Vihar, his father-in-law, his friend and a hired killer have been arrested for the crime. According to police, the victim, identified as Rahul, had allegedly eloped with a girl and married her last year. Outraged with the act, the girl’s father, Manoj, had paid money to a killer. The man was saved as the killer could not control the recoil of the single shot pistol and the bullet brushed past his face making him escape with injuries. Police identified Manoj’s associates as Amit and Vikram. The trio has been booked under charges of attempted murder, criminal conspiracy and Arms Act. “A pistol and a motorcycle used in the commission of crime have been recovered from the accused,” DCP (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said. The incident had taken place on December 2. In his statement, Rahul said that an unknown person had fired upon him and ran away from the spot. “The bullet hit his face and had exit from other side,” the DCP added. Accordingly, an FIR was registered and a probe was initiated. A tip-off was received from an informer that a person who had recently procured a weapon was behind the shooting incident. Amit was later detained. During interrogation, he revealed that the father-in-law of the victim was behind the conspiracy. According to Amit, Manoj shared his plan with him and sought help in arranging a contract killer to eliminate Rahul. After this, Amit arranged a meeting between Manoj and the contract killer, Vikram, at his residence and the deal was fixed for Rs one lakh. However, the entire payment was not made as Vikram missed his shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/father-in-law-arrested-for-paying-to-kill-man/articleshow/79785124.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Tea development board headquarters to come up at Gairsain||DEHRADUN: In a major move, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has directed authorities to set up the headquarters of Tea Development Board at Gairsain, the summer capital of Uttarakhand. Besides, he also directed the district magistrate of Chamoli to find a suitable land for the Board headquarters. In a meeting of the Board on Thursday, CM Rawat said that in order to provide a market for farmers, the state will come up with four new factories, and he also directed the authorities to form a committee to decide the minimum support price (MSP). The committee will decide the MSP for each year. The CM said that the tea garden should be developed and handed over to farmers. “For this, an action plan should be made by preparing a practical model in the next one month. Suggestions of farmers should also be included in the formulation of this model. Technical expertise should also be provided to the farmers after developing the tea garden,” he added. The CM said that the efforts should be made to run private tea factories, which are lying closed in the state. “If the owners of private factories are not able to run them, then efforts should be made by the board. This will create employment opportunities for the locals and provide them a means of livelihood,” the CM added. Rawat asserted that the Tea Development Board meetings should be held at least four times a year. It will help them in becoming aware of the problems of the Board and farmers. He added that tea gardens can play an important role in the tourism sector in the state. He also instructed the DMs to focus on tea tourism. It was informed that till date tea plantation has been done on 1,387 hectare area at various places by the Board. Around 4,000 people, which includes 70% females, are involved in the projects being run by the Board. Currently, the tea being manufactured by the Board is being sold as Uttarakhand Tea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tea-development-board-headquarters-to-come-up-at-gairsain/articleshow/79784249.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Woman, paramour held for killing grandfather-in-law & sister-in-law||ROORKEE: Jhabreda police in Haridwar district has arrested a woman and her paramour on charges of murder of her grandfather-in-law and sister-in-law. It is alleged that her paramour, a man in his 30s, used to secretly visit her house. Last month, during one such meeting, he was caught by the woman's grandfather-in-law. Fearing that the old man would disclose their illicit relationship, both allegedly suffocated the man to death. They also murdered the woman's sister-in-law a few days later, considering the latter to be a major hurdle in their meetings. According to Jhabreda police in-charge Ravindra Kumar, accused Rohit and Riya, who were neighbours at Manakpur-Aadampur village near Roorkee, were in illicit relationship. Riya, who is married to Suraj Kumar for three years now, used to mix sedative pills in her grandfather-in-law and mother-in-law’s food. On the night of November 2, Riya's grandfather-in-law saw Rohit coming out of Riya's room. “In a fear that the grandfather-in-law would disclose her illicit relationship to Suraj, who used to do night shifts in a private company, Riya and her paramour suffocated the old man to death with a pillow," said Ravindra Kumar. The duo also killed Suraj's sister Preeti on November 5 as they considered her to be a major hurdle in their future meetings. “If the duo were not arrested, they would have also eliminated Riya's husband and mother-in-law in the coming days," said the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-paramour-held-for-killing-grandfather-in-law-sister-in-law/articleshow/79784272.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 620 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||DEHRADUN: The total number of Covid-19 cases surged to 84,689 after Uttarakhand recorded 620 new cases on Thursday. Out of all the districts, Dehradun recorded the highest 194 cases, followed by Nainital (127), US Nagar (49), Almora (48), Uttarkashi (39), Haridwar (36), Chamoli (34), Tehri (28), Bageshwar (22), Pithorgarh (20), Rudraprayag (18), and Champawat (14). The death toll also increased to 1,384 after nine people succumbed to the deadly virus. Meanwhile, 676 people recovered on a single day, taking the overall number of recovery cases to 76,223. The number of containment zones, too, have increased in the state with highest in Dehradun (7) followed by Uttarkashi and Pauri which have four areas under strict Covid guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-620-new-covid-cases-9-deaths/articleshow/79784267.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Exultant supporters mob winners breaching cop cover||Thiruvananthapuram: When the counting started, the law enforcers posted outside the counting centre at Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar at Nalanchira felt a relief – that the Covid 19 scare had played its role keeping many hardcore political activists at home. But their relief was short lived. As soon as the winners began to be announced, their supporters poured out on to the streets. Soon, it was business as usual. All attempts by police officers on duty outside the main gate of Mar Ivanios Vidya Nagar to prevent the supporters from mobbing the winning candidates went in vain. Every time, a winning candidate came out of the gate, the police would rush to form a protective cover around them, only to be breached by the exultant supporters who would eventually whisk the candidates off to their fold for celebrations. “I wish the winning candidates would spend the rest of the days before the swearing-in under quarantine as a precaution,” said a senior police officer on duty at the spot. The police authorities have also not decided whether to book those gathered outside counting centres despite the obvious violation of covid protocol. Meanwhile, the victors and their supporters stuck to protocols in their victory processions taken out in the evening. They complied with the advisory issued by district administration to avoid flashy celebrations and motor rallies. While in the previous elections the supporters of the victors took out motor rallies to the secretariat, on Wednesday such celebrations were restricted to their respective wards alone. The police maintained high vigil all through the night to prevent any untoward incidents.  Meanwhile, a minor skirmish was reported at Mettukkada under Thampanoor police station limits in the evening in which a BJP supporter allegedly assaulted a CPM activist. He was arrested by the local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/exultant-supporters-mob-winners-breaching-cop-cover/articleshow/79782053.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 30% of poor children yet to return to formal studies||AHMEDABAD: A survey carried out by a team from the Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad (IIM-A) in 375 households in Ahmedabad from lower economic strata revealed that about 30% or three in every 10 students under the survey had not resumed the formal education ever since the lockdown. The survey results, published in the form of a report ‘Access to learning for low-income household during Covid-19 school closures: Case of Ahmedabad,’ were declared on Thursday. The project was helmed by Prof Ankur Sarin from the IIM-A under the aegis of Knowledge Management and Innovations for Change (KMIC). “More than a quarter of the surveyed students had not resumed formal learning since the lockdown. This was the highest for those attending (low fee/ budget) private schools through the regular mode, followed by the government schools, and those attending private schools through the RTE mandate,” mentioned the report summary. Another major issue pointed out by the researchers was little access to teachers and ‘unidirectional’ learning. “Among those engaged in school activities, around 30% of children have no way to access teachers for any questions or concerns… Parents of children attending government schools were more likely to report receiving physical worksheets and materials from teachers conducting home visits, compared to those attending private schools,’ mentioned the summary. Several of the respondents mentioned that the schools continued to demand fees despite the government orders. As those who could not pay fees were barred from receiving materials or attending live streaming, the parents contemplated to transfer their kids to government schools or dropping out, mentioned the report. Comparing the result to other recent survey, the researchers pointed that it matched to some aspects of Oxfam India and Dalberg-UNICEF surveys of similar nature. The researchers recommended that the government education department can set up helplines to help parents, allow easier enrolment to government schools throughout the year, conduct regular training sessions for teachers and parents, transfer of Rs 3,000 promised to those studying at private schools, and provide autonomy to school administration within SOPs to re-open schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/30-of-poor-children-yet-to-return-to-formal-studies/articleshow/79785156.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||2 men get 20-yr jail term for raping minor||Bareilly: A special POSCO court here sentenced two men to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 51,000 on each after finding them guilty of raping a 16-year-old in 2015. Additional district government counsel Reetram Rajput said the accused, Suraj Pal and Uday Pal, were the survivor’s neighbours. They raped her in a cane field outside their village. An FIR was registered against them under IPC sections 376-d (gang rape and 506 (criminal intimidation) and provisions of the POCSO Act at Aonla police station. “The accused were lodged in the district jail since the chargesheet was filed in court. A fine of Rs 51,000 each has been imposed on them and the recovered money will be given to the survivor,” said Rajput.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-men-get-20-yr-jail-term-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79784269.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 18, 2020||India||GPS-based tech could make NHs toll-booth-free in 2 years: Govt||NEW DELHI: Toll plazas on NHs would be a thing of the past in the next two-three years with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) preparing to roll out GPS-based tolling across the network. This will allow people to travel non-stop as there will be no physical barrier, highways minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. Addressing a webinar at the Assocham Foundation Week Programme, the minister said this would enable deduction of the toll charge based on the movement of vehicles directly from the bank accounts of the users. Gadkari said this would make India a “toll-booth-free” nation in the next two years. Sources said initially, this will be the default mode of toll collection for all commercial vehicles as these vehicles registered after January 2019 have the vehicle tracking systems. In the second phase, private vehicles can also be brought under this ambit. An NHAI official said this system will also ensure that the users pay only for the distance covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gps-based-tech-could-make-nhs-toll-booth-free-in-2-years-govt/articleshow/79787840.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||Wife, kin booked for abetting man’s suicide||Pilibhit: Following an order by the chief judicial magistrate, Pilibhit police booked four people for allegedly abetting a 26-year-old man to commit suicide. The wife of the deceased is one of the accused. The action was taken after complainant, Malti Devi, a resident of fourth class government employees’ colony near collectorate in Pilibhit city, moved court. She said son, Rajesh Kumar Kashyap, a class four employee posted at Bisalpur tehsil, was suspended two months after he married Manoj Kumari of Umassar village under Jahanabad in October. Soon after, his wife left him. Rajesh made repeated pleas to her to return but each time she and her family members would insult and turn him away, claimed Malti Devi. On January 6, Rajesh happened to meet his wife and her brothers in Pilibhit city. They allegedly abused him again. This time, Rajesh could not take it anymore. He threw himself in front of a moving train at night and was crushed to death, his mother said. Malti Devi said she lodged complaints at the local police station and with superintendent of police but to no avail. Then, she moved court. Atar Singh,SHO of Sungarhi police station, said Manoj Kumar, her two brothers and father were booked under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/wife-kin-booked-for-abetting-mans-suicide/articleshow/79784293.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Transport minister inaugurates road||Jaipur: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Thusday inaugurated roads costing Rs 85 lakh at Barodia Basti in Banipark. Cement and asphalt roads are being constructed at Jatavat Colony, Barodia Basti Gurdwara Road and adjoining colonies. Khachariyawas said in the last 2 years, the Gehlot government has worked for the development of people and every region of the state. The only objective of the government was to listen to everyone, respect everyone and work for everyone. Khachariyawas claimed that development works were done in villages, towns and cities and two years were devoted to public service. During lockdown, free wheat and pulses were made available to 6 crore people. Free bus service from 46 depots of roadways to Haridwar was provided through Moksha Kalash bus service. One-and-a-half million people were given direct assistance during lockdown. “Rajasthan was the first state where corona test was launched free of cost. In these 2 years, the opposition could not be seen anywhere, the leaders of the BJP just kept making rhetoric and neither could they play the role of the opposition nor did any work for public,” said Khachariyawas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transport-minister-inaugurates-road/articleshow/79785182.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||After ZP poll debacle, Goa Congress unit president quits post||PANAJI: President of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) Girish Chodankar, has stepped down from his post and has refused to budge from his decision, senior party functionaries said on Thursday. Chodankar has taken moral responsibility for the party’s debacle at the December 12 zilla panchayat polls, they said, and conveyed his decision to resign to interim Congress national president Sonia Gandhi, on Wednesday. Interestingly, when Chodankar decided to dash off a letter to Sonia Gandhi and step down as state party chief, he kept the entire party leadership in the dark. While a demand for a change of guard in the state unit’s leadership was inevitable and was largely anticipated in view of the party’s decimation in the elections, Chodankar’s swift and silent move caught even the party’s executive committee unawares. “I have not spoken to Girish till now, so I don’t know the reasons for his resignation,” said leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat, who was along with party vice-president Sankalp Amonkar, general secretary Amarnath Panjikar, and the two district presidents, Vijay Bhike and Joe Dias, claimed he was caught off-guard by Chodankar’s move. While Chodankar continues to remain incommunicado, South Goa district Congress chief Joe Dias visited his residence and managed to meet him briefly. “He has resigned and is firm on his decision,” said Dias. When asked for a further statement, Dias said the Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao will be in a better position to comment on the matter and the party’s next steps. This is the second time Chodankar has offered to step down. He had resigned as the state Congress president last July after the Lok Sabha elections due to “moral reasons”, following the resignation of Rahul Gandhi as the party’s national president. However, as his resignation was rejected, Chodankar continued to function as the state president. If his resignation is accepted this time, it will once again lead to a realignment of political forces within Congress and the other political parties that have been urging Congress to explore an anti-BJP alliance ahead of the 2022 state assembly elections. Importantly, Chodankar had staunchly opposed any alliance with Goa Forward Party (GFP), which is keen on putting together a united opposition to take on the might of BJP. GFP president Vijai Sardesai had, at a press conference on Tuesday, attributed BJP’s sweeping victory to “lack of (credible) political alternative” to the voters. “And the blame for this stops at the principal opposition party,” he had said. Sources said Chodankar was perceived as a roadblock towards formation of a grand alliance of opposition parties ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. Demand for Chodankar’s ouster had also begun to emanate from within Congress following the ZP polls. On Wednesday, South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha had blamed the state Congress leadership for the party’s decimation in the hustings. Sardinha, without naming anybody, had said that “political novices” were taking decisions while ignoring senior Congressmen. “We should not have contested on the party symbol. Our juniors, political novices decided all this. If he (Chodankar) has resigned, it is good. He has done justice by resigning,” Sardinha said. He had contested the last Lok Sabha elections from North Goa against Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik and had lost by more than one lakh votes. Since then, there has been a clamour to replace him. Chodankar had also come under fire after he failed to stop the exit of 10 Congress MLAs who switched over to BJP in 2019. Party insiders said hardly any efforts to rebuild the party organisation were visible within the last one year or so. Consequently, some senior party functionaries had lately stepped up efforts to replace Chodankar, over a year before Goa elects a new legislative assembly. Sardinha has already thrown his hat into the ring. “If I am given the post of president, I will take it,” Sardinha said. On the day of the ZP elections on Saturday, Chodankar had exuded confidence of Congress winning both ZP bodies, only to find the party blown to smithereens when the ballot papers were counted on Monday. Conceding defeat, he had vowed to rebuild the party, but preferred to quit as the clamour for his resignation increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-zp-poll-debacle-state-congress-unit-president-quits-post/articleshow/79787613.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Delhi||NDMC to rent out park walls for funds||NEW DELHI: In a move to generate revenue, the cash-strapped North Delhi Municipal Corporation plans to rent out park walls to advertisers. The proposal comes just weeks after South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s proposal to open milk and vegetable kiosks in its parks prompted residents to protest against commercialisation of green space. In phase I, the advertisement experiment will be carried out in 30 parks in all six administrative zones under the north corporation through an e-auction. The proposal, moved by the advertisement department, is at the finalisation stage, an official said. “The project is estimated to annually generate Rs 50 lakh,” he added. TimesViewIt is well-known that local bodies are strapped for cash and generating revenue is a tough task in these Covid-19 times. As long as the advertisements do not impinge upon a park’s green space or hurt its overall aesthetics, they should be permitted.The move has been pegged as a novel revenue-generation project in the civic body’s budget proposals. The outdoor advertisement policy doesn’t stop use of public park walls, clarified an official. According to the 2017 policy, “Informal advertising devices should be restricted to the specific site or wall as may be provided by the MCD in each of its wards, near government private colonies, inside market areas, near public parks and the premises of public buildings.” However, residents welfare associations (RWAs) have resisted any move to commercialise colony parks. Chetan Sharma, general secretary of Confederation of NCR RWAs, said residents were concerned about visual clutter and ambience of parks getting spoiled. “The outer walls of a public park are also part of it. Advertising on these walls should be restricted to only 10% of the area and that, too, by ensuring that the ambience doesn’t get disturbed,” Sharma emphasised. “Ideally, they should not advertise even on walls,” he demanded. An online petition to withdraw the south corporation’s kiosk proposal has received 1,467 signatures while dozens of RWAs have written to civic functionaries registering their objection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-to-rent-out-park-walls-for-funds/articleshow/79785167.cms||Paras Singh
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Most dairy booth operators yet to pay rent to JMC||Jaipur: Around 3,000 dairy booths in the city haven’t paid their monthly rent to Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). To give some relief to the booth owners, UDH has waived 100% penalty and interest for non-payment of rent. According to officials, there are 5,000 dairy booths in the city and around 3,000 haven’t paid their rents. Every booth operator has to pay Rs 1,000 rent. The corporation collects these rents quarterly and 18 per cent interest is charged for non-payment. In such a situation, the booth operators who have not paid rent till now will get A benefit of about Rs 6,000 if they deposit a lump sum amount. Deputy commissioner (revenue) at JMC Naveen Bhardhwaj said, “We have provided them relaxation but due to the pandemic, they haven’t deposited the amount. We will soon organise a camp for dairy booth owners to deposit the money.” Several notices have been sent to the operators, but most of them are not abiding to the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-dairy-booth-operators-yet-to-pay-rent-to-jmc/articleshow/79785161.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: HC quashes RAS Mains 2018 result, ask RPSC to issue fresh merit list||JAIPUR: The high court on Thursday quashed and set aside the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, declared on July 9 this year directing the RPSC to declare the result afresh after prescribing the minimum qualifying marks for all categories of candidates and calling for interview at least twice the number of vacancies. Court said the process had to be completed with in four months. Counsel for the RPSC M F Baig said the RPSC will go for an appeal against the order. The single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma issued the order on a petition by Kavita Godara and others. The action of the RPSC to declare the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, as per the amended Rule June 09, 2020, is also declared illegal, said the court. The court directed the RPSC to declare the revised result as per the Rule 15(3) existing prior to amended rule, said counsel for the petitioner Vigyan Shah. Under the earlier rule, the RPSC had to fix a common qualifying mark for all the categories and thereafter should have called for interview at least two to three times the number of candidates against vacancies for selection. In the present merit list, the RPSC has called for interview only one and half time the number of vacancies with no common qualifying marks fixed and different cut off percentage for various categories of candidates. Earlier, the high court had stayed the interviews which were scheduled for December 7 after some departmental candidates approached the court with the charge of inclusion of ineligible candidates under departmental quota and ex-service men. The RPSC agreed to remove 78 ineligible departmental candidates and 19 ex-servicemen from the list. Now, the RPSC has been called upon to issue a fresh list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-quashes-ras-mains-2018-result-ask-rpsc-to-issue-fresh-merit-list/articleshow/79785240.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||All emergency services to be integrated into 112 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government will be launching the integrated Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) on Friday that seeks to merge all the existing emergency toll-free numbers with 112. The integrated ERSS system will be launched at the division level (seven divisions) in a decentralised manner. “We are trying to integrate all the existing emergency toll-free numbers including – 100 (police), 101 (fire), 108 (ambulances), 1098 (child helpline), 1090 (women helpline) and others – into 112. Instead of remembering 7-8 numbers, people can dial one number for all the emergency services,” said V. Saravana Kumar, special secretary, home department. “It will be a call centre, where people can call for any of the emergency services and the call will be routed to the respective department through 112. The operators will be trained for this job. Now, even the district headquarters will have these call centres. Earlier, the command centre used to be only at the state headquarters,” he added. In the first phase, it will be launched in all the seven police range headquarters, two police commissionerate, Alwar, Bhiwadi and Bharatpur. In the second phase, the system will be launched in 25 district police headquarters and in the third phase, it will be launched in the remaining 145 urban bodies. The system will be made effective in coordination with department of information and technology (DOIT) The state government will be also launching five new Abhay command control centres in five districts on Friday. The five districts are Sawaimadhopur, Jhalawar, Churu, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/all-emergency-services-to-be-integrated-into-112/articleshow/79788823.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||UPEIDA, SBI Cap sign MoU for Ganga expressway project||Lucknow: In order to expedite Ganga Expressway, which is also Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s dream project, UPEIDA and SBI Capital Market signed an MoU on Thursday for generating financial resources for the project. The MoU was signed in presence of UPEIDA CEO Awanish Awasthi. He said the SBI Capital Market would submit its report for mobilizing its finances for the project within six weeks. Awasthi expected that the report in this regard would be submitted within the stipulated period so that the project could take off on time. The CEO said that Ganga Expressway, longest in the state so far, could be the biggest asset for the state as it would trigger economic activities from Meerut to Prayagraj. At the last pre-bid conference for the project six major infra companies, including two from abroad, had participated and evinced their interest in joining the project. “That is why the project has to be started soon,” Awasthi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-sbi-cap-sign-mou-for-ganga-expressway-project/articleshow/79787351.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||All emergency services to be integrated into 112 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government will be launching the integrated Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) on Friday that seeks to merge all the existing emergency toll-free numbers with 112. The integrated ERSS system will be launched at the division level (seven divisions) in a decentralised manner. “We are trying to integrate all the existing emergency toll-free numbers including – 100 (police), 101 (fire), 108 (ambulances), 1098 (child helpline), 1090 (women helpline) and others – into 112. Instead of remembering 7-8 numbers, people can dial one number for all the emergency services,” said V. Saravana Kumar, special secretary, home department. “It will be a call centre, where people can call for any of the emergency services and the call will be routed to the respective department through 112. The operators will be trained for this job. Now, even the district headquarters will have these call centres. Earlier, the command centre used to be only at the state headquarters,” he added. In the first phase, it will be launched in all the seven police range headquarters, two police commissionerate, Alwar, Bhiwadi and Bharatpur. In the second phase, the system will be launched in 25 district police headquarters and in the third phase, it will be launched in the remaining 145 urban bodies. The system will be made effective in coordination with department of information and technology (DOIT) The state government will be also launching five new Abhay command control centres in five districts on Friday. The five districts are Sawaimadhopur, Jhalawar, Churu, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-emergency-services-to-be-integrated-into-112/articleshow/79785228.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||All emergency services to be integrated into 112 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government will be launching the integrated Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) on Friday that seeks to merge all the existing emergency toll-free numbers with 112. The integrated ERSS system will be launched at the division level (seven divisions) in a decentralised manner. “We are trying to integrate all the existing emergency toll-free numbers including – 100 (police), 101 (fire), 108 (ambulances), 1098 (child helpline), 1090 (women helpline) and others – into 112. Instead of remembering 7-8 numbers, people can dial one number for all the emergency services,” said V. Saravana Kumar, special secretary, home department. “It will be a call centre, where people can call for any of the emergency services and the call will be routed to the respective department through 112. The operators will be trained for this job. Now, even the district headquarters will have these call centres. Earlier, the command centre used to be only at the state headquarters,” he added. In the first phase, it will be launched in all the seven police range headquarters, two police commissionerate, Alwar, Bhiwadi and Bharatpur. In the second phase, the system will be launched in 25 district police headquarters and in the third phase, it will be launched in the remaining 145 urban bodies. The system will be made effective in coordination with department of information and technology (DOIT) The state government will be also launching five new Abhay command control centres in five districts on Friday. The five districts are Sawaimadhopur, Jhalawar, Churu, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/all-emergency-services-to-be-integrated-into-112/articleshow/79788825.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||All emergency services to be integrated into 112 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government will be launching the integrated Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) on Friday that seeks to merge all the existing emergency toll-free numbers with 112. The integrated ERSS system will be launched at the division level (seven divisions) in a decentralised manner. “We are trying to integrate all the existing emergency toll-free numbers including – 100 (police), 101 (fire), 108 (ambulances), 1098 (child helpline), 1090 (women helpline) and others – into 112. Instead of remembering 7-8 numbers, people can dial one number for all the emergency services,” said V. Saravana Kumar, special secretary, home department. “It will be a call centre, where people can call for any of the emergency services and the call will be routed to the respective department through 112. The operators will be trained for this job. Now, even the district headquarters will have these call centres. Earlier, the command centre used to be only at the state headquarters,” he added. In the first phase, it will be launched in all the seven police range headquarters, two police commissionerate, Alwar, Bhiwadi and Bharatpur. In the second phase, the system will be launched in 25 district police headquarters and in the third phase, it will be launched in the remaining 145 urban bodies. The system will be made effective in coordination with department of information and technology (DOIT) The state government will be also launching five new Abhay command control centres in five districts on Friday. The five districts are Sawaimadhopur, Jhalawar, Churu, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/all-emergency-services-to-be-integrated-into-112/articleshow/79788824.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: HC quashes RAS Mains 2018 result, ask RPSC to issue fresh merit list||JAIPUR: The high court on Thursday quashed and set aside the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, declared on July 9 this year directing the RPSC to declare the result afresh after prescribing the minimum qualifying marks for all categories of candidates and calling for interview at least twice the number of vacancies. Court said the process had to be completed with in four months. Counsel for the RPSC M F Baig said the RPSC will go for an appeal against the order. The single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma issued the order on a petition by Kavita Godara and others. The action of the RPSC to declare the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, as per the amended Rule June 09, 2020, is also declared illegal, said the court. The court directed the RPSC to declare the revised result as per the Rule 15(3) existing prior to amended rule, said counsel for the petitioner Vigyan Shah. Under the earlier rule, the RPSC had to fix a common qualifying mark for all the categories and thereafter should have called for interview at least two to three times the number of candidates against vacancies for selection. In the present merit list, the RPSC has called for interview only one and half time the number of vacancies with no common qualifying marks fixed and different cut off percentage for various categories of candidates. Earlier, the high court had stayed the interviews which were scheduled for December 7 after some departmental candidates approached the court with the charge of inclusion of ineligible candidates under departmental quota and ex-service men. The RPSC agreed to remove 78 ineligible departmental candidates and 19 ex-servicemen from the list. Now, the RPSC has been called upon to issue a fresh list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-quashes-ras-mains-2018-result-ask-rpsc-to-issue-fresh-merit-list/articleshow/79788785.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: HC quashes RAS Mains 2018 result, ask RPSC to issue fresh merit list||JAIPUR: The high court on Thursday quashed and set aside the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, declared on July 9 this year directing the RPSC to declare the result afresh after prescribing the minimum qualifying marks for all categories of candidates and calling for interview at least twice the number of vacancies. Court said the process had to be completed with in four months. Counsel for the RPSC M F Baig said the RPSC will go for an appeal against the order. The single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma issued the order on a petition by Kavita Godara and others. The action of the RPSC to declare the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, as per the amended Rule June 09, 2020, is also declared illegal, said the court. The court directed the RPSC to declare the revised result as per the Rule 15(3) existing prior to amended rule, said counsel for the petitioner Vigyan Shah. Under the earlier rule, the RPSC had to fix a common qualifying mark for all the categories and thereafter should have called for interview at least two to three times the number of candidates against vacancies for selection. In the present merit list, the RPSC has called for interview only one and half time the number of vacancies with no common qualifying marks fixed and different cut off percentage for various categories of candidates. Earlier, the high court had stayed the interviews which were scheduled for December 7 after some departmental candidates approached the court with the charge of inclusion of ineligible candidates under departmental quota and ex-service men. The RPSC agreed to remove 78 ineligible departmental candidates and 19 ex-servicemen from the list. Now, the RPSC has been called upon to issue a fresh list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/hc-quashes-ras-mains-2018-result-ask-rpsc-to-issue-fresh-merit-list/articleshow/79788784.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Mind the gap: Dip in students from NE, Odisha, Jharkhand leaves UG seats vacant||KOLKATA: A sharp dip in applications by students from the Hills, Northeast and neighbouring states seemed one of the reasons that led to the largescale vacancies among the first-semester undergraduate seats in city colleges, concluded principals of different institutes, after taking a closer look at the final admission list. It being a pandemic year, when most students are not expected to leave Bengal, and given the deluge of applications received across colleges in the city, institutes had expected that the seats would be filled in no time but even after multiple extension of admission deadlines, many vacancies were reported. Principals and teachers have been trying to find the reasons behind such vacancies this year and the fewer applications from “outside” students seem to be a major cause. Every year, thousands of youngsters from the Northeast, Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha apply to different city colleges, and institutes with a minority tag admit many of them under several reserved categories. Some of the colleges and universities, where students from northeastern states take admission in high numbers are Jadavpur University, Scottish Church College, Loreto College, Lady Brabourne College, Bethune College, Goneka College of Commerce and Business Administration, J D Birla Institute and St Paul’s Cathedral Mission College. Elizabeth Saipari from Mizoram, who is pursuing her post-graduation at Jadavpur University, said students from the Northeast preferred Kolkata due to the security the city offered, proximity to their home towns and presence of large number of students from the Northeast with whom they can connect for guidance. “But since classes are taking place online and students don’t have to be physically away from their homes, many must have preferred applying to colleges in other cities, like Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” said Saipari. “There has been a big drop in the number of students from the Northeast taking admission to Kolkata colleges,” said Deepali Singhee, principal of J D Birla Institute. Loreto Colleges is a preferred choice for youngsters from the Northeast, Jharkhand and Odisha due to the “strict discipline and emphasis on academics” at the institute. “This year, fewer applications came in from students from the Northeast and neighbouring states,” confirmed Christine Coutinho, principal of Loreto College. A senior official of a north Kolkata college, which is also a preferred destination for youngsters from the Northeast, pointed out that there had been a drop of almost 25% in applications from this section. “Very few students from neighbouring states have applied this year due to which several seats have remained vacant even till the last phase of admission,” said the official. The higher education department extended admission deadline for UG courses several times since September as several seats in almost all colleges remained vacant, despite the government waiving application fees and several colleges almost halving their semester fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mind-the-gap-dip-in-students-from-ne-odisha-jharkhand-leaves-ug-seats-vacant/articleshow/79785266.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||JMC Heritage to allot sanitation workers to each colony||JAIPUR: Taking note of the pathetic sanitation condition of Walled City area, the JMC, Heritage has decided to allot sanitation workers colony wise. Many complaints are received against sanitation workers stating that they do not clean the lanes regularly and, in many places, they do not visit for weeks. Hence, the administration is now planning to allot the colonies between different workers and their phone numbers will be painted on the walls so that colony residents can directly call them up. Heritage mayor Munesh Gurjar told TOI, “Due to delimitation, wards have become smaller and they do not have more than 10 colonies. It is easier to divide the sanitation staff there. If we will allot them specific colonies, it will become easier to keep a tab on them. Moreover, with the phone number being provided to the residents of the area, they can directly call the sanitation workers.” Till now, the sanitation officer was responsible for the workers. Heritage has 4,200 sanitation workers and now with the division of municipal corporations a new system has to be designed for sanitation workers. According to the officials of JMC, Heritage, this new system will be implemented within the next ten days. Swachhata Survekshan has already begun, but the corporation is yet to chart out the new system for hoopers of Jaipur. Hoopers in the city are still functioning according to the system of 91 wards and not 250 wards. A new plan has to be designed soon. The door-to-door garbage collection firm in Jaipur has been asked to submit a route map to the Jaipur Municipal Corporation as to where the hoopers will be functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-heritage-to-allot-sanitation-workers-to-each-colony/articleshow/79785205.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: HC quashes RAS Mains 2018 result, ask RPSC to issue fresh merit list||JAIPUR: The high court on Thursday quashed and set aside the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, declared on July 9 this year directing the RPSC to declare the result afresh after prescribing the minimum qualifying marks for all categories of candidates and calling for interview at least twice the number of vacancies. Court said the process had to be completed with in four months. Counsel for the RPSC M F Baig said the RPSC will go for an appeal against the order. The single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma issued the order on a petition by Kavita Godara and others. The action of the RPSC to declare the result of RAS (Mains) Examination, 2018, as per the amended Rule June 09, 2020, is also declared illegal, said the court. The court directed the RPSC to declare the revised result as per the Rule 15(3) existing prior to amended rule, said counsel for the petitioner Vigyan Shah. Under the earlier rule, the RPSC had to fix a common qualifying mark for all the categories and thereafter should have called for interview at least two to three times the number of candidates against vacancies for selection. In the present merit list, the RPSC has called for interview only one and half time the number of vacancies with no common qualifying marks fixed and different cut off percentage for various categories of candidates. Earlier, the high court had stayed the interviews which were scheduled for December 7 after some departmental candidates approached the court with the charge of inclusion of ineligible candidates under departmental quota and ex-service men. The RPSC agreed to remove 78 ineligible departmental candidates and 19 ex-servicemen from the list. Now, the RPSC has been called upon to issue a fresh list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hc-quashes-ras-mains-2018-result-ask-rpsc-to-issue-fresh-merit-list/articleshow/79788786.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC restrains pvt medical colleges from asking bank guarantee from students||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Thursday restrained private medical colleges from demanding bank guarantee from MBBS students but accorded the liberty to obtain bonds. A division bench of justice Sangeet Lodha and justice Rameshwar Vyas stayed the demand of bank guarantee while allowing a petition by Deepesh Singh Beniwal, who in his petition termed it unjustified and unwarranted burden on parents considering the huge amount. “Students are supposed to deposit one year’s fee during admission. But they are also supposed to furnish bank guarantee for the fee of remaining 3-and-a-half years of the course and the amount of this guarantee was a staggering Rs 50 lakh,” he said. He argued that colleges were trying to secure them on mere assumption that they would suffer financial loss on account of any student quit the course midway leaving the seat vacant. Hearing the arguments, the court restrained the colleges from seeking bank guarantee until next order, but allowed them to accept bonds from students towards the fee for three-and-a-half years instead of bank guarantee. “It is made clear that the students admitted to the course shall be under an obligation to deposit the full fee of first year as stipulated, but shall be provisionally exempted from furnishing the bank guarantee for remaining 3½ years, subject to outcome of present writ petition/stay petition”, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-restrains-pvt-med-colleges-from-asking-bank-guarantee-from-students/articleshow/79786623.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Week before Christmas, cold stores also run out of beef||PANAJI: The ripple effects of the shortage of beef supply from Belagavi has trickled down to the cold meat industry in Goa, which is looking at empty shelves. Beef shops, which used to get stock from Karnataka, have been shut since last Friday. “We get our beef supply from Hubballi and Belagavi. Now, with the ban on slaughter as well as transport, Karnataka has gone two steps further than Maharashtra. None of the suppliers there want to take a risk because the Karnataka government has given permission to sub-inspectors to raid and confiscate the meat. We therefore, don’t have any supply coming in,” All Goa Cold Storage Owners’ Association president Vernon Lobo said. With Christmas and New Year fast approaching, the cold meat traders are hopeful that the government abattoir, Goa meat complex, will be restarted. However, sourcing live cattle for slaughter is another Herculean task altogether. Lobo said they have made a verbal request to chief minister Pramod Sawant to intervene in the matter. Sawant said he has taken up the matter with officials. “I have spoken to the director of animal husbandry and veterinary services and he will come up with a solution,” Sawant said. Sources from the Goa meat complex said they are exploring the possibility of opening the abattoir for a while to ensure beef supply for the holiday season. “We may source the animals from Belagavi or any neighbouring district for this. Buffaloes above the age of 13 are permitted for slaughter. We may procure them for the Christmas-New Year period. The matter is being looked into by the chief minister,” sources said. After the state’s meat traders’ association submitted a memorandum on Tuesday seeking his intervention in the matter, Sawant on Wednesday had assured to ensure that the supply of beef is restored. “The chief minister must talk to the Karnataka government to grant permission to transport live cattle to Goa. We have spoken to him and he has promised a solution. If he cannot talk to his counterparts in another state and get things done, then he won’t be able to start the abattoir,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/week-before-christmas-cold-stores-also-run-out-of-beef/articleshow/79787541.cms||Nida Sayed
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Lt General Alok Kler pays homage to 1971 Fazilka bravehearts||Jaipur: On the occasion of 49th anniversary of Fazilka Vijay Diwas, Lieutenant General Alok Kler, Army Commander, Sapta Shakti Command, visited Asafwala War Memorial to pay tributes to the bravehearts.Kler paid tributes to the ‘Saviours of Fazilka’ who made supreme sacrifice for the motherland during the 1971 Indo-Pak War. Fazilka Vijay Diwas is celebrated as a mark of remembrance for 218 soldiers of Indian Army and their gallant comrades who bravely fought the battle of Beriwala for 14 days and succeeded in defeating the Pakistan army.On the occasion, Kler lauded the civil administration and people of Fazilka for honouring the bravehearts and stated that such close coordination between ‘Awam, Civil Administration and Army’ is an example for the entire nation to emulate.Similarly, on Wednesday, to commemorate the 49th year of this great victory, the Directorate of Indian Army Veterans (DIAV) branch organised the event to pay a humble tribute and felicitate the bravehearts of Indian Army, belonging to Rajasthan and Haryana.The directorate of Indian Army Veterans (DIAV) presented 15 modified auto scooter and one modified car to the disabled soldiers in Jaipur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Alwar in Rajasthan and at Jind, Sirsa and Rohtak in Haryana.The ceremony included presentation of mobility equipment to the soldiers at their desired delivery locations, followed by interaction with veterans and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lt-general-alok-kler-pays-homage-to-1971-fazilka-bravehearts/articleshow/79785265.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Severe cold hits power supply in west Raj||Jaisalmer: Fall in temperatures has wreaked havoc with the power supply in western Rajasthan. The severe cold is causing faults in the power lines. For the second day in a row, the grid failed here, due to which power supply was hit in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The pump of Rajiv Gandhi lift canal could not function to its full capacity as a result, due to which Jodhpur could not get sufficient drinking water.The minimum temperature in Jaisalmer was 5.2 degree Celsius for the second consecutive day and the lowest temperature of this season of 7.2 degree Celsius was recorded at Jodhpur. The minimum temperature at Phalodi has reached 4 degree Celsius. Cold winds have made people in Jaisalmer shiver. Fog and mist have added to the woes. Prasaran Nigam XEN DS Meena in Jaisalmer said that the disc conductor in 220 and 132KVA lines have suffered damages due to the dip in temperature, because of which power supply was hit. The disc conductors got jammed with increase in fog and mist due to which there were faults in the lines. He said that on Wednesday, the grid failed due to which power supply was affected in Jaisalmer and Phalodi. With dip in temperature on Thursday, there was a fault at Jodhpur circuit at 8.30am due to which power was hit in Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. The technical employees could repair the fault after 1.15 hours and power supply was restored.A senior Vidyut Prasaran Nigam officer said that with fault in a circuit, pressure increased on the other circuit and the problem of fluctuation in voltage started. Later, other circuits also got affected and the entire system failed. Although, additional conductors are attached, through which the lines are repaired early and supply is restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/severe-cold-hits-power-supply-in-west-raj/articleshow/79785258.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Freedom struggle to be part of school curriculum: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that Goa freedom struggle will be included in Goa board’s school syllabus. Over the years, there have been demands for the inclusion of this chapter of the state’s history in the school syllabus. At the Goa Revolution Day function in July 2018, then governor Mridula Sinha had suggested that important aspects of Goa’s freedom struggle be included in the curriculum. President Ram Nath Kovind, who will be the chief guest for the inaugural of the 60th Liberation Day function, will arrive in the state on Saturday on a two-day visit. Sawant told reporters that he will receive Kovind at Dabolim along with the protocol minister. “It is the first time the President of India is attending our Liberation Day function and we should be proud of it,” he said. Listing out the President’s itinerary, the CM said that Kovind will pay a floral tribute at the martyrs’ memorial at Azad Maidan on December 19. The main function will be held at the D B Bandodkar stadium, Campal. Sawant said that a 10-minute documentary on Goa’s history will be screened during the main event. Around 150 people from across the 12 talukas will participate in the cultural program. The state government had come under severe criticism from the opposition parties for spending Rs 100 crore to conduct various programmes to mark the diamond jubilee of the Liberation Day at a time when “people are struggling to make ends meet”. GFP president Vijai Sardesai in a letter to the President urged him not to visit as “the state intends to spend an exorbitant” amount on the celebration. Reacting to the criticism, Sawant said the Rs 100 crore is not only for hosting the main event on December 19, but also for undertaking renovation of historic monuments like forts. He said that any person who is a nationalist should not oppose the President’s visit. “I request those who have written to Kovind asking him not to come to Goa to once again write to him requesting him to come to Goa,” Sawant said. Sawant also unveiled the logo for the celebration. The chief minister urged citizens to give their suggestions, if any, on ways the government can mark the Liberation Day in an even better manner. Sawant said that he has gone through all the letters written on the celebration. Stating that he was born in Goa and that his deity is also in the state, Sawant said, “I am the first chief minister of Goa who was born after Liberation and, like me, those who are born post liberation should know about the history.” In January 2018, then CM Manohar Parrikar had said that the history of Goa’s Liberation struggle and that of the Opinion Poll movement would be included in the school curriculum before the commencement of 2019-20 academic year  Sawant said that the state will prepare a vision document for next 60 years. The Goa Vision Document 2035 prepared by a committee headed by top scientist Raghunath Mashelkar remains unimplemented since 2012. At the 59th Liberation Day function, Sawant had promised to implement the vision document and had appealed to all stakeholders for support to make Goa golden. In February, Sawant had even met with Mashelkar and the Vibrant Goa Foundation to discuss the implementation of the report’s recommendations. Sawant had said that a task force will be constituted to review the vision document and provide inputs for a phase-wise implementation of the report in the state. The report, prepared by the Goa Golden Jubilee Development Council constituted on July 26, 2010, and submitted to then chief minister Manohar Parrikar in July 2012, was never implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/freedom-struggle-to-be-part-of-school-curriculum-cm/articleshow/79787594.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||‘Reduced income and hunger forced 62% people to borrow money to buy food’||JAIPUR: The findings of a survey - Hunger Watch - on Rajasthan’s hunger and nutrition status of the last nine months, conducted by Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan, showed that 51% respondents had no income in April-May and the earnings of 67% households in September-October was lower than their income before lockdown. It also revealed that 26% of them were bereft of income in September-October as well. Reduced income and hunger had forced 62% of the respondents to take loans/borrow money to buy food. Around 80% of the respondents believe that their level of nutrition has decreased and overall food intake has also decreased. In Kota city, the situation was the worst, according to the survey. Around 90% of the respondents in Kota said they had to sleep hungry. The survey was conducted among Dalits, Adivasis, sweepers, single women, transgenders, elderly, Muslims, construction workers and homeless people in cities. There were 374 respondents in the state to the survey. The survey showed that drop in income and destruction of people’s livelihoods during lockdown led to hunger and food insecurity among various sections in society. About three-fourth of the respondents said their consumption of wheat, rice and pulses had decreased and vegetable consumption of 84% respondents had gone down. The findings of the survey further revealed that 44% respondents had to sleep hungry at times and 9% had to go to sleep hungry most of the time. Before the lockdown, 22% of the families had to starve occasionally. In Jaipur, though 66% of the respondents have ration cards, only 44% of them got free ration every month and 23% got it in some months during the lockdown. While 40% got free pulses every month, 25% got it in some months. Only 6% respondents got grains in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/reduced-income-and-hunger-forced-62-people-to-borrow-money-to-buy-food/articleshow/79791017.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: PPE scare for Lake morning walkers||KOLKATA: Used PPE and other medical waste dumped on the pavements of Safari Park on Southern Avenue have spread panic among morning walkers on Wednesday. Most of the walkers were headed for the Lake on Wednesday when they got the stench of dumped waste. Medical waste and PPE were reportedly found strewn along a 100m stretch opposite Ashoka Apartment and Vivekananda Park government quarters on Southern Avenue. “There is a garbage compost unit nearby. KMC sweepers may have had dumped the waste, including PPE, on the road. Many morning walkers panicked and stopped walking along the stretch. KMC should immediately do something about it,” said Rathin Sen, a morning walker. S S Rajput, president of Lions Club that maintains Safari Park, said, “This stretch leading to Safari Park is an eyesore. The stench from the waste has made the air toxic. It’s a shame that morning walkers are subjected to such kind of atmospheric pollution when they are coming here to improve their health.” Green activist S M Ghosh, a regular at the Lake, said, “This is so alarming. The area around Rabindra Sarobar is an eco-sensitive zone, and finding this sort of waste dumped anywhere in the vicinity of the Lake is uncalled for. Both KMC and KMDA, custodian of the Lake, should wake up to such nuisance.” TOI had reported a similar incident on July 27 after used PPE was discarded by the road near the Lake. Morning walkers had alerted security guards and shot off a letter to KMDA, expressing their anguish. “At that time, we had to walk past the pavement between Bengal Rowing Club and Lake Club, where the used PPE was dumped. Similar waste was found at the entrance of Safari Park on Wednesday,” said Probir Kumar Basu, former director of NIT. A KMDA official looking after Rabindra Sarobar said, “The local police station and KMC ward office have been alerted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ppe-scare-for-lake-morning-walkers/articleshow/79785280.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||‘Reduced income and hunger forced 62% people to borrow money to buy food’||JAIPUR: The findings of a survey - Hunger Watch - on Rajasthan’s hunger and nutrition status of the last nine months, conducted by Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan, showed that 51% respondents had no income in April-May and the earnings of 67% households in September-October was lower than their income before lockdown. It also revealed that 26% of them were bereft of income in September-October as well. Reduced income and hunger had forced 62% of the respondents to take loans/borrow money to buy food. Around 80% of the respondents believe that their level of nutrition has decreased and overall food intake has also decreased. In Kota city, the situation was the worst, according to the survey. Around 90% of the respondents in Kota said they had to sleep hungry. The survey was conducted among Dalits, Adivasis, sweepers, single women, transgenders, elderly, Muslims, construction workers and homeless people in cities. There were 374 respondents in the state to the survey. The survey showed that drop in income and destruction of people’s livelihoods during lockdown led to hunger and food insecurity among various sections in society. About three-fourth of the respondents said their consumption of wheat, rice and pulses had decreased and vegetable consumption of 84% respondents had gone down. The findings of the survey further revealed that 44% respondents had to sleep hungry at times and 9% had to go to sleep hungry most of the time. Before the lockdown, 22% of the families had to starve occasionally. In Jaipur, though 66% of the respondents have ration cards, only 44% of them got free ration every month and 23% got it in some months during the lockdown. While 40% got free pulses every month, 25% got it in some months. Only 6% respondents got grains in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/reduced-income-and-hunger-forced-62-people-to-borrow-money-to-buy-food/articleshow/79791016.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||‘Reduced income and hunger forced 62% people to borrow money to buy food’||JAIPUR: The findings of a survey - Hunger Watch - on Rajasthan’s hunger and nutrition status of the last nine months, conducted by Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan, showed that 51% respondents had no income in April-May and the earnings of 67% households in September-October was lower than their income before lockdown. It also revealed that 26% of them were bereft of income in September-October as well. Reduced income and hunger had forced 62% of the respondents to take loans/borrow money to buy food. Around 80% of the respondents believe that their level of nutrition has decreased and overall food intake has also decreased. In Kota city, the situation was the worst, according to the survey. Around 90% of the respondents in Kota said they had to sleep hungry. The survey was conducted among Dalits, Adivasis, sweepers, single women, transgenders, elderly, Muslims, construction workers and homeless people in cities. There were 374 respondents in the state to the survey. The survey showed that drop in income and destruction of people’s livelihoods during lockdown led to hunger and food insecurity among various sections in society. About three-fourth of the respondents said their consumption of wheat, rice and pulses had decreased and vegetable consumption of 84% respondents had gone down. The findings of the survey further revealed that 44% respondents had to sleep hungry at times and 9% had to go to sleep hungry most of the time. Before the lockdown, 22% of the families had to starve occasionally. In Jaipur, though 66% of the respondents have ration cards, only 44% of them got free ration every month and 23% got it in some months during the lockdown. While 40% got free pulses every month, 25% got it in some months. Only 6% respondents got grains in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reduced-income-and-hunger-forced-62-people-to-borrow-money-to-buy-food/articleshow/79785273.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Two siblings run over by truck in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Two siblings died on Thursday afternoon when a truck crushed them to death near DPS Circle on Jaisalmer Bypass Road here. Both had an argument on the road and inadvertently came in front of the truck, the rear wheel of which ran over them. Both of them died on the spot. Police took both the bodies to the hospital for Covid test and deposited them in the morgue of MDM Hospital until the report was received. According to Chopasni Housing Board police, Mukesh Jogi, 20, and his sister Tili, 22, natives of Barmer, had been living in hutments with the family on Chopasni Bypass Road near DPS Circle for past some time and were earning their living by selling toys and decorative objects. “In the afternoon, both Mukesh and Tili had an argument over some issue while they were in their hut beside the road. Suddenly they came out of their hut arguing with each other and stepped down on the road, which has heavy traffic movement being a highway,” said SI Hinglajdan. During the heated argument, both brother and sister failed to notice a speeding truck approaching them and were run over by the rear tyre. “Both of them were run over by the truck one after another before it could stop and died on the spot,” said the SI. Police registered a case against the truck driver and seized the truck. Police will wait for the Covid report of the victims to be released before handing over the bodies to the family after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-siblings-run-over-by-truck-in-jodhpur/articleshow/79785278.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||‘Reduced income and hunger forced 62% people to borrow money to buy food’||JAIPUR: The findings of a survey - Hunger Watch - on Rajasthan’s hunger and nutrition status of the last nine months, conducted by Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan, showed that 51% respondents had no income in April-May and the earnings of 67% households in September-October was lower than their income before lockdown. It also revealed that 26% of them were bereft of income in September-October as well. Reduced income and hunger had forced 62% of the respondents to take loans/borrow money to buy food. Around 80% of the respondents believe that their level of nutrition has decreased and overall food intake has also decreased. In Kota city, the situation was the worst, according to the survey. Around 90% of the respondents in Kota said they had to sleep hungry. The survey was conducted among Dalits, Adivasis, sweepers, single women, transgenders, elderly, Muslims, construction workers and homeless people in cities. There were 374 respondents in the state to the survey. The survey showed that drop in income and destruction of people’s livelihoods during lockdown led to hunger and food insecurity among various sections in society. About three-fourth of the respondents said their consumption of wheat, rice and pulses had decreased and vegetable consumption of 84% respondents had gone down. The findings of the survey further revealed that 44% respondents had to sleep hungry at times and 9% had to go to sleep hungry most of the time. Before the lockdown, 22% of the families had to starve occasionally. In Jaipur, though 66% of the respondents have ration cards, only 44% of them got free ration every month and 23% got it in some months during the lockdown. While 40% got free pulses every month, 25% got it in some months. Only 6% respondents got grains in Kota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/reduced-income-and-hunger-forced-62-people-to-borrow-money-to-buy-food/articleshow/79791018.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur University to hold online, offline, mixed mode exams for all backlog students||NAGPUR: The Nagpur University would be holding examinations for backlog students of all courses, excluding certain courses, in online, offline and mixed mode according to its special rules for conduct of summer 2020 examinations. Going by the rules, a student can start off with online or offline and switch to either in case he encounters any problem in the initially preferred mode. The rules do not apply to regular students of odd semesters of all programmes, who have taken admission in the academic year 2020-21. The decision would cater to students who have cleared their final year exams but couldn’t appear in the backlog exams due to sudden lockdown and cancellation of all summer 2020 exams. All students who were to appear for the supplementary examinations of odd semesters of all the programmes which were to be held in summer 2020, and students whose examination were partially conducted before lockdown too will have to appear in the forthcoming exam. Also, all the external students of final year and final semester of LLM, MA and BA programmes can appear in the exam. The exams for these three programmes shall be held in online mode only. Only students who had filled the forms and paid the fee earlier this year before commencement of summer exam in February would be eligible. The NU has ruled out late fee to permit students to fill up form now. The backlog examinations shall be conducted by colleges in online, offline or mixed mode. The results shall be prepared on the basis of average marks of previous odd semesters for BSc and MSc forensic science. If any student is not happy with the result declared under these rules, and wishes to improve his grades, such student shall have the option to refuse the result and opt for university examination during the next semester. Such students will have to apply within 15 days of result declaration. Internal examinations for the backlog papers too will be held in all three modes at the home college itself. NU has also scrapped reassessment or revaluation scheme under these rules. The result shall be final and binding on students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-hold-online-offline-mixed-mode-exams-for-all-backlog-students/articleshow/79784333.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer elevated road work picks up speed||Ajmer: After its construction continuing for over a year, finally, the piling work of the elevated road in Ajmer city is complete, including the 91 per cent of the piling camp of the 2.6-km elevated road in the main city area. The elevated road in Ajmer has been under construction for more than a year now, affecting the markets as well as the traffic in the city. The project, under smart city, will cost around Rs 252 crore. District collector Parkesh Rajpurohit initiated the monitoring of the construction of elevated road. He directed the smart city officials to complete the construction work with speed, in coordination with different departments. The 2.6-km elevated bridge will join Martindale Bridge on one side to Agra gate and on the other side, to the roadways bus stand, flying over Station Road, Kachehri Road and Khailand market. Officials said that now, the work of 8 steel girders has been started and after that, the construction of steel concrete composite girders will be started. The elevated road will be four lane. Officials assured that they will speed up the work. But sources said that the main difficulty is the foot overbridge of railways that is between Madar Gate to railway station third number platform, and that has to be removed to construct the elevated road. Officials said that with the completion of the elevated road, traffic will be eased and there will be no jams on Station Road and commuters will be able to move directly to Jaipur Road or Pushkar Road without crossing the main markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-elevated-road-work-picks-up-speed/articleshow/79785271.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Erode||Rajinikanth will lose just like Sivaji Ganesan in politics, says TNCC ex-chief||ERODE: Former president of Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) EVKS Elangovan on Thursday said actor Rajinikanth will meet the same fate as actor Sivaji Ganesan did when he tried his hand at politics. After participating in a protest against the Centre’s new farm laws, Elangovan told reporters in Erode that with each passing day, only Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s beard was growing instead of the country’s economy. Elangovan said the Centre had betrayed farmers by bringing in the three controversial farm laws. Elangovan said the BJP will not win even a single seat in the 2021 assembly election in Tamil Nadu. “People of Tamil Nadu will not accept the BJP,” he said. He said the AIADMK’s alliance with BJP will affect its chances of victory in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/rajini-will-lose-just-like-sivaji-in-politics-says-tncc-ex-chief/articleshow/79786695.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man in custody slips from terrace of police station, dies||JAIPUR: A man, who had slipped from the terrace of Bhatta Basti police station on December 11 in an attempt to escape from police custody, died on Thursday while undergoing treatment. Soon after his death, senior police officers of Jaipur police commissionerate inquired into it and ordered a judicial probe. Aarif Sheikh, a resident of Jhotwara, was handed over to police by locals while he was allegedly caught snatching a mobile phone of a girl on December 9. While police was on the course of making papers of arrest of the accused Sheikh, he asked for water. “We have made him to sit inside the head constable’s room when he asked to have water. When he was allowed, he took the stairs inside the police station to reach the terrace. In order to escape, he grabbed the water pipe that is attached with the water tank. While he was attempting to come down while holding the pipe, he slipped. We rushed him to SMS Hospital and he was undergoing treatment at poly trauma ward. He succumbed to injuries on Thursday,” said a senior police officer. “A judicial probe has been ordered into the incident and whoever is responsible won’t be spared. Prima facie it was found that he slipped from the terrace of the police station in an attempt to escape,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime). In custodial deaths, there is also a provision of action against police officials to ensure they may not influence the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-in-custody-slips-from-terrace-of-police-station-dies/articleshow/79785287.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Class 12 girl collapses in school, dies during treatment||KOTA: A class 12 girl, who reportedly collapsed in a government school on Wednesday and was referred to MBS Hospital in Kota on Thursday morning from Bundi district hospital, died during treatment hours after her admission to the hospital. Police lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC and handed over the body to family members after postmortem while initiating investigation to ascertain the actual reason of death. Praveena Bairwa, 19, a student of government school in Ramchandraji Ka Kheda under Dablana police station, was rushed to Bundi district hospital where doctors after primary treatment referred her to MBS, Kota on Thursday early morning, SHO Ramvilas Gurjar said. The girl died during treatment at the hospital later in the morning, he added. She was either suffering from some complication in brain or was likely to have consumed a very light dose of some poisonous substance, said Dr Pawan Bhardwaj, in-charge of medical ward in Bundi district hospital. Schools were closed since March 22 due to the pandemic, however, the in the recent guidelines by the state government, the students were allowed to go to school for doubt clearing and consultancy on subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/class-12-girl-collapses-in-school-dies-during-treatment/articleshow/79785279.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Man stabbed to death by business partner||NAGPUR: A 46-year-old man, identified as Mahesh Tiwari, was allegedly stabbed to death by one Abhinav Godbole at a makeshift hotel inside Shanichara market at Kamal Chowk on Thursday over a property dispute. Apart from Godbole, police have nabbed his accomplice Mohsin Killedar. Hotel owner Nilesh Pillewan too has been booked for not alerting police regarding the murder. It’s learnt Tiwari and Godbole owned adjacent properties at Manish Nagar. They also jointly owned a hotel on the two plots which were combined. Godbole wanted Tiwari to withdraw from the partnership and vacate the portion of the hotel which was erected on his plot. This was disagreed by Tiwari leading to their bitter quarrel. A day before the murder, Godbole and Tiwari had a heated argument. After hatching a plan, Godbole asked Killedar to bring Tiwari to Kamal Chowk area. Killedar, along with a woman employee, had gone to bring Tiwari from his residence in Ganeshpeth. After dropping the woman en route, Killedar took Tiwari to Kamal Chowk where they were joined by Godbole. It was during heated exchange at the makeshift hotel, Godbole first struck Tiwari on his head with a liquor bottle then stabbed him with a kitchen knife. Tiwari collapsed in a pool of blood and breathed his last. Pachpaoli police later took Godbole and Killedar into custody. Both had been named in murder cases earlier too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-stabbed-to-death-by-biz-partner/articleshow/79784345.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Kharra capital: 62% Vid adults consume tobacco||Nagpur: Vidarbha is considered as the Kharra Capital of the country. This dubious distinction has recently got another confirmation in the form of the latest figures of National Family Health Survey 2019-20 (NFHS-5).The first data of the fifth nationwide survey in NFHS series reveals that 62% of Vidarbha’s working population (from 15 to 49 years) consumes tobacco in some or the other form. This percentage is significantly higher than the Maharashtra’s average of 44.7% and national average which is 51%.The NFHS-5 data has some interesting information on population, health, and nutrition of people from each state as well as district. In Vidarbha, 48.3% men and 13.3% women consume tobacco in raw form, in kharra, cigarette, bidi and others.Nagpur district figures show that 40.2% men and 5% women consume tobacco. This means, 45.2% of total population in the district is addicted to tobacco in some or the other form. Surprisingly, Nagpur is the last in the list of 11 Vidarbha districts. Gadchiroli tops with 87.9% of population addicted to tobacco, followed by Bhandara (80.4%) and Gondia (72.3%). It’s a known fact that tobacco causes cancer but the poor percentage of cancer screening shows that why it has remained under-diagnosed in the state. Only 0.6% men and 1.3% women in the state have undergone an oral cavity examination for oral cancer. Tobacco smoking also results in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) whose cases are increasing in Vidarbha, observed doctors.Chest physician and lung specialist Dr Akash Balki said despite being one of the major killer diseases in India, general public knows very little about COPD.“By the time I see a patient post lung attack, the organs are substantially damaged. Early diagnosis not only leads to better management of the condition but also improves the quality of life of the patients and care givers,” he said.Pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat said smoking is one of the long term risk factors. “But higher pollution levels here too in the long run can lead to COPD and lung attacks,” he said.INTERESTING FACTSMen quitting, women having tobacco, liquor As per latest survey, 10.9% women use any kind of tobacco in Maharashtra; this percentage was 5.8% in 2015-16. On the other hand, 33.8% men use any kind of tobacco in state; and this percentage was 36.2% three years ago. On the same line, 0.2% women used to consume alcohol in 2015-16 survey while 20.5% men were addicted. In 2019, 0.4% women and 14% men were consuming alcohol. Comparison clearly shows that men are leaving tobacco and liquor while women are more into it nowUrban population less addictedIn 2015-16 survey, 33.9% of urban men were addicted to tobacco as against 39.3% of rural men. The latest survey states that 26.2% of urban men consume tobacco while 40.6% of rural men are addicted to it. Comparison shows that urban men are leaving tobacco but in rural area, more men are being addicted. Even in case of liquor, 13% men in urban areas and 15% in rural areas are addicted Tobacco use among working population (15 to 49 years) in VidarbhaDistrictMen%Women%Total%Gadchiroli61.426.587.9Bhandara60.719.780.4Gondia55.117.272.3Wardha52.69.462Chandrapur49.111.360.4Yavatmal46.612.358.9Akola4410.454.4Buldhana4211.553.5Washim39.114.353.4Amravati40.8949.8Nagpur40.2545.2VIDARBHA AVERAGE48.313.361.6MAHARASHTRA AVERAGE33.810.944.7INDIA AVERAGE44.56.851.3||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kharra-capital-62-vid-adults-consume-tobacco/articleshow/79784627.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||2 injured as pillar from under-construction building falls on them||Jaipur: Two persons walking on the road were injured when a pillar from an under-construction building fell on them at Sarafa market of Bharatpur on Wednesday evening. One of the injured was critical and is undergoing treatment at the Bharatpur’s government hospital. According to police, the incident took place in the evening on Wednesday when both the pedestrians were walking on the road. Suddenly, a pillar from under-construction building fell down from the third floor. “One person sustained grave injuries while another received some bruises. Construction work at one of the shops in the market was on. We will speak to the owners of the building and investigate if we can register a case against them,” said a senior police officer. CCTV footage of the incident went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-injured-as-pillar-from-under-construction-building-falls-on-them/articleshow/79785282.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||NPTI holds back certs of students over scholarship delay||Nagpur: The National Power Training Institute (NPTI) has held back educational certificates of its 30 final-year students from the 2019-20 batch following state government’s delay in granting them scholarship for 2018-19.Another 19 students from the current session face the hurdle until the issue is resolved. The students are from the remaining batches since the Centrally-run institute decided to stop the lone undergraduate course Bachelor of Engineering (Power) four years ago.The affected students belong to OBC, VJ/NT category that witnessed a couple of policy revisions between the NDA and MVA government. These students are entitled to 50% scholarship in fee ranging from Rs1.10 to 1.28 lakh. The course is unaided and students have to pay the full course fee as decided by state’s Fee Regulatory Authority.NPTI deputy director Shekhar Mahant told TOI they have been taking an undertaking and releasing the documents. “Some students are reluctant to give the undertaking that in case the state government doesn’t release the scholarship for 2018-19, they will pay the amount. We understand they may have to appear in exam or need certificates for employment. Due care is taken to ensure no academic or job loss is incurred,” he said.Mahant said the government has released the scholarship of SC/ST students from the same batch.“When MahaDBT was started, this course was dropped from scholarship list. Later, we pursued the matter with government. But a year was lost and in new GR, though BE (power) was included, no provision was made for retrospective application of the policy. Hence, all such students are facing the problem,” he said.Divisional commissioner (social justice and welfare department) Siddarth Gaikwad said the government had taken note of the problem and will soon fix it.Babasaheb Ambedkar National Student’s Federation founder president Atul Khobragade warned of agitation in case the scholarship was not released at the earliest. “Students are suffering due to the the mismanagement of higher education department and social welfare department,” he said.Led by Khobragade, the aggrieved students had met Gaikwad a couple of days back. They appealed to the government to expedite the scholarship disbursal in order to save them from academic and job loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/npti-holds-back-certs-of-students-over-scholarship-delay/articleshow/79784353.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 18, 2020||Salem||Farmers hoist black flags atop houses condemning CM’s speech||Salem: Farmers from Poomankaradu village near Parapatty in Salem district hoisted black flags atop their houses on Thursday condemning chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for his speech in Ariyalur recently. He stated that about 92% of the farmers were ready to give their lands for the Salem-Chennai green corridor expressway. The villagers challenged Palaniswami for a debate on the proposed road project. “CM should release the names of farmers who have given their lands for the project. He should also come forward to debate with farmers about the project that affects livelihood of many farmers in Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore districts,” said V Jayaprakash, 37, a protesting villager. The villagers also appealed to the CM not to spread false information among people.They also gathered on their lands with their cattle and waved black flags in a protest on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/farmers-hoist-black-flags-atop-houses-condemning-cms-speech/articleshow/79786729.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Burglars steal Rs 2 lakh from the boot of the car parked outside home||Jaipur: Burglars broke the windshield of a car parked outside the residence of a businessman at Amba Bari on Thursday and decamped with Rs 2 lakh kept in the boot. Police said burglars chased the businessman from C-Scheme situated bank from where he had withdrawn the money. “Businessman Ajeet Singh (55) told us that two men outside the bank had told him that oil was leaking out of the tank of the car. But he ignored it and drove the car home,” said a senior police officer of Vidhyadhar Nagar. The two men on the bike followed the businessman up to his residence. “They might have robbed him too if he had taken out the cash bag. Since they failed to rob him, they stole the money from the boot of the car,” the officer said. Vidhyadhar Nagar circle inspector Virendra Kureel said, “It appears that the burglars chased the businessman. We have CCTV footages and we will trace the bike number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/burglars-steal-rs-2-lakh-from-the-boot-of-the-car-parked-outside-home/articleshow/79785291.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Triple talaq law can’t curb right to pre-arrest bail: SC||NEW DELHI: In a significant decision, the Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, declaring triple talaq mode of divorce among Muslims illegal, did not take away a person’s right to seek anticipatory bail from a competent court. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indu Malhotra and Indira Banerjee gave this ruling in a case where a man was booked under Section 4 of the Act after his estranged wife accused him of giving triple talaq and marrying a second time. She also accused the husband and his mother of harassing her for dowry. The man said he and his first wife had been estranged for the last three years. He said six months earlier, she had complained to the Masjid Committee but had not complained of any matrimonial ill treatment. It was only after he contracted a second marriage, which was permitted under Muslim personal law, that the first wife made the complaint under the triple talaq abolition law as well as Section 498A of IPC. He said he had not given divorce through triple talaq. He also said his mother was falsely roped in the case by his first wife. The Justice Chandrachud-led bench pointed to differences in provisions in the law making triple talaq an offence and that of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and said the latter expressly provided that no court should exercise its discretionary powers under Section 438 of CrPC to grant pre-arrest bail. The bench discussed Section 7(c) of the Act, which provides that “no person accused of an offence ...shall be released on bail unless the magistrate...is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for granting bail to such person”. The mandatory provision of hearing the aggrieved woman before grant of bail would mean that the accused person would have to first suffer incarceration and then apply for bail. The bench said the Act, as evident, did not expressly exclude the court’s jurisdiction to grant bail, which would include grant of pre-arrest bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/triple-talaq-law-cant-curb-right-to-pre-arrest-bail-sc/articleshow/79787850.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Patna||Glass bridge at Rajgir set to open next year||BIHARSHARIF: A transparent glass sky bridge is being constructed at Rajgir’s Nature Safari which is expected to open for visitors any time next year. The 200-feet high, 85-feet long and six-feet wide glass bridge, which will allow 40 visitors at a time, is being constructed on the lines of 120-metre-high glass bridge in Hangzhou province of China. It is the first such bridge in Bihar and second in India after Lakshman Jhula at Rishikesh. Divisional forest officer Nefamani K said, “The transparent sky glass bridge is a part of Nature Safari, which is being developed in an area of 500 acres on the historical Budh Marg. It is expected to open for public any time next year.” “Besides this, air cycling with the help of ropes, Bihar Darshan and cafeteria will be other attractions of the safari. Cottages are also being built for safe and comfortable stay of visitors,” the forest officer added. “This, along with the zoo safari, which also near completion, new cabin-like Gondola ropeway and the beautification of Venu Van are expected to significantly add to the footfalls of domestic and overseas visitors,” said hotlier Satya Prakash. Chief minister Nitish Kumar during his recent visit to Rajgir instructed the officials to ensure operation of the new ropeway in January 2021. Watch Watch: Glass bridge in Bihar’s Rajgir set to open next year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/glass-bridge-at-rajgir-set-to-open-next-year/articleshow/79784370.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Learner’s licence holders in soup as no test slot available with RTO||Nagpur: Many learner’s licence holders of Nagpur RTO will have to renew their learner’s licences and pay extra fees as the office is unable to accommodate their requests for permanent driving licence test slot upto December 31, 2020. The licence holders are those whose licences had expired during the lockdown. Union ministry of road transport and highways had extended validity of licences till December 31, 2020, as they could not be renewed during lockdown.However, they did not take driving test slots until now and are clamouring for slots as the deadline nears. Applicants are expecting special arrangments by the RTO to clear the rush. “Despite having learnt driving, we cannot drive without permanent licence,” said an applicant Amitesh Mohite. Applicants pointed out several RTOs in the state had increased the slots for driving tests and also extended timings to clear the backlog.Pune RTO is taking learning tests from 7.30am onwards and many other offices including the office of deputy RTO in Gondia are working on weekends to accommodate all LL holders."My learner's licence expired in the middle of lockdown (May 31). The government's decision to extend the document upto December 31 came as a respite. While filling the online form for permanent licence recently, I discovered no slots are available this month for giving tests. I then approached the RTO office in Giripeth. The officials said I need to get a fresh learner’s licence and appear for test in January next year,” said a LL holder.He said if no slots were available, why did the portal ask for and accepted the fees? Will it be refunded? “If the government has extended the date till December 31, why RTO officials are not accepting applications till that date even if slot is given for next month? Why RTO is not working on weekends to clear backlog of tests," he asked.A senior official from the city RTO clarified, “Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had extended the validity of licences and other documents till the December end. We are considering all these services being provided by the office.” Sources asked why these learners’ licence holders did not try to get slots in all these months since lockdown was lifted.Given the rush, the RTO could accommodate applicants of LL holders whose date of expiry was September 30. The daily quota for learner’s licence and PDL in east office is 180 each, while the slots for both the licences are 138 and 194, respectively.“With the existing quota and manpower we could not accommodate any more LL holders. So we are asking them to renew their LL.They won’t have to appear for test and would directly be eligible for PDL test one month after preparing the LL and can appear anytime within six months,” an official said.Though both city and east offices do not have separate data on how many learner’s licences had lapsed during the lockdown, a senior official said both offices had increased the slots for renewal of other documents like permits, permanent driving licence etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/learners-licence-holders-in-soup-as-no-test-slot-available-with-rto/articleshow/79784373.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Delayed salaries hit TSRTC staff||HYDERABAD: After receiving two months pending salaries ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, the employees of the state-owned Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) were hoping to receive timely salaries from December along with other pending arrears.  But to their disappointment, the corporation resorted to holding up the salaries for almost 10 days and other dues including the remaining Credit Cooperative Society (CCS) of Rs 700 crore. Ahead of the elections, the corporation released Rs 200 crore to the CCS account out of the total Rs 900 crore which was pending. “Except for the month of November during GHMC elections, we are not getting our salaries on time. The management credited September’s salary on October 10 and the August month salary on September 9. And November’s salary was credited on December 10. We have also approached the corporation several times to at least release the CCS amount so that we can avail loans and other expenditures, but in vain,” said Mohammad Mateen (name changed) who has been working as a TSRTC driver for the past eight years. The employees have attributed the current situation to the delay in appointing a full-time managing director (MD) for TSRTC, which has been pending for over two years now. Although the government has made a stop-gap arrangement by making the principal secretary of roads and buildings department as the MD, employees have said that a full-time MD was needed to take certain policy decisions and resolve the pending issues which will eventually save TSRTC from its financial crisis. “Usually, the MD of TSRTC is also given the post of vice-chairman. For instance, although the inter-state agreement was signed by Telangana and AP to resume bus services between the states, there is a shortage of at least 500 new buses. The buses we have are not in good condition, which is a huge drawback because passengers will not prefer to travel on our buses. The decision to bring in new buses is also pending because there is no full-time MD,” said Thomas Reddy of TSRTC employees’ union. As per the MoU between both the states, TSRTC will operate across 1,61,258 km in AP with 826 buses and APSRTC will operate across 1,60,999 km with 638 buses in Telangana. “Appointing a full-time MD and a board which includes chairman and other senior officials will help keep the corporation solvent and provide hassle-free service to the passengers,” Reddy added. Earlier this month, transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said that the chief minister is supporting TSRTC in every possible way through budgetary allocation, release of funds, etc. “The revenue of TSRTC is increasing steadily to pre-Covid levels because of the hard work of employees, supervisors and officers of TSRTC. The seat occupancy ratio has now increased to 63%,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delayed-salaries-hit-tsrtc-staff/articleshow/79785322.cms||Moulika.KV
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nirmal collector’s fake Facebook profile created||HYDERABAD: Nirmal collector Mohammed Musharraf Ali Faruqui has cautioned people against a fake profile that has been created in his name on Facebook. Not long ago, a 10-member gang from Rajasthan had created fake Facebook profiles of as many as 100 policemen in Telangana and a total of 230 police officers in several states. “A fake Facebook profile of mine has been created and friend requests have been sent out from this profile. Please do not accept any such request and report any such activity to FB immediately,” he said in a post on Twitter. The 2013 batch IAS officer posted screen shots of the fake profile, which shows his name as ‘Musharf Ali Faruqui’ and uses his picture. The collector’s original Facebook profile has a different spelling and has 2,438 followers apart from friends, but it is not a verified profile. He cautioned people against the fake profile on his Facebook also. Fake profiles were created about high-profile people, including IAS and IPS officers, in recent months and culprits in some cases have been arrested. As a matter of caution, some cops and IAS officers announced they are not on Facebook.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nirmal-collectors-fake-facebook-profile-created/articleshow/79785335.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Home guard’s daughter bags medical seat in Telangana's Medak district||HYDERABAD: The success of his daughter in getting a seat to study medicine has put the spotlight on a home guard in Medak district. The police fraternity in the district felicitated both father and daughter for the success that Sameera achieved. Medak district SP Chandana Deepti got the staff to organise a felicitation for home guard Tajuddin and his daughter Sameera Sahtaj at the district police headquarters. A few days ago, Toopran DSP M Kiran Kumar also showed his appreciation by felicitating them. Home guard Tajuddin, who works in Shankarampet rural police station, told TOI that his daughter had got a good rank in NEET making her eligible for a free seat in the minorities quota to pursue medical studies. She got admission into Ayaan Institute of Medical Sciences at Moinabad. “It was my daughter’s dream to study medicine. She appeared for the exams last year also but missed the seat by five marks. This time, she got the state rank of 2432 and this has brought joy to all of us,” Tajuddin, who hails from Chegunta village in Medak, told TOI. “It is my desire to serve people. I used to study for nearly 14 hours at least in preparation to get a seat,” Sameera said. Sameera has a younger sister who is also preparing to get a medical seat. Sameera studied in a private school and did her Intermediate from Government Model College, Chegunta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-guards-daughter-bags-med-seat/articleshow/79785347.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad top cop wants CCTVs at all entry-exit points||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police commissioner Nikhil Gupta wants the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) to ensure the installation of CCTV cameras at all the entry and exit points of the city. This is to keep an eye on all suspicious elements and vehicles entering or exiting the city limits.A police team has surveyed all entry/exit points and marked the locations where the CCTV cameras can be installed.The smart city authorities said some of the entry and exit points have already been covered under the ambitious project, while efforts are on to cover the other spots at the earliest.Police officers maintained that high-definition CCTV camera coverage will not only improve the rate of detection of street crimes, body and property offences, but will eventually help improve the conviction rates as well.The CCTV cameras are being installed strategically to cover all the areas of importance as well as heavy footfall.“Footage from CCTV cameras acts as irrefutable evidence in the court of law and helps the prosecution ensure that justice is delivered,” said a senior police officer.The Master System Integrator (MSI) project is worth Rs 161 crore and it includes 700 CCTV cameras, a command and control centre handled by the police, an operation command centre for the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, environmental sensors, biometric attendance system for civic body staff, a citizen web portal and digital outdoor displays.The smart city officials said the installation of poles for half of the 700 cameras has completed. “We have 150 cameras ready and installed. Most of these are at traffic junctions and other crucial locations. The feed has already started reaching the command and control centre at the police headquarters. By December-end, 200 cameras will be active,” said ASCDCL deputy CEO Shivam Pushkal.With round-the-clock live feed reaching the command and control room, the police expect to put a check on street crimes and serious property and body offences. On several occasions, suspects commit offences and manage to flee, even before victims alert the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-top-cop-wants-cctvs-at-all-entry-exit-points/articleshow/79783515.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Tigers kill 2 women, one each in Chanda, Gadchiroli||CHANDRAPUR: A daily wager woman working on fireline in core zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) was killed on Thursday morning while a woman was killed in Gadchiroli forest range on Wednesday afternoon. Official sources informed that deceased Vidya Waghade (36) from Bamangaon, a buffer village, was hired for the fireline work in core zone along with nearly three dozen labourers. She was busy clearing the shrubs on fireline in compartment no. 71 under Kolara range of the park in the morning, when incident took place. Other labourers were not too far away from her, but the attack was swift and the woman was killed on the spot before others could help. CCF and field director, TATR, Jitendra Ramgaonkar, claimed it is very rare incident when any forest labourer was killed in tiger attack. Sources claimed that usually predators avoid group of people, but the victim might have ambled away from others and fallen prey to the tiger. Ramgaonkar has directed the labourers to work in groups to avoid such incidents in future. Officials have released her body for funeral after post mortem formalities and paid ex gratia aid to her family. Ramgaonkar claimed Waghade’s kin will get compensation as per government norms. In yet another incident, one Sudha Chimlawar (58) from Gadchiroli was killed in compartment no. 174 in Gadchiroli forest range close to the town. Chimalwar along with others had gone to collect firewood when the attack took place. A tiger, during the afternoon hours, leapt on the woman and dragged her to some distance and killed her. The panicked fellow women fled away shouting for help. After they informed forest officials, a team of foresters led by ACF Sonal Bhadke and RFO DV Kaikule rushed to the spot. Investigation at the spot has confirmed that the woman was killed in tiger attack. Predators have killed 31 people in Chandrapur this year. Out of these, 24 were killed by tigers, six by leopards and one was killed in wild boar attack. Four people have been killed in predator attacks in Gadchiroli this year. Three of them have been killed by tigers, while one was killed by leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tigers-kill-2-women-one-each-in-chanda-gadchiroli/articleshow/79784389.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 18, 2020||Erode||Seeman says no to alliance, his party to contest in all 234 seats||Erode: Naam Tamilar Katchi (NTK) founder Seeman said his party would not form an alliance with any party in the 2021 assembly election and would contest in all the 234 constituencies in the state. “We are not bothered about other parties forming alliances to fight the election,” Seeman told reporters in Erode on Thursday. He was in the city to appear before a judicial magistrate in the district court as part of a trial. Seeman said politicians who are opposing Dravidian parties should not invoke the names of leaders of such parties to cite as an example. Recently Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan said he grew up on the lap of MGR and he’s an asset to the people of Tamil Nadu. On contentious farm laws, the NTK leader said his party opposes the laws. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami should explain about the new farm laws to the people, he said. On Thursday, Seeman, Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam president ‘Kolathur’ Mani and Tamil Desa Podhuvudamai Katchi (TDPK) general secretary Maniarasan came to the judicial magistrate court-1 to get the chargesheet of a case. He was booked for a speech on LTTE in a public meeting organized by TDPK in the city on December 14, 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/seeman-says-no-to-alliance-his-party-to-contest-in-all-234-seats/articleshow/79786787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM for stormwater drains, old-age homes in all towns||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked officials of urban development and housing department (UDHD) to develop stormwater drainage system in all towns in the state to prevent waterlogging. The CM also asked the officials to expedite the work on development of old-age homes in every town for the senior citizens, well- off or poor, who don’t have anyone to look after them. The CM issued the instructions while reviewing the work of the UDHD under ‘Aatmnirbhar Bihar Ke Saat Nischay 2.0’ scheme. UDHD secretary Anand Kishore made a presentation on various ongoing works, including stormwater drainage, electric crematorium and solid and liquid waste management. The CM asked the officials to prepare an action plan and start work on construction of multi-storey buildings for rehabilitation of the homeless poor in various towns. “Old-age homes should be constructed at a fast pace in all towns for senior citizens, irrespective of whether they are poor or rich. Such shelter homes should have adequate amenities, including food and healthcare. The department should look after the maintenance and management of these shelter homes,” Nitish said. Additional chief secretary (social welfare department) made a presentation on construction of old-age shelter homes, their proper operations and maintenance. “Solid and liquid waste management will ensure developed and spick-and-span towns. Advance technology should be used for recycling of garbage. Jeevika workers are being roped in for recycling of garbage at some places. Works being done at many other places in the country in this regard can also be studied for their implementation here,” the CM said. The CM also asked the officials to identify places for cremation in every district and develop them at a fast pace. “Steps should be taken for electric crematorium and development of cremation grounds on the banks of rivers. Bans Ghat is the oldest ghat in Patna. Arrangement should be made for construction of more electric crematoriums and other cremation places. Ganga river has shifted away from Bans Ghat. Two ponds should be constructed at the electric crematorium here and filled with Ganga water,” Nitish said. He added washroom, toilet, changing rooms, drinking water and canteen facilities should also be developed at the cremation grounds. “In several ghats, last rites are performed as per traditional, religious and historical beliefs. Such ghats should also be developed. Also, a place should be identified in villages for development of crematoriums,” the CM said, adding approach roads should also be constructed for crematoriums. Deputy CM and UDHD minister Tarkishore Prasad also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-for-stormwater-drains-old-age-homes-in-all-towns/articleshow/79784527.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 18, 2020||Patna||Nalanda judge’s car pelted with stones||BIHARSHARIF: An additional district judge in Nalanda escaped unhurt when his car was pelted with stones after a collision with a motorbike on Thursday evening. Jaikishore Dubey, the additional district judge (ADJ-1) of Hilsa court, was returning home after work around 4.30 pm when the motorbike collided head-on with his vehicle near Hilsa Surya Mandir. According to the police, the bike rider had a scuffle with the driver of the judge’s vehicle, following which he threw a stone which damaged the rear windshield of the car. Soon, five accomplices of the biker joined in and attacked the driver. They reportedly also fired at the car. Confirming the incident, Hilsa SDPO Krishna Murari said the biker threw a stone at the judge’s vehicle and said that some of the accomplices of the biker misbehaved with the driver. “One of the miscreants fired a shot in the air after the judge had already left the spot. The process of lodging FIR and identifying the miscreants is underway,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nalanda-judges-car-pelted-with-stones/articleshow/79784511.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Need paradigm shift in attitude towards agriculture: VP Naidu||Coimbatore: There is a need for a paradigm shift in the governments, Parliament, legislature and NITI Aayog’s attitude towards agriculture, giving it attention and encouragement, said Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu. Delivering the 41st convocation address at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University on Thursday, he said they should understand the problems of agriculture and address them in a timely basis. He said the government should always lend a helping hand to farmers and agriculture, which is already prone to the vagaries of the monsoon.Naidu said though all state and central governments are adding facilities for farmers like rural godowns, cold storages, refrigeration vans and affordable cheap credit, a lot more needed to be done to encourage agriculture and farmers, who work not only for themselves but for the whole country.However, the vice-president also praised the government’s efforts to handhold farmers and ensure they had access to seeds, pesticides, fertilizers and machinary during the Covid-19 lockdown resulting in increase in kharif cultivation. Naidu said there was a need to increase resilience of Indian crops, by developing stress resistant varieties. “The direct impact of climate change over the next few decades will be on agriculture and food systems. The situation calls for development of climate resilient crops and varieties which can withstand stresses such as drought, flood, submergence, heat, cold, salinity, pests and diseases,” he said.He requested TNAU to develop more engineered genotypes using traditional and biotechnological tools for biotic and abiotic stress resistance. Noting that Tamil Nadu had bagged the “Best State Award for water management” for the year 2019 from the ministry of jal shakti, the vice-president said, “The performance of the state in agriculture and allied activities over the years has been exemplary in terms of production and adoption of high yielding varieties and technologies.”Naidu also praised the university for using technologies like genome editing and CRISPR-Cas9. He advised the university and agriculture ministry to ensure that farmers receive remunerative prices through better storage, processing and efficient market mechanisms for farm inputs, financing and sale of outputs. As many as 2,942 students graduated this year from the university. Of them, 156 of them received degrees on the dais. While 57 of them were medal winners, 99 students just received their degrees. Governor Banwarilal Purohit gave away the medals. Animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/need-paradigm-shift-in-attitude-towards-agriculture-vp-naidu/articleshow/79786819.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||2 lakh acres of forest land encroached in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district||HYDERABAD: Even as TRS legislator from Pinapaka Rega Kantha Rao called upon tribals to resist forest staff if they try to take back podu land, forest officials have armed themselves with facts and figures to show the ground-level reality of forest cover and land in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. According to a status report, two lakh acres of forest land is under illegal occupation in the district. In several posts on Facebook in the last three days, Kantha Rao called tribals to ‘settle the issue once and for all’ with forest officials. “Or else, we will be thrown on to the roads. I am preparing for a battle with forest officials after my return from Hyderabad,” Kantha Rao said in an FB post on December 15 asking TRS party leaders and workers to join the fight. Forest officials have taken cognisance of the statements of the legislator but are not perturbed. “If there are genuine cases where tribals are being removed from land that belongs to them, these will be looked into and the matter will be settled amicably,” Bhadradri- Kothagudem divisional forest officer L Ranjeet Nayak told TOI. He, however, said it was not for him to react to the legislator’s comments. What forest officials have noticed on the two lakh acres of forest land that is under illegal occupation is that there are others who are not tribals. When forest officials try to remove the squatters, invariably, tribals are brought to the fore. In such land tracts, brick kilns have been constructed by the squatters. With Kantha Rao calling to battle it out with forest officials once again, the department is reportedly taking up the matter with the government. Officials have informed the staff that if there was any likelihood of a situation of them being attacked, police should be informed while removing th squatters or taking back forest land under illegal occupation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2l-acres-of-forest-land-encroached/articleshow/79785354.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Civic administrator sets deadline of 6 months to finish BOT projects||Aurangabad: The officials and contractors involved in carrying out the build-operate-transfer (BOT) works in the city have been warned by civic administrator Astik Kumar Pandey to complete the work within six months. “If the works are not completed in another six months, action would be initiated including imposition of fine,” Pandey said. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is carrying out various development works under the BOT plan at the Aurangpura vegetable market, Siddharth Garden, Vasant Bhavan, Shahgunj vegetable market, Shahnoorwadi European market, Cidco Town Centre and Vedant Nagar. Pandey, on Thursday, reviewed the ongoing works and discussed the issues that may delay the completion of these projects. Warning that strict action would be taken if the projects are not completed on time, he asked the in-charge officials to ensure that deadlines are met at any cost. While discussing the recently sanctioned Rs 152 crore for the construction of 23 roads, Pandey reviewed the coordination between Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation. He assured the authorities of removing all the obstacles and encroachments that are hindering the completion of these works. Following the review meeting, responsibilities of each of the senior officials associated with the projects were fixed. Additional commissioner-II Ravindra Nikam has been tasked with the responsibility to remove encroachments, while assistant director of town planning Jayant Kharwadkar has been asked to fix the central line. Executive engineer Kiran Dhande and Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran official Kiran Patil have been asked to look after the planning and vigilance to ensure that no obstructions are created during the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-administrator-sets-deadline-of-6-months-to-finish-bot-projects/articleshow/79783522.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramappa to have sculpture institute||HYDERABAD: A traditional stone sculpture institution will be set up at the over 800-year-old Ramappa temple at Palampet near Warangal. TRS MLC Pochampalli Srinivas Reddy, who visited Tirumala on Thursday along with Rajya Sabha MP J Santosh Kumar and MLC Naveen Rao, said a detailed project report will be submitted to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao about the proposed institution. Srinivas Reddy said it was with the intention of setting up the sculpture institute that they visited TTD’s stone sculpture production wing at Tirumala. To develop Ramappa as an international tourist destination, efforts had already begun, he said. “The intention is to set up the stone sculpture institute on the piece of island in the lake at Ramappa temple,” Srinivas Reddy said, adding it would be the ideal location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramappa-to-have-sculpture-institute/articleshow/79785358.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Talathi found hanging in hotel room, probe on||Aurangabad: A 43-year-old talathi serving with the Bhokardan revenue division of Jalna district allegedly died by suicide after hanging himself in one of the rooms of a hotel he owned in Sillod. The deceased has been identified as Dinesh Jaiswal, a resident of Sillod. Police said that on Wednesday night, he went to his hotel on the highway, climbed up to the third floor and hanged himself. “He has left a suicide note claiming that he was taking the extreme step due to ‘medical reasons’. We are trying to find out the exact nature of his ailment which prompted him to take the extreme step,” said Rajendra Bokade, inspector at Sillod police station. The incident came to light when one of the hotel staffers went to the third floor. Bokade said soon after receiving informtaion, a police team went to the spot and brought his body down. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police said preliminary probe has revealed that Jaiswal was a former serviceman and had joined the revenue department a few years ago. Those close to him said he was not facing any problem on personal or professional front. Police have registered a case of accidental death and initiated a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/talathi-found-hanging-in-hotel-room-probe-on/articleshow/79783536.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||509 Covid-19 cases, three deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 509 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, even as Hyderabad continues to report more cases. While the number of cases so far has reached 2,79,644, the death toll stands at 1,505. So far, 2,70,967 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The number of active cases in the state has dropped to 7,172 now, continuing its downward trend. The recovery rate is now at 97% as against the country average of 95%, while the case fatality rate is 0.53%. On Wednesday, a total of 48,652 tests were conducted and authorities said Telangana has now crossed a total of 63 lakh tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/509-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79787555.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Nanded: Two men involved in mobile thefts arrested||Aurangabad: Nanded police on Thursday arrested two men, who committed phone thefts from shops and houses in the district, and sold those stolen articles at their own mobile phone shop. Bhagyanagar police arrested the accused identified as Irfan Khan (20) of Wajegaon and Aslam Khan (28) of Dhanegaon. Articles including LED televisions, watches, digital cameras, 42 mobile phones, a moped and some other articles have been recovered from the accused, who have reportedly confessed. Pramod Kumar Shewale, the Nanded superintendent of police, has termed it to be a unique modus operandi. “The accused easily evaded police’s radar by carrying out regular business from their shop during the day,” said the officer. Abhimanyu Solunke, an inspector of Bhagynagar police station, said recently a mobile shop was burgled by unidentified suspects. After a mobile shop owned by a disabled person was targeted by unidentified suspects, police deployed multiple teams to solve the case  Accordingly, IMEI numbers of some of the stolen phones were handed over to the cybercrime division to trace the users. “During the probe, IMEI numbers of the stolen phones were traced and it was found that one of them was being used by a person from Mukhed taluka. After he was summoned, he informed about the Tuppa-based shop from where he purchased the mobile phone,” said the officer. The police found that the mobile phone was sold on a forged bill, following which, the two suspects were rounded up for questioning. They then confessed of committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nanded-two-men-involved-in-mobile-thefts-arrested/articleshow/79783530.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 18, 2020||Salem||Oarsman held for raping woman||Dharmapuri: A 45-year-old man was arrested for raping a 40-year-old woman at Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district on Thursday. Police said S Murthy, an oarsman from Hogenakkal, saw the woman, who is from Karnataka, waiting to take a coracle from Marukottai village to cross the Cauvery river to his sister’s house at Hogenakkal on December 15. “Murthy approached the woman and offered a raid across the river. When he reached the river bank in Hogenakkal, he overpowered the woman and raped her. The woman’s sister who came to spot to pick her up raised an alarm. Immediately, Murthy escaped from the spot,” a police officer attached with the Hogenakkal police station said. After the woman lodged a complaint, the police registered a case and took the woman to the government hospital at Pennagaram. The police also launched a search for the accused and managed to arrest him on Thursday. Later, the accused was lodged at the Salem central prison. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/oarsman-held-for-raping-woman/articleshow/79786852.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mineral water makes way for Bhagiratha||HYDERABAD: A new brand of water has replaced the commonly known and popular mineral water brands at official meetings in Telangana. The water that is now being consumed is ‘Mission Bhagiratha’ water with a sticker identifying it. Through the ‘Mission Bhagiratha’ project in Telangana, drinking water has been made available in several districts. The source of the water being Krishna river and Godavari river and it is purified at water treatment plants. It is supplied to households in habitations with overhead water service reservoirs for storage. With officials slowly switching over to consuming only Mission Bhagiratha water at meetings, there is curiosity about whether this bottled water will be available in the market for the common public on commercial lines as a brand. “No, there will be no commercial sale of the water as a brand. At official meetings, it was advised to consume only this water so that people in the villages and wherever Mission Bhagiratha water is being supplied will know that they are also getting safe and quality water,” Mission Bhagiratha engineer-in-chief G Krupakar Reddy said. At a meeting on Wednesday, CM’s secretary Smita Sabharwal said more programmes must be held to spread awareness and encourage people to consume Mission Bhagiratha water. At the meeting, Mission Bhagiratha water bottles with a sticker were conspicuous.  In Nalgonda, collector Prashant Patil while displaying the water bottles said: “Mission Bhagiratha water is as good as packaged drinking water. This water is provided to five lakh households in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mineral-water-makes-way-for-bhagiratha/articleshow/79785363.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Mouthwash can kill Covid-19 virus in 30 seconds: Study||HYDERABAD: Can something as innocuous as a mouthwash kill Covid-19? Well it can, if the results of a preliminary laboratory-based research study conducted by the Dr HSJ Institute of Dental Sciences at Panjab University in collaboration with the CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) are anything to go by. The study has found that commonly used mouthwash Chlorhexidine, which has broad spectrum bactericidal and virucidal properties, can effectively kill SARS Cov-2 virus in just 30 seconds. The study titled `Chlorhexidine: An effective anti-Covid mouth rinse’ was supported by Hyderabad-based pharma major Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and the Design Innovation Centre at Panjab University. Researchers involved in the study found that chlorhexidine digluconate mouth rinses in 0.2% concentration kill more than 99.9% of SARS CoV-2 virus in a minimal contact time of 30 seconds. Studies have shown that SARS Cov-2 virus colonizes in the oral and nasal cavities and mouth rinses can be an effective way to reduce the colonization and possibly reduce the transmission of infection as well. The author of the study, Dr Ashish Jain from the Dr HSJ Institute of Dental Sciences, said: “Our study revealed that a mouth rinse with the required concentration of Chlorhexidine killed coronavirus within 30 seconds after being exposed in a laboratory. These are the initial results from the lab studies and need to be verified through clinical studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mouthwash-can-kill-covid-19-virus-in-30-seconds-study/articleshow/79787570.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru infra to get big upgrade in 2 years: CM BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: The BS Yediyurappa government on Thursday rolled out Bengaluru Mission 2022 that aims to revamp city infrastructure over the next two years. “It’s the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to see Bengaluru as one of the best cities in the world. We’ll work to fulfil his wish,’’ he said after launching the blueprint. The roadmap will focus on five broad areas: easing traffic bottlenecks, making public transport more accessible and affordable, improving lung spaces, connecting people with the city’s art and culture, and providing digitally enabled services. Two mega tree parks plannedThe government plans to create two new lung spaces on the lines of Cubbon Park by repurposing lands of public sector undertakings NGEF and Mysuru Lamps. The government will establish a culture, heritage and crafts museum at NGEF to showcase the state’s culture. An interactive digital show of the city’s journey into a premier innovation hubs — Itihaas-Bengaluru’s technology history — will be set up at Mysore Lamps Factory. Two mega tree parks, each of 400 acres, will be developed on the outskirts of the city and turn existing mini-parks at JP Nagar, Turahalli, Kadugodi and Mattikere into popular destinations. The government plans to set up a unified citizens’ connect portal to make services easily accessible. The BBMP’s Sahaya portal will be redesigned as a one-stop platform for grievance redressal. To reduce traffic bottlenecks, the government plans to develop 12 high-density corridors, stretching up to 190 km, in coordination with the Karnataka Road Development Corporation. An annual maintenance contract would be given for 400km of arterial roads and it will promote shared electric vehicles and ensure operations of suburban rail within the next two years. The government will refurbish existing waste-processing plants and implement GPS-based monitoring of waste collection and rehabilitate legacy dump sites to ensure efficient waste management. Yediyurappa said funds have been set aside for all the works and they will be completed in a time-bound manner. He asserted that financial distress due to Covid-19 would not get in the way of development. However, the opposition dubbed it as “old wine in an old bottle”. “The roadmap seems to be a compilation of ongoing works and those in the pipeline. It clearly suggests the government is making attempts to lure urban voters ahead of the BBMP elections,’’ said a Congress functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-infra-to-get-big-upgrade-in-2-yrs-cm/articleshow/79787982.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Cop traces stolen vehicle’s owner using e-challan device||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police constable used the e-challan device to trace the address of the owner of a two-wheeler that was found abandoned at a busy commercial area of the city. Eventually, the constable helped the owner get his motorcycle back, which was allegedly stolen about 10 days ago from the Jalna district. The newly bought vehicle was lying abandoned since December 8 at Roplekar Chowk. Mukund Deshmukh, the city traffic division’s inspector, said on Thursday morning traffic constable Sohel Shaikh was heading for duty when one of his sources informed him about the vehicle lying unattended for the past few days. The constable immediately punched the vehicle’s registration number and found it to be registered in the name of one Hukumchand Bajaj of Mantha tehsil of Jalna. Using the information, including Bajaj’s cellphone number, Shaikh contacted him, only to learn the bike was stolen when he had been to Jalna for some work on December 8. A case of theft was also registered with taluka police station. Shaikh immediately alerted Deshmukh, who contacted his counterpart in Jalna police and cross-verified the claims. “The vehicle was handed over to Jawahar Nagar police station and in the afternoon a panchanama was carried out before officially giving it to the investigation officer who had come from Jalna,” he said. Authorities said Maharashtra has opted for e-challan system, which is backed by centrally available data including contact number of the person under whose name the vehicle is registered.  Shaikh’s approach of tracking down the owner has given the police a reason to use the device to reach out to the owners of the abandoned vehicles, without contacting RTO office for details of the vehicle owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cop-traces-stolen-vehicles-owner-using-e-challan-device/articleshow/79783545.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Squads of woman cops to curb chain-snatching cases||Aurangabad: The city police have formed 10 special squads of woman officers and constables, which will patrol the parks, grounds, and streets to curb chain-snatching incidents, especially in the early morning hours. Police have also identified places of worship, where people throng in large numbers. These special squads will visit each of these places. These squads, headed by woman officers of the special branch, crime branch, passport branch and others, will reach out to women going for morning walks and update them on the precautions to be taken to prevent chain snatchings, said Nikhil Gupta, the commissioner of police. Moreover, police have printed over 15, 000 handbills with a list of ‘dos and don’ts’ to stops chain snatchers, who usually target women in upscale localities and deserted areas. The list suggests that people should avoid showing off ornaments while out on the streets and women should not hold their phones and purses casually. They should remain vigilant. A contact number has been shared that can be used in case of an emergency. Anil Gaikwad, a crime branch inspector, said they are confident that the initiative will bring a check on chain snatching incidents. The officer said masked bike-borne chain snatchers often flee the city before the victims can even alert the police. After then, identifying and nabbing them becomes an uphill task. As per the statistics, since January this year, 20 chain snatching cases have been reported, of which, three have been solved. The cases remained unsolved due to the absence of any specific clue about the suspects. Meanwhile, in 2019, 42 cases were reported, of which seven were solved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/squads-of-woman-cops-to-curb-chain-snatching-cases/articleshow/79783552.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||10% of IIT-JEE rank holders in Google: Study||BENGALURU: Google employs about 10% of the IIT-JEE toppers and rank holders of the past four decades, indicating it’s one of the most-coveted companies to work for, a report by staffing firm Xpheno says. Google is followed by Microsoft and Facebook, where 4% and 3% of the rank holders work, respectively. Other companies include Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Oracle, Adobe, Intel and Uber, reports Avik Das. 77% of all rank holders work in corporate jobsSome rank holders are in the world of academics, working in Cornell University, Stanford University and IIT-Bombay. The list includes toppers dating back to 1979 and about two other rank holders every year, making the sample size about 125. Xpheno said it was difficult to trace the current status of some of the rank holders. Google CEO Sundar Pichai did his engineering from IIT Kharagpur, but he was not among the IIT-JEE rank holders. Prasadh MS, technology specialist at Xpheno, said what is also interesting is that 7 of the 12 toppers in Google are PhDs. In Microsoft, 3 of the 5 toppers are PhDs. The data shows that such higher degrees are greatly coveted in product companies globally. In the US, a PhD is valued because engineers get opportunities to work in famed research labs of Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Intel or companies like Ford. The IITians in Google work in areas of data science, search quality, and also as research scientists. “We need to have a vibrant corporate research ecosystem which will make it lucrative for students to pursue PhD. Ours is a servicesdriven industry. We need to have an Indian industry which works on design, IP creation and then manufacturing,” IIT-Kanpur director Abhay Karandikar told TOI a few months ago. About 77% of the toppers work in corporates, 14% in academics and just 9% are entrepreneurs, showing that a more stable job remained the preference of most of them. Almost 56% of the rank holders did not pursue higher studies, 18% opted for an MS degree. Nine out of the 10 rank holders who pursued higher education left the shores of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-of-iit-jee-rank-holders-in-google-study/articleshow/79787985.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Parts of Class 6 textbook out after Brahmin board objects||BENGALURU: A day after a delegation of the Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board met CM BS Yediyurappa with a representation, the government on Thursday directed officials to take immediate steps to remove controversial portions of a Class 6 social science textbook which purportedly hurt the sentiments of the community, reports BV Shivashankar. The delegation, led by board chairman HS Sachidananda Murthy, had sought the removal of portions a chapter which mentioned that there was a food scarcity during the Vedic period (1500 BC to 600 BC) because homa and havana (fire rituals) were performed by offering large quantities of foodgrains, milk, ghee and other materials. Textbook move raises eyebrowst also refers to the ritual of Ianimal sacrifice during the yagna and points that the animals sacrificed were in fact helpful to farmers in cultivation. The delegation complained that similar observations have been made in chapters in the class 9 social sciences textbook too. At a meeting on Thursday, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar directed the Department of State Educational Research and Training and Karnataka Textbook Society to review the textbooks of classes 6 and 9 and submit a report within two weeks. Hours later, though, the government ordered the removal of two pages in chapter 7 of part I of the social science textbook. “Apparently, it is a deliberate attempt to denigrate our community and impose an ideology on students. We hope the government will understand this and take steps to remove the misleading portions immediately,” said Sachidananda Murthy after meeting the CM. Sri Subhudendra Tirtha Swam of Mantralaya had urged the government to remove these controversial lines. Objection was also raised to mentions that Sanskrit was the language of priests and commoners did not understand it, and that new religions came into existence to counter the dominance of Brahmins. Suresh Kumar said: “We got to know these chapters were not added by our government; it was done during the Congress regime. So, we have asked them to re-examine the content.” The revised textbooks were introduced in 2017. The government’s movehas raised eyebrows. “It should have consulted subject experts. It should not have taken a unilateral decision since the textbooks are prepared by domain experts. It only shows they are not democratic,” said Baraguru Ramachandrappa, who headed the textbook revision committee during the Congress government. KTBS managing director MP Made Gowda said textbooks of classes 1 to 10 will be reviewed for objectionable content and a report will be submitted. “It is not our job to add or delete chapters. It is up to the government to alter the content,” he said. An outcry over attempts to remove chapters on Tipu Sultan from textbooks last year had put the government on the defensive and it finally dropped the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/parts-of-class-6-textbook-out-after-brahmin-board-objects/articleshow/79787986.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid panel suggests Jan 1 for reopening Class 10, 12 in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The Technical Advisory Committee for Covid-19 recommended that offline classes for Grade 10 and II PU students can start from January 1. This will be followed by classes for Grade 11 and I PU from January 15. Vidyagama in its new form — classes in small groups on campus — for classes 6-9 can also be held from January 1. The committee on Thursday discuss issues on reopening of schools. The dates will be discussed with the chief minister before finalising them. The meeting was attended by education minister and department officials. The committee also recommended that the state should wait for some more time before rolling out Vidyagama for primary classes. Sources said the government will wait for the high court order on it. The government has already informed the court that it’s ready to relaunch Vidyagama for all classes with modifications from January 1. Students need parent nod to return to schoolAccording to the recommendations, students should come to school with a consent letter from parents. The letter should have an undertaking that students have no symptoms like sore throat, cold or cough. Those with any symptoms should not attend classes. According to sources, the SOP is ‘almost in place’. Before classes start, the panel will meet school managements, School Development Monitoring Committees and other stakeholders to instil confidence .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-panel-suggests-jan-1-for-reopening-class-10-12-in-ktaka/articleshow/79787991.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chennai||PSLV-C50 places communication satellite CMS-01 precisely in orbit||Chennai: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Thursday marked the second successful mission of the year with its reliable workhorse PSLV-C50 (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle) placing the country’s 42nd communication satellite CMS-01 precisely into its intended orbit. Isro’s next mission PSLV-C51 will unlock India’s potential in the space sector and initiate a new era of space reforms as it will launch three satellites built by private entities. Around 20 minutes and 12 seconds after the lift-off at 3.41pm on Thursday, PSLV-C50 successfully placed CMS-01 into a sub-geosynchronous orbit. Addressing scientists from the Mission Control Centre after the launch, Isro chairman K Sivan said, “The solar panels of the satellite have been successfully deployed. On December 21, the satellite will be placed in the specified slot in the geosynchronous orbit after a series of manoeuvres.” With a mission life of seven years, CMS-01 will provide communication services in the extended-C band of the frequency spectrum. The extended-C band coverage will include Indian mainland, Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands. CMS-01 will go on to replace GSAT-12 launched in 2011. Thursday’s launch was PSLV’s 52nd flight and 22nd flight in the ‘XL’ variant with six strap-on boosters. It was also the 77th launch mission from the Sriharikota spaceport. This was the second launch of 2020 after PSLV-C49 successfully placed an all-weather earth imaging satellite EOS-01 and nine other foreign satellites into its orbit on November 7. “The next mission PSLV-C51 will be special for us and for the country. It is going to initiate a new era of space reforms,” Sivan said. He added PSLV-C51 will carry an earth observation satellite called ‘Anand’ by a startup called Pixxel India. It will be the first in a series of satellites from the startup. Along with ‘Anand’, two other satellites Satish Sat by Spacekidz India and Unity Sat by a consortium of universities will also be launched. “This will be a first of its kind in India bringing private people for enabling space activities in the country. I am sure they will take space activities further and provide services for the entire country,” he said. “At the same time, we have a lot of work to do,” he added. Sivan said activities for the third moon mission Chandrayaan-3, flagship programme Aditya L1 and the manned space mission Gaganyaan were going on. “Along with that, we have a series of missions on hand, including the much-awaited GSLV and SSLV missions. I am sure team Isro will as usual rise to the occasion and meet the country’s demands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pslv-c50-places-communication-satellite-cms-01-precisely-in-orbit/articleshow/79786949.cms||U Tejonmayam
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||New Town pony admitted to hospital as condition worsens||KOLKATA: A three-week-old pony that had been hit by a speeding vehicle in front of a New Town mall earlier this month and treated by some good Samaritans for the last two weeks was admitted to a veterinary hospital on Thursday after his condition started deteriorating. The pony is a member of four stray horses in New Town. “We had tried our best to take utmost care of the pony by dressing its wound regularly. But the pony slept on dust and grass and the infection on its leg has aggravated. A local veterinarian suggested that we get it admitted to a hospital at the earliest as he feared the pony might lose its leg or die of the wound,” said Akanshya Pandey, an animal lover and one of the good Samaritans who had volunteered to inject medicines to the injured pony and dress its wound regularly. They named the animal Rio. The pony was hit by a speeding vehicle on December 3 and it suffered a grievous injury on its left leg. A group of New Town residents and cops came together to rescue the animal and called for a veterinarian who rendered first aid to it. After this, it was able to stand up on its feet and graze along with three other stray horses by the evening. The locals are even organising a small crowdfunding to support the treatment of the pony. “However, the pony needed regular dressing and this was not possible to track it everyday. We had to send out messages on social media and local WhatsApp groups of New Town residents to help us track the pony. We had even thought of attaching a GPS tracker to it. But even when it could be tracked, it was a difficult task to dress its wound properly as none of us are experts in handling large animals like horse,” said Arkaprabha Bhar, another animal lover in New Town. But even as the pony was transferred to a hospital run by a Sonarpur-based NGO, Chhaya, the doctor suggested that it needed to stay with its mother for milk. “We had a tougher time catching the mother horse. After a day’s failed attempt, we called in a horse handler from Maidan, who could bring the horse under control and put it on a mini truck before we sent her to the hospital,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of a New Town-based NGO, NTFN, that facilitated the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-pony-admitted-to-hosp-as-condition-worsens/articleshow/79785416.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Students oppose UoH’s move to levy fee for quarantine||HYDERABAD: The students are up in arms against University of Hyderabad’s move to levy fee towards utilisation of the guest house as the Covid-19 quarantine facility even as the administration is yet to declare phase wise reopening of all disciplines. Ahead of the academic council (AC) meeting scheduled for December 22, the UoH condemned the varsity’s move to charge Rs 500 per day at the university guest house. “In these unprecedented times, it is not possible for students to cough up a sum of Rs 5,000-Rs 6,000 towards the quarantine facility. The charges must be dropped and the same should be provided to the students free of cost,” said Abhishek Nandan, UoH student union president. The university officials said that it is not a quarantine fee as termed by students and is merely a subsidised fee that is levied on anyone who avails the guest house. “We are not geared up to have an exclusive quarantine facility within the campus. For those who need one, we are either providing them the option of quarantine facilities in hospitals or are offering the in-house guest house,” said Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson of UoH, adding that students who cannot afford can always appeal to the university for relief. Not just this, students have also opposed the administration’s delay in reopening of the university for all disciplines, failure to fill up vacant MPhil/PhD seats and lack of clarity on an extension to all MPhil/PhD scholars to submit their thesis. In the run-up to the AC meeting, the students have planned series of protests, including a social media storm that was held on Thursday. Students argue that the university has closed the admission process without filling all the vacant seats. While students are also demanding the reopening of the university, the authorities are now exploring options following the outbreak at the India Institute of Technology, Madras. “We are in the process of collecting some student data from all such departments that have laboratory, experimental or practicals as part of their coursework. If the numbers are high in each department, then we may stagger the return of students for practicals,” said Pavarala, adding that the university is aiming for reopening latest by January-end or February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-oppose-uohs-move-to-levy-fee-for-quarantine/articleshow/79787591.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||PM concerned over violence at Wistron K’taka factory: BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Thursday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has expressed concern over violence at iPhone manufacturing company Wistron at Narasapur in Kolar district and asked the government to not let such incidents recur in the state. The CM told reporters that the state government has already taken measures and declared it’s committed to punishing the perpetrators of the violence. “Such an incident should not have happened. Foreign companies are important to us. We will do everything to restore their confidence in us,’’ he added. Yediyurappa said the state government was offering full support to the company to resume its operations at the earliest and without fear. The government’s action comes two days after the Centre pulled up the state for workers’ unrest at Wistron and delayed police response after violence broke out at the factory on Saturday. Karnataka labour minister Shivaram Hebbar termed the violence ‘unfortunate’. Contracted workers had ransacked the plant on Saturday, alleging harassment and non-payment of salaries. The company has put the loss at Rs 43 crore. Police have arrested more than 160 workers in connection with the violence. The Narasapur taluk president of SFI has been arrested on charges of instigating workers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-concerned-over-violence-at-wistron-ktaka-factory-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/79788030.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers don’t buy SYL talk, say repeal of laws sole issue||TIKRI/BAHADURGARH: At a time when Haryana BJP leaders are trying to rake up the contentious Satluj Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue to drive a wedge between Punjab and Haryana farmers, those from Haryana have termed it as a non-issue when their very existence of farming is under threat. Farmers from Haryana who have been staging a joint dharna at Delhi’s Tikri border since November 27 along with Punjab farmers point out that if their land goes into the hands of capitalists, who will use the water. They said the Centre’s three new farm laws will ruin every farmer in the country and all of them will fight jointly till the government repeals the laws. A cross-section of Haryana whom TOI spoke to at Tikri border on Thursday had come from Sirsa, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Dadri, Bhiwani and Rohtak with their tractor-trolleys along with gas cylinders and edibles items and are putting up in tents or in their vehicles. Mandeep Malik, a native of Umra village of Hansi town in Hisar district, who has been camping at Tikri border along with ‘Saat bass jadiya khap’ said the ones who are talking about the SYL canal right now are those who have no real concern for farmers and are trying to divert the issue in the name of water. "SYL canal issue is not an issue for those protesting over here and who are forced to sleep outside in the cold. Those who have raised it on social media platforms are sleeping in the comfort of their homes. Our only demand is repealing of these black laws as soon as possible and BJP’s foul attempt will fail to split us.’’ He said Punjab’s farmers were like their elder brothers and water issues would get sorted out with passage of time, but the farm laws will hit the farmers of our country. Malik said emphatically that farmers of Haryana would not be taken in by the fake promises of BJP leaders on SYL canal water, and their fight is focused only on the three laws. "The BJP government top brass who made tall promises and failed to bring water flowing into Pakistan is now trying to ruin the fraternal ties between peasants of both states by raking up the issue of SYL canal. Farmers of Haryana and Punjab stand firm against the three laws and BJP’s plan to divide us will fail. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should repeal the three laws instead of playing foul politics in the name of SYL canal. It’s a silly plan to divide us," said Surja Ram Kundu, 70, who belongs to Khairi village of Haryana. Echoing this sentiment, Baru Ram of Rupgarh village of Jind said, "The politically motivated issue of SYL canal has been raised in every election. We have realised that if the leaders resolve it, how will they play politics on the issue. The farmers’ only demand is scrapping of the three laws."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-farmers-dont-buy-syl-talk-say-repeal-of-laws-sole-issue/articleshow/79786978.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Youth gets 10-year RI under Pocso||Kolhapur: Sangli additional district and sessions judge S C Munghate has sentenced a youth to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually abusing a minor boy over two years ago. The court also ordered the convict, Arun alias Babu Jamdade (20), to pay a fine of Rs 500, failure to do which will mean additional simple imprisonment of a month. Jamdade was booked under The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). According to the prosecution, Jamdade forcibly took an eight-year-old boy to an isolated place when he was playing in a village in Walva taluka on August 7, 2018, and abused him. The boy’s family lodged a police complaint after he told them about his experience. Jamdade was booked in Sangli district. Public prosecutor Ranjit Patil had sought maximum punishment in view of the criminal background of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/youth-gets-10-year-ri-under-pocso/articleshow/79783567.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||PWD digs up old concrete road, unearths questions||NAGPUR: The state Public Works Department (PWD) on Thursday excavated a 500-metre long cement concrete stretch of Inner Ring Road (IRR) for casting it anew. No reinforcements were found on the excavated portion raising suspicion on quality of work done. PWD began work on one side of the IRR from Wadi to Dabha under Rs 165 crore IRR widening and concretization project phase-II. City MP and union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had sanctioned both the phases of the work. This 7.5 metre wide stretch was in front of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) overhead water tank at Dabha. PWD contractor on Thursday broke the top layer into pieces using heavy machinery. The action attracted attention of a large number of people. Pictures of dug up concrete road and debris went viral on social media. TOI has been reporting on inferior quality of concretization work of IRR under Phase-I costing Rs 250 crore for last four years. Activist Suraj Lolage had filed criminal writ petition alleging irregularities, violations and shoddy quality in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. Therefore, Thursday’s action at Dabha raised questions in the mind of onlookers. PWD executive engineer Satish Ambhore told TOI the dug up portion was constructed over 10 years ago. “It was not constructed under IRR Widening and Concretization Project phase-I or phase-II,” he said. Two residents said this road was constructed 5-6 years ago. A shopkeeper said it was built three years ago while another said it was constructed over 10 years ago. As per government’s norms, life of cement concrete road is 30-50 years. The ministers had been claiming concrete roads last for even 100 years. PWD superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh said, “Old road was only 150mm thick and 7.5 metre wide on one side. Now traffic, especially heavy vehicles, has increased manifold on IRR. Therefore, we are constructing IRR with 450mm thickness and a width of 10.5 metres on each side. There were cracks in many places on old road. They told me even surface layer was undulating. Laying new layer on it would have caused problems. We had no other option but to remove it.” The debris of excavated road showed there was no steel reinforcement (steel rods) inside concrete. PWD officials said, “It seems old road was constructed on an experimental basis without reinforcement. We are checking as engineers who constructed the road have either been transferred or are retired.” Architect Pradyumna Sahasrabhojanee visited the spot and was surprised to find no reinforcement. “Cement concrete especially on main roads cannot be constructed without reinforcement. It is a serious issue and inquiry should be conducted. Removal of old road caused loss of public money. Any road, especially highway, is planned for next 50-100 years. Constructing a 500-metre stretch did not meet any purpose,” he said. PWD has already concretized and brought into use the other side of the same road. Work on both sides beyond this stretch is also completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-digs-up-old-concrete-road-unearths-questions/articleshow/79784471.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD again accuses Punjab BJP of polarising Hindus against Sikhs||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has alleged that Punjab BJP unit had been polarising Hindus against Sikhs and it should ask its high command why it had abandoned the core principles of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which would only vitiate peace and communal harmony in the state. SAD functionary Prem Singh Chandumajra “expressed shock at the irresponsible statements” of few Amritsar-based BJP leaders stating that they had parroted lines as per the script handed over to them. “They are gearing up to make one brother fight against another solely to get a foothold after being overwhelmingly rejected by the people following the enactment of the three agricultural Acts,” said the former MP . He asked the Punjab BJP leaders of instead of spewing venom against SAD, ask the Centre why it had taken an “anti-farmer and anti-peasant line”. “Why is the new BJP toeing the line of the corporate sector? Why did it frame legislation without even consulting the stakeholders and why it is bent on giving a ‘gift’ which farmers don’t want,” he questioned. Chandumajra advised Amritsar-based BJP men that Punjab had passed through more than a decade of turmoil in the past and they should not lay the foundation for another such spell. He added that it was the BJP which assured that all grievances would be addressed but instead of doing so it bulldozed the farm Bills through Parliament. Reacting to the attack of BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh on SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Chandumajra said the SAD chief had “only called a spade a spade”. He also asked BJP to tell Punjabis whether it had systematically targeted its opponents as separatists and even invented epithets like “tukde tukde gang” for them. “You have pitted Hindus against Muslims. You have labelled peacefully protesting farmers as Khalistanis. Now you are pitting Hindus against Sikhs in Punjab,” he alleged again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-again-accuses-punjab-bjp-of-polarising-hindus-against-sikhs/articleshow/79787013.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Freedom fighters seek regular pension||Poinguinim: A group of Canacona-based freedom fighters have expressed disappointment over the government’s delay to grant them regular pension. The group, that includes Keshav Prabhugaonkar along with 13 men and women, stated that they submitted several applications to various government departments and authorities, including the President of India, Goa governor and Union home minister, highlighting their plight. In its reply to their applications, the state government vide a order on January 7, 2020 from the under secretary (home) Porvorim, sanctioned Rs 25,000 per beneficiary as one-time financial assistance, they said. “We refused to accept the sanctioned amount as that would be utter injustice and deprive us of our right for regular pension as freedom fighters. We have contributed in Goa’s freedom struggle against the Portuguese rule,” said Prabhugaonkar. Following their refusal to the one-time financial assistance, the group again petitioned various authorities, but were informed that their matter is before the government for consideration. hey have also petitioned the chief minister in November, as well as the President of India, prime minister, home minister, Ayush minster, and Goa governor and under secretaries of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/freedom-fighters-seek-regular-pension/articleshow/79787037.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers unions have kept their agitation non-political: Manoranjan Kalia||JALANDHAR: Senior Punjab BJP leader and former minister Manoranjan Kalia on Thursday lauded the farmers’ unions for keeping their agitation non-political. Addressing a press conference here, Kalia said all political parties, except BJP, had extended their support to the farmers agitation. “Now, the farmers unions have decided to keep religion at abeyance so that agitation remains circumscribed. Farmers unions have also decided to consider the invitation for talks, whenever the Centre decides to do so. Both their decisions are appreciable,” he said. “The NDA government’s proposal to have seven amendments in two new laws — Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, will water down much of the farmers’ grievances and protect their interest vis-a-vis corporates. But the same stands rejected by the unions,” he said. Kalia appealed to the farmers unions to reconsider the central government’s proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-unions-have-kept-their-agitation-non-political-kalia/articleshow/79787034.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Sakhali civic body gets new dy chairperson||Bicholim: Ansira Khan of the Congress party was elected as the deputy chairperson of Sakhali Municipal Council (SMC) by draw of lots in an election held on Thursday at SMC hall. Election officer Praveenjay Pandit made the announcement after both the candidates bagged equal votes during the poll. It may be recalled that the post of deputy chairperson had fallen vacant after former SMC deputy chairperson passed away on November 21 due to a brief illness. Anand Kanekar of the BJP and Khan had filed their nominations for the post. Chairperson Yeshwant Madkar and councillors Rashmi Desai, Shubhada Sawaikar, Dayanand Boryekar and Bramha Desai voted in favour of BJP candidate Anand Kanekar, while councillors Dharmesh Sagalani, Raya Parsekar, Jyoti Blagan, Kunda Madkar and Rajesh Sawal voted in favour of Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sakhali-civic-body-gets-new-dy-chairperson/articleshow/79787046.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Amritsar||Academicians, economists write to agriculture minister about controversial laws||BATHINDA: A group of academicians and economists have written to Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar about their concerns over farm laws. “At a time of unprecedented agitation by farmers across the country, we believe that the central government should repeal the laws that are not in the best interests of the small and marginal farmers and about which a broad section of farmer organisations have raised critical objections,” wrote Prof D Narasimha Reddy, Prof Kamal Nayan Kabra, Prof K N Harilal, Prof Rajinder Chaudhary, Prof Surinder Kumar, Prof Arun Kumar, Prof Ranjit Singh Ghuman, Prof R Ramakumar, Prof Vikas Rawal and Prof Himanshu. The statement was issued on Thursday read: “We do believe that improvements and changes are required in the agricultural marketing system for the benefit of millions of small farmers, but the reforms brought by these Acts do not serve that purpose. They are based on wrong assumptions and claims about why farmers are unable to get remunerative prices, about farmers not having freedom to sell wherever they like under the previously existing laws, and about regulated markets not being in the farmers’ interests. We are putting forward crucial reasons why these three Acts are fundamentally harmful in their implications for the small farmers of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/academicians-economists-write-to-agri-min-about-controversial-laws/articleshow/79787075.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Lifeguards rescue two tourists||Calangute: Two tourists were rescued by lifeguards in separate incidents at Baga and Sinquerim on Thursday. At Baga, at around 2pm, a tourist who was caught in a rip current and was unable to swim, started gesturing to lifeguards seeking help. He was later brought safely ashore by lifeguards using a rescue tube. At Sinquerim, a tourist ventured into the water in the evening despite being advised that swimming is prohibited post 6pm. A little while later, a waiter in a beachside restaurant noticed the man struggling in the water and alerted lifeguards who then rushed into the water and brought him to the shore on a rescue board. As the tourist was having difficulty breathing, lifeguards cleared his airways, after which he vomited a huge amount of water. The tourist was allowed to go after his condition stabilised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifeguards-rescue-two-tourists/articleshow/79787082.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Highlight Nehru’s role in Goa’s Liberation, Dakshinayan writes to President Kovind||Margao: Dakshinayan Goa, a body of writers and intellectuals, has urged President Ram Nath Kovind to highlight the important role played by Jawaharlal Nehru in securing support of the international community for Goa’s Liberation, during his forthcoming Goa visit. Kovind will be the chief guest at the Liberation Day celebration in Goa on December 19. Dakshinayan in a letter to Kovind has stated that, “the spiteful and foul misinformation is being spread indiscreetly and injudiciously” blaming Nehru for the delay in Goa’s Liberation – 14 years after India’s independence. The letter states that the allegations against Nehru made on different occasions in the past specifically by Union minister Prakash Jawadekar and Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, and which were “repeated imprudently” by Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant. “…If (Nehru) had the political will, if he was really concerned about Goans then, and really felt that Goa should have been liberated from the Portuguese then we would have got liberation 14 years earlier. He should have thought about us at least in 1950, if not in 1947,” Sawant had reportedly said at an army function earlier this year. Addressing a press conference in Panaji, Dakshinayan Abhiyan Goa president, Damodar Mauzo refuted accusations that ‘Operation Vijay’ in 1961 was carried out by then defence minister V K Krishna Menon by keeping Nehru in the dark as he (Nehru) was not in favour of military action. Sandesh Prabhudessai explained how Nehru fought a relentless diplomatic battle for 14 long years in the UN to win over the support of majority countries to get Goa, Daman and Diu decolonised. Dakshinayan Goa’s past president Datta Damodar Naik said all political parties should counter the “false propaganda” and stop “demonising” Nehru who was instrumental in maintaining Goa’s unique identity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/highlight-nehrus-role-in-goas-liberation-dakshinayan-writes-to-president-kovind/articleshow/79787066.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Kejri’s ‘nautanki’ won’t help cover up AAP’s U-turn on farm laws: Singla||CHANDIGARH: Punjab cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla on Thursday mocked Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s latest “nautanki” (melodrama) in the Delhi assembly as yet another “desperate attempt” to cover up his party’s shocking U-turn on the farm laws and his government’s abject failure to protect the interests of farmers. Reacting to Kejriwal’s “theatrics” in the House, where the AAP leader dramatically tore off copies of the central farm laws, Singla said “these theatrics will not help stop the implementation of one of the legislations” which the AAP government in the national capital had notified less than a month ago. “Kejriwal’s pathetic attempt to play to public sentiments had only exposed him further as a first-class fraud, who had no qualms about pretending to be concerned about the plight of farmers,” said Singla. “Even as his party was purportedly extending support to farmers preparing to march to Delhi to fight for their livelihood, Kejriwal’s government in Delhi was busy preparing the notification for implementing one of the very laws which they (farmers) were fighting against,” he said. “It might have taken Kejriwal six months to do a flip-flop on the issue, but he has made it amply clear that AAP’s moral ethics are no better than the SAD, which made a U-turn on the farmers within three months,” said Singla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kejris-nautanki-wont-help-cover-up-aaps-u-turn-on-farm-laws-singla/articleshow/79787062.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||BJP ruling Goa based on lies: AAP||Panaji: The Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd has nailed chief minister Pramod Sawant’s lie by informing the Supreme Court’s central empowered committee that double-tracking of the South Western Railway track is for coal and iron ore transportation, the Aam Aadmi party stated. “The court committee very emphatically asked what the purpose and justification of the project is,” AAP spokesperson Sandesh Telekar said. He accused the BJP of continuing to rule Goa only based on lies. “The chief minister recently announced that coal transportation from MPT would be reduced and added that double-tracking of the railway line was not for coal transportation,” he said, adding that the project will ultimately kill the tourism industry which has at present emerged as the mainstay of the Goan economy. “‘Green Goa’ will be a myth in a few years having turned into ‘Black Goa’,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-ruling-goa-based-on-lies-aap/articleshow/79787099.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Camps for persons with disabilities||Panaji: A series of camps are being held across talukas to register needy persons with disabilities (PwDs) who are eligible to receive aids and appliances under the central government’s ADIP scheme. At the disability assessment camps, officials are also assisting PwDs register for the universal disability identity card which will be valid throughout the country. Two camps concluded in Margao on Thursday with more than 400 showing up to register for the wheelchairs, crutches, artificial limbs, hearing aids, smart phones and other aids. Not all who attended the camp were found eligible for the scheme. Several didn’t meet the income limit of Rs 1.8 lakh per annum and disability of more than 40%, said Taha Haaziq, deputy director and in-charge special cell for empowerment of persons with disabilities. However, these persons were registered for the UDID card which can be used pan India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/camps-for-persons-with-disabilities/articleshow/79787104.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers seek boycott of pro-laws Sikhs||AMRITSAR: Majority of Sikhs living in Uttarakhand has given a call for social boycott of Sikhs of the state who supported the agri laws. They have also appealed to the farmers of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh (UP) to reach Delhi to observe the martyrdom anniversary of Sikh’s ninth master Guru Teg Bahadur on December 19 and ‘give a final push’. President of Sikh Sangathan, Uttarakhand and UP, Jasvir Singh Virk told TOI on Thursday that a handful of Sikhs from Uttarakhand had gone along with state’s education minister Arvind Pandey to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and extend support for new agri laws. “Strangely, many of them were just wearing turbans to look like Sikhs, most of them were not even farmers but were into sand and gravel business,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-seek-boycott-of-pro-laws-sikhs/articleshow/79787101.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 18, 2020||Trichy||3.3kg gold seized from 5 air passengers||Trichy: Customs officials seized 3.28kg of gold bars worth Rs 1.52 crore from five passengers who arrived at the Trichy International Airport from Singapore. In a joint operation by the central intelligence unit and the air intelligence unit of the customs, officials seized the gold bars from the five -Nallaiyan and Manimaram from Madurai, Rajendran from Ariyalur, Raguman from Kallakuruchi and Kandasamy from Thanjavur - who arrived by an Air India Express flight on Wednesday evening. On a tip-off, officials conducted a check with the passengers who arrived from Singapore and grew suspicious on the five. Upon checking their belongings the yellow metal was found. Further inquiries are on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-3kg-gold-seized-from-5-air-passengers/articleshow/79787098.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Rail body exposed Goa CM’s lies about coal transportation: Vijai Sardesai||PANAJI: The Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd’s (RVNL) statement that the Hospet –Vasco double-tracking project will be used for transportation of coal has exposed chief minister Pramod Sawant’s “blatant lies”, Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai said.  He said that just because the zilla panchayat poll results are in favour of BJP doesn’t mean that the government can go ahead with double-tracking and coal transportation. “The entire belt through which the track will pass from Vasco to Kulem will be heavily polluted and residents will face health issues, as the state has already seen a rise in lung disease related cases in and around Vasco region,” said Sardesai. In a submission before the Supreme Court’s Central Empowered Committee, RVNL stated that the double-tracking of the railway line from Hospet to Vasco via Castlerock-Kulem will be used to transport coal for thermal and power projects in Karnataka. Sardesai said that RVNL’s admission raises questions about Sawant’s earlier statement that coal transportation through Goa will be reduced by half. In a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, Sardesai stated that Goa’s unique biodiversity should be protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rail-body-exposed-cms-lies-about-coal-transportation-vijai/articleshow/79787125.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Changes to investment act on anvil: Goa CM tells businessmen||PANAJI: The state government is likely to amend the Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Act, 2014 in the coming months, said chief minister Pramod Sawant while addressing potential investors at the Assocham Foundation Week. Sawant said that despite the challenges raised due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government is working to address infrastructure and export deficiencies. “The state government is taking many steps to boost ease of doing business in Goa. An amended Investment Promotion Act will soon be passed in Goa to facilitate investments in key focus sectors like IT, education, films, entertainment and tourism,” said Sawant. Claiming that investors look at Goa as a “profitable destination”, Sawant said that the government has simplified the process for extension of licences for the tourism industry and has also amended the excise laws by removing provisions that required police clearance every year. “We have not stopped our pursuit of growth and development for the people of Goa. The new export policy has been prepared to address the existing deficiencies and promote manufacturing goods and surplus agricultural produce. The state is in process of developing the logistics sector in Goa by forming the special logistics group,” said Sawant. Earlier, senior vice president for Assocham Vineet Agarwal said that Goa should aim to become the first smart state in the country and could set up innovation districts. Panelists present for the webinar also suggested that Goa should lay a greater thrust on renewable energy, green mobility and decarbonised transport. While Sawant acknowledged the need for industrial expansion and fresh investment, he said that availability of industrial land in the state remains a challenge. He also said that the Swayampurna Goem mission, which aims at encouraging entrepreneurship and rural sustainability, has received good response. “As a part of Atmanirbhar Bharat, Swayampurna Goa – the project that I have launched in the state — will ensure that benefits of the state and the central government schemes will be taken to the doorsteps of the people. Our government officers have been asked to ensure that every effort is made to tap resources so that the state can be self-reliant and the response has been overwhelming,” Sawant said. Assocham is likely to take a delegation to meet Sawant in the coming days and submit a memorandum to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/changes-to-investment-act-on-anvil-cm-tells-bizmen/articleshow/79787142.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||State to prepare 60-year vision document||Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the state will prepare a vision document for the next 60 years. The Goa Vision Document 2035 prepared by a committee headed by top scientist Raghunath Mashelkar remains unimplemented since 2012. At the 59th Liberation Day function, Sawant had promised to implement the vision document and had appealed to all stakeholders for support to make Goa golden. In February, Sawant had even met with Mashelkar and the Vibrant Goa Foundation to discuss the implementation of the report’s recommendations. Sawant had said that a task force will be constituted to review the vision document and provide inputs for a phase-wise implementation of the report in the state. The report, prepared by the Goa Golden Jubilee Development Council constituted on July 26, 2010, and submitted to then chief minister Manohar Parrikar in July 2012, was never implemented. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-prepare-60-year-vision-document/articleshow/79787122.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Amritsar||Young protesters take to social media to counter propaganda||BATHINDA: In a bid to counter propaganda against farmers’ protest, a few youngsters have taken to the digital platform to reach out to people who cannot be part of the protests physically. The youngsters have prepared an “IT cell” to support the farmers’ struggle. Named the Kisan Ekta Morcha, it is active on social media platforms including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat. For Twitter, they have used the hashtags, #Digitalkisan #Digitalkisanmorcha. Their previous hashtag, Tractor2Twitter, gained international popularity with people following it to keep abreast of the developments at Delhi borders. Farmer organisation Majha Kisan Sangharsh Committee vice-president Baljit Singh, who started the cell, said, “some propaganda was going on against the farmers’ struggle on various social media platforms. We wanted to counter it and on Wednesday, we started the cell for the purpose. We have 77 volunteers who will remain active digitally and check what is written or spoken about the farmers’ struggle on various platforms to counter it. Another motive for the IT cell was to involve all those sympathisers who could not physically support the struggle to contribute digitally. We have got massive response in only one day and we hope to take voice of the farmers strongly in the virtual world.” He said they will contact various farmers’ groups and help them operate various social media platforms so that they can counter propaganda describing them as Khalistanis and naxals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/young-protesters-take-to-social-media-to-counter-propaganda/articleshow/79787116.cms||Neel Kamal
December 18, 2020||Goa||Panaji traffic to be diverted in view of Prez visit||Panaji: North district magistrate has effected traffic diversions from December 19 to 20 in Panaji in view of the President of India’s visit to Goa for the 60th Liberation Day function. The diversion and closure of roads will be effective from December 19, 3pm till the function concludes. Vehicles travelling from KTC bus stand and proceeding to Panaji or Miramar/Donapula will be diverted near Bandodkar statue to proceed via Jose Falcao Road – Church Square – A B road – Hotel Palacio De Goa – St Inez Junction (compulsory left) St Inez Church – fire brigade junction – Hotel Goa International road. Vehicles coming from Miramar/Dona Paula will be diverted at Aivao junction to proceed via Old Dona Paula –Adarsh Circle - Hotel Goa International – fire brigade Junction – DBB Marg. The stretches from MG Road from near directorate of accounts to Casa Dempo; DBB Marg from Bandodkar statue to Campal Ganesh; Campal Ganesh to NIO circle to Raj Bhavan (only during motorcade movement); lane from Cecol Bar to Real Agency; lane from Udyog Bhavan to Varsha Book Stall; lane from ferry wharf junction to Mishra Pedha; stretch from printing press junction to Govinda building (MG road) to Hero Honda showroom (P Shirgaonkar Road) to Mishra Pedha (Menezes Braganza road) to printing press junction (Dr Pissurlekar Road), and all side lanes connecting the above stretches of roads will be closed for traffic. Once the function at Azad Maidan concludes and the VVIP reaches Bandodkar football ground, vehicles will be allowed to come upto Kala Academy junction and proceed via St Inez junction, while vehicles reaching St Inez junction will be allowed to take left and proceed to DBB Marg via Kala Academy junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-traffic-to-be-diverted-in-view-of-prez-visit/articleshow/79787145.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Goa||5,000 meals for needy on Liberation Day||Panaji: Sangolda-based Food Bank For The Poor is attempting to feed 5,000 meals to the homeless and the needy on Goa Liberation Day this Saturday. A team of volunteers will be visiting streets, children in orphanages, people in shelters, senior citizens in old age homes and HIV patients to execute this initiative within a three-hour frame. Street Providence, an organisation that manages Food Bank For The Poor will be deploying its volunteers for the drive. “Liberation Day has no significance for today’s generation. It is merely a public holiday for them. By feeding the homeless on the streets, and people in various shelter homes, we want to liberate them from hunger,” said trustee, Street Providence, Donald Fernandes. The initiative will be carried out in Sanquelim, Bicholim, Valpoi, Guirim, Moira, Siolim, Saligao, Margao, Old Goa, Mapusa, Vasco, Panaji, Benaulim, San Jose de Areal and Sanvordem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5000-meals-for-needy-on-liberation-day/articleshow/79787152.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Durai Murugan feels dizzy, taken to hosp||Trichy: DMK general secretary Durai Murugan was taken to a private hospital in Trichy after he felt dizziness while returning from Dindigul to Chennai on Thursday evening. DMK sources said that he left for Chennai after completing a preliminary health check-up at the private hospital. Being the chairman of the public accounts committee (PAC) of Tamil Nadu legislative assembly, Durai Murugan was chairing the review meeting in Trichy on Wednesday and in Dindigul on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/durai-murugan-feels-dizzy-taken-to-hosp/articleshow/79787102.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport ready to handle chemical, nuclear exigency||KOLKATA: If there is a chemical spillage resulting in emission of fumes, don’t move in a downward direction. If one suspects a radiological contamination, stow away the clothes in a safe place, have a thorough full-body wash and change into fresh clothes. These were some of the tips that trainers shared at the workshop on Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) disaster workshop held at Kolkata airport, through which these and other toxic materials transit frequently. “Airlines, security, ground handlers, cargo unit and transporters need to be aware of the nature of goods they are handling and the hazards they can pose. The training by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) aims at not only creating the awareness but also equipping them with a list of things to do as well as what not to do as first responders in a disaster,” said CBRN workshop coordinator, Vikrant Chawde. Officers from Kolkata Police and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Kolkata Police Disaster Management Group, and officials of Directorate General of Civial Aviation, Airports Authority of India, various airlines and cargo handlers participated in the drill on radiological disaster conducted by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Pointing out the need to get the airport operational within the shortest span of time even after a disaster, airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee cited how the facility had functioned all through the lockdown to ferry medicines and essential cargo when all other modes of transport were shut. “It is only during a natural calamity like a cyclone that the airport has been shut down temporary. But otherwise, it functions 24×7. Even in times of disaster, it is used for rescue and relief. So, ensuring that the airport bounces back from a disaster quickly is vital,” said Bhattacharjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/airport-ready-to-handle-chemical-nuclear-exigency/articleshow/79785631.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Trichy||E-waste centre in Thennur converted to Amma mini clinic||Trichy: Trichy corporation has modified the existing e-waste collection centre established under the Thennur road overbridge (RoB) as Amma mini clinic. Officials said the clinic was established there after the centre did not get clearance from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).“The e-waste centre project did not kick-off for a year now as TNPCB insisted us to use it only for waste collection purpose, but it was not possible,” a corporation official said. In phase I, Trichy Corporation has identified three locations, one each in K Abishekapuram (Thennur), Ponmalai (K Sathanur) and Ariyamangalam (Subbaya street) zones for the clinics. The locations were chosen where there are no urban primary health centres (UPHC). Health workers and medical professionals from mobile medical units (MMU) will be diverted to the clinics for now. Later, adequate medical professionals will be recruited, the civic body said. “Asthma, periodical pregnancy assessment and other emergency treatments can be availed at the mini clinics. Medical professionals will refer patients to the nearest UPHC for further treatment,” city health officer M Yazhini said. The clinics will function between 8am to 12 noon and 4pm to 8pm, except Saturdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/e-waste-centre-in-thennur-converted-to-amma-mini-clinic/articleshow/79787143.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Did lockdown make city safer for women?||CHANDIGARH: As many as 95 cases of rape, molestation and stalking were reported in the city this year till December 15. Due to the lockdown, city saw 50% less rape cases. In 2019, the UT police stations had registered 114 rape and 83 molestation and stalking cases. According to the police records, of the 57 rape cases registered this year, 10 are yet to be solved. The 16 city police stations registered 38 cases of molestation and stalking. Of these, three are unsolved. The cops have arrested 55 men for raping women and minors in 57 cases so far. As many as 35 were arrested for stalking and molestation. The UT administration had imposed curfew and lockdown in the city in the last week of March and it continued till May 15. Police records show four cases each of rape and molestation were registered in March. One case each of rape and molestation was lodged in April. Two cases of rape and three of sexual harassment were filed in May. Before the lockdown, police had registered 12 cases of rape and 11 of molestation in January and February. After the lockdown, cops registered six cases of rape and two of molestation in June. Seven cases each of rape and molestation were registered in July. In August, nine cases of rape and five of sexual harassment were lodged, the highest in a month. After that, the crime graph went down. Five cases of rape and four of molestation were lodged in September. Four cases of rape and two of molestation were filed in October. In November, there were five cases of rape and three of sexual harassment. Two rape cases have been registered this month till December 15. Charanjit Singh Virk, DSP, women and child support unit, said, “There is zero tolerance policy towards crime against women in the city. All the police stations have been directed to register an FIR in such cases without a delay. More than 90% of these cases have been solved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/did-lockdown-make-city-safer-for-women/articleshow/79785659.cms||Pawan Tiwari
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Farmers’ outfit threatens ‘suicide protests’ in Delhi||Trichy: The Desiya Thennindiya Nadhigal Inaippu Sangam on Thursday resolved to send 30 farmers to Delhi threatening that each of them will commit suicide one by one every day if the central government refused to repeal the three farm laws.The state executive meeting of the association led by P Ayyakannu, which met here on Thursday, passed four resolutions pertaining to agriculture-related issues in India and in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi. The resolution also said that the Narendra Modi-led BJP government had assured to provide two-fold profitable price for the agriculture produce when they came to power in the Centre. The meeting also said that the enactment of the three farm laws was aimed at cheating the farmers of not providing the assured profits. Another resolution asked Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to comment on the farm laws only after completely going through and understanding the laws. “We hope that he will not let the agriculture ruin due to fear of the central government despite him claiming himself a farmer,” the resolution said. The committee also decided to hold continuous protests in Chennai and Trichy besides distributing the Tamil version of the farm laws in villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-outfit-threatens-suicide-protests-in-delhi/articleshow/79787129.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclists’ plea to cops to lift ban in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Members of BengalLovesCycle Forum — a conglomeration of cycle groups initiated by Bengal Clean Air Network — met deputy commissioner (traffic), Rupesh Kumar, on Thursday with an appeal against cycle ban in 62 roads of the city. The cyclists said bicycle is the most environment-friendly, space-efficient and safest mode of transport in the current context of the pandemic. During the lockdown, the city saw a record sale of bicycles of all categories. People who commute on bicycles have reported betterment of health. The DC traffic Rupesh Kumar, at the behest of the commissioner of police Anuj Sharma, who himself shares sympathy for cyclists and who earlier had supported the civic body’s nascent attempt for developing cycle infrastructure in the city, said that the city police will let them know about any further development in this regard. The members of the forum demanded withdrawal of restrictions on bicycles in the city. A few lakh citizens, from newspaper vendors to professionals like doctors and engineers are using bicycles to commute now. “We have made an appeal against fines taken from cyclists for riding on city roads, unless they break traffic rules,” said Vinay Jaju, one of the cycle-enthusiasts and co-founder of Switch ON.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclists-plea-to-cops-to-lift-ban/articleshow/79785695.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Board exam students asked to focus on Kalvi Tholaikatchi||Trichy: State board students have been asked to prepare for the public examinations based on the audiovisual classes telecast on Kalvi Tholaikatchi. The move comes after the school education department informed teachers that questions for the board examination will be based on Kalvi Tholaikatchi, which has been streaming selected chapters from the syllabus.On Wednesday, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan had announced a reduction of 35% of syllabus for board examinations, but confusion prevails on the chapters to be reduced from each subject.Selected topics that are of least significance will be removed from few chapters in each subject and the same have been consciously omitted in the Kalvi Tholaikatchi, said a headmaster from a government school in Trichy. “While students of class XII got the audiovisual content of the subjects in their government laptops during the beginning of the academic year, those less significant topics were skipped. Therefore, it would be enough for students to focus on Kalvi Tholaikatchi and their syllabus,” said another headmaster. Kalvi Tholaikatchi had started streaming audiovisual classes for Class II-XII from August 26, to facilitate government and government-aided school students learn from home during the pandemic.The recorded version of classes on textbook lessons by teachers are being streamed not only in Kalvi Tholaikatchi but also in 11 other channels. In case students miss these classes in television, they also have an option to watch the videos in Kalvi Tholaikatchi’s Youtube channel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/board-exam-students-asked-to-focus-on-kalvi-tholaikatchi/articleshow/79787158.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami jab at Kamal Haasan: He hosts Bigg Boss at 70||TRICHY: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday hit out at Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan for his comments that corrupt officials were only following in the footsteps of the government. The CM, who was in Ariyalur, also sought to trash his reality show Bigg Boss saying families will get spoiled if they watched it. Palaniswami was reacting to the actor-turned-politician’s tweet that the DVAC sleuths did not return empty-handed in any of their inspections conducted across the state, pointing to the seizure of unaccounted money from RTOs and other offices. Stating that a majority of the officials plundered cash, gold and diamonds, Kamal tweeted that officials are just following the footsteps of the government. When the CM’s attention was drawn to these comments at a press meet after chairing a review meeting and inaugurating development projects in Ariyalur, he said the actor’s opinion was wrong. “DVAC comes under the state government and the raids show our intention to prevent malpractice. He (Kamal) just got retired and launched a new political party, what does he know? At 70, he is conducting ‘Bigg Boss’. What is there in that show? If children and families watch such a show, they will be spoiled,” the CM said. Drawing a comparison with film songs featuring AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran, Palaniswami asked whether Kamal has done such constructive songs in his films. At Perambalur later, reacting to a question about Kamal using MGR’s reference often, EPS said, “Kamal Haasan has agreed that all political leaders can get votes only by using MGR’s name. He (Kamal) doesn’t have individual popularity. The AIADMK is founded by MGR, we are the only party eligible to use MGR’s credentials,” the CM said. Earlier, the CM inaugurated 39 infrastructure projects including a municipality office for Ariyalur and a bridge in Kizhapalur. He also distributed various welfare schemes including loans for self-help group and other beneficiaries in 20 departments to the tune of Rs 129.34 crore. At the district collectorate, he held meetings with farmers’ representatives and SHG women separately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/eps-jab-at-kamal-he-hosts-bigg-boss-at-70/articleshow/79787149.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Reflective signboards to guide tourists in Trichy||Trichy: The state highways department has installed reflective signboards at 35 locations in the district to guide tourists and visitors to reach landmarks including temples and other tourists destinations. These signboards also have a picture of the tourist destination in the backdrop with the name of the location stamped over it for easy identification. The signboards, sponsored by the state highways, have come up near the Cauvery bridge here. A signboard each was placed to direct motorists from Chennai-Trichy National Highways (NH) to reach Rockfort hillock and Srirangam temple respectively. The pictures of the destination such as the picture of Rockfort and an aerial view of Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple were printed on the signboards. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/reflective-signboards-to-guide-tourists-in-trichy/articleshow/79787155.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Juvenile fishing, use of diamond mesh continue unabated||VISAKHAPATNAM: Juvenile fishing remains a regular affair at all fishing harbours across Andhra Pradesh despite stringent rules against fishing nets with mesh size below half-an-inch. Moreover, a section of fishermen has now started using diamond-shaped mesh in a bid to bypass the law. The diamond-shaped mesh has become popular among this section because the middle of the mesh is more than half-an-inch wide, and therefore meets the legal requirement. However, shaped like a diamond, the width is significantly lower in the upper and lower sections thereby helping fishermen catch juvenile fish. “Because of this technique being employed by a section of fishermen, others are suffering. These fishermen (the ones using diamond-shaped nets) are not only getting a huge catch but are also reducing fish population on the coastline,” said Arjili Dasu, the general secretary of Visakhapatnam Youth Fishermen’s Association. Dasu said that the association has organised several protest demonstrations, but all in vain. “The government is not taking steps because these fishermen are ‘their’ men,” he added. Meanwhile, environmentalists say that a huge quantity of juvenile fish gets caught in the ring seine nets, which has a smaller mesh size. This destroys any possibility of replenishing fish stock. If it continues, there will be a decline in marine health within ten years. Speaking to TOI, M Bulaya, a fisherman said, “Normally, a few of the mechanised fishing vessels intentionally trap juvenile fish. While a section of the juvenile fish goes to the retail market, the other section is supplied to manure factories.” “As per the law, the fisheries department can initiate legal steps against manufacturers and users of ring seine nets. However, no steps have been taken on the ground yet,” added Bulaya. Fisheries department officials said that the department takes very strict action against juvenile fishing and an order has been issued to every district administration to take measures against those promoting the use of such illegal nets. The fisheries department has banned use of purse seine ring nets in Bay of Bengal with immediate effect to prevent traditional catamaran fishermen and mechanised boat owners. “We have started circulating advisories among fishermen about the pros and cons of using ring seine nets. We have also issued a directive stating that action would be taken against fishermen found using such illegal nets,” said joint director fisheries, Dr K Phani Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/juvenile-fishing-use-of-diamond-mesh-continue-unabated/articleshow/79785842.cms||Arpit Basu
December 18, 2020||Amaravati||Hold referendum on capital trifurcation, former Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu demands||AMARAVATI: Former chief minister and TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu has dared chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to get ready for a referendum on the concept of three capitals if he has confidence of winning people’s support, adding that he is ready to quit public life if people voted in favour of three capital cities. Addressing a public meeting at Rayapudi village to mark the completion of one year of protests by Amaravati farmers on Thursday, Naidu expressed anguish and targeted the government for bulldozing the dreams of people of the state to have a world-class capital city. “The government should open its eyes at least once after seeing non-stop agitation by the women of Amaravati farmers’ families. Branding farmers as realtors and women as paid artistes is unfounded and derogatory,” he said, and demanded the CM to extend his apology to the people of the state and continue Amaravati as capital. BJP leader Vamaraju Satyamurthi, CPI secretary K Ramakrishna, AP TDP president K Atchnnaidu, JAC president A Sivareddy, Congress leader Padmasri and others attended the meeting which attended by hundreds of local farmers. Earlier in the day, Naidu changed his permitted route to visit Uddandarayunipalem village where the foundation for the capital city was laid. Police restricted his convoy for a while and later allowed it. Home minister Sucharitha criticized Naidu for resorting to cheap tricks for publicity by diverting the convoy from the permitted route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/hold-referendum-on-capital-trifurcation-former-cm-demands/articleshow/79785768.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Ajanta Dayalan to lead CAT||CHANDIGARH: Former deputy comptroller and auditor general of India Ajanta Dayalan, who is also an administrative member, has assumed the charge as head of the department of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh Bench. The Chandigarh Bench of the tribunal exercises jurisdiction over the states of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Union Territory of Chandigarh. Earlier, Ajanta Dayalan was posted as the administrative member at Allahabad Bench. Dayalan is a 1978-batch officer of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service. She has over 38 years of work experience in the Central and state governments in different capacities. Earlier to her retirement, she was the Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India and head of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service for two years. She was responsible for matters relating to audit policy for conduct of audit of Central and state governments, cadre control of IAAS officers and personnel matter and international relations, including audit of United Nations. She also served as the additional secretary/joint secretary in the Cabinet Secretariat for over six years. She was responsible for assisting in policy formulation and decision making at the highest level and presentation of all proposals, issues emanating from the economic and social ministries of Government of India like finance, commerce, agriculture, fertilizers etc. to the cabinet and its committees. She has expert knowledge of power sector having served as member (finance) of the Punjab State Electricity Board and also as the founder secretary of the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission. She has also served as the accountant general of three states of Punjab, Haryana and Kerala. She has represented the Government of India in a number of countries, including US, China, UK, Canada, Brazil, Netherlands etc. She was also team leader of the UN Audit Team to United Nations Centre for Human Settlement and United Nations Office in Nairobi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ajanta-dayalan-to-lead-cat/articleshow/79785701.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam Open Mic to garner city’s talents||VISAKHAPATNAM: To revive the literary culture in the city, a group of locals — mostly in the age group of 30 to 40 years — across professional backgrounds, will launch an interactive initiative for poetry, public speaking, songs and story-telling. The group will be organising a monthly get-together of enthusiasts seeking platform to showcase their creativity. The event, Vizag Open Mic — a first of its kind — will be held every month at different venues in the city. It is open to all age groups with the first meet slated for December 20 at Kurtosshhh, MVP Double Road. Speaking about the initiative, one of the founders, Adnan Sabuwala said, “We came up with this concept to bring back the culture of literary discussions and exchanges, bring forth creative talent embedded among locals who do not get a platform or place to showcase their talent.” “Such meets will bring together like-minded people, remove stage fear, build confidence and necessary skills for writers, and encourage public speaking,” added co-founder Sai Varma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-open-mic-to-garner-citys-talents/articleshow/79785803.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams won’t entertain recommendations for Ekadasi, New Year||TIRUPATI: The TirumalaTirupati Devasthanams ((TD) has decided not to entertain recommendation letters for darshan on Vaikunta Ekadasi, which falls on December 25, and on New Year’s day, TTD executive officer KS Jawahar Reddy said on Thursday. The EO further informed that the temple body has decided to allow maximum six family members of VIPs who fall under the protocol category. “In the case of other VIPs, TTD will facilitate darshan for four persons from a family. On December 25 and 26, and on January 1, no recommendation letters of VIPs would be entertained,” Jawahar Reddy. From this year, the Vaikunta dwaram at Tirumala temple will remain open for 10 days. “To facilitate darshan and Vaikunta dwara entry for more number of common devotees, 2 lakh tickets were released online under the Rs 300 special entry darshan which were booked by devotees in record time. TTD will also release 80,000 tickets under current booking quota for Tirupati locals on December 24. Ten counters at five locations across the temple city have been earmarked to facilitate ticket booking for locals,” Jawahar Reddy added. Only devotees with valid darshan tickets will be allowed to enter Tirumala. “Anyone trying to gain access into the hill town without valid darshan tickets will be stopped at Alipiri itself. Normally TTD facilitates darshan for about 1 lakh or 1.25 lakh devotees on the occasion of Vaikunta Ekadasi. But this year only about 40,000 devotees would be allowed darshan in a day due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All devotees would have to go through temperature screening and round-the-clock sanitation measures will be in place at all pilgrim congregation points,” said additional EO AV Dharma Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-wont-entertain-recommendations-for-ekadasi-new-year/articleshow/79785823.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Girl set ablaze by in-law in Chittoor district||TIRUPATI: A 22-year-old girl, who was set to get married in a week from now, suffered burns after her brother-in-law set her on fire at Gattukindapalli village of Mulakalacheruvu mandal in Chittoor district on Thursday. The victim, Kadiri Sumathi (22), was rushed to government hospital at Madanapalli and thereafter referred to SVRR government general hospital in Tirupati for further treatment. Doctors said that she had sustained about 40% burns and her condition is now stable. The accused, identified as Venkatesh (33), is the husband of the victim’s sister. Police said he entered the victim’s house in the wee hours of Thursday and set her on fire after pouring petrol on her. His family members told the police that as Venkatesh’s wife has been ailing for a long time, her family members had promised to get Sumathi married to Venkatesh. But they reportedly went back on their word and fixed her marriage with someone else. An upset Venkatesh decided to kill Sumathi by setting her ablaze. Mulakalacheruvu police have registered a case and are looking for Venkatesh who is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/girl-set-ablaze-by-in-law-in-chittoor-dist/articleshow/79785954.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh sex ratio at a healthy 1,045 females to 1,000 males||VIJAYAWADA: The overall sex ratio in Andhra Pradesh stands at a healthy 1,045 females per 1,000 males as per the latest National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5. However, the child sex ratio (CSR) — sex ratio at birth for children born in the last five years) stands at 934 females per 1,000 males. This, as figures are skewed in several districts. It is actually urban areas in the state which tend to have a more unbalanced ratio as compared to the rural areas. While the CSR in rural areas stands at 957 females per 1,000 males, the ratio for urban areas was found out to be 877 females per 1,000 males. Among districts, Kadapa holds the worst CSR figure with 779 females per 1,000 males. It is followed by West Godavari at 833, and Prakasam at 837. Meanwhile, CSR was revealed to be healthiest in districts such as Srikakulam, Krishna, Chittoor, and Nellore. Some experts state that the skew in trends could be a result of some districts having a smaller sample size compared to others and may not be indicative of the ground reality. Others pointed out that some of these districts, where CSR figures are negative, have been notorious for infanticide which could be an underlying reason. A comparison between NFHS-4 and NFHS-5 shows a huge difference in figures across all 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh in terms of child sex ratio. For instance the NFHS-4, conducted in 2015-16, shows Guntur as having one of the worst CSR at 637 but the district is now revealed to have fared much better with a relatively healthy sex ration of 941 females per thousand males. In Srikakulam, females outnumber males by around 15%. While CSR may not immediately have an impact on overall sex ration immediately, data indicates that these numbers will have an effect over the coming decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-sex-ratio-at-a-healthy-1045-females-to-1k-males/articleshow/79785759.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Govt’s interlocutory application countered by SEC in high court||VIJAYAWADA: The state election commission has filed a counter affidavit in the high court in reply to the state government’s interlocutory application seeking to suspend the proceedings issued by the SEC to conduct local body elections in February citing the launch of Covid-19 vaccination program. Stating that the petition is not maintainable, the state election commission termed the government’s argument as speculative and untenable. “The interlocutory application was filed with an intent to thwart and prevent the SEC from discharging its constitutional obligations and to comply with the orders passed by the high court. The material papers filed by the state government along with the interlocutory application were mere guidelines issued in advance to execute vaccination as and when the vaccines are officially administered,” the SEC said in the counter affidavit. The vaccines developed by both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute have been put on hold and the Centre is yet to permit the vaccines to be administered, the SEC said. It further stated that as vaccines are yet to get requisite clinical approvals, it would take three to six months to launch the vaccination program. “Initially, only priority groups will be given vaccine before universal vaccination. The local body elections will not interfere with the vaccination programme even it is launched and the SEC will not indent the health and emergency services for election work,” the SEC said in the counter affidavit. The SEC also contended that the government’s argument about positive cases in the state. The state government did not mention the fact that the number of positive cases have drastically come down in the last one month. The number of positive cases per day did not cross 700 in December and the overall active cases in the state are only 5,259 out of 8.7 lakh which is mere 0.6 per cent of the total positive cases, the SEC noted. The SEC mentioned the Kerala high court’s judgement wherein it said that elections cannot be postponed citing the Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govts-interlocutory-application-countered-by-sec-in-high-court/articleshow/79785921.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Education department extends deadline for teacher transfer web options||VIJAYAWADA: The school education department on Thursday extended the deadline for execution of web options for teacher transfers till midnight of Friday. Education minister Adimulapu Suresh, in his statement, said that teachers can execute web options and make changes in already executed options. Of the pending 76,119 transfers, 74,421 teachers had selected their options online till 4.30 pm on Thursday. Of the 26,117 compulsory transfers, 25,826 had applied till Thursday. Close to 99% of teachers have made their web options in the compulsory category, according to Suresh. Overall, 50,002 posts are vacant for request transfers of which 48,595 posts have been applied for through the web options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/edu-dept-extends-deadline-for-teacher-transfer-web-options/articleshow/79786007.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||UP woman 'blackmailed & sexually exploited' for 21 years, then killed for property at 42||PILIBHIT: Over nine months after a woman, aged 42, was killed and hastily cremated by a college clerk, who was allegedly blackmailing and sexually assaulting her for the last over 21 years, a court in Pilibhit has directed local police to book the accused and his two aides. According to the elderly mother of the woman, “I kept on pursuing the case. In the last nine months I went to the police station several times and also met senior officers. But they refused to register an FIR, which forced me to approach the court in July.” The mother, also the complainant in the case, said that it all started over 21 years ago when her daughter, then 21, was a postgraduate student at a degree college. “The accused, Ramesh Singh, was a clerk in the college. He had a brief affair with my daughter. During this, he took objectionable videos and photos. When she left college and tried to move on, he started blackmailing and exploiting her. A few years later, when she got married, Ramesh contacted her husband and told him about the affair. It led to divorce. She couldn’t lead a peaceful life,” she said in the complaint filed in the chief judicial magistrate on July 8. The parents of the woman had taken a house in Pilibhit when she was still in college. “After her father’s death, Ramesh started coming to the home quite often. I couldn’t say a thing. He used to be accompanied by two friends, Chandra Shekhar and Dilip Singh. On March 12, when I was away for some work, they killed my daughter and cremated the body in my absence. They also took possession of all the jewellery and occupied upper floors of the house,” she wrote in the complaint. Station house officer (SHO) of Pilibhit’s Sungarhi police station, Atar Singh, said, “The three accused were booked under section 302 (murder) of IPC. They will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-woman-blackmailed-sexually-exploited-for-21-years-then-killed-for-property-at-42/articleshow/79783658.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cops, panch witnesses sniffed suspects’ mouths, FIR says||Ahmedabad: Despite the office of the director general of police on December 3 issuing a circular to the force to not smell the mouths of persons suspected to be drunk due to the Covid-19 situation, Maninagar police did just that on Wednesday. The circular, written by IPG Narsimha Komar (IGP, law and order), stated that such persons could have Covid-19 and the cops or panch witnesses smelling their mouths could lead to infection. An FIR lodged by assistant sub-inspector Vinu Harjivandas of Maninagar police station on Wednesday, states that when they were on patrol near Maninagar railway station, they intercepted a car with three persons in it. It states that as the three seemed inebriated, the cops and three panch witnesses smelled their mouths and got a strong whiff of alcohol. The three suspects were later identified as Rakesh Prajapati, 45, of Ramol; Santosh Gaekwad, 32, and Kiran Sathe, 40, both from Nashik. Inspector B B Goyal of Maninagar police station said he had instructed his staff not to smell suspects’ mouths. “I will have to check whether this is a typing mistake in the FIR or the cops actually smelled the mouths of the suspects. If they did smell their mouths, it is a violation of Covid-19 guidelines,” he added. “It may take time for instructions in a circular to trickle down the ranks,” DGP Ashish Bhatia said. “It may also be that they may not have actually smelled their mouths but stated so in the FIR,” he added. “To smell the suspects mouths’, the cops would have had to get close to them, which would violate social distancing rules. It would be much worse if the suspect actually has Covid-19. The DGP should remind his force about the circular again, so it sends out a clear instruction,” said Gaurang Jani, a retired Gujarat University sociology professor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-panch-witnesses-sniffed-suspects-mouths-fir-says/articleshow/79669298.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||Man throws acid-like substance on 'pregnant' girlfriend, 22, after she insists on marriage||Bareilly: A college girl, 22, who claimed to be pregnant, sustained burn injuries after her “boyfriend” allegedly threw acid-like liquid on her following an argument over marriage. The victim, who belongs to a minority community, was insisting on marriage which infuriated the accused who is from another faith.The girl was admitted at district hospital in Budaun with severe burn injuries. And the accused was booked for rape and acid attack on Thursday.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said, “The victim is a student of B.Sc. and was returning home when the accused stopped her at an isolated place and threw some chemical on her. She was rushed to a hospital. The girl has said that when she insisted on marriage, as she was pregnant, the youth threw the liquid on her.”“Based on her complaint, we have registered an FIR under IPC sections 376 (rape), 326-A (punishment for acid attack), 343 (wrongful confinement), 313 (causing miscarriage without consent) and 504 (intentional insult) against Mahesh Pal alias Bantu. The accused is absconding but we will arrest him soon,” the SSP said.Emergency medical officer at district hospital, Dr N K Singh, said, “The victim was brought to the hospital by two women constables on Wednesday night. She was saying that some acid-like liquid was thrown at her. Looking at her condition, we started her treatment and admitted her to the hospital. She has sustained burn injuries near shoulders and arms but her condition is stable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-throws-acid-like-substance-on-pregnant-girlfriend-22-after-she-insists-on-marriage/articleshow/79783655.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Mumbai cops arrest former COO of BARC in TRP scam||MUMBAI: The city crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Thursday arrested Romil Ramgarhia, former chief operating officer of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), for allegedly sharing confidential information with certain TV channels and their office-bearers. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeHe is the 14th accused to be arrested in the case. The police in their remand application stated that Ramgarhia was in contact with the director of ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd (which operates Republic TV) and its CEO Vikas Khanchandani through WhatsApp and is suspected to have passed on information to the channel. Read AlsoStop ‘parallel trial’ by Republic TV in TRP scam: Maharashtra to HCThe state on Wednesday sought orders from the Bombay high court to restrain Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV from running a “parallel trial and discussion” on the TRP manipulation scam till the next date of hearing. State counsel Kapil Sibal submitted that “it would be interference’’ with administrationPolice said they are probing monetary benefits gained by Ramgarhia. BARC, the joint broadcasting industry body, is responsible for designing, commissioning, supervising and owning India’s TV audience measurement system. An officer, who is part of the probe team, said, “Ramgarhia was aware about the trends in TV viewership, trends in news viewership and channel performance. Read AlsoMumbai Police file chargesheet in fake TRP scamMUMBAI: The Mumbai Police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet in a court in the alleged TRP (Television Rating Points) rigging scam. The chargesheet was submitted before a magistrate's court by the police's Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), which is conducting a probe into the case, an official said. TheSince he would get information after analysis of these trends, we suspect he had shared confidential information with certain TV channels.” Ramgarhia was produced before a magistrate’s court, which remanded him in police custody till December 19. He had joined BARC as COO in July 2014 and resigned in July this year. “While working with BARC, he guided and assisted some TV channels in manipulating TRPs. He was aware about the location of barometers across the country and we suspect that he shared this information too with some channels,” the officer added. Police stated that Ramgarhia’s mobile phone has been seized and will be sent to the forensic science laboratory for cyber analysis. Advocate Mrunmai Kulkarni, who appeared for Ramgarhia, said, “He had already resigned and the laptop was returned to the company. I have no idea what scam they are talking about,”. Cops have also sent a detailed report to ED and Serious Fraud Investigation Office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-cops-arrest-former-coo-of-barc-in-trp-scam/articleshow/79788094.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Meerut||Meerut records season’s coldest day on Thursday||MEERUT: Icy winds from Uttarakhand hills added to the chill in western Uttar Pradesh as minimum temperature in most parts of the region remained below 5 degree Celsius. Meerut recorded its coldest day of the season on Thursday at 3.5 degree. Other parts of the state were also reeling under the cold wave. The city’s minimum temperature dipped four notches below normal. “The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in Meerut on Thursday were 14.9 degrees and 3.5 degrees respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 85% and 54% respectively,” said Brij Mohan, in-charge of the meteorological department in Meerut. “The conditions are predicted to remain the same on Friday as well,” said Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-records-seasons-coldest-day-on-thursday/articleshow/79783663.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Tech glitch: Tamil students get English paper||Trichy: Students of the Bharathidasan University affiliated colleges, who were taking the online semester examinations from Monday, were in a surprise when the question papers were mailed only in English. Ideally, the question papers are sent in both Tamil and English. Students pursuing theirs degrees in Tamil medium faced difficulty in answering the questions and informed the faculty members. S Srinivasaragava, controller of examination, BDU said that question papers were set bilingually, but Tamil font in some of the soft copies did not appear due to technical issue. However, the issue was sorted out in an hour and revised question papers were sent to the respective colleges. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tech-glitch-tamil-students-get-english-paper/articleshow/79787194.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Court staff steals seized liquor worth Rs 28,000, held||MAYILADUTHURAI: Police have arrested a 24-year-old office assistant of a judicial magistrate court I in Mayiladuthurai district on charges of stealing 279 bottles of liquor from the property room of the court on Wednesday night. The bottles were estimated at Rs 27,700. Usually, liquor bottles seized by the prohibition wing police are kept at the court’s property room. The accused has been identified as Manivannan, a native of Mayiladuthurai town. The theft came to light when court writer Punitha examined the stocked liquor bottles. During the examination, she noticed that a gunny bag with liquor bottles was untied. On checking the bag, she found the bottles missing. The court staff examined a CCTV footage from a camera installed inside the room, in which Manivannan was seen stealing the bottles. Three other unidentified men had also accompanied Manivannan. Based on a complaint lodged by Punitha, the Mayiladuthurai police registered a case and arrested him on Wednesday night. He was remanded in the Mayiladuthurai sub-jail after being produced before the judicial magistrate court on Thursday. Police are investigating to identify the other suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/court-employee-steals-liquor-bottles-from-property-room-held/articleshow/79787192.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Visually challenged donor’s blood saves woman with disability||PUDUKOTTAI: The blood donated from a blind man from the district helped a disabled woman who was in need of urgent blood transfusion on Wednesday. A Siva, 40, a government school teacher, came across the requirement for O+ve blood and volunteered to donate. As he is visually challenged, Siva was not sure if he would be allowed to donate blood, but got the go-ahead at the Pudukottai medical college hospital after a preliminary health check-up. Shakuntala, 61, the recipient, who was suffering from renal failure as her haemoglobin level was just 2-3 g/decilitre, which should be at least 8. Her family members approached ‘Kuruthikoodu’ – a voluntary group of blood donors for help. Syed Ibrahim, of Kuruthikoodu, said that the hospital was hesitant to get blood from a visually challenged. “Siva was already disappointed by a private hospital which refused to take blood citing his disability a few days back. He volunteered this time too to see if he can help the 61-year-old woman. We didn’t want to disappoint him and spoke to the dean about the incident,” he said. Dean M Poovathi said that the Siva has set an example for others by coming forward to donate blood. “While it is not very common to see a person with disability donating blood, but if a person volunteers he/she should not be denied just because of their physical disability,” she said. “Siva was healthy, and his haemoglobin level too was found to be adequate to donate blood. Above all, he was very enthusiastic and wanted to help a woman with renal failure,” added Poovathi. “Blood donation is the least I can do to pay back to the society which has helped me during several instances, especially by the unknown people. Whether on the road or public transport, I was always given help to reach my destination,” said Siva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/blind-man-saves-life-of-disabled-woman-by-donating-blood-in-time/articleshow/79787196.cms||K Sambath Kumar
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Fog throws wet blanket on schedule, 8 flights get late||MOHALI: Fog affected eight flights at Chandigarh International Airport, as three arrived late and five’s departure got delayed on Thursday. According to the data provided by the airline operators, the three flights that arrived late included Indigo’s 6E-6177 that came 1.32 hours late from Ahmedabad at 11.32am against the scheduled arrival of 10am. On its onward journey, the flight went to Srinagar and had a delayed departure by 1.15 hours. The flight left Chandigarh at 11.55am against the scheduled departure of 10.40am. GoAir’s G8-810 arrived late by 17 minutes from Bengaluru. Indigo flight 6E-6178 arrived late from Srinagar by 1.02 hours at 2.47pm against the scheduled time of 1.45pm and subsequently departed late for Ahmedabad by 41 minutes. GoAir’s G8-811 to Bengaluru departed late by 26 minutes from Chandigarh and Indigo flight 6E-2409 also left late for Delhi by 20 minutes. The airport authority said the visibility was poor during the morning, but gradually improved as the day went by and by 1.30pm, it got better to 800 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fog-throws-wet-blanket-on-schedule-8-flights-get-late/articleshow/79785716.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Trichy||Barrage work across Kollidam river to be completed by March||Trichy: The construction of the new barrage across Kollidam River is 65% complete and steps have been taken to expedite the work to finish it by March, PWD principal secretary K Manivasan said. Officials from the public works department (PWD) visited the spot and examined the works on Thursday. Work on the new barrage began in February 2019.“Work on all the 484 pile foundations have been completed. Out of the 1,333m long diaphragm wall, only 150m is yet to be completed while 1,183m is already completed. Work on the entire 154m stretch deck slab has also been completed while all the 55 sluice gates are ready. The remaining works would be completed soon,” Manivasan added.“Kollidam River plays a vital role to carry excess water from the Cauvery and irrigates hundreds of acres in Thanjavur, Ariyalur and Cuddalore. As per the instruction of the chief minister, the ongoing work would be expedited to complete it by March 2021,” he added.PWD water resources department engineer-in-chief K Ramamoorthy, chief engineer S Ramamoorthy, superintending engineer Thiruvettaiselvam and executive engineer (RC division) R Baskar were present during the inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/barrage-work-across-kollidam-river-to-be-completed-by-march/articleshow/79787198.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Video shows people nabbing ‘drunk’ cop who drove on wrong side, hit car||CHANDIGARH: A video of an allegedly drunk cop went viral on social media on Thursday. The video showed a UT ASI, who was driving his Activa scooter on the wrong side at Madhya Marg in Sector 26, being caught by a group of people, who were alleging that the “drunk” cop had hit and damaged two parked vehicles at the vegetable market. People called a PCR and handed over the cop to them. The medical reports of the cop would confirm if he was drunk or not. The video clip showed the ASI being nabbed by people when he was trying to flee after hitting a car parked at the Sector 26 vegetable market. He was driving on the wrong side and when he stopped his scooter, a person started video recording. After lifting his helmet, the cop removed his nameplate, and the act was also captured in the video. He was also seen apologising to the people and requesting them to let him go. But people argued that if they were caught drunk, police handed them challan slips and also impounded their vehicles, so he should not be spared too. When someone from the public called up at 112, ASI Sumer Singh reached the spot and controlled the cop. Later, cops from Sector 26 police station also reached the spot and brought him to the police station. UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said they were verifying the video footage and would take strict action against the erring cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/video-shows-people-nabbing-drunk-cop-who-drove-on-wrong-side-hit-car/articleshow/79785727.cms||Pawan Tiwari
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Severe cold wave conditions to continue||CHANDIGARH: With temperatures settling at below normal, cold to severe cold wave conditions will continue for another couple of days in Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. Chandigarh meteorological centre officials said dry weather was likely to prevail in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next five days. “Cold day to severe cold day conditions are expected to continue in the two states, including Chandigarh, during the next 24 to 48 hours, with temperatures settling at below normal,” they added. Dense to very dense fog is likely during night and early morning hours during the next 24 hours. On Thursday, the maximum temperature was recorded at 14.3 degrees (7 degrees below normal) and the minimum at 5.1 degrees. (2 degrees below normal). On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 16.6 (6 degrees below normal) and the minimum 6.2 degrees (at normal). “Foggy conditions are likely to continue till January. Minimum temperature will be below normal in January and February,” said Surender Paul, director, Chandigarh meteorological centre. Weather is expected to remain dry, with clear skies and dense to very dense fog in morning and late evening hours on Friday, according to the forecast. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 17 degrees Celsius and the minimum around 5 degrees Celsius. ‘Orange alert’ For Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, weathermen have given “orange alert”, which means severe cold wave conditions will prevail there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/severe-cold-wave-conditions-to-continue/articleshow/79785732.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||To iron out differences, MC to meet waste collectors today||CHANDIGARH: To make door-to-door garbage collection a success, the MC officials have called leaders of the waste collectors on Friday to iron out all issues. Sources in the civic body said the MC has already engaged around 150 employees as drivers and helpers for these new twin-bin vehicles. These outsourced employees are working with the sanitation department of the MC, which has also issued a public notice, asking all the collectors to register with them to work on the twin-bin vehicles either as drivers or helpers, so that they can directly come under the civic body. “Since we want to employ collectors on new vehicles so that they can work in a system, we have issued a public notice, asking them to register with the MC by December 21. The officers concerned and sanitation committee members will also talk to the collectors on Friday to convince them,” an MC official said. Om Parkash Saini, chairman of the door-to-door garbage collection society, said, “We don’t want to work under the MC and if they launch this new exercise without accepting our demands, we will oppose it, not collect garbage and show black flags to the administrator when he launches the project. As a result, residents will have to face problems. After talks on Friday, we will plan our strategy. We have also called a meeting of our union on the same day to discuss the issue.” Vehicle monitoring The board of directors of the CSCL has approved the lowest bidder for solid waste management vehicle tracking and SCADA project, which is for monitoring of these twin-bin vehicles. The project is part of improvement of the overall sanitation system in the city and will make employees accountable. A full-fledged control room will be established by dividing the city into 10 zones and 10 persons will manage each zone to monitor the garbage lifting exercise, movement of vehicles, time spent at each house, GPS tracking and public complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-iron-out-differences-mc-to-meet-waste-collectors-today/articleshow/79785735.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Woman duped of Rs 54,000 in online fraud||CHANDIGARH: A Manimajra woman was duped of Rs 54,000 in online fraud. The woman had ordered iphone-11 online and the accused took full payment from the woman, but did not deliver the phone. Varinda Kalia, a resident of Manimajra, stated that she had placed an order to buy i-phone 11 through online mode in April 2020. The price of the phone was Rs 54,500 and the accused told her to pay the full amount before the delivery. The accused provided her with an account number named as Zestsquare electronics. The woman transferred the money on April 13, 2020. After taking the money, the accused stopped responding to her calls. After waiting for several days and failing to get her phone, she complained at the SSP window and the cyber cell. The cyber cell, after verifying the facts, registered a case against the unknown person. The cyber cell is scrutinising the account details of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-rs-54k-in-online-fraud/articleshow/79785733.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||TNPCB collects samples from channel near Amaravathy river||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) on Thursday informed the Madras high court that it had collected water samples from seven places from a channel near the Amaravathy river in Karur district.The court was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation initiated based on a news report about dyeing units and industries releasing effluent waste thereby polluting the river. The petition sought for a direction to the state government to take steps to prevent effluent wastes from industries being discharged into the river to prevent pollution.During the previous hearing, the court had directed the TNPCB officials to collect samples from places where effluents are discharged in the ‘rettai vaikkal’ channel and send it for testing to the TNPCB lab and King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research at Chennai.The counsel appearing for TNPCB submitted that pursuant to the earlier direction, officials have collected samples from seven places and have sent them for testing. He also sought time to submit a report in this regard as they are awaiting the test results.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi adjourned the case to December 22 for submission of test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tnpcb-collects-samples-from-channel-near-amaravathy-river/articleshow/79787212.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||Autos carrying more than 3 to be impounded||Madurai: City police have warned autorickshaw drivers of stringent action if they are found carrying more passengers than the allowed numbers. Police said that they will start impounding the vehicles and send them to regional transport offices (RTO) to levy fines, as the rule against carrying more passengers, is not yielding the desired level of compliance.Recently, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court took a serious view on the issue of autorickshaws violating traffic rules. It had also sought details of action taken on autorickshaw violations throughout the state. An official said that the court has directed to take stringent action against violations based on a PIL and the city police is preparing for it. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Madurai city K Sugumaran said that only three passengers are allowed in both petrol and diesel autos. Alterations to seating arrangements to carry more passengers and vehicles found carrying more than three will invoke action. “As per direction from the high court, autorickshaws carrying more than three passengers will be seized and sent to the RTO, where licence will be suspended. Drivers cannot expect any lenience from the enforcement agencies,” he said.An official from the traffic wing said that a meeting has been conducted with representatives of autorickshaw drivers association to sensitize them. They have assured to extend cooperation. They have also been told to compulsorily wear masks and ensure that their passengers too wear them. They will work more closely with RTOs in the coming days to strictly implement the traffic rules, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/autos-carrying-more-than-3-to-be-impounded/articleshow/79787213.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BJP claims TRS regime diverted Smart City funds||HYDERABAD: Upping the ante ahead of the Warangal and Khammam civic polls, BJP fired a fresh salvo at the TRS regime, claiming it diverted Rs 392 crore meant for the two civic bodies released by the Centre without setting up special purpose vehicles (SPV) meant for Smart City works. BJP spokesperson A Rakesh Reddy released a letter written by the Union government to the chief secretary asking why SPVs were not formed and why the state government did not release equivalent share of funds for the scheme. When contacted, former Karimnagar MP and state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar denied any diversion of funds. “I am aware of these works. There is little delay in allotting funds, but various works are in progress. Many tenders have been called, we are very keen on this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-claims-trs-regime-diverted-smart-city-funds/articleshow/79785746.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: YSRC MLA seeks CBI investigation||HYDERABAD: The Supreme Court on Thursday heard the contentions of YSR Congress MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy and Telangana ACB in the cash-for-vote case. Ramakrishna filed a petition in the apex court, seeking a CBI probe into the cash-for-vote case that led to the arrest of then TDP legislator A Revanth Reddy during 2015 MLC elections. The plea was taken up by a three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice SA Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian. The bench heard the contentions of both the parties and posted the case to July 21, 2021, for further hearing the case. The MLA was suspicious of the intentions of Telangana ACB which he contended did not make much headway in taking the case to its logical end despite effecting the arrests of Revanth and others when they were trying to bribe Elvis Stephenson, an independent MLA, with Rs 50 lakh and Rs 5 crore more in lieu of his vote for TDP nominee. “They acted at the behest of TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu but the ACB has failed to add him as an accused,” the MLA said. He said the ACB did mention the name of Naidu several times in its first chargesheet, but did not show him as an accused. His plea of adding Naidu as an accused in the case was earlier dismissed by Hyderabad high court in 2017. Ramakrishna challenged this in the Supreme Court and also made a complaint to the apex court that his case was not getting listed in the last three years. He also filed a separate plea urging the court to take up the issue early.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysrc-mla-seeks-cbi-investigation/articleshow/79785741.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Door-to-door segregated waste collection in UT from Dec 22||CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation is all set to kick off door-to-door segregated garbage collection from December 22. UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will inaugurate the exercise, which will be started in three phases to cover all parts of the city. Residents will have to put garbage in twin-bin vehicles especially designed for dry and wet wastes. In the first phase, sectors 1 to 30 will be covered from December 22 and the second phase will start from January 1, covering the rest of the sectors and colonies. The third phase will start on January 7, covering Manimajra. In the first phase, around 115 vehicles will be used. These have already reached the city and their technical evaluation has been done. These vehicles are designed in a manner that they can easily go to all residential areas. “Vehicles’ registration process has started, after which these will be handed over to the medical officer, health, of the MC. Tender to fix GPS is also under process. This will help in checking vehicles’ location and movement to ensure effective garbage collection. Route plan will also be prepared soon,” sources in the MC said. The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), which had initiated to purchase 390 twin-bin vehicles to lift dry and wet waste separately, had received Rs 29-crore bid against the estimated amount of Rs 35 crore from the successful bidder Continental Engines, a dealer of TATA Motors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/door-to-door-segregated-waste-collection-from-dec-22/articleshow/79785745.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre okays NHs expansion in Telangana: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said on Friday that the Centre had given its nod for the expansion of national highways in Telangana. Union minister of road transport and high ways Nitin Gadkari will inaugurate the expansion of highways project through video conference on December 21. Eight projects at a cost of Rs 9,440 crore have been sanctioned for the state. National highways will be extended by another 396 km. He also said that 750 km national highways will be converted into express ways in the state. The regional ring road for Hyderabad will also be approved soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-okays-nhs-expansion-in-t-kishan/articleshow/79785748.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||Deaths, injuries due to cattle common on Madurai highways||Madurai: Movement of cattle on the national highways in Madurai district pose a threat to the lives of commuters. There have been frequent accidents involving speeding vehicles and cattle, causing fatalities and injuries to both people and cattle.Commuters say that it would be difficult to notice cattle at nights especially in the turns due to visibility issues. Mostly 2 wheelers and people riding in cars face a grave threat. In the accidents involving heavy vehicles, mostly cattle get injured or even killed. Commuters demand that the cattle owners be held accountable for letting them loose. A large scale awareness programs should be carried out, they added.S Senthil, a cab driver from Madurai said that, often customers on hurry, want to reach their destination at a shortest time possible forcing them to hit the accelerator pedal harder. The last thing we would want to face is a cattle crossing the road.“Experienced drivers can somehow manage if it is day time. It would be difficult to control the vehicle if the cows cross the road at night. When lighting is poor, it would be a grave threat to lives,” he said.P Jeevagan, a resident of KK Nagar said “I was about to a hit cow at Therku Theru near Melur a few days back while riding a bike. I could not see the cow until the last moment since it was curve. Luckily, I managed to hit brakes at the nick of the time. It was a terrible experience,” he said.National highway stretches between Kottampatti and Melur, Madurai-Vadipatti and Sivarakottai-Thoppur are considered to be dangerous stretches for cattle movement. Cattle mainly stray into roads to reach the other end to eat grass grown on the centre median. Being a rainy season, cattle laying on the road to get warmth is also a common scene. An official from National Highways Authority of India said that they experimented with fencing on both sides to prevent the entry of cattle in Dindigul-Samayanallur section, but they could not succeed, since people who own land adjacent to the roads play spoilsport. They do not want to fence since it might bring down the value of their land. And the fencing has been damaged.“We have little role to play in the issue. We trim the grasses to avoid attracting cows. As fencing is also not helping, only district administration can act. They have the authority to impound stray cattle. If the rule is strictly implemented, the issues can be addressed,” the official said.A police officer from Madurai district police unit said that they have taken up an initiative jointly with the elected representatives of Othakadai to impound cattle straying on roads. With the help of panchayat president S Murugeswari wall posters have been stuck warning villagers of impounding cattle. It can be emulated everywhere to mitigate the issue, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deaths-injuries-due-to-cattle-common-on-madurai-highways/articleshow/79787214.cms||V Devanathan
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Undertrial prisoner escapes from police custody near Narasampet||HYDERABAD: An undertrial prisoner, escaped from the custody of the escort police on the outskirts of Narsampet in Warangal rural while they were returning to Warangal central prison after attending a court hearing in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Wednesday evening. Narsampet police said that K Ganesh, who is from Venkatapuram, was involved in a murder case and was in Warangal central prisoner as an under trial. “On Wednesday, he was taken for a scheduled court hearing in Kothagudem. In the evening between 4 and 5 pm, when the Armed Reserve escort police party were returning to jail along with the accused, enroute at Narsampet outskirts, Ganesh said he was getting nature’s call,’’ deputy supterintendent of police Phanindra told TOI. The hand cuffed Ganesh went to a nearby water body on the road side, while the five security personnel were standing behind the accused. Suddenly, Ganesh started to run and escaped into agriculture fields. The AR personnel lodged a complaint in Narsampet police station. Police formed special search teams in look out for the missing murder accused. The hand cuffed Ganesh went to a nearby water body, while the five security personnel were standing behind the accused. Suddenly, he started to run and escaped into agriculture fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/undertrial-prisoner-escapes-from-police-custody/articleshow/79785760.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Tractor falls into pit, three die||Hyderabad: Three persons were killed and two others injured when the tractor in which they were travelling overturned and fell into a roadside pit in Bichkunda mandal of Kamareddy district on Thursday. The five youngsters had gone to a nearby rivulet in Chinna Devada village to fetch water in the gram panchayat tractor trolley for use in the wedding function of a villager. As they were heading back to the village, the trolley entered a ditch and the tractor overturned and fell into a 6ft deep pit. “The tractor engine overturned along with the container trolley and the youth came under it,” Bichkunda CI Sajid Ali said. While three of them died on the spot, other villagers along with cops rushed the injured to Bichkunda hospital. The deceased were identified as Tukaram (25), Shankar (25) and Sailoo (24). G Maruthi, who was driving the tractor, and Sangu suffered injuries. A case was registered under IPC sections of causing death by negligence and endangering life or personal safety of others. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tractor-falls-into-pit-three-die/articleshow/79785764.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: VS Hospital told to explain morgue body swap||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday issued notice to the civic authorities and the VS Hospital and sought detailed explanation on how the dead body of a woman was handed over to another family from the morgue last month. Justice Umesh Trivedi agreed with the argument of the family of the deceased and said that the possibility of stealing of organs may also not be ruled out. The judge also criticized the behaviour of the alleged recipients that they also did not bother to look at the face of the deceased before cremation. The court sought report from the concerned authorities after the deceased’s family members filed a petition seeking compensation of Rs 50 lakh and for formulation of rules for handing over of dead body to kith and kin of the deceased from a morgue. In this case, Lekha Chand (70) suffered heart attack on November 11 and could not make it to the hospital. At that time, her husband, Pranavkumar Chand and elder son, Sumit were suffering from Covid-19 with Pranavkumar home-quarantined and Sumit admitted in hospital. Since, her younger son Amit was in Canada, the family decided to place the dead body at VS Hospital morgue. After the younger son’s arrival on November 15, the family came to know that the dead body had already been handed over on November 13 to another family. The Chand family registered a complaint with the Ellisbridge police in this regard. The responsible persons at the VS Hospital told the family that the dead body was handed over to Dhansukhlal Bagadia and his two sons. The Bagadias, however, denied of having received Lekha’s body for cremation. This led the Chands to approach the high court through advocate Sachin Vasavada, who submitted before the court that his clients are a Bengali family and are professing Hindu religion as being practised in Bengal. All rituals, rites and even obsequies are practised according to the Bengali culture. Deprivation of their invaluable right of performing last rites of the family member has caused great shock to the petitioners. The petitioners have urged the HC that it may declare the action of handing over the dead body to strangers by those responsible at the morgue as illegal and violative of constitutional rights of the family. They have demanded immediate formulation of rules so that such blunder does not occur in future. They have also sought compensation and an inquiry into the incident and action against those responsible for misplacing the dead body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vs-told-to-explain-morgue-body-swap/articleshow/79785858.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||Land for AIIMS handed over, MK Stalin spreading rumour: Tamil Nadu minister||MADURAI: The Tamil Nadu government has already given the land for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Thoppur, laid a four-lane road and built a compound wall around the site, said minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udhayakumar. Hence, DMK president M K Stalin should stop spreading rumours about the establishment of this facility, he said after inaugurating an Amma clinic at Thirumangalam on Friday. The minister said the site was being readied for the establishment of the facility, but some people had made it a job to file RTI petitions about it once in three months and then confuse the people with replies received. He said the site which belonged to the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur had been handed over to the revenue department and then to the central government. The work has been initiated, he said. If the land was not handed over, the compound wall could not have been constructed, he said. Hence, people who did not know the reality were spreading rumours. The minister said that the representatives of Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) had inspected the site and said that it was fit for the construction of the hospital. Signing of the agreement with the agency was getting delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. He reiterated that nothing could prevent the AIIMS facility being established in Madurai. The opposition parties which were worried that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s popularity would increase among the people were spreading rumours. “I would like to tell the person who filed the RTI and the leader of the opposition, that all that is required for the establishment of AIIMS is in the revenue department, and anybody can view them,’’ he said. Meanwhile, AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran has tweeted that the news that the Edappadi Palaniswami government had not handed over the land for establishment of AIIMS in Madurai even after two years of laying the foundation stone was shocking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/land-for-aiims-handed-over-fenced-road-built-says-min/articleshow/79787215.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||AIADMK not worried about Kamal Hassan-Rajinikanth: Tamil Nadu minister Kadambur C Raju||TUTICORIN: Alliances may change and new ones may form, but we are not bothered, said information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju at Kovilpatti in the district on Thursday. He was responding to a question on MNM founder Kamal Hassan’s statement during his recent campaign in the south that he would be ready to form an alliance with Rajinikanth. Raju said that there is a long way for the elections and the election commission is only likely to announce the elections on March 1 and that Rajinikanth is yet to launch his party. “His party is yet to be registered. He said he will announce the name of the party and the symbol and there is time for it.” AIADMK is the solution and is sufficient to stop corrupt DMK from coming to power, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/not-worried-if-kamal-rajini-tie-up-min/articleshow/79787217.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Arnab, wife withdraw bail pleas in ‘cop assault’ case||MUMBAI: Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and his wife on Thursday withdrew their anticipatory bail pleas submitted before the City Civil and Sessions Court. The couple had sought the relief in connection with a case registered by the city police for allegedly resisting arrest and obstruction of public servants from their official duty on November 4. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeThe plea was “simply withdrawn” and no grounds were cited by defence advocate Shyam Kalyankar. He told the court that he was not pressing the plea as per Goswami’s instructions. Special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves gave his no-objection to disposing of the application. Last month, police had registered an FIR against Goswami, his wife, son and two others for allegedly assaulting police officers and trying to obstruct them when they reached his residence to arrest him in a 2018 case of abetment to suicide of Anvay Naik, an interior designer who had worked on his TV studio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-wife-withdraw-bail-pleas-in-cop-assault-case/articleshow/79788108.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mucormycosis mortality at 20%||AHMEDABAD: With the recovery of Covid-19, the citizens are exposed to other health complications such as mucormycosis, said city-based experts. The fungal infection, which was seen only occasionally before Covid-19, is seen frequently among the Covid-19 recovered patients with co-morbidities such as diabetes or kidney/heart disease or cancer. Experts said that the fungal infection is primarily a sign of lower immune system response. "We have recorded 20% mortality (deaths of nine out of 46 patients) in the mucormycosis infection so far. However, timely intervention can prevent complications,” said Dr Devang Gupta, ENT surgeon at Civil Hospital. “In the past 18 years, I have seen about 20-odd cases of the infection. But in the past nine months, we have seen 46 such instances. Mostly the patients are with lower immunity after recovery from Covid-19.” Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that the treatment procedure, taking about Rs 3 lakh to Rs 4 lakh, is carried out free of cost at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mucormycosis-mortality-at-20/articleshow/79785852.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Police intensify combing ops on Telangana-Chattisgarh border||HYDERABAD: Bhadradri Kothagudem police have issued a statement saying that they have intensified combing operations in the agency area bordering Chattisgarh state upon receiving information about Maoists movement. We have specific information about the movement of Maoists under the leadership of Damodar, Shnata and Mangtu at Gundala, Karakagudem, Bayyaram, Gangaram, Pasara, Tadwai and Mangapet forest areas. Additional forces have been dispatched to those areas to intensify combing operation, Bhadradri Kothagudem SP Sunil Dutt said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-intensify-combing-ops-on-telangana-chattisgarh-border/articleshow/79785769.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chennai||Pay packages for big data jobs double in six years at Chennai Mathematical Institute||CHENNAI: With a surge in data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) jobs, average salaries at the premier Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI) have almost doubled in the past six years. From an average salary of around Rs 7.75 lakh per annum in academic year 2014-15, the current ongoing placement season has seen the average annual pay shoot up to Rs 15.5 lakh. Students pursuing their post-graduate program in computer science and data science have seen maximum interest from recruiters this year. CMI is now a recruiting ground for corporate behemoths such as Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse, Adobe, CRISIL, HP Labs, Temenos, Ford Motors and others. This year, for the first time, the institute saw semiconductor companies hire its students, with semiconductor giant Micron emerging as the largest recruiter picking up close to 10% of students who appeared for placements. Micron has offered around Rs 18 lakh per annum to selected students. “It is heartening to see that even in this pandemic, the average salary offered to data science students is more than earlier years,” Rajeev Karandikar, director, CMI, said. Companies such as Credit Suisse, Accenture, Condé Nast, Lynk, Kantar Analytics, LatentView, L&T Infotech, and others have already made pre-placement offers or visited the campus or are slated to visit in the next few weeks. Over 20 recruiters have communicated interest in hiring talent from CMI and some of them have already made pre-placement offers and completed their in-campus hiring, the institute said. In any year, over half the number of students pursue doctoral and post-doctoral degrees while the remaining opt for placements. With industry estimates pegging over three million job openings in data science in 2021, candidates with strong fundamentals in math and statistics are most sought after for jobs. Some of the top roles that students get hired for at CMI are data scientist, machine learning engineer, product engineer, risk analyst and data consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pay-packages-for-big-data-jobs-double-in-6-years-at-mathematical-institute/articleshow/79784649.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: As winds shift, chill sets in||AHMEDABAD: Citizens felt cold winds from Thursday morning on, as the wind direction over the region changed to north-easterly. The winds brought in cold air from the north, experts said. Parts of the city also saw fog. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) website said that the city’s maximum temperature was 25.6 degrees celsius, which was 4 degrees lower than normal, while the minimum temperature of 14.1 degrees was 0.4 degrees higher than normal. The website said there will be no great change in minimum temperatures on Friday, but these will fall by 2 to 3 degrees over the next two or three days. Due to the western disturbance and cyclonic effect, the city experienced high temperatures till last week. On Thursday, Naliya in Kutch recorded the lowest minimum temperature in the state, at 8.5 degrees celsius, followed by 11.2 degrees in Bhuj and Deesa, 11.4 degrees in Rajkot, and 11.5 degrees in Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/as-winds-shift-chill-sets-in/articleshow/79785847.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||No virus, bacteria behind Eluru illness, says CCMB||HYDERABAD: The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has ruled out infection due to virus, bacteria and parasite in the Eluru mystery illness case. In this regard, CCMB submitted its report to Andhra Pradesh government on Wednesday. CCMB director Dr Rakesh Mishra said the contaminant may be deliberately or inadvertently released into the water system. “As the water samples were collected on Dec 5 or 6, they didn’t yield any results as by that time contamination levels have come down.” West Godavari district joint collector Himanshu Shukla, however, said IICT has given a clear report that water was not source for the illness. “NEERI said air and water was clean. Lead and nickel may not be the reason as they would lead to fatalities,” he pointed out. Dr A Shariff, founder of clinical toxicology lab at AIIMS Delhi, said pesticide compounds along with higher levels of heavy metals could be the reason for the illness. “NIN found pesticides and herbicides. Pesticides could be the prime reason,” he told TOI. Lead above 120 micrograms per decilitre was found in one patient. “So, lead or nickel cannot be the reason. The main culprit behind so many people falling sick could be pesticide,” he added. Though probe by various agencies into the mystery illness has been inconclusive, fingers point to organachlorine or organphashorus pesticides laced with heavy metals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-virus-bacteria-behind-eluru-illness-says-ccmb/articleshow/79785807.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 18, 2020||Madurai||Locals stop encroachment in front of temple in Madurai||Madurai: The move by locals in Tallakulam here to protect 1.1 lakh acres of land in front of the Tallakulam Perumalkoil received a positive response from the district administration as an encroachment from the vacant area in front of the temple was cleared on Thursday evening.The announcement made by the temple administration to give 5,100 square feet to the horticulture department to establish a seed farm, published in newspapers on December 11, had brought up the issue. The specified area was also fenced. The people were joined by representatives of various political parties including the DMK, AIADMK and CPM and they staged a protest by blocking the Tallakulam road and officials held talks with them. They met the district collector on Thursday evening.District collector T Anbazhagan ordered the fence to be removed after hearing representations from the people and they thanked him for the same. “This land is a public property as it is a street and should never be used for anything but public gathering especially for the Chittirai festival,” said the collector. This vacant place was classified as a street since the period of King Thirumalai Naicker, who was instrumental in making the Chittirai festival famous. “The 1.1 lakh acres is very important for the Chittirai festival, as 30 of the mandapams in which the deity is taken to visit are situated around this place and encroaching it will affect the rituals,” said S Raja, a resident.Tallakulam Makkal Nala committee convener A Shantakumar said that the land in front of the temple and also behind it was classified as streets in the records of Madurai Corporation and district administration. In 2004, the Tallakulam Perumal temple administration had tried to trespass into the area and claim ownership. The people of the region went to court against this move and it is pending before court.In 2006, there was another attempt to trespass, following which the then district collector convened a peace committee that held meetings between the public and the temple administration, during which both sides were asked to produce proof of evidence on the status of the land. The locals produced government land records that they had while the temple administration did not have anything to validate its claim to the land. Following this, the collector ordered that the status quo be maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/locals-stop-encroachment-in-front-of-temple-in-madurai/articleshow/79787222.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Govt invokes ‘love jihad’ to oppose rape-accused’s bail||SURAT: A 28-year-old man arrested for abducting and raping a minor girl in February this year was denied bail by a local court here even as the prosecution invoked ‘love jihad’ to oppose his release as he and the survivor belong to different faiths. The court special Pocso court rejected the bail application of accused Nadeem, who was arrested by the Amroli police for allegedly luring the 16-year-old girl by offering to marry her. He, however, reneged on his promise after indulging in sexual intercourse with the girl at different places. Additional public prosecutor KV Revaliya argued that it was a case of ‘love jihad’ as the accused and victim belong to different religions. “The victim was minor at the time of incident. Accused has committed a serious offence of kidnapping and rape. It appears from the police papers that he had a role in inducement of marriage and taking away the victim and committing sexual intercourse. The girl was rescued from his custody. She is a Hindu and the accused a Muslim and this is a case of love jihad,” Revaliya argued. A FIR was lodged on February 2, 2020 in Amroli Police station by the girl’s father under various sections of IPC including 376 (2), 366 and sections of Protection of Children from Sexual offences Act, 2012 against unknown persons. In the FIR, her father stated that on January 31, 2020, his minor daughter did not return from her work place. Investigation revealed Nadim’s name and that had taken the girl at various places with an inducement of marriage. Nadim was later arrested and sent to judicial custody. Earlier, the court had rejected his regular bail plea and a chargesheet was filed against him. Appearing for the Nadim, lawyer Sanjay Vaniya argued that he was falsely implicated in the case and the matter had been amicably settled with the girl and her family. He had even submitted an affidavit giving details about the settlement with the girl wherein her family stated that even they had no objection if he was released on bail. “Nowadays, cases of kidnapping and abduction are on the high and young girls are being lured by young boys and are subjected to sexual abuse. As such, considering social aspects of the offence, I am of the opinion that the accused is actively involved in the alleged offence,” the court observed while rejecting the bail plea. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/govt-invokes-love-jihad-to-oppose-rape-accuseds-bail/articleshow/79783728.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||Madurai to get 26 Amma mini clinics||MADURAI: Madurai district will get 26 Amma mini clinics in the first phase, as part of the 2,000 clinics announced by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami across the state. On Thursday, minister for co-operation Sellur K Raju and minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, RB Udayakumar inaugurated various clinics in Madurai. While 16 clinics were inaugurated on Thursday, the rest will be opened soon. “These clinics will be beneficial for the public, especially those in rural areas and from poorer sections of the society. The quality of services provided at the clinics will be on a par with private hospitals and free of cost. Tamil Nadu has always set an example for the nation in providing quality healthcare for all,” said Raju, while inaugurating the clinics at Thurvariman and Kodimangalam areas in Madurai south. Out of the 26 clinics, 21 will be in rural areas and five in urban areas. These clinics have facilities like equipment and medicines to treat minor ailments. Each clinic will have a doctor, nurse and health worker and function similar to a medical/fever camp. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-to-get-26-amma-mini-clinics/articleshow/79787231.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Delhi||‘Scam’ cost Delhi 7,500 hospital beds, 12,500 clinics: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Calling the alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore by the BJP-led municipal corporations larger than the Commonwealth Games scam, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a special session of Delhi assembly on Friday claimed that 7,500 beds in hospitals and 12,500 mohalla clinics could have been created with the funds reportedly lost by the public exchequer. Breaking his silence on the ongoing protests outside his house by the three mayors and BJP councillors, Kejriwal said there had been multiple court orders mentioning that Delhi government had paid its dues to the corporations. “Even after misappropriating Rs 2,500 crore, they are demanding more money from us. People have been telling me that we should not give them funds even if we owe them,” Kejriwal said, while concluding the discussion on a resolution moved by AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj seeking a CBI probe into the alleged scam. Rejecting the charges, BJP MLAs said the corporations were ready for a probe by any agency. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said he would resign from his post if the allegations were proved true. He sought an apology from Kejriwal and others if the scam allegations turned out to be false. “You claim that you will resign if the scam proves to be true. Then why don’t you (BJP) allow a CBI inquiry? CBI is under you,” Kejriwal said, while describing the 15 years of BJP leading the corporations as a black era. He hoped the era would end after the 2022 municipal elections. Kejriwal said while the AAP government was saving money in all its projects, scams worth Rs 5,000-10,000 crore were taking place in the corporations every year. “Imagine what would have happened had they formed the government in Delhi. The scam of Rs 2,500 crore is of just one corporation this year. The corporations must have done unaccounted for scams in the past 15 years. Everyone on the streets will agree that there is a lot of corruption in the corporations and the government is honest,” he said. “In the last election, BJP replaced all its sitting councillors. People tell me the new ones have crossed all limits of corruption, so even they will be replaced in the next election. If this scam hadn’t happened, doctors and other staff of the civic bodies would have got their salaries on time,” said the CM. Remarking that it was painful to hear the corporations claim that Delhi government owed them Rs 13,000 crore, Kejriwal said, “All three corporations are non-functional because the mayors are sitting on protest and commissioners have not been appointed. I hope Delhiites will keep this in mind during the next election.” The second day of the assembly session was marked with protests by AAP MLAs. They flashed banners inside the House demanding action against BJP for the “scam”. Meanwhile, BJP MLAs carried placards demanding pending dues of Rs 13,000 crore to the corporations. Amid the uproar, the House was adjourned for 15 minutes. Bidhuri blamed the government for the delay in payment of salaries to civic staff, including doctors and health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scam-cost-delhi-7-5k-hosp-beds-12-5k-clinics-kejriwal/articleshow/79804641.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 18, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Covid fear can hamper your vision||SURAT: Despite having watery eyes for the last four months, 47-year-old computer engineer Darsh Parikh avoided visiting an ophthalmologist. He could not concentrate on computer screen also for long, but feared contracting Covid-19 if he visited a hospital. Recently, he was shocked when a doctor whom he finally consulted informed him that he was suffering from severe ocular inflammation that could also lead to vision loss. Like Parikh, large number of people are taking solace in over-the-counter eye drops and medicines purchased from nearby medical stores, but later suffer from severe swelling and redness . Ophthalmologists have reported a significant rise in cases of eye inflammation and mature cataract as patients are avoiding visits to eye hospitals fearing Covid infection. Patients who delayed cataract surgeries during the lockdown and fear of infection are now suffering from mature or hyper mature cataract that can lead to lens induced glaucoma. “As compared to 3-4 cases a month pre-Covid, we are now getting around 40 cases associated with lens-induced glaucoma with mature cataract. Seven out of 10 patients have inflammation like redness in eyes, swelling due to delayed check-ups,” said Dr Mahendrasinh Chauhan, a city-based ophthalmologist. “We are seeing a significant rise in number of severe ocular inflammation mainly caused by delayed consultation. Local doctors prescribe topical steroids which gave symptomatic relief but worsened the disease,” said Dr Priti Kapadia, head, department of ophthalmology, Government Medical College Surat (GMCS). Vadodara-based Dr Rupal Shah added, “The cataracts have become hyper mature due to the delay in reaching hospitals and this is leading to lens induced glaucoma. This is a visible rise in such cases in Vadodara. Patients should not be afraid as all doctors take enough precautions in the Covid times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-fear-can-hamper-your-vision/articleshow/79783796.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||MKU to hold AI-proctored online entrance for PhD, MPhil||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is set to hold the common entrance test for MPhil and PhD admissions for the academic year 2020-21 as an artificial intelligence-proctored online exam, which candidates can attend from their homes. More than 2,500 candidates have registered for the exam.“By partnering with a private company, we are holding these exams completely online wherein students would be able to give the exams using their computer, laptop or smart devices. They will be monitored closely both with AI technology and manual invigilators,” said MKU registrar (in charge) Dr V S Vasantha. The registrar said that all students have been informed in detail about the regulations in place and mock tests are being conducted on Thursday and Friday, with the actual exam set to happen on Saturday. Any technical issues faced during the mock tests are to be identified and fixed before the actual exam. For every 25 candidates, one manual invigilator is appointed who will be monitoring the candidate in real time and also help in case of any difficulties.All candidates must have access to a computer/laptop with web camera and mic or a smart phone or tablet with internet connectivity to write the exam. On desktops/laptops, candidates should log in for writing the exam through internet browsers while for smart phone or tablets, an application has to be downloaded. The exam is for two hours and candidates would have to answer 100 multiple choice questions (MCQs). In case of power or network failure, candidates can log in again and resume the exam but it will only be allowed for a maximum of three times after which the candidate would not be able to continue. University authorities said that it is not their responsibility if there is power or network failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-to-hold-ai-proctored-online-entrance-for-phd-mphil/articleshow/79787237.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||HC forbids Telangana from taking Aadhaar for registrations||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Thursday directed the state government to stop forthwith collecting personal details of family members and Aadhaar card particulars even for slot booking to register non-agricultural properties. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy made it clear that the state government cannot adopt surreptitious means to collect such details of people at the time of registration of non-agricultural properties either through Dharani portal or even through the old method of registration. The bench gave this interim direction while hearing a batch of PILs on Dharani. The petitioners questioned the methods the government had adopted to collect personal data without assuring people on the safety aspects. Reacting strongly to chief secretary Somesh Kumar’s affidavit, the judges told the CS that he has no powers to create an option of collecting such details to suit his needs. “You (government) cannot ask for details of Aadhaar, etc. You have to remove the relevant column from this manual altogether. No question of giving options,” the judges said. Earlier, the CS in his affidavit said that the government is collecting the details of Aadhaar, etc., only from those who are willing to part with their personal data. “We have set up a dedicated work flow for them. For those who do not want to part with their personal data, we have set up a separate work flow for them,” the CS said. HC seeks govt counter by Dec 21When senior counsel D Prakash Reddy brought to the notice of the court about a manual asking people to part with their personal details at the stage of slot booking itself, the judges directed advocate general BS Prasad to furnish a copy of the manual to the court. Another counsel K Saaketh told the court that the authorities are seeking details of Aadhaar while registering agricultural properties also. The judges sought a counter from the government by Dec 21. The government, on its part, argued that it has powers to implement land-related reforms in the scheduled areas and defended seeking Aadhaar details. Counsel Vasudha Nagaraj, representing the petitioners in this case, sought time to file her rejoinder to the government’s contention. Following an order from the court restraining the authorities from going ahead with Dharani portal operations, the government had resumed property registrations recently under the old method wherein people have to physically go to the sub-registrar offices to do property-related transactions like sale, purchase, mortgage and other agreements. “We will ask people to book online time slots to go to respective sub-registrar offices so as to enable them save time,” the state counsel said in an earlier hearing. He said the government will also ask the property tax identification number (PTIN) of the person ready to register his property. But upon being told by Prakash Reddy that the permission accorded by the court to the government to insist on online time slots and to collect PTIN from people is being misused to collect the personal details of Aadhaar cards, family members, etc., the judges grew suspicious and sought an explanation from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-forbids-t-from-taking-aadhaar-for-registrations/articleshow/79787652.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Asian Bariatrics, seven other hospitals off Covid-19 list in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A total of eight private hospitals in the city were removed from the Covid-19 designated hospitals list by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). In a letter dated December 15, the hospitals were told not to admit new Covid-19 patients on both AMC and private quotas after the discharge of patients they already had. AMC had started requisitioning private hospitals on May 16 with 42 hospitals, and the number was subsequently increased. Other hospitals were also allowed to admit patients on private quota, taking the total number of designated Covid hospitals to over 100. ‘The number of Covid-19 patients has seen a reduction. It is also important to ensure a system in which patients other than those with Covid-19 get treatment. A representation on this aspect was also made by the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA),’ says the letter to the hospitals, adding that the hospital could be used as a Covid hospital in the future if the need arises. AMC officials confirmed the step, adding that the decision was taken in the light of the reduction in cases. As of Thursday morning, only 36% of the 3,549 available beds in the non-requisitioned quota were occupied. Officials said super specialty hospitals with fewer beds would be out of the requisition list first. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said a representation was made to ensure that hospitals could serve non-Covid patients. “We believe that it should be left to the hospitals’ discretion, on whether they want to admit Covid-19 patients as many have already made structural changes such as laying oxygen pipelines and getting ventilators for the purpose,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/asian-bariatrics-seven-other-hospitals-off-covid-19-list/articleshow/79785868.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Madurai||Nilgiris tea meets Madurai malli at a metro rail station near you||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Soon, commuters of Chennai Metro rail could get to sip an eclectic mix combining the fresh brew of Nilgiris tea with the pristine fragrance of Madurai malli. In a bid to market the famed Nilgiris tea, Indcoserve, the apex body of tea cooperatives of Nilgiris, is coming out with a special brew named ‘Nilgiri Kahwa’, which would have the fragrance of Madurai malli. Indcoserve has registered a patent for the special brew. On Thursday, Indcoserve launched ‘Indco’s Tea House’ in Coonoor, a first in a series of such outlets, besides a new e-commerce website. According to Supriya Sahu, CEO of Indcoserve, the ‘Tea House’ will soon be found at metro train stations across Chennai. “The idea is to strengthen the marketing and brand building capacity of the tea cooperative federation. We produce around 13 million kg of tea per annum. A big organization like ours certainly needs a brand building exercise. And ultimately, it is a livelihood opportunity for small tea farmers in the Nilgiris,” Sahu said. With plans to introduce a small reading corner in the future, Indco’s Tea Houses promise to be an experience to remember for visitors, the IAS officer said. “The next step is to come out with our special tea ‘Nilgiri Kahwa’ infused with Madurai malli,” said Sahu. J Innocent Divya, Nilgiris collector, said Indcoserve had embarked on a new sojourn with innovative marketing concepts. Indcoserve is also working towards obtaining quality certifications like ‘TrusTea’ and ‘FairTrade’ to add heft to its products and to pave its way into the export market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nilgiris-tea-meets-madurai-malli-at-a-metro-rail-station-near-you/articleshow/79784703.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane service still unavailable in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: After the grand launch of the seaplane service from the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad to the Statue of Unity in Kevadia, if you thought you could take the flight on Christmas or New Year’s, you may have to put an alternative plan in place. Bookings for the seaplane flights have still not resumed, if well-placed sources are to be believed. Operations of the seaplane service were suspended on November 28 as the aircraft was sent to the Maldives for maintenance. SpiceJet – the airline operating the seaplane service – had in a statement said that the service would resume on December 15. According to the airline’s statement in November, operations were temporarily suspended due to mandatory aircraft maintenance. Airline officials had said a wet-and-dry dock was required for the routine maintenance. “As the maintenance facility (dry and wet dock) is still under construction in Ahmedabad, the aircraft has to be sent to our lessor’s facility in the Maldives. Operations will resume once the aircraft is back,” the spokesperson had said in a statement earlier. Despite several attempts, there was no response from SpiceJet to TOI’s questions about when the service is expected to resume. A week after the seaplane service began, it was suspended for two days for maintenance, which was carried out at the waterdrome on the Sabarmati riverfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-service-still-unavailable/articleshow/79785845.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man comes back after nine-month lockdown break, finds shop burgled||KOLKATA: When Chintamoni Soni heard about coronavirus and got to know that there were talks of a complete shutdown of New Market back in March, he did not think twice before closing his cycle and mobile reparing shop and head back to UP’s Mirzapur. Nine months later, when he mustered the courage to come back to his “actual home” on Marquis Street on December 15 and return to his shop, he found that the shop had been burgled. The 74-year-old claimed that while leaving in a hurry, he had left behind Rs 10,000 and other “necessary items” in the shop, which he has been running since 1969. “When I entered the room, everything was lying scattered. The entire shop had been ransacked and my belongings were gone. The money, too, was missing. My children have grown up here and I know everyone around. I am sad about losing the money, but it was the shop’s condition that left me in tears,” he said. Soni reached the New Market police station and lodged an FIR. “Of all the things he lost in his shop, he kept mentioning an old radio. He kept saying that it was very close to his heart,” recalled a police officer. Back at Marquis Street on Thursday, Soni told TOI that he wished to get back some of the stolen items that were dear to him. “It’s strange that the thief did not touch all the saleable items, but picked and chose what he wanted,” he said. The senior citizen, though, said that he had turned down his son’s request to stay with them in Howrah. “It’s Covid time and people do end up doing bad things. But the police are helpful and I will open my shop soon,” said the septuagenarian. The cops are scouting for leads using CCTV footage. “News reached us through sources that a local watchman’s son had set up a temporary cycle shop, cashing in on the pandemic. We knew he had access to the Soni residence. We have detained him for questioning,” said a police source, adding that even the CCTV camera footage hinted at someone, who knew Soni well and had unrestricted entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-comes-back-after-nine-month-lockdown-break-finds-shop-burgled/articleshow/79785844.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Udgam to start second shift for primary school students||AHMEDABAD: Udgam School For Children (USFC) on Thursday announced that it will run a second shift for primary school students from the academic year 2021-22. The city school in a media statement said it has received the necessary approvals from the Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE) board and the state education board for the move. “With this, USFC has become the first self-financed CBSE school in India to run two shifts on the same premises. The expansion will help the school accommodate 8,000 students,” the media release said. “We have been constantly getting requests from parents to have an option where they can choose school timings for their ward. This decision will finally allow a choice of timings and will let more children to join the Udgam family, many of whom could not be admitted earlier due to the limited seats,” said Manan Choksi, executive director, Udgam School For Children. The move will double student strength at the school. Consequently, some of the fixed costs per child will remain the same and the school will be able to pass on financial benefits to parents. The expansion will create more employment opportunities as the school aims to double teaching staff numbers to around 600 in three years. The ‘burden of books’ for students will also decrease as the school has significantly reduced academic hours per day, according to the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/udgam-to-start-second-shift-for-primary-school-students/articleshow/79785872.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Clamour for change at helm in Congress||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A clarion call for a total revamp in the organization has been sounded in the state unit of the Congress party after its dismal performance in the local body election. Many senior party leaders have come out in open flaying the candidate selection based on group affiliations that led to the poll debacle. The party high command has expressed serious concern over the poor show of the party. The high command is of the view that the Congress could not cash in on the atmosphere conducive to a UDF win in the state. “Definitely the party expected a better win since there was a favourable political atmosphere in the state. Hence there will be a serious introspection on what led to this dismal show. Every election result is a lesson and we have to rectify the mistakes to go ahead,” said K C Venugopal, AICC general secretary. However, the AICC rules out the possibility of a leadership change in the Congress now. “The blame for the defeat cannot be put on a single leader. We have a collective leadership in the state. There have been certain lapses in the party which will have to be rectified. The discussion on the change in leadership does not arise now,” said Venugopal. The high command is of the view that the candidate selection based on the groups and the alliance with the extremist forces were the major factors for the defeat. The lack of unity among the top leadership has also caused concern for the party. The AICC is also worried over the fact that the minority community that has been the strength of the UDF has now drifted away from the front. The hurt and shame among the party workers are so deep that even senior leaders were forced to vent out criticism against the leadership. KPCC working president K Sudhakaran demanded a change in the leadership of the party. “Organizational restructuring is the most essential thing which the party has to do now to face a cadre party like the CPM in the assembly election. We have a very weak structure now,” he said. There is a need for a total revamp in the party from the top to bottom. We need a quality leadership to take on the LDF in the ensuing assembly elections. “I will be going to New Delhi and meeting the AICC leaders to apprise them of the present situation in the party,” Sudhakaran said. K Muraleedharan, MP, expressed unhappiness over the way the decisions are being taken in the party. “I am a voter of Thiruvananthapuram and represented a constituency twice here. But I was never consulted in the candidate selection,” he said. Kasaragod MP Rajmohan Unnithan said all the 14 district leaderships of the party have to be immediately revamped. “|We don’t know about the contributions of the people who are sitting in the committees of the DCC and the KPCC,” he said. Senior party leader P J Kurian said the candidate selection based on the group affiliations was the reason behind the defeat. “Merit was not the criteria in selecting the candidates. Many of the deserved people were not considered in Pathanamthitta. The traditional minority vote bank was not with the Congress in the local body poll. This led to the defeat in Pathanamthitta, Idukki and Kottayam,” Kurian said. In Thiruvananthapuram, posters blaming the defeat of the party on former minister V S Sivakumar and DCC president Neyyattinkara Sanal appeared before the party offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/clamour-for-change-at-helm-in-cong/articleshow/79784722.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Agriculture officer kills self as app loan sharks defame her for default||HYDERABAD: Harassed and humiliated on social media for failing to repay a loan taken from an app-based finance company, an agriculture officer committed suicide late on Wednesday, prompting the government to order a probe against all such app-based finance operators. K Mounika, 24, an agriculture extension officer in Siddipet, had availed a loan of Rs 3 lakh and as she did not repay it on time, the app company soon branded her a defaulter and shared her photograph, name and telephone number on social media. Following her suicide, finance minister T Harish Rao said he would ask the police to act against apps according to laws as they were providing loans and taking advantage of individuals availing them. Mounika had consumed poisonOn Thursday night, Harish Rao visited the family of Mounika in Rajagopalpet of Nangunur mandal in Siddipet. Mounika had committed suicide by consuming poison when the posts became viral and was shared with all her contacts. “The family members alleged that she felt humiliated after the app-based financier started to harass her by sending defaming messages to all the persons on her contact list,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-officer-kills-self-as-app-loan-sharks-defame-her-for-default/articleshow/79787659.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Noida||Not ‘Jewar’ or ‘Delhi Noida’, it’s officially Noida International Airport now||NOIDA/LUCKNOW: NCR’s second airport, coming up at Jewar in Greater Noida, will officially be known as Noida International Airport and will have as its constant companion a logo depicting a flying sarus crane, Uttar Pradesh’s state bird that has one of its richest habitats in the wetlands around Noida. The decision was taken on Thursday after senior executives of Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the subsidiary of concessionaire Zurich AG that has been formed to build and operate the new airport, and officials of the civil aviation department met chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow. The design of the terminal building was also presented to the chief minister. While the project has made significant headway with land acquisition complete and the handover of land to Zurich AG for the first phase likely by mid-2021, the airport came to be referred to in different ways in the absence of an official name. It was commonly referred to as Jewar airport. In the design sketches of the terminal buildings that were recently released, the project was referred to as Delhi Noida International Airport. Officials of Noida International Airport Ltd (NIAL), the special purpose vehicle formed by the state government to oversee the airport project, objected to this and asked YIAPL to refrain from using a title till both sides had finalised a name. NIAL CEO Arun Vir Singh said, “The final name Noida International Airport will be updated in the concession agreement and in all subsequent documents.” The concept of the logo germinated from discussions on themes centred around the state bird. The designers arrived at the final logo by merging the motifs of a sarus (stork) in flight, technology and a connected world. The wings of the sarus in the logo, officials said, are meant to connote the idea of remaining connected with the rest of the world. “The logo also signifies a flight that is about to take off from the runway. The creative team deployed for the job by Zurich AG has done a splendid job by including all the elements in a simple design,” said Singh. YIAPL CEO Christoph Schnellmann, COO Kiran Jain and senior executive Sunil Joshi were at the meeting with the CM. From the UP government, chief secretary RK Tiwari, additional chief secretary to the CM SP Goyal and director of civil aviation Surendra Singh were present. NIAL was represented by Arun Vir Singh and nodal officer Shailendra Bhatia. The airport’s master plan, building design and airside activity are being scrutinised by the civil aviation regulator and approval is expected in January next year. According to conditions in the concession agreement, the UP government will execute the support agreement by April 5, 2021. For this, a letter has been sent to the concessionaire. Singh, the civil aviation director, said the department would complete the formalities by the end of this month. Noida International Airport is also proposed to be linked to the high-speed rail project connecting Delhi with Varanasi. At the same time, RITES has conducted a study to connect it with IGI airport in Delhi. Plans are also afoot to link the airport with the proposed Delhi-Mumbai expressway. Yogi said the Noida International Airport will give a boost to industrial development and lead to creation of jobs, promotion of exports, streamlining of air traffic, and more tourism activity. Terming the aviation sector as a medium of multi-dimensional growth, the CM said it would also bolster the economic development of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/not-jewar-or-delhi-noida-its-officially-noida-international-airport-now/articleshow/79787252.cms||Shalabh
December 18, 2020||Kochi||UDF constituents upset with Cong performance||Thiruvananthapuram: Unrest is brewing up within the UDF over the dismal performance of the front in the local body elections. The front constituents are putting the blame on the Congress and its top leadership for the defeat. Meanwhile, the UDF has decided to meet on Saturday to review the poll result. Major constituent of the front IUML has expressed dissatisfaction over the way the Congress leadership is functioning. The IUML is of the view that with the present set up the UDF cannot go ahead for the Assembly poll. The IUML is of the view that the UDF had put up a very poor performance in all the other districts other than Malappuram. Losing of Kochi corporation and Wayanad district panchayat show that even in the UDF strongholds, the front is weakening. The front received a severe setback by parting ways with the Kerala Congress led by Jose K Mani. The IUML has been strongly advocating that the Congress should have sorted out the issues with the Jose K Mani faction. The constituent believes that severe drubbing in the central districts is a big setback for the front. However, another constituent in the front RSP believes that the lack of unity among the top leaders in the Congress is the first thing that has to be resolved. “There have been conflicting views on the local-level alliances the Congress had made in certain districts. We heard conflicting views on this from the KPCC president and the UDF convener. Even some of the top leaders in the Congress had come out with different views on this. All these had created confusion,’’ said RSP state secretary A A Azeez. N K Premachandran, MP, said there has been severe erosion from the traditional vote bank of the UDF. The organizational structure of the UDF has been exposed now. The candidate selection itself was decided in the last minute. At least a semi-cadre system is required for the UDF to take on the LDF in the next Assembly election. “Hence, we need to have a thorough self-introspection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-constituents-upset-with-cong-performance/articleshow/79784753.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||On a donation drive across country, two friends to now meet farmers||CHANDIGARH: Out on a donation drive to help the poor people affected by Covid-19 all over India, including 30 states and UTs, the two friends are about to conclude their two-and-a-half month road journey. They will now head to Singhu border to know the issues faced by farmers. Ahmer Siddiqui of New Delhi and Siddhartha Dutta from Bombay started their road journey from New Delhi on October 4 and planned to cover nearly 25,000 km on their specially-modified crossover car, which they named as ‘Road Ashram’. On their way back from Kashmir, they stopped at the city and will leave for Singhu border on Thursday night. They will then conclude their drive on Saturday in New Delhi. Both have travelled along the China and Nepal borders in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. They further went to Kolkata, where they met some notable organisations and eminent people of the city, including the mayor. In Sikkim, they met eminent and influencing citizens, including Bhaichung Bhutia. They went to the Bhutan border in Jaigaon, West Bengal. Later, they travelled to Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura, Sundarbans in West Bengal, Orissa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Pondicherry, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, Dadra, Daman, Gujrat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Jammu, Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. While interacting with TOI in Chandigarh, they claimed that this unique drive was the upside of the Covid-19 outbreak for both of them. “We had planned this donation drive amid the lockdown and before officially starting on October 4, it took us around 10 days to set up everything. We know each other from past two decades,” said Ahmer, who drove the car all across the journey. When asked about the most tough days during their around 76 days journey, they claimed that it was in Arunachal Pradesh’s eastern most border at Walong, where they faced issues while driving their car for around 60 km as there was no road. Both said that all the money of the donation drive will go to the non-government organisation ( NGO) - Rise Against Hunger.  In Chandigarh, the duo met Milkha Singh, The flying Sikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/on-a-donation-drive-across-country-two-friends-to-now-meet-farmers/articleshow/79784747.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools receive more than 10 forms for one seat||CHANDIGARH: The first phase of entry-level admissions ended with all Chandigarh schools closing the process of form submission. Almost every top school received more than 10 forms for each seat. Bhavan Vidyalaya school received the maximum forms against a seat (46). Bhavan Vidyalaya school in Sector 33 received 1,840 forms for 40 seats in pre-nursery, as only 40% seats out of 100 will be open for general category. Of these, some seats (as per demand) will be given to children and grandchildren of Bhavan’s employees. The school has already mentioned that 25% seats will be reserved for the economically weaker section students under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 10% for management staff wards, 20% for siblings and 5% for children of alumni. This means, more than 46 students will be competing for a seat at the school. In Delhi Public School, Sector 40, as many as 1,004 forms have been submitted for 75 seats, of which some will be reserved for siblings, staff and alumni wards in nursery class. St Anne’s school in Sector 32 has also received more than 1,000 forms for 200 seats. In St Kabir Public school, Sector 26, as many as 1,050 forms have been received for 90 seats in nursery class. Here, 11 students will compete for one seat. The number of seats is likely to go down further because the school will be offering seats first to preferred categories. In St John’s school, more than 600 forms were received for 160 seats. Sacred Heart received approximately 900 forms for 160 seats. Carmel Convent school got around 1,000 forms for 120 seats. In these schools as well, the number of seats will be less than the given as they have stated in the form that seats will first be offered to preferred categories, including siblings, children of staff and alumni, among others. The seats that are left will be open for general category. In the past, 50% to 60% seats were left for the category. Chitkara international school in Sector 25 received 200 forms for 45 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-schools-receive-more-than-10-forms-for-one-seat/articleshow/79784732.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 18, 2020||India||Central laws won’t benefit farmers, experts tell Tomar||NEW DELHI: At a time when protesting farmers have resolved to continue their agitation, a group of economists on Thursday wrote to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar requesting the government to repeal the central farm laws which, they claimed, were not in the best interests of small and marginal farmers. The economists put forward five reasons why the three laws were fundamentally harmful in their implications for small farmers. “We do believe that improvements and changes are required in the agricultural marketing system for the benefit of millions of small farmers, but the reforms brought by these Acts do not serve that purpose,” they said. The economists who wrote the joint letter included Kamal Nayan Kabra (retired professor, IIPA, New Delhi), D Narasimha Reddy (retired professor, University of Hyderabad), R Ramakumar (professor, TISS, Mumbai), Arun Kumar (professor, Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi), Vikas Rawal (associate professor, JNU) and five others. Referring to the provision of unregulated ‘trade area’ outside APMC ‘mandis’, they said mechanisms to address and prevent market manipulation in the APMC markets existed whereas the central Act contemplates no such mechanisms in the unregulated trade areas. They said there would be no safeguards for farmers against non-price means of exploitation such as weighing, grading, moisture measurement etc in the unregulated trade areas. They also noted that the APMC market yards still set the benchmark prices through the daily auctions and offered some reliable price signals to the farmers. “Without these price signals, the fragmented markets could pave the way for local monopsonies,” they said while citing example of Bihar where farmers have less choice of buyers and less bargaining power, resulting in significantly lower prices compared to other states, since the removal of its APMC Act in 2006. On contract farming law, they said while contract farming arrangements are voluntary in principle, the acute crisis in agriculture with no price assurances may push farmers towards this paradigm in the hope of saving themselves from the crisis. “However, the reality of contract farming experience doesn’t bear that out in the absence of mechanisms to protect their interests,” they said. The economists also believe that the new laws would undermine the state government’s role in regulating agricultural markets and this would, in turn, adversely affect the farmers. “State government machinery is much more accessible and accountable to farmers, right down to the village level, and hence state regulation of markets is more appropriate than bringing a large part of commodity sales and trade under the ambit of the central govt Act, by establishing trade areas,” they said. On farmers’ concerns about domination by big agri-business, the economists said, "It is legitimate to understand that the three Acts together represent unshackling of agri-business companies from state level regulation and licensing, constraints such as existing relationships between farmers, traders and market agents, and from limits on stocking, processing and marketing. “This rightly raises concerns about consolidation of the market and the value chains in agricultural commodities in the hands of a few big players, as has happened in other countries such as the USA and Europe. It inevitably led to the ‘Get-Big-or-Get-Out’ dynamic in those countries, pushing out the small farmers, small traders and local agri-businesses.” Instead, the believe, what Indian farmers require is a system that enables better bargaining power and their expanded involvement in the value chain through storage, processing and marketing infrastructure in the hands of farmers and FPOs. “That would be a path for enhancing farmer incomes, and some of the earlier policy initiatives of the government were expected to help in that direction. However, the present Acts set a different direction where it is up to agri-business companies, freed from regulation and constraints, to invest and set up processing, storage and marketing infrastructure – consolidating their hold on the value chain – while the government steps back from its commitment to help farmers build infrastructure and consolidate their bargaining position in the market,” they said. Referring to these points relating to APMC mandis, trade areas, contract farming and dominance of agri-business, the economists believe that amending a few clauses will not be sufficient to address the concerns rightly raised by the farmers. “For example, if setting up unregulated ‘trade areas’ outside the ambit of state regulation is in itself detrimental, then any tinkering with a few provisions of the Act is not going to address that,” they said. Noting that it is not desirable to perpetuate the impression that farmers are misled by others, when they are raising valid and genuine concerns, they said, “The current impasse is not in anyone’s interests and it is the responsibility of the government to proactively resolve it by addressing the farmers’ concerns.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/central-laws-wont-benefit-farmers-experts-tell-tomar/articleshow/79788147.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Inquiry marked into ‘deletion’ of 12,000 names from voters’ list||MOHALI: District electoral officer (DEO)-cum-Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan has marked an inquiry into the alleged deletion of around 12,000 names from the electoral roll. The inquiry has been marked to the ADC (G) Mohali. The state election commission (SEC), Punjab, has issued a fresh programme for the publication of draft electoral roll, settlement of claims and objections for the DEO with the ADC(G), Mohali, where it was found that the draft electoral roll published on December 10, 2020, was not in correct format. Dayalan said, “As such, the ADC (G) shall conduct an inquiry into the circumstances, facts and resultant lapses that led to this situation. She shall fix responsibility and submit the inquiry report in 15 days.” All electoral registration officers (EROs) shall ensure that they go through the provisions of the Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994; Punjab Municipal Election Rules, 1994; and the instructions issued by the SEC. They shall ensure strict compliance of the same throughout the entire elections, including adherence to given dates and the publication of the final electoral rolls. Further, ADC (G) shall supervise the work of SDM/ ERO Derabassi and ADC (D) / ADEO shall supervise the work of SDM/ ERO Mohali for the forthcoming municipal elections. On December 12, Derabassi MLA N K Sharma had alleged that the Congress had “murdered” the democracy by forcing upon the voters list as per their sweet will. He also levelled allegations against Deepinder Singh Dhillon of the Congress to have executed around 12,000 voters names elimination form the final list. Sharma also alleged that even the names of sitting councillors had been deleted from the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/inquiry-marked-into-deletion-of-12k-names-from-voters-list/articleshow/79784759.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Health check of visitors to Koregaon Bhima on January 1||PUNE: The Zilla Parishad will conduct health screening of people visiting the Koregaon Bhima Vijaystambh (victory tower), off the Ahmednagar road, on January 1 to commemorate the anniversary of the battle of Koregaon Bhima. “Those having symptoms like cold, fever, running nose and sneezing, among others, will have to undergo a rapid antigen test for Covid-19 at special outpatient departments (OPDs) to be set up at five vantage points on the way to the memorial,” said Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad. Thousands from various parts of Maharashtra and other states pay tributes at the memorial on January 1 every year to commemorate the battle of Koregaon Bhima. “Our primary focus this time would be on preventing the transmission of Covid-19. To achieve this, temperature of visitors would be checked at entry points only. Besides, symptomatic visitors would have to undergo antigen test at our OPDs only. The OPDs would be equipped with adequate antigen kits as well as ambulances so that we can immediately ferry patients to the nearest hospital for advance treatment, if required,” Prasad told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-check-of-visitors-to-koregaon-bhima-on-jan-1/articleshow/79767440.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kochi||Mainstream parties bounce back in Idukki||IDUKKI: When Twenty20, a political party floated by a corporate company (Kitex group), scripted victory in three new panchayats in Ernakulam, mainstream political parties regained their influence in the plantation and other areas of Idukki where the strength of pressure groups has declined. In the previous local body election, AIADMK, Pempila Orumai and the High Range Samrakshana Smithy (HRSS) had played a pivotal role in Idukki. Last time, AIADMK won two seats in Munnar and one in Peermade. Pempila Orumai, a women collective formed by the plantation workers, had won three seats, including a block panchayat seat. HRSS, a farmers’ movement under the Idukki diocese of Catholic Church, gained the most as they had won nearly 70 seats in various panchayats and municipalities. But after five years, the scene has changed completely as Pempila Orumai and HRSS did not contest in the election. The AIADMK, which contested in 10 grama panchayats, had fielded 66 candidates, including one in district panchayat and seven in block panchayats. However, it suffered a total defeat. CPM district secretary K K Jayachandran said, “Now, we have a strong presence in the plantation areas and the pressure groups cannot influence the voters. The people, including plantation workers, are aware of the welfare schemes of the LDF government. The defeat of AIADMK shows that they have no relevance in the plantation sector of Idukki”. DCC president Ibrahimkutty Kallar said that the local body election result shows that the pressure groups are out of the poll scene in Idukki. “A few years ago the people believed that such groups would emerge like the Twenty20. But now they are not even in the picture,” Kallar. “The people in Idukki have realized that such alternatives cannot sustain in Idukki,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mainstream-parties-bounce-back-in-idukki/articleshow/79784762.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Angry AP fishermen storm Divi’s plant over pollution threat||Kakinada: Hundreds of farmers and fishermen, backed by Left parties, damaged an under-construction plant of Divi’s Laboratories Limited at Kothapakala village in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. The protesters barged into the plant by scaling the compound wall and set afire the generator and paint tins kept in a godown. A part of the compound wall was also broken. They also damaged the windshields of a few cars parked on the premises. A large number of women also participated in the attack. Incidentally, this is the second instance of a major company seeing turmoil in less than a week, although for entirely different reasons. On December 12, workers turned violent at Wistron, a unit contract manufacturing iPhones for Apple in Bangalore, over salaries dues. The issue at Divi’s is an old one where fishermen fear that effluents from the plant adversely affect their catch. In fact, fearing attack on the plant located near the sea coast, police had made elaborate security arrangements. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC have been in place for the last few days. On Thursday, about 200 policemen were posted at the unit. But the security personnel were overpowered by a group of about 600 farmers, fishermen and activists of Left parties as they barged into the plant demanding that Divis Labs stop construction. Locals alleged that the plant when operational will release harmful substances into the sea. The farmers alleged the effluents would damage their fields. When contacted, Divi’s Laboratories chief financial officer L Kishore Babu refused to comment on the development. The company had also not informed the bourses about the setback at the time of going to press. Police took 15 people into custody. They also arrested five CPM leaders. Peddapuram deputy superintendent of police A Srinivasa Rao told TOI, “We have deployed more police personnel at the plant to maintain law and order. The situation is now under control.” It all began in the morning with farmers and fishermen gathering in large numbers at the Divis plant site. They alleged that the pharma company will affect the livelihood of people living in 15 villages. There are 350 fish and prawn hatcheries in the region on which about 12,000 people depend for livelihood. Local farmer leader Tirumalasetty Nageswara Rao said that farmers will not allow the construction of the plant as it will hurt their interest. He said the AP high court had given status quo order on the construction of the plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/angry-ap-fishermen-storm-divis-plant-over-pollution-threat/articleshow/79787664.cms||Samson Raj
December 18, 2020||Kochi||NDA cashes in on Church dispute in Pandalam win||Kottayam: The role of the Orthodox Church and its members stands out in the historic win of the BJP-led NDA in the Pandalam municipality in the local body polls. Among the 18 winning members of the NDA, two are serving important positions in the Orthodox Church and are not averse to publicly admitting that they are ardent fans of Narendra Modi. Three belonging to the Church had contested and one had lost. Benny Mathew and Achenkunju John are the candidates who contested with the Lotus symbol and won. Benny had contested in the same ward in which his church is located. Mathew is the secretary of St George Orthodox parish in Pandalam. John is the former trustee of St Thomas Orthodox Valiya Palli in Koorampala and is currently the trustee of the St Thomas School of the church. “I was attracted by the approach of the BJP towards the minorities. We are very happy with the way Modi treats us,” said Mathew. “All parishioners and priests were in support of me,” he said. Benny cites the support given by BJP to the Orthodox Church in the church dispute with the Jacobite Church as the main reason for supporting the saffron party. “Nobody is helping us other than the BJP in the church dispute issue,” Mathew said. John, who was in the Middle East, got attracted to the BJP through a senior metropolitan in the church. “The late metropolitan was a huge fan of Modi and he used to speak about him and about the development in Gujarat,” said John, who contested from a ward which was considered as a communist fort. “I am happy that I could hoist the BJP flag in my ward for the first time,” said John, who is also the state council member of the BJP. The PRO of Orthodox Church, Johns Abraham Konat, said that the Church had not taken any political stand in the local body polls. “Church members know who helped the Church and who did not,” he said, adding that there was an understanding to help those from the Church standing for elections, irrespective of the parties they were representing. Of the total 33 wards in the municipality, the NDA won 18, LDF nine and UDF five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nda-cashes-in-on-church-dispute-in-pandalam-win/articleshow/79784768.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
December 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Woman dies after consuming poison, ‘missing’ friend survives||PUNE: The Uttamnagar police are searching for a 22-year-old resident of Nanded Phata after the father of a woman (22) from Uttamnagar lodged an FIR on Wednesday, accusing the youth of misleading and driving her to a suicide pact on December 4. The woman died at Sassoon General Hospital on December 14. The “missing” man survived and was discharged from a private hospital, police said. Sub-inspector Anita Dugaonkar of the Uttamnagar police said, “On the afternoon of December 4, the man called one of his friends to inform that he and his girlfriend had consumed poison near Nilkantheshwar temple at Jambli village. His friend went to the site with another person and found the duo unconscious. They were admitted to a private hospital on Sinhagad Road.” Dugaonkar said, “As per norms, the hospital authorities conducted a Covid-19 test and found both to be positive. The woman was shifted to the Sassoon hospital after her condition deteriorated. The asymptomatic youth recovered, and the private hospital discharged him on December 11 following all the Covid-19 protocols.” On Wednesday, the woman’s father (48) approached the police to lodge a case of abetment to suicide under Section 306 of the IPC against the youth. “We have preserved the woman’s viscera report for chemical analysis to ascertain what poison the two had consumed,” she said. Dugaonkar cited investigations and said, “The woman and the man were college dropouts and worked with a private company at Nanded Phata, off Sinhagad Road. They fell in love at the workplace and wanted to marry. The woman’s family members claimed that they had no knowledge about their affair. We suspect something went wrong between the two.” The officer said, “The woman’s family members claimed that the youth must have told the deceased that her family might not approve their marriage and they must end their lives. Things will be clear once the youth is arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-dies-after-consuming-poison-missing-friend-survives/articleshow/79785937.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Habeas corpus: Govt seeks judge’s recusal||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Thursday moved two separate petitions seeking recusal of Justice Rakesh Kumar from the proceedings. The recusal petitions were moved in a batch of habeas corpus petitions in which the high court passed orders that it will decide whether or not constitutional breakdown has happened in the state. Another petition was moved in the batch of petitions challenging the sale of government properties under ‘Build AP’ scheme. Government pleader C Suman informed the bench, headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi, that they have moved an interlocutory application seeking recusal of Justice Rakesh Kumar from the bench. Suman said senior counsels CV Mohan Reddy and S Niranjan Reddy will present the arguments on the matter. The bench observed that they did not receive any petition and asked for continuation of arguments on the question of constitutional breakdown. Responding to the bench, Mohan Reddy said the court cannot say no to everything and the petition moved by the government should be heard before taking up the matter. He said the bench cannot ignore the petition when it has been moved against the second senior judge of high court. As the petition is yet to be placed on record, the hearing has been posted to Friday. In the batch of pleas challenging sale of government properties under Build AP scheme, additional advocate general Ponnavolu Sudhakar Reddy said they have moved a petition for recusal of Justice Rakesh Kumar. However, the petitioners raised objections saying that the copy of the petition was not served to them. Sudhakar Reddy said that they need to serve the copy to the petitioners. However, the high court bench directed that all material papers filed by one party should be served to the other party and the petition filed by the government should also be served to the petitioners. As there was cross talk by government pleaders in the video conference hearing of the matter, Justice Rakesh Kumar expressed anger and said it has become a norm for government pleaders to talk in between when the bench is conducting proceedings. There should be a limit for everything and they are going beyond that limit, he said, and warned that contempt proceedings will have to be initiated if such kind of behaviour continues during court proceedings. During the hearing on a plea challenging withdrawal of prosecution against the accused in the Old Guntur police station attack case, Justice Rakesh Kumar said they can file another recusal petition in this case also.He said it seems a new trend is emerging now and that he has never been in situations like this in his professional career before. “At the fag end of my career I am facing all these. It is very difficult work when judges are being seen with suspicion for everything,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/habeas-corpus-govt-seeks-judges-recusal/articleshow/79785893.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 18, 2020||Surat||Bail cannot be a juvenile’s ‘matter of right’: Court||SURAT: “Merely by declaration of being a child in conflict with law does not entitle a juvenile to be released on bail as a matter of right. The Act has a solemn purpose to achieve betterment of juvenile offenders,” observed additional sessions judge Prakashchandra Kala, while hearing a bail plea of a juvenile murder accused. He further stated that juvenile home is not a shelter home for those young offenders who have got ‘criminal proclivities and a criminal psychology’. “It (shelter home) has a reformative approach but does not completely shun retributive theory. Legislature has preserved larger interest of society even in cases of bail to a juvenile,” court stated in its observation. A 73-year-old grandmother filed a regular bail plea in the District and Sessions court after the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) rejected her grandson’s bail plea on November 25. The Court upheld the JJB’s decision and rejected her petition on Wednesday. The 17-year-old juvenile has been kept in the shelter home for over eight months after he along with 11 others were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including murder and sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act with Limbayat police station in April, 2020. Arguing on behalf of the juvenile’s grandmother, their lawyer submitted that a total of 12 accused were booked for the offence, of whom, most have been released on regular bail. The orpahned juvenile is infected with Covid-19 and is the only bread earner for his grandmother with whom he stayes after his parents died. There isn’t anybody else to care for the elderly woman. He also helps his grandmother in repaying loan instalment of her residence, he said. Public Prosecutor K V Revaliya submitted that earlier the court had rejected two bail appeals on merit. The role of the other accused and juvenile who are released on bail is different from the role of this juvenile, and hence, rule of parity is not applicable and that his plea for bail should be rejected. “It cannot be denied that the child in conflict with law was 17 years and 1 months old at the time. The offence registered against the juvenile is heinous and he is actively involved in it. Considering its seriousness and gravity that one person has lost his life, no one is permitted to take law into their hands. Hence, in my opinion, I am not inclined to grant bail to the present juvenile,” court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bail-cannot-be-a-juveniles-matter-of-right-court/articleshow/79783894.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 18, 2020||Pune||Serve humanity, Poonawalla to graduates at convocation||Pune: Serum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla on Thursday urged students to maintain utmost integrity in their lives and career. He made the appeal while addressing the 17th annual convocation ceremony of the Symbiosis International University (SIU) via a video message. “Whatever you do in your life and career, focus on serving humanity and always maintain your integrity,” he told the students. He told the students to focus on serving humanity and the environment, despite the career path they choose. “Don’t worry about business, success, or income as they will come automatically if you can serve the needs of what people really want.. With population growing across the globe, we need to be able to address climate change and healthcare needs, more than anything else,” he said. During the event, Poonawalla was conferred upon honorary DLitt by the SIU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/serve-humanity-poonawalla-to-graduates-at-convocation/articleshow/79785949.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Surat||Fake call centre busted in Surat, kingpin among 36 arrested||SURAT: The Surat police on Thursday busted a fake call centre racket operating from the city’s Jehangirpura area and arrested 36 people, including the mastermind. The accused used to dupe people by offering lucrative investment plans in the stock market. Firoz Haji Rafique Memon (42), owner of Autobyte Solutions at Nirvana complex on the Surat-Dandi Road and resident of Royal Heritage at Sultaniya Gymkhana in Rander was running the fake call centre. Memon had employed 35 youngsters having knowledge of computer. They would send bulk messages on the mobile phones offering lucrative investment plan in the stock market and tips to earn a good fortune. Police inspector of Jehangirpura police station, K A Gadhvi had received information on the fake call centre from the two shops located at Nirvaana complex. When the team reached the spot, 35 employees were busy on laptops and were making calls in Hindi and Gujarati languages regarding the investment plan in the stock market. The police seized nine laptops, 77 mobile phones, Rs 30,000 cash and dairy containing the hundreds of mobile phone numbers. Talking with TOI, Gadhvi said, “The kingpin, Firoz Memon, would entice gullible investors with the investment plan in the stock market. He would ask the victims to open Demat account with the banks and then he would provide the tips for investing in the particular stocks. He was doing this without any licence from the SEBI and would dupe the investors by asking them to deposit money in his account.” Gadhvi added, “We have arrested the accused under section 406, 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology, Act and further investigations are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fake-call-centre-busted-in-surat-kingpin-among-36-arrested/articleshow/79783962.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: They made a name for themselves, but failed to get voters’ approval||ALAPPUZHA: Some candidates contested in the local body polls from Alappuzha became famous as they had unique names like Lavan, Kusan, ‘Mantri Ashokan’ and King Kong. However, the novelty in their names did not help them garner the support of voters as all of them except one tasted defeat. Only one candidate with a variety name, Bilkul, could emerge victorious. He was the LDF candidate from ward 14 of Vayalar grama panchayat where he defeated the UDF candidate P V Vasudevan for 371 votes. “ I was named Bilkul by my father Ponnappan, who had a fascination for Hindi. He died 30 years ago. I am so happy that I could win in my maiden election itself. Thanks to all my voters,” said Bilkul. Though 49-year-old Lavan, a former ward member of Mannar grama panchayat, contested for a second time as the BJP candidate, he lost the contest. “I am not disappointed. Earlier, I contested from ward 10, which was my home ward. This time, I contested from ward 15 as my home ward was reserved for women. I could end up only in third position and the UDF candidate won,” said Lavan.“Though I have failed, I will work for the people,” he said. Meanwhile, 52-year-old C Kusan was an LDF candidate in ward 5 of Aryad grama panchayat. It was his first election but he lost to the UDF candidate, M Anilkumar. It was his grandmother Kumari, who named him Kusan, a character in Ramayana. Another candidate, K King Kong, 57, who contested for the UDF from ward 4 of Mararikulam North grama panchayat, suffered defeat at the hands of the LDF candidate, T P Vinod. The NDA candidate of ward 12 of Thuravoor, known as ‘Mantri Ashokan’, also failed in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/they-made-a-name-for-themselves-but-failed-to-get-voters-approval/articleshow/79784865.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||In Punjab, songs on protest replace those celebrating violence||Bathinda: If popular songs in Punjab have been on violence or objectifying women, the farmers’ protest is fast changing all that. These themes are now making way for those giving voice to sentiments of farmers. Instead of the gangster-celebrating staples, which were a hit with the youth, many buses in Punjab are playing songs about the farmers’ struggle. Tractors and other vehicles heading towards Delhi play these songs too. The songs can be heard at the epicentre of the protest, the Delhi borders. ‘Teri hikk utte chad ke jaikare laune’ (raise slogans from deep within your chest), ‘wah ni jawanie, kafile tufana wang chade aounde ne’ (convoys of protesters come like a storm), ‘do percent wale izzata de rakhe’ (those who comprise 2% of the population are safeguarding the dignity of the country), are some of the songs that have both protesters and those supporting them in a thrall. Most popular among them is the song ‘Tenu Dilliye ikath pareshan karuga’ (Delhi, the rush of protesters would make you uncomfortable), by Kanwar Grewal. “Kanwar Grewal sang it when protests started in Punjab from October 1 though there were no plans to march towards Delhi then. Today, when lakhs of protesters have been sitting on the Delhi borders, the song has proven to be prophetic,” said Punjabi singer Munshi Khan, who is singing similar revolutionary songs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-punjab-songs-on-protest-replace-those-celebrating-violence/articleshow/79788165.cms||Neel Kamal
December 18, 2020||Pune||IISER’s fun videos explain science, maths in simple ways||Pune: A group of researchers in the Science Activity Centre at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune are trying to make students and teachers understand the fundamentals of science and maths through their fun online videos. The group has been developing low-cost science toys, experiments and workshops since 2017 and provides these videos in Marathi. The group was roped in to make 10 episodes on various science and maths topics, for state board students in association with Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training Pune. “The one-hour online classes targeted at students of standards V to X from state board packs 15-20 activities in a session. In the ten-episode series, about 200 activities have been covered, based on their textbooks and hence help understand the concepts better. Looking at the tremendous response to our videos, we are going to launch another five episodes. We are planning to concentrate on mathematics as the previous ones were based on science textbooks,” Ashok Rupner (48) , programme manager from the centre, said. Before the pandemic struck, the activity centre was visited by about 60,000 students and about 15,000 teachers for various hands-on activities. After the pandemic struck, the SAC decided to conduct online classes in English and Hindi every Saturday for an hour where the first 40 minutes contained demonstrations and the remaining 20 minutes were for question and answer session with the scientists. Aparna Deshpande, the faculty in-charge, said, “Nothing can replace the excitement of coming to the centre and performing experiments, but it is remarkable how people have adjusted to the new way of seeing experiments and activities online and then performing it themselves. They send us their pictures and videos while performing the activities they learnt online.” Rupner was one of the first recruiters in the award-winning Arvind Gupta’s science centre in the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics’ (IUCAA). He comes from Surodi village, in Ahmednagar, and worked in an NGO’s mobile unit for science popularisation. “Science and mathematics can be learned the best through activities. In our experiments, we try to use the most common things used in every day life to make students understand all the concepts of science in their textbooks,” Rupner said, adding that they have had over 2 million views this month. Glowing feedback to the programme, especially from rural areas comes from teachers, college professors, students and parents. Prakash Karandikar from Alkuti village in Ahmednagar said, “After watching the programmes, I have started a small laboratory inside my home. Such programmes and internet platforms like YouTube help understand complex scientific ideas. My six-year-old daughter watches the programmes.” Hemraj Shahare, a teacher from Gondia, said he will use the videos to make his students understand the concepts he is teaching in the classroom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/iisers-fun-videos-explain-science-maths-in-simple-ways/articleshow/79785976.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 18, 2020||Pune||Passersby intercept thief soon after he steals phone||Pune: Alert passersby and colleagues of a young woman reacted swiftly when she raised an alarm about a man, who was running away after snatching her cellphone shortly after midnight on Tuesday. The thief was apprehended on Don Bosco School road in Yerawada.A team from the Yerawada police station also reached the spot on being alerted about the incident and took the man, Ram Kedar (23), into custody. The woman stated in the FIR that while she was on the phone, a man hit her on the hand. Then he picked up the phone from the road and ran away. The woman raised an alarm so her colleagues and passers-by chased and apprehended the man.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “Our combing operation to check for criminals-on-record was underway when we received information about the incident in Yerawada. Our team rushed to the spot and took the suspect into custody.”Senior inspector Yunus Shaikh from Yerawada police station said, “Kedar, a first-time offender, was suffering from financial constraints. He wanted to sell the phone in the grey market and make some money. We have recovered the phone from him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/passersby-intercept-thief-soon-after-he-steals-phone/articleshow/79785995.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Many back Cantt civic areas’ merger with GHMC||Secunderabad: The ministry of defence’s (MoD) move to seek opinions regarding the merger of civilian areas with civic bodies has prompted a group of people, including a former state election commissioner, to prepare reports on the significance of the merger and submit it to authorities. This group of Cantonment residents comprising bureaucrats, MNC employees and businessmen are also creating awareness regarding the merger. “One per cent defence personnel have occupied 56 per cent of the Cantonment area, but contribute little towards SCB’s revenues,” said former state election commissioner V Nagi Reddy. “Nearly 150 years of British occupation institutionalised repressive rule, systematic exclusion and denial of democratic rights to the civilian population, stunting growth. The only developed areas we can find in the SCB are those under the possession of the defence department,” the retired IAS officer said, adding gap between GHMC and SCB areas widened post-1948. The group is preparing reports comparing SCB with GHMC and urban local bodies of Karimnagar and Ramagundam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-back-cantt-civic-areas-merger-with-ghmc/articleshow/79785974.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 18, 2020||Surat||Surat bullion trader’s property attached in DeMo PMLA case||Surat: The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) on Thursday attached movable and immovable assets to the tune of Rs 1.12 crore of a bullion trader under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with a case registered during demonetisation in 2016. The ED officials in Surat started investigation under PMLA based on the FIRs registered by the CBI against bullion traders Hemanshu Shah and Maharshi Choksi, and unknown bank officers of Surat People’s Cooperative Bank. Investigation revealed that Shah, used bank account of another bullion trading firm Nirav & Co held in Surat People’s Cooperative Bank to deposit demonetised Specified Bank Notes (SBNs) worth Rs 36 crore during the demonetisation period. Immediately after the deposits were made, an amount of Rs 34.82 crore was transferred to the account of Shah’s firm Shah Manganlal Gulabchand Choksi.Against the transfer of funds in his own firm, Shah allegedly prepared fake bullion sales bills without actual trade of bullion. Shah in connivance with Choksi used the photo identity proof of Nirav Rashmikant Shah of Nirav & Co and illegally utilised the bank account for depositing demonetised SBNs worth Rs 36.17 crore and channelised the unaccounted money into the banking system.Shah had further utilised an amount of Rs 2.20 crore out of the illegally routed money through the account of Nirav & Co. On identification of the proceeds of crime, the movable and immovable properties totalling Rs 1.12 crore of Shah have been attached under PMLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-bullion-traders-property-attached-in-demo-pmla-case/articleshow/79783979.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: TRS and seven ward members support merger proposal||SECUNDERABAD: The ruling TRS party is supporting the merger of the civilian areas of the Secunderabad Cantonment with the GHMC. Cantonment TRS MLA, G Sayanna said that he will soon meet B Ajith Reddy, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). “I will ask the CEO to send a report in favour of merging the civilian areas with GHMC,” Sayanna said. Recollecting earlier initiatives, the MLA said that in 1998 when N Chandrababu Naidu was the CM a similar proposal was discussed. “The TRS government has already promised to support the merger of civilian areas with the GHMC during last assembly elections. I will fight for this cause,” the MLA said. Seven of eight elected members of SCB are supporting the merger. “It’s good that the MLA is supporting the merger. If needed, we will pass a resolution,” said a ward member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-and-7-ward-members-support-merger-proposal/articleshow/79785993.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 18, 2020||Meerut||Five men held for stealing cattle in Bijnor||Bijnor: Police in Bijnor busted a gang of cattle thieves and arrested five men on Thursday. The cops said that the accused first surveyed the houses located on the outskirts of the village and then targeted them by stealing the cattle in a mini-truck.Giving the details, Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said, "Police had got a tip off that some men were roaming suspiciously in the Najibabad area. Police raided the place. They tried to escape and opened fire at cops. Police then nabbed them."The SP further said, "The arrested persons were identified as Sajid, Rizwan and Nasim from Nagina, Suleiman of Kaziwala and Rizwan from Najibabad. Shahjad alias Langda is a kingpin of the gang. He is still at large. There are a few dozen cases against them in various police stations."The cops have recovered a vehicle and two country-made pistols from their possession. The men have confessed to their crime, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/five-men-held-for-stealing-cattle-in-bijnor/articleshow/79784009.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based Divi’s Labs second pharma company with Rs 1 lakh crore market capitalization||HYDERABAD: City-based Divi’s Laboratories on Thursday became the second pharma player in the country, after Sun Pharma, to enter the elite league of companies with market capitalization of Rs 1 lakh crore or more. Led by Reliance Industries, there are just 31 companies, out of a total of about 5,000 companies in India, which can boast of this milestone. With its entry into the big league, Divi’s Labs also left behind the traditional big daddies of Dalal Street like Bajaj Auto (Rs 94,639 crore), Tata Steel (Rs 72,810 crore), Mahindra & Mahindra (Rs 90759 crore) and many more. In its sector, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is at Rs 84,384 crore, while Cipla is at Rs 63,161 crore, BSE data showed. Pharma player beats biggies like Bajaj Auto, Tata Steel & M&MDivi’s has set a blistering pace on the bourses in the past decade: From about Rs 8,000 crore in December 2010, the company’s market value at Thursday’s close was Rs 1.02 lakh crore, a jump of over 12 times during this period. The stock closed the day’s session on BSE at Rs 3,825, more than double from its March low of Rs 1,633. According to analysts, the key ingredient of the company’s success is its positioning as the one of the key global suppliers of APIs like Naproxen (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug), Detromethorphan (cough suppressant) and Gabapentin (anti-convulsant), a position it attained by edging out some global pharma giants, and sharp focus on CRAMS. The stock attracts savvy investors because of its robust and steady business model that is perceived as relatively less risky from the regulatory point of view, analysts pointed out. “It has a combination of good market share in select molecules globally and has a relatively robust business model with steady and sustainable earnings, unlike other Indian pharma companies that play in the generic formulations space and operate on the litigation led business model,” said Tushar Manudhane, lead analyst-pharma, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. More than 650 foreign together hold 18.3% in the company while domestic mutual funds, including SBI Mutual Fund, Axis Mutual Fund and Reliance Mutual Funds, hold 14.8% while LIC holds 1.1% stake. The promoters of the company led by its founder Murali Krishna Divi hold 52% stake. According to Surya Patra, VP-research, PhillipCapital India, the primary factor for the huge jump in market cap is the robust export opportunity that has been provided by Covid-19. “People were concerned about dependence on China due to which supplies of critical APIs were disrupted but companies like Divi’s, with its positioning as a fully integrated manufacturer of APIs and custom synthesis, has delivered robust growth beyond investor expectations and has emerged as one of the most predictable firms from the investor point of view,” Patra explained. Divi’s Laboratories was set up in October 1990 by Murali Krishna Divi after he quit Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which he joined in 1984 as director and where he helped turn around ailing Cheminor Drugs that was acquired by Dr Reddy’s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-based-divis-labs-2nd-pharma-co-with-rs-1l-cr-mkt-cap/articleshow/79787666.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||People jealous of development are against the new farm laws: Yogi Adityanath||BAREILLY: Taking a swipe at the opposition parties, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath while addressing a 'Kisan Sammelan' in Bareilly on Thursday said that those people who are jealous of the country's development are actually against the new farm laws. The opposition parties are not happy that farmers are happy and so they are trying to mislead them, the CM said in front of a large crowd of mainly farmers. "BJP has already waived loans of Rs 36,000 crore for 86 lakh farmers. We have always ensured that farmers benefit the most and set up procurement centres at different locations in every district. We have procured 36 lakh metric tonnes of paddy from the farmers and our public representatives played a significant role in ensuring that the middlemen were removed. Farmers got the benefits directly into their accounts," the CM added. "We have ensured a timely payment of cane dues of the farmers who earlier had six years of backlog.” The government is also bringing a new policy on biofuels in the interest of farmers, he said. "We are connecting the mandis with technology." The CM further claimed that the opposition parties were not happy with the majestic Ram Mandir being built in Ayodhya. "They had earlier confused the voters and never tried to resolve this issue." Attacking the opposition again on farmers, the CM said, "Now, when PM Modiji is trying to develop a food supply chain through the new farm laws to double the income of farmers by 2022, the opposition is trying to misguide them. This is the same opposition who used to rob 90% of the benefits given to the public. We have eradicated the middlemen culture." The new laws will ensure that farmers will get a better price for their produce as private players will increase the competition by purchasing crops from them, the CM assured at the farmers' gathering. "Also, no one will be allowed to grab the farmer's land." CM Yogi then went on to inaugurate 111 projects worth over Rs 970 crore at a stone laying ceremony in Bareilly. Union minister of state for labour and employment [independent charge] Santosh Gangwar, UP finance minister Suresh Khanna and other leaders also attended the 'sammelan'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/people-jealous-of-indias-development-are-against-the-new-farm-laws-says-cm-yogi/articleshow/79784021.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 18, 2020||Meerut||Woman, 22, on scooter attacked by stalker with a sharp object; critical||MEERUT: A 22-year-old woman in UP's Hapur district was attacked with a sharp-edged object by a man in his late 20s. The incident took place on Wednesday evening after which the accused, identified as Varun Gambhir, was arrested. The woman was with her elder sister riding pillion. She was later rushed to a city hospital where she is now undergoing treatment. The woman suffered critical injuries on her neck and has undergone surgery, her family said. "The accused waylaid my daughters returning home from a hospital. When one of my daughters resisted, she was attacked with a sharp object on her neck," the woman's father said in his complaint. An FIR under attempt to murder was registered and the accused was arrested, police said. "Based on the complaint, an FIR under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) was registered. The accused is under arrest," Sarvesh Mishra, Hapur ASP, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-22-on-scooter-attacked-by-stalker-with-a-sharp-object-critical/articleshow/79784015.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bareilly||UP farmers suffer losses after govt 'refuses' to procure fine paddy crop||Strap: We are now being forced to sell to private traders at low MSP, farmers claimPilibhit: More than 1.5 lakh farmers have been directly affected by the UP government's reluctance to procure fine paddy crop in Pilibhit this year. These varieties were initially promoted by the government itself, farmers said, and "we are facing such a crisis for the first time since 2000, when the state procurement mechanism was rolled in". The seed of these varieties were sold to farmers in Pilibhit by the district agriculture department this year as it was "high yielding and disease resistant". Now, the government's "refusal" to procure paddy beyond its list of 37 low yielding varieties has forced the farmers to face severe hardship and sell their produce elsewhere."The minimum support price (MSP) of fine paddy is Rs 1,888 per quintal for current season. But now, we are being forced to sell to private traders at Rs 1,200-Rs 1,300 per quintal," said Manjeet Singh, a prominent farmer of Puranpur block.Notably, the district food and marketing department has reportedly bought only 36.12 metric tonnes till December 15, out of an estimated production of 2.50 lakh metric tonnes.This clearly shows that farmers will incur huge losses, Manjeet added. And there is already a lot of resentment in the farming community here over the three new farm laws, he said.Another farmer Manjit Singh Sandhu of Amaria block had sown 'HKR 147' variety of fine paddy. While Dalveer Singh, a farmer from Hardaspur village, had used the 'PR 121' variety. They alleged that government agencies have refused to procure their fine paddy produce and returned their trolleys.However, district officials placed the blame at the rice mill owners' doorstep."The procurement of fine paddy has been put on hold by the state as rice millers complained that the recovery of rice in fine paddy was much lower in comparison to coarse paddy varieties," Avinash Jha, the district food and marketing officer, said on Thursday.Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare said, “We had sought the permission of the state administration to procure at least 'PR 121' and 'PR 126' varieties of fine paddy."But, the state officials have decided to consider the request in next year’s procurement season, the DM added.So, the only alternative left seems to be the private traders, Manjeet, the local farmer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-farmers-suffer-losses-after-govt-refuses-to-procure-fine-paddy-crop/articleshow/79784024.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||State gets HC notice on SEC||Hyderabad: The high court on Thursday issued a notice to the state government asking it to explain its stand in a PIL challenging the appointment of retired IAS officer C Partha Sarathi as state election commissioner. Advocate P Satyanaraya filed the plea, contending that the appointment of SEC had to be done at the discretion of the governor. “But in the case of Sarathi, the state government acted on its own,” he argued. The bench sought counters from the state government, SEC and political parties within four weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-gets-hc-notice-on-sec/articleshow/79786009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Mission to capture elephant ‘Shankar’ enters third day||Udhagamandalam: The mission to capture the rogue tusker that killed three people at Pandalur taluk in the Nilgiris over the past few days continued for the second day on Thursday, but with little success.On Wednesday, a team of forest officials had identified the elephant, which was part of a herd of five female elephants, two calves and three tuskers, and managed to tranquilize it by darting it with sedatives while it was roaming along the Nilgiris border.However, escorted by its herd, the tusker moved inside the forest area. The whole effort was rendered fruitless. Dr Sugumaran, forest veterinary officer, said they had traced the elephant to Cherambadi area in Pandalur taluk with the help of a drone and four kumki elephants from the Theppakadu elephant camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. “We successfully darted the tusker with sedatives at around 2.20pm. Before the trackers could approach the elephant, it was surrounded by the herd.”He said the sedation would last only for half an hour. “The animal would then recover within three to four hours.”On Thursday, the team started the mission in the early hours of the day by deploying a drone and trackers to trace the elephant, but in vain. The drive will continue on Friday. “We could spot the herd with one more tusker. The elephant that we identified yesterday (Wednesday) was missing. We guess it might have moved to another forest patch,” Sugumaran said.A team has been deployed at the elephant crossing point in the Cherambadi forest area to trace the man-killer. Local people have also been asked to inform the forest department of elephant movement, if any, in their areas. Named Sullikomban and Othaikomaban by locals, the rogue elephant had unleashed terror in Pandalur taluk in 2016. “We had then received orders to capture the animal along with another elephant. While we captured the other elephant, this one strayed into Kerala forests,” Sukumaran said.The tusker was again spotted in the Pandalur forest area a year ago. “But it remained calm and didn’t cause any man-elephant conflicts. However, it has been on a rampage over the past few days, killing three people in Cherambadi area,” the officer said.He said they had renamed the tusker as Shankar recently while profiling the elephants in the Gudalur forest division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mission-to-capture-elephant-shankar-enters-third-day/articleshow/79786008.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Pune varsity to roll out mountaineering courses||PUNE: Students of Savitribai Phule Pune University and its affiliated colleges will now be able to take up courses in mountaineering, and conduct research in this sport. A certificate course in mountaineering and adventure sports will be introduced as part of SPPU's tie-up with the Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM). An agreement was signed on December 16. Pune is emerging as a hotspot for budding mountaineers in the country. There has been a sizeable number of participants emerging from Maharashtra in mountaineering and adventure activities. The institute felt technical training and understanding was necessary for such enthusiasts. Its founder, Umesh Zirpe, said, “In order to introduce an academic curriculum and overall development of this field, we have tied up with SPPU.” The university has pioneered many novel and innovative initiatives and the mountaineering course is a path-breaking one involving courses on adventure and mountaineering through methodical approaches. “GGIM shall provide the professional expertise to conduct such training, research, provide necessary inputs for curriculum development. SPPU shall offer these courses and training for the benefit of those who may want to pursue professional careers,” Zirpe said. The courses shall be announced soon and benefit students, professionals and other individuals interested in this initiative, vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-varsity-to-roll-out-mountaineering-courses/articleshow/79786027.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Twitter in SC over FIRs on post by Khalistani||NEW DELHI: Social media platform Twitter on Thursday moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing or consolidation of 16 FIRs lodged against it in 16 states after Canada-based separatist Sikh activist Gurpatwant Singh Panun’s offensive post. Appearing for Twitter, senior advocate Sajan Poovayya told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that the social media platform had no control over posts made by third parties and that it had suspended Panun’s account after a complaint from the Indian government. And yet, BJP’s Vinit Goenka appealed to all citizens to file sedition cases against Twitter, resulting in numerous FIRs being lodged against the social media platform in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Delhi, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Maharashtra. The bench sought responses from these states and the Centre. “Multiple FIRs, across jurisdictions, registered against the petitioner in respect of the same alleged tweet by a third party on the Twitter platform is an abuse of process, intended to harass and threaten,” Twitter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-in-sc-over-firs-on-post-by-khalistani/articleshow/79788167.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Surat||Surat: Firm starts laser marking of natural diamonds||SURAT: Like gold, even stones will carry a BIS hallmark for authenticity. To boost consumer confidence in purchase of authentic natural diamond and not get misled by lab-grown fakes, Surat diamantaire Gourav Sethi has introduced standard marking system of diamonds and diamond-studded jewellery. The exporter and jewellery manufacturer has set-up a diamond testing centre at Mahidhapura for laser inscribing and tagging diamond and jewellery with ‘naturalmark’. The standard marking system is similar to hallmarking of gold with BIS logo. Sethi told TOI, “The natural mark aims to boost end user confidence buying natural stones. Jewellery associations from across the country have supported our initiative of naturalmark for diamonds and diamond-studded jewellery.” Director of Indian Bullion Jewellers Association (IBJA), Nainesh Pachchigar said that the system of laser marking will go a long way in increasing sale of diamond and its jewellery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/firm-starts-laser-marking-of-natural-diamonds/articleshow/79784007.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Standing committee nod for Rs 5,600cr GHMC budget||Hyderabad: Though their term is ending in a few weeks, corporators of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation are pushing for a proposal to buy 10 iPhone 12 Pro Max (512 GB) phones. Each one would cost around Rs 1.29 lakh. Meanwhile, the standing committee (SC) on Thursday, approved Rs 5,600 crore budget for the year 2021-22. The proposal to buy the luxurious mobiles was put forward at the SC meet on Thursday but it was not approved. Though the SC has the power to approve, the proposal has been sent to the municipal commissioner. A similar proposal was made in June but then also it was left to the commissioner, who did not approve it. The commissioner has the discretionary powers to sanction proposals less than Rs 2 crore. On Thursday, 14 proposals were placed before the SC and 13 of them were approved. During the SC meeting, AIMIM corporators raised an objection and said that more funds should be allocated for land acquisition. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, who chaired the meeting, pacified the protesting corporators and said that the issue will be discussed in the general body meeting (GBM). The budget will be approved before the newly-elected members take the oath. Meanwhile, the civic body is planning to hold a GBM in the month of January to get a nod from the state government before the new regime takes charge. “Changes recommended by AIMIM corporators will be taken into consideration and the existing council will approve it before it gets dissolved,” said a TRS leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/standing-committee-nod-for-rs-5600cr-ghmc-budget/articleshow/79786060.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 19 Covid-19 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 19 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,739, of which 146 are active cases. The number of recovered patients, meanwhile, rose to 7,551 with 13 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. Of the 146 active cases, 28 are being treated at government and private hospitals in Coimbatore, while 37 are in home quarantine. The remaining cases are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-19-covid-19-cases/articleshow/79786061.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||2 held for duping bizman of Rs 98L||Coimbatore: The district crime branch police on Thursday arrested two people for cheating a Bengaluru-based private company of Rs 98 lakh by promising to supply nitrile gloves. The accused were identified as A Geetha Agarwal, 37, of Kavundampalayam, and K Balaji alias Vijay Balaji, 37, of Sulur. In a website titled Blue Orchid, Geetha Agarwal said she was into exporting gloves to foreign countries. Rohit, 54, of Bengaluru, administrative director of Acme Fitness Pvt Ltd, placed an order with her firm for Rs 1.1 crore worth of nitrile gloves in May and paid the amount But Geetha, her close friend Ganesh Kumar and seven accomplices sent used gloves worth Rs 2.10 lakh to Rohit. Realizing that he was cheated, Rohit demanded his money back, but didn’t get any reply from them. A few days ago, Rohit lodged a complaint against Geetha, Ganesh Kumar, their accomplices Balaji, Vinuj, Noor Mohammed, Leena, Agarwal, Gurujith and Abilash. Sub-inspector Lenin Appadurai and team arrested Geetha and Balaji on Thursday and remanded them in judicial custody. Police seized around 100 used gloves from them. Police said Ganesh Kumar is the mastermind of the crime. He withdrew all the amount from Geetha's account. Police team is trying to nab Ganesh Kumar and his accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-held-for-duping-bizman-of-rs-98l/articleshow/79786086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Chennai||Held for bribe, Tamil Nadu anti-graft inspector kills wife, ends life||MADURAI: Three days after he was convicted for corruption, a police inspector attached to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) in Madurai murdered his wife and ended his life in Madurai city on Thursday. Perumal Pandian was sentenced to three-years imprisonment and slapped with Rs 10,000 fine by the special court for corruption cases in Madurai on Monday, but he got bail. Police said he murdered his wife Uma Meenakshi using a hammer and hanged himself using a rope at his house on Nehru Street in Keelavaithiyanathapuram in Sellur. She was working as a teacher in Kambar corporation school at Jaihindpuram. They have two sons, the elder one having completed BSc and younger one studying in class IX. Both of them were away when the incident took place. Police sources said Perumal Pandian was found distressed after the conviction and was planning to appeal in a higher court. It appears that he could have murdered his wife in a fit of rage after a quarrel. They lived in a two-storey house of which three portions in the first floor were rented out, while the family was staying in the ground floor. The incident came to light when elder son Sundar Sugirthan, who had gone for a computer class at 10 am, returned at 1pm. The younger son, Pranav, was at a relative’s house. Since the house was locked from inside, Sundar knocked on the doors. With no response coming, he tried to reach out through phones. Later, with the help of tenants of the house and neighbours he broke into the house and found both of them dead. A police team led by the Sellur police inspector Kottaisamy reached the house and conducted inquiry. Forensic teams were also pressed into action to collect evidences. They seized the hammer and rope used for hanging. A knife, which was found next to the woman’s body, was also seized. Police said that Perumal Pandian, a native of Vadugapatti in Theni district, had settled in Madurai city. He was entrusted with the inquiry into the disproportionate assets case against doctor Ashok Kumar in 2010. He had sought Rs 1.2 lakh from the doctor to conclude the case in his favour. Based on an alert from Ashok Kumar a DVAC team set up a trap and caught Pandian red-handed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/held-for-bribe-tn-anti-graft-inspector-kills-wife-ends-life/articleshow/79786063.cms||V Devanathan
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Pilgrims reach Pakistan, hope cross-border travel gets easy again||Nagpur: After a tumultuous year for cross-border travellers, who were left stranded due to Covid, a batch of 44 pilgrims, which included three from Nagpur, crossed over from Attari border to reach Ghotki town in Sindh province of Pakistan earlier this week. The pilgrims will be returning in a week. On a yearly pilgrimage to Shadani Darbar shrine, visited mainly by Hindus from Sindh, they appealed that passage for other travellers should also be opened soon. This includes visit visa for people to meet their kin on either side of the border. The batch follows a group of Sikh pilgrims that went during November last week. The last batch of persons, who were stranded after they had gone to visit their relatives in Pakistan early this year, was repatriated in November. The group heading to Ghotki was led by religious leader Sant Yudhishtir Shadani, based at Raipur in Chhattisgarh, who traces his ancestry to the Shadani Darbar saint. Shadani told TOI that the travel was part of a special arrangement for pilgrims between India and Pakistan and hoped the travel is normalized for the rest too. “People from both sides are connected to each other and should be allowed easy access. Shadani Darbar is committed to act as a bridge between the two countries,” he said. Each year, pilgrims from India go to the shrine in December. In March, a group from Pakistan comes to Raipur, he added. Rajesh Jhambia, president of Sindh Hindi Panchayat, said 10 persons had applied for visa from Nagpur, but only three were granted. Getting visas was tough this year. Apart from pilgrimage, visa is being sought for medical purposes or if there is death in family. He said the regime can further be liberalized so that marriages that have been fixed can take place too. This year, Covid had led to a lot of distress to persons who had travelled to Pakistan for a short visit running up to weeks. The borders were closed due to the lockdown leaving them stranded for months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pilgrims-reach-pakistan-hope-cross-border-travel-gets-easy-again/articleshow/79784821.cms||Shishir Arya
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Property tax revenues up by Rs 140 crore||HYDERABAD: The pandemic notwithstanding, the GHMC collected Rs 1,189.10 crore since April in property tax, an increase of Rs 140 crore compared to last year. For the same period between April 2019 and December 2019, GHMC collected property tax of Rs 1,049.1 crore. Anticipating a dip owing to the pandemic, state rolled out a one-time amnesty scheme in which owners paid just 10% of accumulated interest along with principal up to financial year of 2019-20. The move helped collect Rs 280 crore. Out of 5.64 lakh property owners, who did not pay their dues for a decade, 1.10 lakh cleared their dues this year. “Property owners, especially those running commercial establishments complained about losses in June and July and refused to pay tax for that period. However, their business is back on track now and many of them had paid property tax,” said a bill collector, Serilingampally zone. Of 16.92 lakh properties in GHMC limits, 13.50 lakh are residential, 2.1 lakh commercial and remaining are mixed. On Thursday, the GHMC was told by municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department to stop assessing unassessed properties. “We were told new property tax identification numbers (PTINs)/assessments will create hurdles while non-agricultural properties are on Dharni portal. So the process is suspended,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/property-tax-revenues-up-by-rs-140-crore/articleshow/79786074.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||Covid recovery rate at 94.5%, active cases dip in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With the recovery of 1,974 persons on Thursday, the state’s Covid recovery rate touched 94.5%. Bikaner has the highest recovery rate of 98.4%, according to the report of the district wise statistical analysis of Covid-19 data issued on Wednesday. Bikaner is followed by Alwar (98.4%), Jhunjhunu (97.6%), Ajmer (97.1%), Chur u (96.9%) and Sikar (96.7%). In the list of districts with highest recovery rate, Jaipur is placed at 31st position, while Jodhpur is at 20th place. Udaipur is at 19th. Since Jaipur has highest number of active cases in the state, its recovery rate is not encouraging. Bundi has the worst recovery rate of 87.4% in the state while Rajsamand is at the second last position with 87.4%. “Active cases in Jaipur have gone down in the last few days and more patients are recovering. The occupancy of Covid beds in city’s hospitals has also gone down significantly,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons died while 1122 others tested positive for Covid taking the overall casualty count to 2,589 and infection numbers to 2,95,953. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (255), Jodhpur (101), Kota (92), Bhilwara (61), Udaipur (55), Alwar (46), Ajmer (45), Baran (37), Pali (35), Bharatpur (35), Jalore (30), Sikar (26), Dungarpur (25), Nagaur (25), Rajsamand (25), Sirohi (24), Sawai Madhopur (21), Chittorgarh (20), Banswara (19), Bikaner (18), Bundi (18), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-recovery-rate-at-94-5-active-cases-dip/articleshow/79789675.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||ED to Telangana HC: Excise wing not giving info||HYDERABAD: In an interesting development, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday charged the excise department with not sharing enough information with it in drug trafficking case. It urged the high court to direct excise sleuths to furnish copies of FIRs and statements of witnesses in the case so far. Additional solicitor general SV Raju told this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy when the latter resumed hearing in a PIL filed by Congress MP A Revanth Reddy seeking transfer of probe into the case to central agencies. State excise department director Sarfaraj Ahmed, however, said in his counter there is no need for any central probe into the issue as they have already filed chargesheets in all the FIRs booked in the case. “The petitioner wants an expeditious probe and we have done that,” he said seeking closure of the case. Petitioner’s counsel B Rachna Reddy said the state’s counter was very vague and did not answer any of the contentions raised in their plea. The bench told her to file a rejoinder to the state’s counter and adjourned the case to two weeks. The excise department had recorded statements of several cine artistes in the case earlier. Revanth Reddy contended in his plea that there are wider ramifications and this needs to be entrusted to a central agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-to-hc-excise-wing-not-giving-info/articleshow/79786100.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Country’s only woman CP Arti Singh wants to make Amravati free of street crime||Nagpur: An MBBS doctor by qualification, 2006 batch IPS officer Arti Singh became the only woman commissioner of police in the country when she took over charge of Amravati city after being promoted to the rank of DIG. Firebrand Singh, often referred to as ‘woman Singham’ of Maharashtra police, now aims to make Amravati city free of street crime, and a safe haven for traders and women. There are 35 police commissionerates across the country in various states, but Vidarbha’s Amravati seems to be the only one with a woman commissioner of police. “The unique opportunity and honour knocked on my door due to the progressive policies of the home department of Maharashtra government, the DG office and others, who gave me the opportunity to serve as CP,” she said. “It also signifies a change in the mindset against placing a woman at the helm of an independent unit. Many still do not believe that a woman at the top can handle the responsibility. In Amravati city, I am handling a force of around 2,500 constabulary and officers,” she said. Singh has just received an appreciation letter from director general of police Subodh Jaiswal for her exemplary work at hotspot Malegaon during pandemic as Nasik rural SP. She also has to her credit the rare feat of serving as SP in four districts. Apart from Nasik rural, Singh has served as SP at Nagpur, Aurangabad and Bhandara. A mother of two, Singh’s career has been far from a cakewalk, with her facing acid tests while serving at critical places in the career so far, including her first posting in the highly sensitive Naxal hotbed Bhamragarh in south Gadchiroli. “In south Gadchiroli, I conducted elections (state and general) in 2009 in the backdrop of Laheri encounter (where 17 cops were killed). Also, I recovered substantial cache of arms and ammunitions as SDPO,” she said. During the pandemic, Singh, wife of DIG Amravati range Chandrakishor Meena, had toiled in the hotspot for several months enforcing the norms, while staying away from her children and rest of the family. “Sometimes, luck does play a part but hard work and efficiency need to be combined,” said Singh who has received several awards, including Vishesh Seva Padak from the state government, for her work in Gadchiroli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/countrys-only-woman-cp-arti-singh-wants-to-make-amravati-free-of-street-crime/articleshow/79784833.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 18, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi to release Rs 400cr to 90k self-help groups today||Lucknow: In a significant financial leg up to the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM), chief minister Yogi Adityanath will release around Rs 400 crore to around 90,000 self-help groups (SHGs) in the state on Friday. The fresh financial dose comes even as the SHGs play a key role in providing livelihood to scores of migrants who had returned to the state in large numbers following the nationwide lockdown. Confirming the development, SRLM mission director Sujit Kumar said that the amount would be used for functioning of village organisation, which is a federation of SHGs at village or panchayat level (depending on their number). Kumar said that the rural development department has already received more than Rs 390 crore from the Centre and a grant of Rs 266 crore from the state government. “Once the amount is released to the SHGs, the state government would become eligible for another tranche of Rs 300 crore from the Centre. We are expecting to get the second instalment from the Centre within a week or 10 days,” he told TOI. Rural development officials said that the consolidated amount from the Centre and the state government is given to the SHGs in the form of revolving fund for their independent functioning. Officials said that the rural development department initially gives a sum of Rs 15,000 to the SHGs to operate for the first three months. The amount is subsequently taken by SHG members as a loan which has to be returned to the group. Kumar said that SHGs are able to operate for another three months then they become eligible for a grant of Rs 1.1 lakh. “This way an SHG gets Rs 1.25 lakh for independent functioning,” he said. As per rules laid down by the rural development department, rural development commissioner (RDC) and mission director (SRLM) will be responsible for ascertaining the usability of funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-to-release-rs-400cr-to-90k-self-help-groups-today/articleshow/79787276.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 18, 2020||Surat||Food safety officer’s anticipatory bail plea in DA case denied||SURAT: Anticipatory bail plea of food safety officer Mohammad Zuber Gulam Mustafa Shaikh (58) in connection with a complaint lodged against him under disproportionate assets case was rejected by a special ACB Judge in Surat on Thursday. According to the case, Surat ACB Police Inspector K J Choudhary lodged a complaint against the accused on November, 13, 2020 under various sections of Prevention and Corruption Act, 1988 as amended Act 2018. As per the complaint, Shaikh has disproportionate property to the tune of Rs42.44 lakh and the investigation into his unaccounted wealth has been on since October, 2015. During a search in the accused’s house goods worth Rs 6.82 lakh were confiscated. Shaikh is a senior food safety officer (Class-II) and has been government service since 1991. He has been posted at Bhuj since 2017. “Accused officer has not received any memo or notice from the department, nor has any departmental inquiry been initiated against him. He holds a clean record while also was appreciated for his performance while working with the Chief Minister Office,” advocate of the accused argued in the court. After a delay of four years, an offence was registered against the applicant to which the accused has given satisfactory explanation with regard to the property in question, he further said. Public Prosecutor D V Dave argued that in 2015 one application was filed against Shaikh with regard to him demanding bribe. The department, thereafter, started inquiry against him and in course of inquiry, found that during his service in that period, he amassed property worth more than Rs 42 lakh not proportionate to his known source of income or could five satisfactory explanation for it. “Therefore, the ACB registered an offence on basis of the complaint after due inquiry and the police interrogation of the accused officer is necessary,” Dave said. “The accused is a government employee and if he is released on bail, there is a possibility of him tempering evidence and hampering with witnesses. Again, granting his application permission will send out a wrong message to the society and therefore, his plea cannot be allowed,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/food-safety-officers-anticipatory-bail-plea-in-da-case-denied/articleshow/79784039.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||Covid recovery rate at 94.5%, active cases dip in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With the recovery of 1,974 persons on Thursday, the state’s Covid recovery rate touched 94.5%. Bikaner has the highest recovery rate of 98.4%, according to the report of the district wise statistical analysis of Covid-19 data issued on Wednesday. Bikaner is followed by Alwar (98.4%), Jhunjhunu (97.6%), Ajmer (97.1%), Chur u (96.9%) and Sikar (96.7%). In the list of districts with highest recovery rate, Jaipur is placed at 31st position, while Jodhpur is at 20th place. Udaipur is at 19th. Since Jaipur has highest number of active cases in the state, its recovery rate is not encouraging. Bundi has the worst recovery rate of 87.4% in the state while Rajsamand is at the second last position with 87.4%. “Active cases in Jaipur have gone down in the last few days and more patients are recovering. The occupancy of Covid beds in city’s hospitals has also gone down significantly,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons died while 1122 others tested positive for Covid taking the overall casualty count to 2,589 and infection numbers to 2,95,953. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (255), Jodhpur (101), Kota (92), Bhilwara (61), Udaipur (55), Alwar (46), Ajmer (45), Baran (37), Pali (35), Bharatpur (35), Jalore (30), Sikar (26), Dungarpur (25), Nagaur (25), Rajsamand (25), Sirohi (24), Sawai Madhopur (21), Chittorgarh (20), Banswara (19), Bikaner (18), Bundi (18), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-recovery-rate-at-94-5-active-cases-dip/articleshow/79789678.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Covid recovery rate at 94.5%, active cases dip in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With the recovery of 1,974 persons on Thursday, the state’s Covid recovery rate touched 94.5%. Bikaner has the highest recovery rate of 98.4%, according to the report of the district wise statistical analysis of Covid-19 data issued on Wednesday. Bikaner is followed by Alwar (98.4%), Jhunjhunu (97.6%), Ajmer (97.1%), Chur u (96.9%) and Sikar (96.7%). In the list of districts with highest recovery rate, Jaipur is placed at 31st position, while Jodhpur is at 20th place. Udaipur is at 19th. Since Jaipur has highest number of active cases in the state, its recovery rate is not encouraging. Bundi has the worst recovery rate of 87.4% in the state while Rajsamand is at the second last position with 87.4%. “Active cases in Jaipur have gone down in the last few days and more patients are recovering. The occupancy of Covid beds in city’s hospitals has also gone down significantly,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons died while 1122 others tested positive for Covid taking the overall casualty count to 2,589 and infection numbers to 2,95,953. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (255), Jodhpur (101), Kota (92), Bhilwara (61), Udaipur (55), Alwar (46), Ajmer (45), Baran (37), Pali (35), Bharatpur (35), Jalore (30), Sikar (26), Dungarpur (25), Nagaur (25), Rajsamand (25), Sirohi (24), Sawai Madhopur (21), Chittorgarh (20), Banswara (19), Bikaner (18), Bundi (18), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-recovery-rate-at-94-5-active-cases-dip/articleshow/79786099.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid recovery rate at 94.5%, active cases dip in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With the recovery of 1,974 persons on Thursday, the state’s Covid recovery rate touched 94.5%. Bikaner has the highest recovery rate of 98.4%, according to the report of the district wise statistical analysis of Covid-19 data issued on Wednesday. Bikaner is followed by Alwar (98.4%), Jhunjhunu (97.6%), Ajmer (97.1%), Chur u (96.9%) and Sikar (96.7%). In the list of districts with highest recovery rate, Jaipur is placed at 31st position, while Jodhpur is at 20th place. Udaipur is at 19th. Since Jaipur has highest number of active cases in the state, its recovery rate is not encouraging. Bundi has the worst recovery rate of 87.4% in the state while Rajsamand is at the second last position with 87.4%. “Active cases in Jaipur have gone down in the last few days and more patients are recovering. The occupancy of Covid beds in city’s hospitals has also gone down significantly,” said a health department official. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons died while 1122 others tested positive for Covid taking the overall casualty count to 2,589 and infection numbers to 2,95,953. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (255), Jodhpur (101), Kota (92), Bhilwara (61), Udaipur (55), Alwar (46), Ajmer (45), Baran (37), Pali (35), Bharatpur (35), Jalore (30), Sikar (26), Dungarpur (25), Nagaur (25), Rajsamand (25), Sirohi (24), Sawai Madhopur (21), Chittorgarh (20), Banswara (19), Bikaner (18), Bundi (18), among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-recovery-rate-at-94-5-active-cases-dip/articleshow/79789676.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||New outfit for backward classes||Coimbatore: A new outfit for the welfare of backward classes across the state was launched in the district on Thursday. The first meeting of the Federation for Rights of Backward Classes would be held at Suguna Marriage hall in the city on Friday. The apolitical outfit said it represented 143 castes, including Kongu Vellalar, Naidu, Mukkulathor, Nadar, Yadava, Muthaliar, Reddy and Chettiars. Members of the outfit said employment opportunities for the backward classes was dwindling in central and state governments. Talking to the media, they said the federation was the need of the hour, as the rights of backward classes was being usurped. “Job quota meant for backward classes is being systematically reduced,” said Rathinasabapathy, a member. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-outfit-for-backward-classes/articleshow/79786125.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Surat||Citizen Smart Card scheme launched in Mandvi||SURAT: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday launched Mandvi Municipality’s new ‘Citizen Smart Card’ via video link from Gandhinagar. He also inaugurated the civic body’s new administrative building and auditorium. “Through digital technology, we are committed to providing a corruption-free and transparent government. The government will provide a total of 51 services through digital platforms in 8,000 villages by the end of December. Out these, 35 services have already started,” Rupani said addressing the district officials via video conferencing. Mandvi Municipality’s Citizen Smart Card initiative will inspire other local bodies to follow the suit, he added. Initially, the database of 700 families living in Mandvi town has been prepared for this new initiative. “We will have details of residents’ AADHAR card, ration card, election card and their photos in the Citizen Smart Cards with their consent. The data is being stored in the central government’s digital locker. Once the data ready, citizens will just have to carry the smart card for availing various civic services like income certificate, BPL certificate among others,” said a Mandvi municipality official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/citizen-smart-card-scheme-launched-in-mandvi/articleshow/79784073.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Night curfew threatens to kill nascent recovery in tourism||JAIPUR: Christmas and New Year is a peak time for tourism and hospitality industry. This year, the expectations from the festive week was disproportionately high. After losing business for close to nine months, the industry had something to look forward to. But night curfew has dashed all hopes and the government is yet to wake up to the plights of the hospitality and food industry. During a meeting with chief secretary last Saturday, representatives of many industry bodies urged him to lift the curfew which is choking the nascent recovery in the tourism industry. TimesViewSince Covid cases have started dipping, local economy and job creation should get the priority. Pink City is heavily dependent on tourism activities and services industry. If the night curfew stays for a prolonged period, it will hit businesses hard and lead to large-scale joblessness.“The chief secretary was very patient in hearing our plights brought upon by the night curfew. We are waiting for some decision soon as the peak tourist season is already knocking on the door. After losing the business for almost nine months, there is an opportunity to find some support. But if the curfew stays, the industry will be in deep distress,” said Randhir Vikram Singh, president of Indian Heritage Hotels Association. Senior officials in the tourism department were tight-lipped about pushing the case to remove the curfew. But a senior official said that the government is expected to take a decision soon on this. Kuldeep Chandela, president of Hotels, Restaurants Association of Rajasthan (HRAR), said Rajasthan or Jaipur’s economy is driven by tourism and hospitality industry, which provide livelihood opportunities to a large number of people. “If growth of the sector is curbed, many families will lose their bread and butter. We urge the government to lift the curfew,” said Chandela. The 8 pm curfew has also robed the poor pushcart food sellers on the streets of their daily livelihood. Chandela said that for thousands of food sellers on the road side, it is their only means of livelihood and the curfew has not been kind to them and their families. Many of the standalone restaurants who were trying to survive, the curfew has come as a rude shock. Many restaurants have shut shop. Aziz Panwar, owner of a new-age restaurant, said, “Many restaurants have closed down as they cannot afford to run their restaurants without the evening business. It’s not feasible. As a result, many people have been out of jobs. For owners, it is not easy. It’s difficult to pay rent, fixed electricity costs even if we don’t use and meet other financial obligations.” Panwar said that January is generally a tepid month. “If the industry cannot make some money in December, it won’t be easy in January, the traditional lull month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-threatens-to-kill-nascent-recovery-in-tourism/articleshow/79786120.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SAC extends MoU with OU College of Engineering||HYDERABAD: The Space Applications Center (SAC), Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has extended its memorandum of understanding (MoU) with University College of Engineering (UCE), Osmania University (OU) for Indian regional navigation satellite system (IRNSS) receiver field trail and data collection, also known as Indian GPS. As part of this MoU, signed in 2016, the state of the art equipment/IRNSS receivers are installed at advanced GNSS research laboratory. “These receivers are needed to be performance evaluated under various conditions, so that very soon it will be used for commercialized applications in mobile phones, aviation sector, transportation, agriculture, engineering etc.,” read a press release issued by the OU. The initial two-year term of the MoU had expired. Later, based on the performance of the project, continuous data acquisition, data analysis, OU was granted an extension of three more years (2018 to 2021). The official document approval was issued now. The initial two-year term of the MoU had expired. Later, based on the performance of the project, OU was granted an extension of three more years (2018 to 2021)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sac-extends-mou-with-ou-college-of-engineering/articleshow/79786124.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro goes handsfree on 18th birthday||NEW DELHI: As it completes 18 years of operations on December 25, the Delhi Metro is likely to embark on a new journey — a driverless one. According to sources, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is planning to switch to driverless train operation (DTO) on the Magenta (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) Line from December 25 and efforts are being made to get Prime Minister Narendra Modi to flag off the country’s first ‘driverless’ Metro operations. DMRC has already carried out trial runs in driverless mode in non-revenue hours and has also got its signalling system reviewed by experts for eventual implementation of unattended train operations. A basic audit was done around two years ago by SMRT Corporation, a leading multi-modal public transport operator in Singapore and feedback was ‘positive’, according to sources. Driverless operations have been made possible in DMRC’s new corridors thanks to a state-of-the-art signalling technology called Communication Based Train Control (CBTC), which, compared to the technology used in older Metro corridors, allows more efficient and safe train operations. CBTC also brings down the minimum distance between two trains, leading to better frequency of trains. Trains on the Magenta and Pink Lines (Majlis Park–Shiv Vihar) are already running on this mode but drivers have not yet been removed from trains. Driverless operations are not possible without regulatory approvals from railway ministry and the ministry of housing and urban affairs and the General Rules for running trains takes into account the presence of a driver and the guidelines of handling any emergency involve the presence of a driver. To run trains in driverless mode, the rules were required to be changed keeping in mind the absence of the driver and according to sources, the ministry has approved the change and a new Metro Railway General Rules 2020 is going to be notified very soon. In driverless operations, DMRC will replace drivers with ‘roaming attendants’, who will be trained in driving trains but instead of being stationed at the driver’s cabin, they will move up and down the train to assist passengers who may need help. The roaming train attendants will be multi-skilled personnel, apart from being trained as drivers too. The Delhi Metro spokesperson refused to comment when contacted. The Pink and Magenta Lines are planned to be operated in Unattended Train Operation (UTO) mode in a phased manner. At present, DMRC system is already operational in Automatic Train Operation (ATO) mode in Pink and Magenta Lines, which means that the train is only started manually by the driver but from there on, it is taken over by signalling system, which controls everything from speed, stopping to opening of doors. Driver controls the closing of doors but even that can be taken over by the operations control centre. In the next mode – Driverless Train Operation (DTO) – drivers would be replaced by roaming attendants. The trains, signalling system, traction, track and depot design of Magenta and Pink Lines are compliant for operation in UTO mode and eventually, DMRC plans to move to this mode on these two corridors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-goes-handsfree-on-18th-bday/articleshow/79784827.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Flying squads in city to act against overloaded vehicles, pvt buses, autos||Nagpur: Functioning of regional transport offices of Nagpur city and rural, Pune, Thane, Jalgaon, Kolhapur and Dhule in the state has come under the scanner of transport commissioner’s office, Mumbai. RTOs in these cities have been brazenly ignoring overloaded transport vehicles and private buses, which violate safety norms, and overcrowded autorickshaws. Additional transport commissioner Jitendra Patil has formed six special squads comprising 18 motor vehicle inspectors (MVIs) to curb corruption by taking action against violators of Motor Vehicles Act. Sources said the transport commissioner’s office has received several complaints pertaining to rampant plying of overloaded vehicles, unfit private buses etc. In order to ensure corruption free action, the additional TC has deployed MVIs in above cities from other places, said sources. Citing an example, sources said for Nagpur city and rural, squad of six MVIs and AMVIs has been sent from Jalgaon and Kolhapur. The team will camp in the city till December 31 taking action against violators. All concerned RTOs have been asked to submit action take report by these squads by January 5 next year. Even TOI has highlighted various violations including overcrowding of autorickshaws, overloaded transport vehicles and unfit private buses brazenly plying from Nagpur city to various other cities. But due to alleged involvement of some transport department officials, these illegal activities go unchecked. In the past, many elected representatives too have raised the issue of officials taking bribe from truck owners to allow overloaded vehicles to ply in Nagpur region. Similar is the issue with private bus operators. Many private operators are endangering the lives of passengers by plying unfit buses, which are going unchecked by the regional transport authority. “I frequently travel between Nagpur and Pune as railways are yet to resume full service between these two cities. Each time I come across some or the other safety issue. I had filed a written complaint with the bus aggregator. But I was forced to withdraw my complaint as the operator threatened to remove the driver from the job,” said an aggrieved passenger requesting anonymity. In another instance, the window of an AC sleeper bus was broken. After being informed by an passenger, TOI alerted the RTO officials but no action was taken till date and the bus continues run in same damage condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flying-squads-in-city-to-act-against-overloaded-vehicles-pvt-buses-autos/articleshow/79784886.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 18, 2020||India||SC reserves order on pleas against Kamra||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its decision on three petitions seeking initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comic Kunal Kamra for “contumacious” Twitter posts derogating the dignity and authority of the highest court. Appearing for a petitioner, advocate Nishant Katneswarkar drew the attention of abench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah to Kamra’s six posts on social media platforms ridiculing, denigrating and offending the image and dignity of the SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-reserves-order-on-pleas-against-kamra/articleshow/79788176.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant tramples man, 63, to death at Chinna Thadagam||Coimbatore: A 63-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant on Pannimadai-Varapalayam Road while he was heading to his workplace on Wednesday night. A forest department official identified the deceased as M Somasundaram, a resident of Mariamman temple road at Chinna Thadagam. He was working as a security guard with a hollow block manufacturing unit at Varapalayam. The official said Somasundaram was heading to his workplace around 9pm on Wednesday on a bicycle when the elephant pushed him down and trampled him to death. Other motorists alerted the forest officials, who sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The frontline staff of the forest department, meanwhile, chased the wild elephant away into the reserve forest. The official said the frontline staff had already warned the villagers residing along the forest fringes not to travel at night, as there were high chances of elephant movement. D Venkatesh, district forest officer, urged the public to cooperate with the forest department to prevent man-animal conflicts. At least 17 people have been killed in wild elephant attacks in Coimbatore forest division since this January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-tramples-man-63-to-death-at-chinna-thadagam/articleshow/79786153.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Erode||Two men trampled to death by elephant||Erode: A forest watcher and another person were trampled to death by an elephant while conducting wildlife census in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on Thursday evening. Another forest watcher who sustained injuries in the elephant attack has been admitted to the government hospital in Sathyamangalam. The deceased have been identified as K Sathish Kumar, 24, of Bhavanisagar in Erode district, and P Muthu Prabhakar Sera Pandiyan, 27, of Vilathikulam in Thoothukudi district. The census started in the seven forest divisions of the STR - Sathyamangalam, Thalamalai, Asanur, Bhavanisagar, Thalawadi, T N Palayam and Germalam – on Thursday. One of the teams was at Singamalai police beat in Sathyamangalam forest division near Vilamundi forest range when the elephant attacked them. “Suddenly an elephant started chasing the team,” district forest officer P K Arun Lal said, adding that one of the guards, P Pon Ganesan, 29, sustained injuries when the elephant trampled him. Sathish Kumar and Muthu Prabhakar Sera Pandiyan went closely to rescue the victim. “However, the elephant trampled them, and they died on the spot,” the DFO added. Forest officials sent the bodies to the government hospital in Sathyamangalam for postmortem. A case was registered by forest officials and further inquiry is on. The census will be carried out for six days by 400 people in the forest. The forest officials have formed 66 teams with six people in each team. “Each team will go around 8km in the deep forest to count wildlife, including tigers and leopards,” Arun Lal told TOI. He said they will be carrying the latest gadgets to get exact details about the wildlife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/two-men-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/articleshow/79786172.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice to govt on poor condition of govt hospitals||Jaipur: The high court issued notice to the superintendent of Sawai Man Singh Hospital and secretary, medical and health, on a PIL by Public Against Corruption on the deteriorating medical system in the state. Poonam Chand Bhandari, counsel for the petitioner, told the court that the medical and health system in government hospitals in the state are in a pathetic condition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-govt-on-poor-condition-of-govt-hospitals/articleshow/79786152.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Mercury levels above normal, Hyderabad to have warm Christmas||HYDERABAD: At a time when the north of the country is shivering at four degree Celsius, the city is yet to experience the chill. As per data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, city has been experiencing minimum temperature of 17 degree Celsius to 19 degree Celsius, which is three to four degree Celsius above normal. Usually, the onset of winter occurs by December 15. However, this year, meteorologists have forecasted a rather warm Christmas as the mercury levels are above normal. “Usually, by this time, northwesterly and northerly that are dry and cold blow over Telangana. However, this year, we are experiencing easterly winds which are moist and don’t lead to drastic drop in temperature,” said A Shravani, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad, adding that the moist winds will lead to increase in relative humidity levels. IMD forecasts drop temperature only by month end or January first week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mercury-levels-above-normal-city-to-have-warm-christmas/articleshow/79786155.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Twenty years after training, 140 women cops meet up in city to stay connected||Coimbatore: At least 140 women cops of the 2000-batch had a get-together in the city to reminisce the good old days they had at the Vellore police recruitment school some 20 years ago. A total of 272 women cops (grade-II constables) were recruited in 2000 and they were trained at the Vellore police recruitment school for nine months. After the training, they were deployed with the Tamil Nadu special police (battalions) in different places in the state. In 2004, they were transferred to the armed reserve police. While some have become head constables, a few have cleared the direct sub-inspector’s selection and become police inspectors. After 20 years, they decided to reunite in the city. Some of the batchmates with the city police arranged the get-together in a resort at Selvapuram on Monday. And 140 of them turned up for the event. They spent the day dancing and singing together. Dessy John, head constable with the organized crime intelligence unit in Chennai, was among them. She said she had met only 15 of her batchmates in the past 20 years.  “While I still remember some of the batchmates’ names, I couldn’t recognize many. We introduced ourselves and then had a gala time. This reunion was so exciting, and it has strengthened our friendship,” she told TOI. N Vijayabanu, head constable, armed reserve police, Coimbatore city, said the event had made them very happy and they had decided to meet at least once a year henceforth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/twenty-years-after-training-140-women-cops-meet-up-in-city-to-stay-connected/articleshow/79786208.cms||A Subburaj
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk drivers sent to jail||Hyderabad: A local court in Kukatpally sentenced two offenders in a drunk driving case to one week’s prison and fined them Rs 10,000 each. Another offender, who gave the vehicle to a minor to drive, was sentenced to two days’ imprisonment and Rs 5,000 fine. Both the cases were booked by Madhapur traffic police. The court also sentenced three drunk driving offenders booked by Gachibowli traffic police to three days imprisonment and fined them Rs 15,000 each. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-drivers-sent-to-jail/articleshow/79787299.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Slogans that stick with you, literally||NEW DELHI: When the tractors of farmers rolled in 20 days ago at Singhu border, they were sparkling clean. Over time, they have been plastered with stickers carrying slogans regarding the stir. Nirala, a 26-year-old from Narela, decided to cash in on the opportunity. In addition to his business of selling lights, he started producing stickers based on demand with slogans written on them in both English and Gurmukhi. For Gurmukhi script, the farmers write the slogan on a piece of paper and Nirala prints it for them. One of the most popular stickers in Nirala’s wooden shop is the one saying, “We are farmers, not terrorists”. Farmers, both young and old, have been coming to the shop for the slogan printed in white on black or red background. His small cutting plotter machine has been continuously in motion. “My machine is now coming to good use. I print whatever the farmers want. Some want it for sticking on tractors, others for their T-shirts,” said Nirala, who goes to Kashmere Gate to buy the sticker paper. “I have been selling 15-20 such stickers daily. I charge very little compared with the market price,” he added. Gurpreet Singh, who wanted a sticker written in Gurmukhi for his jacket, said, “I want him to write ‘Under the shadow of Satguru’. God is always with people who are right and we farmers are fighting for our rights.” He already had the “terrorist” sticker stuck on his T-shirt. Amarjeet Singh, who wanted the same sticker to paste it on his tractor, said, “I had been wanting it for long. I never got them whenever they came to distribute it. Thankfully, this shop is printing it.” Other popular stickers included “I love kheti” with a large heart emoticon in between and “Proud farmer” with a curled moustache design.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/slogans-that-stick-with-you-literally/articleshow/79786314.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 1,991 doctors get postings in hospitals and health hubs||JAIPUR: As many as 1,991 doctors got postings in state’s government-run hospitals and health centres. The health department has deployed the newly appointed doctors in rural areas. The posts of medical officers were lying vacant in rural areas in primary health centres and community health centres. With these appointments, doctors have been deployed on almost all vacant posts in rural areas. Apart from the deployment of 1,991 doctors as medical officers, the case of one doctor is in the court and verification of documents of eight doctors is in process. The health department had advertised for 2,000 posts of medical officer. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that it is for the first time when 1,991 doctors are being appointed on the same day. Earlier this year, 735 doctors were given appointments. Among the newly appointed doctors, those who have done post-graduation have been posted in urban areas, including at the tehsil headquarters as per their specialization, and all doctors who have done MBBS have been posted in rural areas. He said that out of the newly appointed doctors, around 250 have completed their post-graduation in different specialities. With the appointment of these doctors, the shortage of specialists in various urban and rural hospitals is being filled. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1991-docs-get-postings-in-hosps-and-health-hubs/articleshow/79786191.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chennai||Napoleon Bonaparte did die of cancer, shows 1821 mail to Madras from St Helena||CHENNAI: Does the city have any connect with French statesman and military leader Napoleon Bonaparte? It may not have a direct association but delve into the archives and historical research department of the state government in Chennai, and you will find a document that dates back to 1821, written from St Helena where Napoleon breathed his last in exile, which proves that he died of cancer. The letter was addressed to Major General Sir Thomas Munro, then Governor of Madras, to confirm his demise as the French were attempting to establish their supremacy over India from Puducherry and four other enclaves spread across the sub-continent. The war between the British and the French during the 18th and 19th centuries had ramifications on their colonies across the world. The year 2021 will mark the 200th death anniversary of French emperor Napoleon Bonaparte. Interestingly, the historical letter relating to his death has been conserved and preserved at the Commissionerate of Archives and Historical Research, Egmore, and exhibited to the public only once in 2005. The British East India Company had maintained a separate volume for Napoleon Bonaparte at Fort St George in Chennai, closely monitoring international developments relating to the emperor as he was emerging as a threat for the British in its colonies. The letter dated May 10, 1821, signed by H Lowe of the government of St Helena states that Napoleon Bonaparte expired on the 5th of May at about 10 minutes before six o’clock in the evening after an illness, which had confined him to his apartment since March 17 of that year. He was attended during the early part of his indisposition by his own medical assistant professor Antomarchi.According to the document, Napoleon’s body was opened with the concurrence of the members of his family the day after his death, in the presence of five principal medical gentlemen on the island. Professor Antomorchi also attended the post-mortem and was the principal surgeon. “The stomach was discovered to be seat of extensive deseeds, there being a sehirred and cancer near the pylorus, which had penetrated the coats of the stomach the internal surface of which to nearly its whole extent was represented to be a mass of cancerous disease or of Sohirrud portions advancing to cancer,” says the document. According to Napoleon’s relatives, his father had died at an early age due to the same disease. His body was interred with the honors due to a general officer of the highest rank, the letter concludes. Napoleon Bonaparte is also linked to Arthur Wellesley, who defeated him and Tipu Sultan, according to historians. Chennai also has a building constructed in 1798, which was named after Wellesley. It is located a few feet away from Clive’s House, the headquarters of the Archaeological Survey of India’s Chennai Circle, at Fort St George. P Jagadeesan, former history professor and ex-vice chancellor of Bharathidasan University says that Arthur Wellesley defeated Napoleon Bonaparte at Waterloo in 1815. “Arthur Wellesley was the younger brother of Lord Wellesley, then governor of Madras. Arthur Wellesley came to Chennai as general of army under his brother’s administration,” says Jagadeesan. S Kuppusamy, professor, department of Indian history at the University of Madras, says that the British East India Company, the French, Tipu Sultan, Nawab of Arcot and the Marathas were competing with each other to prove their supremacy in south India and the Battle of Adyar was a fallout of it. “Napoleon Bonaparte even offered to send his troops to help Tipu Sultan fight against the British,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/napoleon-did-die-of-cancer-shows-1821-mail-to-madras-from-st-helena/articleshow/79786185.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: 1,991 doctors get postings in hospitals and health hubs||JAIPUR: As many as 1,991 doctors got postings in state’s government-run hospitals and health centres. The health department has deployed the newly appointed doctors in rural areas. The posts of medical officers were lying vacant in rural areas in primary health centres and community health centres. With these appointments, doctors have been deployed on almost all vacant posts in rural areas. Apart from the deployment of 1,991 doctors as medical officers, the case of one doctor is in the court and verification of documents of eight doctors is in process. The health department had advertised for 2,000 posts of medical officer. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that it is for the first time when 1,991 doctors are being appointed on the same day. Earlier this year, 735 doctors were given appointments. Among the newly appointed doctors, those who have done post-graduation have been posted in urban areas, including at the tehsil headquarters as per their specialization, and all doctors who have done MBBS have been posted in rural areas. He said that out of the newly appointed doctors, around 250 have completed their post-graduation in different specialities. With the appointment of these doctors, the shortage of specialists in various urban and rural hospitals is being filled. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/1991-docs-get-postings-in-hosps-and-health-hubs/articleshow/79795298.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Online lok adalats resolve 83k cases in pandemic||JAIPUR: Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority (RALSA) in its first ever online lok adalat held amidst the pandemic has resolved 14,789 pre-litigation cases and 68,655 pending cases by mediation. This achievement was made by way of two online lok adalats held in the state recently. Brajendra Jain, senior district judge and presently member secretary RSLSA, said the cases were resolved through the two online lok adalats which included cases of different nature. He said most of the cases related to motor accident claims. Jain informed that 3,742 such claim cases had been settled wherein a claim of Rs 177 crore was awarded by mutual consent. Jain said the RSLSA had taken immense pain to reunite matrimonial cases and 4,000 families have been reunited in the two online lok adalats. Due to Covid, the entire judicial work is being done through video conferencing in all high courts and Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-lok-adalats-resolve-83k-cases-in-pandemic/articleshow/79786180.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Form panel to keep raw material price in check, govt told||Coimbatore: Around 400 foundries remained closed for the second day on Thursday to protest the steep rise in prices of raw materials. Foundry owners demanded the Union government to take steps to control the increase in steel prices and requested to constitute a committee to monitor the price hike. The protesting foundries are members of the Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners Association. They are mainly located at Arasur, Manickampalayam, Peelamedu, Irugur and Keeranatham in the district. It is to be noted that pump makers, wet grinder makers, and automobile and textile industries are dependent on foundries, which make metal castings. These units need steel, the price of which has shot up by 30% since November. The units started indefinite strike on Wednesday, demanding the Centre to impose ban on steel export and reduce steel price. A Sivashanmuga Kumar, president of their association, said the price hike has hit them hard. “If the raw material price keeps increasing, we will have to increase the rate for our products and others will follow suit. It will severely affect the general public. So, we are fighting against the raw material price hike.” He also called on the Centre to constitute a committee to monitor fluctuations in raw material price. “Representatives of the micro sector should also be included in the panel. The Centre should intervene in the issue immediately. Otherwise, the industrial sectors will face severe loss.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/form-panel-to-keep-raw-material-price-in-check-govt-told/articleshow/79786181.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||1 killed, another feared dead after truck falls into Alaknanda on Badrinath highway||Dehradun: One person was killed and another is missing and feared dead after the truck they were travelling in plunged into Alaknanda river in Chamoli district on Wednesday night. The accident occurred near Baldora when a dumper of a private company engaged in Char Dham All Weather Road Project was throwing away debris at the dumping site and fell into the river ahead of Joshimath. "There were two people inside the truck. The body of the driver has been recovered near the wreckage while a search operation to trace the other person is on," said a district police official. The deceased driver has been identified as Vasudev Singh, 40, while the dumper's conductor Jagdish Pundeer, 55, is still missing, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/1-killed-another-feared-dead-after-truck-falls-into-alaknanda-on-badrinath-highway/articleshow/79784081.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Place us on vaccination priority list too, say sanitation workers||NEW DELHI: With a mass Covid-19 vaccination programme now in sight, sanitation workers of the capital city have demanded that they should also be included in the priority list. They are vulnerable to catch the virus while processing the city’s municipal solid waste, the workers say. Delhi Commission for Safai Karamcharis chairman Sanjay Gahlot said that sanitation workers have made immense sacrifices during the pandemic and they should be included in the priority list for vaccination. “Our workers have bravely served in containment zones, lifted biomedical waste and kept the city running despite enormous constraints during the lockdown period. We will demand that all of them should be vaccinated on priority basis. They have very limited economic means and many are uneducated,” Gahlot added. Other sanitation workers’ unions too have echoed a similar sentiment. Mukesh Baidya, who heads All Municipal Corporation Staff Union (of sanitation workers), said that along with nurses, doctors and policemen, safai karamcharis also served the city during this tough period and they should be incorporated in the priority vaccination list. “The nature of the job, handling waste, poor nutrition and immunity make sanitation workers one of the vulnerable groups. Even during normal times, a large section of workers does not even live up to the retirement age” he added. Baidya said that sanitation staff worked during the pandemic without adequate protection gear and many of them lost their lives while carrying out their duty. “We had to approach high court to even start sanitisation arrangements before and after duty hours. The 40,000 workers of the city should be vaccinated to keep the city safe,” he opined. Subhash Karalia, who heads Municipal Safai Kamgar Congress, said that sanitation workers lift refuse from homes, clean toilets, drains and streets. “While those in other professions got protective equipment, our workers were neglected. They had to buy masks and sanitisers. Now when vaccination starts, our contribution should not be ignored. Merely calling us corona warriors will not do. We will put forward our demand for vaccination on priority basis to the government,” he added. There are more than 50,000 permanent and temporary sanitation workers in the city. There are around 32,000 sanitation workers with the north corporation alone while the south corporation has 12,000 permanent and 8,500 temporary workers. More than 30 deaths of sanitation staff due to Covid infection had been reported by August itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/place-us-on-vaccination-priority-list-too-say-sanitation-workers/articleshow/79784869.cms||Paras Singh
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: 1,991 doctors get postings in hospitals and health hubs||JAIPUR: As many as 1,991 doctors got postings in state’s government-run hospitals and health centres. The health department has deployed the newly appointed doctors in rural areas. The posts of medical officers were lying vacant in rural areas in primary health centres and community health centres. With these appointments, doctors have been deployed on almost all vacant posts in rural areas. Apart from the deployment of 1,991 doctors as medical officers, the case of one doctor is in the court and verification of documents of eight doctors is in process. The health department had advertised for 2,000 posts of medical officer. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that it is for the first time when 1,991 doctors are being appointed on the same day. Earlier this year, 735 doctors were given appointments. Among the newly appointed doctors, those who have done post-graduation have been posted in urban areas, including at the tehsil headquarters as per their specialization, and all doctors who have done MBBS have been posted in rural areas. He said that out of the newly appointed doctors, around 250 have completed their post-graduation in different specialities. With the appointment of these doctors, the shortage of specialists in various urban and rural hospitals is being filled. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/1991-docs-get-postings-in-hosps-and-health-hubs/articleshow/79795301.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 1,991 doctors get postings in hospitals and health hubs||JAIPUR: As many as 1,991 doctors got postings in state’s government-run hospitals and health centres. The health department has deployed the newly appointed doctors in rural areas. The posts of medical officers were lying vacant in rural areas in primary health centres and community health centres. With these appointments, doctors have been deployed on almost all vacant posts in rural areas. Apart from the deployment of 1,991 doctors as medical officers, the case of one doctor is in the court and verification of documents of eight doctors is in process. The health department had advertised for 2,000 posts of medical officer. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that it is for the first time when 1,991 doctors are being appointed on the same day. Earlier this year, 735 doctors were given appointments. Among the newly appointed doctors, those who have done post-graduation have been posted in urban areas, including at the tehsil headquarters as per their specialization, and all doctors who have done MBBS have been posted in rural areas. He said that out of the newly appointed doctors, around 250 have completed their post-graduation in different specialities. With the appointment of these doctors, the shortage of specialists in various urban and rural hospitals is being filled. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/1991-docs-get-postings-in-hosps-and-health-hubs/articleshow/79795300.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Onion import relaxation to stay till Jan 31||NEW DELHI: The government has extended the relaxation of conditions for import of onions till January 31, in its bid to boost domestic supply and check the retail prices. “In the light of public concern over high prices of onion in the market, the department of agriculture and farmers welfare has decided to extend the relaxation from the condition of fumigation and additional declaration on Phytosanitary Certificate as per the Plant Quarantine Order, 2003, for imports up to January 31, 2021. The relaxation will be subject to conditions,” the agriculture ministry said on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/onion-import-relaxation-to-stay-till-jan-31/articleshow/79788187.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||One held for killing beggar||Hyderabad: Narayanguda police arrested a 34-year-old, identified as P Narsimha Reddy, in the recent murder case of a beggar. The accused, a vagabond, had an altercation with the 40-year-old unknown beggar, who used to sleep on the footpath near Narayanguda Metro Station in the early hours of November 14, regarding a spot to sleep. During the argument, the accused hit the victim with a tile on the head and stabbed him to death using a broken liquor bottle. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-held-for-killing-beggar/articleshow/79787326.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Kinnar akhara to participate in Haridwar Kumbh, meet officials||Haridwar: Kinnar akhara will take part in Kumbh Mela 2021 slated to be held in January next year. Members of the akhara reached Haridwar on Thursday and met with the representatives of the Juna akhara. They then met with mela officer Deepak Rawat and requested him to provide facilities to install its camp during the Kumbh. A delegation of Kinnar akhara also reached Harki Pauri and offered prayers at Brahmakund. Acharya Mahamandleshwar (head) of Kinnar akhara Lakshmi Narayan Tripathi said that the community is an integral part of the Hindu religion, and Kinnar akhara has decided to take part in the Kumbh and will install its camp during the mela. "We also requested the mela administration to provide all the facilities to the Kinnar akhara - like the other 13 akharas - during the Kumbh.” Kumbh mela officer Deepak Rawat told TOI, “Head of Kinnar akhara requested us to provide facilities during the Kumbh and we will discuss their demands. All their valid demands will be fulfilled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kinnar-akhara-to-participate-in-haridwar-kumbh-meet-officials/articleshow/79784113.cms||MS Nawaz
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Rahul Gandhi was right to walk out of defence panel meet: Captain Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Terming former Congress president and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi’s walkout from the meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on defence as “totally justified”, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged the Lok Sabha Speaker to look into the working of the panel, which he dubbed “absurd”, with members discussing the type of polish to be used on the buttons and shoes of the uniform instead of strategizing on ways to counter the joint China-Pakistan threat. Rahul along with two party colleagues had walked out of the meeting on Wednesday. “With both China and Pakistan breathing down India’s neck, the committee should have been discussing strategic security issues and the urgent requirements of our forces, and not the polish they need to shine their shoes and buttons,” said Amarinder. “People who know nothing of the defence forces are made to sit on these committees now and we expect them to protect the nation,” he said, expressing shock that political affiliations were guiding the functioning of the panel, whose chairman probably had not even ever been part of the NCC. Amarinder said he felt ashamed of the level to which the committee had fallen. “For God’s sake, think about our forces, think about the country,” he appealed. He stressed that senior army officers attend the committee meetings not to talk about petty matters but to discuss more vital subjects of national security and the concerns of our forces, who are fighting out there every day, and losing their lives. “What are you doing for them? What are you giving them for their living, their clothing, food, arms, ammunition? This is what the committee needs to discuss,” he added. “The way Rahul and other Congress members were treated was atrocious,” said Amarinder, citing reports that the party MP was not allowed to speak. “What is this nonsense,” Amarinder asked, adding that the committee has become a joke, with one member even reportedly suggesting that all the three forces should have the same uniform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rahul-was-right-to-walk-out-of-defence-panel-meet-capt/articleshow/79786220.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||BJP holds rally in support of agri laws, Terai farmers stage protest||Rudrapur : With farmers from the Terai region reamining steadfast in their protest against the three contentious farm laws, the ruling BJP organised a meeting in Udham Singh Nagar district, Rudrapur, on Thursday to create awareness on the “benefits” of the laws. Union Minister for human resources and development Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, who was the keynote speaker at the meeting, said the central government brought the laws with the aim to benefit the farmers, but the opposition has been misguiding them. “These laws are completely in favour of farmers and there are already positive results on the ground. Few farmer unions who are being misled by the opposition are protesting. The central government is trying to make them understand. We are willing to continue dialogue with genuine farm unions and are willing to find a solution with an open mind. If there are farmers protesting the laws, there are more farmers who have supported these laws,” said Nishank at the Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouse premises at Kichha bypass. Presiding over the function, BJP’s state president Banshidhar Bhagat said, “While there is a protest against reforms, lakhs of farmers are also gathering to express support for the laws. The agitation going on at the Delhi border is sponsored by the opposition parties. It is the Narendra Modi government which followed the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission and revised the minimum support price (MSP) for various crops by adding 50 percent profit on the cost for the farmers.” During the meeting, scores of Sikh farmers holding black flags and placards marched towards the rally venue, but they were stopped by the police at Deendayal Chowk. The angry farmers claimed that the BJP is trying to mislead the people through their public meeting. They said they will not retreat until these farm laws are repealed. Meanwhile, the opposition Congress alleged that there were no farmers in BJP's rally and the party workers from Nainital and US Nagar were brought in to pose as farmers to demonstrate the strength in favour of farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-holds-rally-in-support-of-agri-laws-terai-farmers-stage-protest/articleshow/79784112.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Governor stops at Selvapuram, advises shoppers to wear masks||Coimbatore: On his way back after offering prayers at the historic Perur Temple in the city on Thursday, governor Banwarilal Purohit got down from his car in a busy shopping area at Selvapuram where he met a few shoppers and advised them on following precautionary measures to stop the spread of Covid-19. Around 11am, shoppers on Perur Main Road at Indira Nagar, Selvapuram, were surprised to see the governor’s convoy suddenly stop on the road. Purohit got down from his car and walked to a shop where more than 20 shoppers were present. A policeman on bandobast duty said the governor interacted with the shoppers and inquired about their well-being. Before departing from the place, the governor advised shoppers on Covid-19 prevention measures. He told them to always maintain social distancing, wear masks properly and wash their hands frequently to stay safe from Covid-19. The governor was in the city to give away medals and degrees at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University’s convocation. The governor recovered from Covid-19 in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/governor-stops-at-selvapuram-advises-shoppers-to-wear-masks/articleshow/79786213.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Amritsar||BSF shoots 2 intruders, foils 3 bids to push in infiltrators||AMRITSAR: The Border Security Force (BSF) shot two armed intruders and seized arms, ammunition and heroin as it foiled three attempts by Pakistan-based narco-terrorists to push infiltrators and drugs into India in a single night. BSF deputy inspector general (Amritsar) Bhupinder Singh said on Thursday that three attempts of intrusion and smuggling from Pakistan were made on the night of December 16, but were foiled by their troopers. BSF has seized one AK-56 assault rifle, two magazines and 61 live rounds, one Magnum rifle, one magazine and 29 live rounds, one Olympia-marked pistol with two magazines and around 5kg heroin. The DIG said that BSF troopers deployed at Rajatal border outpost (BoP) detected suspicious movement across the international border fence and challenged the intruder. On hearing the sound of a rifle cocking, they opened fire and killed two Pakistani intruders on the spot. The bodies were found while searching the area early Thursday. Both the Pakistan intruders had crossed the international border and entered the Indian territory. He said a protest was being lodged with the Pakistani Rangers, who were also shown the photograph of slain intruders to identify them. Not even a kilometre from where the Pakistan intruders were gunned down, Pakistan smugglers made another attempt to smuggle heroin into India, followed by a second one in the area under Ramkot border outpost. Investigations have also been launched by border zone police team and other security agencies to know the motive behind the intrusion attempts. Sources said investigations had been launched to zero in on the Indian counterparts of the Pak smugglers who were to receive the heroin packets. The Pak smugglers were carrying pipes to slip the heroin packets through these across the border fence on the Indian territory. BSF has seized around 491kg heroin from the international border with Pakistan in Punjab and shot eight Pakistani intruders this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/bsf-shoots-2-intruders-foils-3-bids-to-push-in-infiltrators/articleshow/79786214.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||At 3.6 degrees Celsius, Dehradun witnesses season’s coldest morning on Thursday||DEHRADUN: Temperatures dipped in most parts of the Uttarakhand on Thursday with Dehradun recording 3.6 degrees Celsius—its coldest morning of the season so far—according to the regional meteorological centre. While state capital’s minimum temperature dropped to almost three notches below the normal temperature, the maximum temperature settled at 20.7 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal. “The mercury has dropped across the state following a western disturbance that resulted in snow and rain activity at the beginning of the week. The temperatures are likely to settle below normal for next few days,” Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, said. Pantnagar in Udham Singh Nagar district also witnessed a sharp drop in the mercury with maximum temperature recording at 12.8 degrees Celsius, almost 10 notches below normal, while the minimum hovered around 4.7 degree Celsius. In the hill town of Mukteshwar in Nainital district, the minimum temperature settled at 1.8 degree Celsius. Among the districts in Uttarakhand, the lowest minimum temperature of -1.4 degree Celsius was recorded at Ranchauri in New Tehri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/at-3-6-degrees-celsius-dehradun-witnesses-seasons-coldest-morning-on-thursday/articleshow/79784107.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 18, 2020||Dehradun||Roads turn into dumping yards, says survey; Dehradun mayor to look into issue||DEHRADUN: After a survey by a local NGO pointed about prevalence of garbage dumping points along the city roads, Dehradun Mayor Sunil Gama on Thursday asserted that the Dehradun Municipal Corporation is working on war footing to improve the door-to-door garbage collection mechanism in the city. “We are taking steps in this direction. We have already eliminated dumping points at Tagore Villa, Raja Road and near the district court road. This issue is at the top of our priority. We are working on war footing to improve the door-to-door collection mechanism in the city and I am confident that by the start of next year we will be making the city completely dump points free,” said Sunil Uniyal Gama, adding that the facility would be streamlined from January 2021. A Dehradun-based social organisation, SDC foundation, working in the field of environment and sanitation, had conducted a survey which had identified about 12 such dumping points. The Survey had suggested that the removal of these garbage dumps can improve Dehradun’s ranking significantly. The week-long urban social audit of waste dumping points was conducted on five major routes of the city— Premnagar to Ballupur, Ballupur to Clock Tower, Ballupur to Transport Nagar, Clock Tower to Rajpur Road and ISBT to Rispana bridge. The waste dumped along the roads mostly include unsegregated waste, multi-layer plastic waste, cloth waste, light plastics like polythene, packaging plastic and glass waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/city-roads-turn-into-dumping-yards-says-survey-doon-mayor-to-look-into-issue/articleshow/79784104.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||CM Ashok Gehlot faces challenges as he steps into 3rd year in office||JAIPUR: As chief minister Ashok Gehlot steps into the third year of his office on Friday, he faces three major challenges in the coming year. The immediate challenge will be to accommodate his former deputy Sachin Pilot and the latter’s loyalists into the government and the party organisation. Balancing the act while making political appointments in certain boards and commissions will be yet another task. Congress then will have to face by-elections on three assembly seats that fell vacant upon the demise of ailing MLAs. Gehlot’s scheduled meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Saturday is likely to focus on the state’s political affairs, including the much awaited cabinet expansion and reshuffling, sources said on Thursday. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken has already announced deadlines for making the organisational and the political appointments by December 31 and January 31, respectively. The three-member AICC committee, of which Maken is a part, has been under pressure from the Pilot camp to deliver what it was tasked to when the Congress central leadership brokered truce between Pilot and Gehlot in August. As senior Congressman Ahmed Patel succumbed to Covid last month, the AICC committee is now reduced to two members—KC Venugopal being the other one. Hardly a fortnight remains for Gehlot, Pilot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, along with the party central leadership, to reach a consensus in reconstituting the Congress state organisation, which was dissolved from state to the block levels during the political crisis on the Gehlot-government in July-August. The ruling party’s resounding defeat in the panchayat elections in 21 of the 33 districts this month has added urgency for having back a fulltime organisational setup. The party would need the organisation at district and block levels much before the assembly by-elections to be held on Sahada (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand seats by March-April 2021. The Rajsamand seat was with the BJP, while the Sahada and the Sujangarh seats were with the Congress, which can ill-afford to lose these in the by-elections. Early this month, chief minister Gehlot alleged that the BJP was back to indulging in horse-trading of MLAs to topple his government. In November, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Gehlot-government was sure to fall in six months. Under these circumstances, Gehlot would have to noticeably accommodate the Pilot camp in the council of ministers to avoid another political crisis on his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gehlot-faces-challenges-as-he-steps-into-3rd-yr-in-office/articleshow/79791113.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||CM Ashok Gehlot faces challenges as he steps into 3rd year in office||JAIPUR: As chief minister Ashok Gehlot steps into the third year of his office on Friday, he faces three major challenges in the coming year. The immediate challenge will be to accommodate his former deputy Sachin Pilot and the latter’s loyalists into the government and the party organisation. Balancing the act while making political appointments in certain boards and commissions will be yet another task. Congress then will have to face by-elections on three assembly seats that fell vacant upon the demise of ailing MLAs. Gehlot’s scheduled meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Saturday is likely to focus on the state’s political affairs, including the much awaited cabinet expansion and reshuffling, sources said on Thursday. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken has already announced deadlines for making the organisational and the political appointments by December 31 and January 31, respectively. The three-member AICC committee, of which Maken is a part, has been under pressure from the Pilot camp to deliver what it was tasked to when the Congress central leadership brokered truce between Pilot and Gehlot in August. As senior Congressman Ahmed Patel succumbed to Covid last month, the AICC committee is now reduced to two members—KC Venugopal being the other one. Hardly a fortnight remains for Gehlot, Pilot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, along with the party central leadership, to reach a consensus in reconstituting the Congress state organisation, which was dissolved from state to the block levels during the political crisis on the Gehlot-government in July-August. The ruling party’s resounding defeat in the panchayat elections in 21 of the 33 districts this month has added urgency for having back a fulltime organisational setup. The party would need the organisation at district and block levels much before the assembly by-elections to be held on Sahada (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand seats by March-April 2021. The Rajsamand seat was with the BJP, while the Sahada and the Sujangarh seats were with the Congress, which can ill-afford to lose these in the by-elections. Early this month, chief minister Gehlot alleged that the BJP was back to indulging in horse-trading of MLAs to topple his government. In November, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Gehlot-government was sure to fall in six months. Under these circumstances, Gehlot would have to noticeably accommodate the Pilot camp in the council of ministers to avoid another political crisis on his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gehlot-faces-challenges-as-he-steps-into-3rd-yr-in-office/articleshow/79791115.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||4 arrested for drug peddling||CHANDIGARH: Haryana police, on Thursday, arrested three persons on charges of drug peddling and seized 145.5 kg of poppy husk from their possession in Fatehabad and Sirsa district. A Haryana police spokesman said during patrolling, a police team near Saniana bus stand found three suspects loading some articles from a jeep into a car on Chamarkhera village road. On seeing the police, they tried to run away but the police nabbed two persons. The driver of the jeep lost control and the vehicle swerved into the fields. He said the driver managed to escape under cover of darkness. Search of the car led to seizure of five bags containing 100 kg 500 grams of poppy husk. The arrested accused were identified as Sonu of Hisar and Sanjay alias Sanju of Dhani Jallopur. “In the second incident reported from Sirsa district, the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) team signalled a car to stop for checking. On seeing the police party, the driver tried to take a U-turn and escape but was nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-arrested-for-peddling/articleshow/79786248.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic elections: Setback to Congress in Sonipat||CHANDIGARH: Senior Congress leaders of Sonipat, including an aspirant to the mayoral ticket, joined BJP during a ceremony held in the city on Thursday. Ashok Chhabra, former chairman of zila parishad, former district Congress president Pradeep Gautam, former spokesman Bhupinder Gehlot and Seema Goyal resigned from the Congress to join BJP. “We often used to hear from people and old leaders how they were treated in the Congress. Now, we have faced it. Henceforth, we swear to live up to the expectations of party leaders here in BJP,” said Chhabra. Gautam elaborated on his contribution towards the Congress during his 45-year stint as worker to district leader. “Finally, I too have fallen prey to the wrongs of senior Congress leaders,” he rued. Taking the Congress rebels into the party fold, Haryana BJP President On Parkash Dhankhar said this was a clear indication of the downfall of the Congress in both the city and state. “These leaders will be given responsibility as per their experience and calibre and will be given due respect,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-elections-setback-to-cong-in-sonipat/articleshow/79786246.cms||Manvir Saini
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 5,000 hectares of pastoral land grabbed||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Wednesday announced implementation of the ambitious Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 2020, and made clear its intention to clamp down heavily against land grabbers. However, according to official records, close to 5,000 hectares of government pastoral land is currently under encroachment and has been grabbed by land mafia and others. Data of encroachments on other categories of government land has not been disclosed. Acting against these land grabbers will be a major challenge for the state government, as the land is under encroachment for decades. Records of other encroached public land is not available. Under the new law, district magistrates and the state government have been empowered to take suo motu action in case of grabbing of government land. Kaushik Patel, revenue minister, who had moved the bill and who heads the implementation of the new act, was approached for comment, but he was not available for his remarks. Only time will tell whether the government makes use of provisions of the new law to reclaim land which has been encroached upon by grabbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5k-hectares-of-pastoral-land-grabbed/articleshow/79786216.cms||Kapil Dave
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot faces challenges as he steps into 3rd year in office||JAIPUR: As chief minister Ashok Gehlot steps into the third year of his office on Friday, he faces three major challenges in the coming year. The immediate challenge will be to accommodate his former deputy Sachin Pilot and the latter’s loyalists into the government and the party organisation. Balancing the act while making political appointments in certain boards and commissions will be yet another task. Congress then will have to face by-elections on three assembly seats that fell vacant upon the demise of ailing MLAs. Gehlot’s scheduled meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Saturday is likely to focus on the state’s political affairs, including the much awaited cabinet expansion and reshuffling, sources said on Thursday. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken has already announced deadlines for making the organisational and the political appointments by December 31 and January 31, respectively. The three-member AICC committee, of which Maken is a part, has been under pressure from the Pilot camp to deliver what it was tasked to when the Congress central leadership brokered truce between Pilot and Gehlot in August. As senior Congressman Ahmed Patel succumbed to Covid last month, the AICC committee is now reduced to two members—KC Venugopal being the other one. Hardly a fortnight remains for Gehlot, Pilot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, along with the party central leadership, to reach a consensus in reconstituting the Congress state organisation, which was dissolved from state to the block levels during the political crisis on the Gehlot-government in July-August. The ruling party’s resounding defeat in the panchayat elections in 21 of the 33 districts this month has added urgency for having back a fulltime organisational setup. The party would need the organisation at district and block levels much before the assembly by-elections to be held on Sahada (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand seats by March-April 2021. The Rajsamand seat was with the BJP, while the Sahada and the Sujangarh seats were with the Congress, which can ill-afford to lose these in the by-elections. Early this month, chief minister Gehlot alleged that the BJP was back to indulging in horse-trading of MLAs to topple his government. In November, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Gehlot-government was sure to fall in six months. Under these circumstances, Gehlot would have to noticeably accommodate the Pilot camp in the council of ministers to avoid another political crisis on his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gehlot-faces-challenges-as-he-steps-into-3rd-yr-in-office/articleshow/79791112.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot faces challenges as he steps into 3rd year in office||JAIPUR: As chief minister Ashok Gehlot steps into the third year of his office on Friday, he faces three major challenges in the coming year. The immediate challenge will be to accommodate his former deputy Sachin Pilot and the latter’s loyalists into the government and the party organisation. Balancing the act while making political appointments in certain boards and commissions will be yet another task. Congress then will have to face by-elections on three assembly seats that fell vacant upon the demise of ailing MLAs. Gehlot’s scheduled meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Saturday is likely to focus on the state’s political affairs, including the much awaited cabinet expansion and reshuffling, sources said on Thursday. AICC general secretary in-charge for Rajasthan Ajay Maken has already announced deadlines for making the organisational and the political appointments by December 31 and January 31, respectively. The three-member AICC committee, of which Maken is a part, has been under pressure from the Pilot camp to deliver what it was tasked to when the Congress central leadership brokered truce between Pilot and Gehlot in August. As senior Congressman Ahmed Patel succumbed to Covid last month, the AICC committee is now reduced to two members—KC Venugopal being the other one. Hardly a fortnight remains for Gehlot, Pilot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, along with the party central leadership, to reach a consensus in reconstituting the Congress state organisation, which was dissolved from state to the block levels during the political crisis on the Gehlot-government in July-August. The ruling party’s resounding defeat in the panchayat elections in 21 of the 33 districts this month has added urgency for having back a fulltime organisational setup. The party would need the organisation at district and block levels much before the assembly by-elections to be held on Sahada (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand seats by March-April 2021. The Rajsamand seat was with the BJP, while the Sahada and the Sujangarh seats were with the Congress, which can ill-afford to lose these in the by-elections. Early this month, chief minister Gehlot alleged that the BJP was back to indulging in horse-trading of MLAs to topple his government. In November, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the Gehlot-government was sure to fall in six months. Under these circumstances, Gehlot would have to noticeably accommodate the Pilot camp in the council of ministers to avoid another political crisis on his government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-faces-challenges-as-he-steps-into-3rd-yr-in-office/articleshow/79786240.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Charges hiked, cost of housing in metro region may go up||Nagpur: At a time when Maharashtra government had lowered stamp duty for a period between September and December to help realty sector battered by the Covid lockdown, development charges in metro region under NMRDA have been increased from 8% to 10%. This hike is likely to increase cost of housing projects in the metro region. Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday cleared Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) budget 2020-21, having an outlay of Rs1,205 crore, which was stalled due to outbreak of Coronavirus pandemic. Though the budget outlay has been reduced compared to last year, development charges levied by NMRDA for various projects implemented by builders have been increased by 2%. It is being speculated that NMRDA's hike in development charges will increase the cost of housing projects in the metro region. The state government had in November reduced the stamp duty, levied when relevant documents are registered in the state, to help real estate sector overcome the slowdown. The authority not only develops the metro region, but also will continue Nagpur Improvement Trust’s major ongoing projects. Due to Covid lockdown, NMRDA’s budget had got delayed by almost nine months. Generally, NMRDA presents its budget before the state government in March every year. As a development authority, NMRDA had carried out several works and had to fund other ongoing projects. The CM, who is also chairman of NMRDA, has directed the urban development ministry to approve Rs186 crore NMRDA’s expenditure incurred between April 1, 2020 and till date on various works. NMRDA commissioner Sheetal Ugale-Teli was present at the budget meeting held in Mumbai. The NMRDA budget was to be presented to the CM on March 13 this year. However, due to the outbreak of Covid pandemic, the budget could not be presented then. Due to lack of budget allocations, NMRDA could not carry out several projects. Now, ongoing and new projects will be taken up, said Teli. Major ongoing projects include construction of 4,325 houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), development of Koradi temple, development of Tajbagh dargah, police housing project etc. After the formation of NMRDA, the then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had approved the first budget of Rs1,760 crore for 2018-19. A budget of Rs1,529 crore for 2019-20 was sanctioned for various development works of NMRDA. This year's budgetary demands were also said to be in the range of Rs1,500 crore and NMRDA had submitted a similar proposal. However, after curtailing some of the development expenditures, the budget of Rs1,205 crore has finally been approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/charges-hiked-cost-of-housing-in-metro-region-may-go-up/articleshow/79784906.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Boy who fell from bldg dies||Hyderabad: A 6-year-old boy, who suffered injuries when he accidentally fell from the first floor of his building in Alwal, succumbed while undergoing treatment at a hospital on Thursday. The victim, V Rahul, a Class I student, lived at Road Number 10 in Alwal Hills. While playing with his elder brother and other children on the stairs of their two-storied building on Wednesday evening, Rahul accidentally fell from the first floor and suffered injuries. Alwal police registered a case based on the complaint of his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boy-who-fell-from-bldg-dies/articleshow/79787338.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-year Christmas: 1,500 cops to secure Park Street||KOLKATA: The city police have decided to make elaborate security arrangements for Christmas and deploy 1,000-1,5000 personnel on and around Park Street. The numbers are comparable with any other year. The deployment will begin in stages starting next Wednesday, two days before Christmas. “With an extended weekend, we expect a sizeable crowd in the zone surrounding Allen Park. The deployment details are still being finalized,” said an officer. Out of the 5,000 cops to be deployed across the city from Christmas eve, the majority will be on Park Street and places around it. “The area will be divided into multiple zones and deputy commissioners of police will be in charge of each zone. Women cops will also be deployed. Police sources said they expect usual deployment around Allen Park, though areas like Middleton Street-Camac Street may see fewer cops compared to past few years. Detective department officers have been roped in to keep a tab on the crowd surge. “Restrictions on vehicular movement on Park Street will be announced in due time. Whether it will be a ‘walk-only’ zone in the evening will be decided later. Drones will be deployed for aerial surveillance. Kolkata Police is also setting up around a dozen watchtowers in central Kolkata. Traffic police personnel will be on the streets to check for drink-driving. Altogether, 200 police pickets have been arranged at different locations, covering churches, Metro stations, malls, Alipore zoo, popular hotspots, entertainment parks and other high-footfall zones. There will be 15 police assistance booths as well. Police are gathering information on how shops and restaurants in the zone are preparing for Christmas and year-end crowds. “We cannot allow too many people to block the road. This will give us an idea about their expectations. This is a very basic step towards strategizing on the same lines that we undertook while dealing with traders in Gariahat and New Market before Durga puja or those in Burrabazar before Diwali,” explained an officer. Police sources said there was no plan to ban or restrict private parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-year-christmas-1500-cops-to-secure-park-street/articleshow/79784893.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Engineers’ association fraud case: CA lands in police net||KOLKATA: The detective department has arrested a 49-year-old chartered accountant in the high-profile case of duping a national engineers’ body. The arrest came just days after the police arrested five persons — including a bank employee and a branch manager of a public sector bank — for their alleged involvement in the case. The arrested CA, Baidyanath Kumar of Lake Town, was allegedly helping run the racket. Sources said he allegedly managed the accounts where the money was removed as the final step of the cheating. His lawyers have denied the allegation, though. The Institution of Engineers (India) had earlier alleged that they had been duped of Rs 35 crore in the past two years by a gang using fake fixed deposits. Police sources maintained that the role of two others are under scrutiny. “We identified the suspects and mounted surveillance. After the first arrests in Mandarmani last month, we got leads from the accused and proceeded to round up the others from various parts of north and central Kolkata and North 24 Parganas. During investigation, we interrogated the accused, following which we recovered cash amounting Rs 1.9 crore (approx), gold weighing 200g and one BMW car,” said an officer. “The accused issued fake letters of the Bowbazar branch of the bank and used them to lure the IEI to invest in fixed deposits, promising them high rates of interest. The accused then issued forged FDs. “The money was siphoned off to the various bank accounts through RTGS,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/engineers-association-fraud-case-ca-lands-in-police-net/articleshow/79784897.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's cold days: Trouble comes in waves, city shivers||NEW DELHI: A “severe cold day” was recorded on Thursday with the capital experiencing this winter’s lowest maximum temperature at 15.2 degrees Celsius, seven degrees below normal. Cold wave conditions also prevailed in some parts of Delhi. Both cold day and cold wave conditions will continue in parts of the capital on Friday. Delhi’s base observatory, Safdarjung, recorded a minimum temperature of 4.6 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, while the Ridge station recorded the lowest minimum at 3.5 degrees Celsius, followed by 3.8 at Ayanagar. At Palam, the maximum temperature fell to as low as 13.2 degrees Celsius and 13.7 at Jafarpur. The previous lowest maximum this season was 18.5 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Parts of Delhi saw cold wave conditions and severe cold day conditions were recorded in most places.” No respite is expected in the next 48 hours, with an increase in the maximum likely around Sunday, he said. The forecast for Friday shows the maximum could be around 16 degrees Celsius, while the minimum could be around 4. IMD declares a cold day when the maximum temperature is four or more degrees below normal while the minimum temperature is below 10 degrees. On a “severe cold day”, the maximum temperature is six degrees or more below normal. A cold wave is, meanwhile, recorded when the minimum temperature is four or more degrees below normal. A low maximum is more impactful during the day, while a low minimum is reflective of a cold night, said Srivastava. Both conditions are prevailing across Delhi-NCR. A mix of factors is keeping both maximum and minimum temperatures several degrees below normal, he said. “We are receiving cold winds from the mountains where snow has fallen. These ice-cold winds are reaching the capital at a good speed. While their impact is generally reduced by Punjab and Haryana, upper fog is prevailing there, keeping these winds equally cold” even in Delhi, said Srivastava. Sunlight also does not fall vertically down between December and February, slowing down the heating process, Srivastava added. Delhi recorded an equally cold December last year, with the maximum falling to 12.2 degrees Celsius on December 17 and 12.9 on December 18. On December 31, the maximum was 9.4 degrees. Strong winds kept Delhi’s air in the “poor” category on Thursday, with an air quality index of 256, states CPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trouble-comes-in-waves-capital-shivers/articleshow/79784918.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors note rise in non-Covid pneumonia among children||PUNE: Amid prevailing cold weather conditions, doctors in Pune have reported a 30% increase in non-Covid pneumonia among children, particularly in those between five and 10 years of age. Specialists said the rise in cases was concerning because the affected children were now also at risk of developing serious Covid-19 due to weakened lungs. They will need to be extremely careful during recovery, experts said. “We have had a 30% increase in such cases since the start of November, which is more than usual,” said Columbia Asia hospital’s paediatrician Ganesh Bagde. Pneumonia tends to disproportionately affect children as they breathe faster than adults and are closer to the ground, where concentration of pollutants is high. Bagde recommended flu shots to prevent the illness. “Flu vaccines can help build immunity against common viral pneumonia. The shots can even provide some cross protection against Covid too.” Both non-Covid and Covid pneumonia are not particularly life threatening. “In fact, bacterial pneumonia is far more dangerous,” Bagde said. Sassoon hospital’s paediatrician Aarti Kinikar said, “As per our records, non-Covid pneumonia cases in children increased in October and November. The trend has continued in December. Ours is also referral hospital, so we are getting patients from rural areas as well.” Kinikar said, “Good nutrition and age-specific vaccination are key to ward off pneumonia. Use of masks and respiratory etiquettes among adults, especially around children, are important too.” Bharati hospital’s paediatrician Jitendra Oswal explained the difference between bacterial and viral pneumonia. “There are some tell-tale signs. In viral pneumonia, there is a lot of wheezing because lung airways narrow due to inflammation. This causes a bad cough. But unlike viral pneumonia caused by seasonal viruses, wheezing is not commonly seen in Covid-pneumonia, in which breathlessness is one of the main symptoms. He added, “In bacterial pneumonia, there is high-grade fever but comparatively less cough. Children often get viral pneumonia than bacterial.” There are three predominantly seasonal viruses that sicken children and cause pneumonia, especially during winter: the adenovirus, metapneumovirus and respiratory syncytial virus or RSV. The typical bacteria which cause pneumonia are Streptococcus pneumoniae, staphylococcus and Haemophilus influenza B (HIB), Oswal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/docs-note-rise-in-non-covid-pneumonia-among-children/articleshow/79786273.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Recoveries outnumber new cases in Vidarbha after 2 days, Dec toll past 300-mark||Nagpur: After two days, there were more recoveries than new cases in Vidarbha on Thursday. Also, the region reported less than 1,000 new cases for 14th day in a row. But from nine deaths reported on Wednesday, the number increased to 17 on Thursday. The 11 districts together reported 903 new cases and 955 recoveries. Out of 2.42 lakh cases reported in the region so far, 2.25 lakh have recovered for recovery rate of 93.19%, which is still less than state average (94.14%) and national average (95%). December has seen 15,108 new cases and 16,792 recoveries in 17 days. The toll for the month surpassed the 300-mark to reach 311. On Thursday, Nagpur district reported nine deaths, Chandrapur (2), Yavatmal (2), Bhandara (1), Wardha (1), Gadchiroli (1), and Amravati (1), taking the region’s toll to 6,355. In Nagpur district, four deaths were reported from the city and one from rural. The remaining four patients were referred from other districts/states in a very critical condition and died in the city during treatment on Thursday. New cases came from Nagpur (430), Chandrapur (64), Akola (62), Bhandara (60), Amravati (59), Gadchiroli (55), Gondia (45), Wardha (43), Buldhana (43), Yavatmal (33), and Washim (9). On the other hand, Nagpur registered 493 recoveries, Amravati (71), Wardha (66), Chandrapur (66), Buldhana (62), Gondia (43), Bhandara (42), Akola (36), Gadchiroli (35), Yavatmal (21), and Washim (20). Gondia: In a relief, no Covid-19 related fatality has been reported in the district for four consecutive days since August. The district witnessed 45 new cases and 43 recoveries to take the count to 13,242 and 12,783, respectively. The district has seen 174 deaths and the case fatality rate is yet to decline. Now, 285 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 60 new cases and 42 recoveries in the last 24 hours. A patient died during treatment, taking the toll to 278. The district has reported 11,781 cases, 10,919 recoveries while 584 patients are under treatment. The recovery rate is 92.68%. Gadchiroli: The district reported 55 new cases while 35 patients recovered on Thursday. A death of a 65-year-old woman patient took Gadchiroli’s toll to 95. The district has 8,705 cases, 8,228 recoveries and 382 patients under treatment. Recovery rate is 94.52% Akola: With 62 new cases, Akola’s caseload reached 10,042 on Thursday, becoming the eighth district in Vidarbha to cross the 10,000-mark. Akola was the worst-affected district during May, June and July. The number of cases and deaths has reduced significantly in the last three months. Recovery rate is also high. Now, the district has reported 9,022 recoveries, 306 deaths while 714 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 43 new cases while 62 patients recovered on Thursday. No death was reported. Out of 11,987 patients reported till date, 11,572 have recovered and 144 have died, leaving 271 patients under treatment. Washim: The district continued to record lowest number of new cases in the region on Thursday. The district saw nine cases and 20 recoveries, taking the count to 6,486 and 6,075, respectively, while the toll remains 148. Now, 262 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-vidarbha-after-2-days-dec-toll-past-300-mark/articleshow/79784904.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Jumbo units’ staff allege pay delays, ‘forced’ cuts||PUNE: Nursing staff at two jumbo Covid facilities — the CoEP unit and the one at Annasaheb Magar stadium — alleged this week that they had not been paid their salaries for the months of October and November. Staffers at the CoEP unit, under the Pune Municpal Corporation’s jurisdiction, also claimed the management forced them to accept pay cuts or quit. The agency that manages the unit — Medbros — said they had received some funds by Thursday, which would be distributed among the staffers on Friday. A nurse at the facility said, “We were promised good pay in our six-month work contract. But the agency (Medbro), without consulting us, reduced salaries by 30-40%. There are nurses here who don’t even have money to buy tea outside.” Dean of the jumbo unit, Shreyansh Kapale, said they had to “restructure” salaries because of reduced patient intake and quality control issues. “Salary restructuring was imminent because the PMC cut the number of operational beds. We did contact nursing staff before revising the pay,” Kapale said. He said quality control issues rose after many nurses were found not qualified enough for the job. “On Thursday, we got funds from the PMRDA. All dues will be cleared starting Friday,” Kapale added. At the Annasaheb Magar stadium unit (under the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction), nurses said they too were waiting for October and November salaries. Sangram Kapale, dean of the unit, said they had to restructure pay due to reduced patient intake. Subhash Salunke, member of the state-level technical committee on Covid-19, said salaries of medical staff was not within the group’s ambit. However, he said it was unfortunate that staff had to resort to protests for promised pay. State health minister Rajesh Tope, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and PMRDA chief Suhas Diwse did not respond to calls for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-units-staff-allege-pay-delays-forced-cuts/articleshow/79786296.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drivers go on strike at Maruti’s plant over wage cut||AHMEDABAD: Several drivers, hired through an agency, at the car manufacturing plant of Suzuki Motor Gujarat (SMG) in Hansalpur went on strike on Thursday, over a cut in their wages. A subsidiary of Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) which is based in Japan, SMG employs at least 1,800 persons at the plant. The issue was resolved on the same day. The office of the state labour commissioner confirmed that the drivers had agreed to a settlement with company officials. “Those on strike were drivers hired by the company for test drive cars and movement in the plant premises. There was an issue related to a reduction in their salaries. However, the issue was resolved in an hour,” said a senior official. “The company has not officially intimated the labour department as the strike was resolved shortly,” the official further added. The manufacturing facility, which makes cars sold under the Maruti Suzuki brand, is located 97km from Ahmedabad and started production in February 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drivers-go-on-strike-at-marutis-plant-over-wage-cut/articleshow/79786247.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Advanced ICU at SMS medical college to be launched today||JAIPUR: State-of-the-art advance 50-bed medical ICU, 16-bed trauma ICU and has one of the most advanced skill centres with more than 30 mannequins for teaching and education of doctors, paramedics and public at large, will be inaugurated at Sawai Man Singh Medical College and Hospital on Sunday. On the occasion of second anniversary of the Congress government on the theme of ‘Do Varsh Jan Sewa Ke’, chief minister Ashok Gehlot will inaugurate schemes, projects and development works for the benefit of people through a virual platform. “Soon, SMS Hospital is going to be the country’s most premier institute with world class facilities and infrastructure. Talent (doctors and staff) in SMS Hospital is outstanding and in Covid management, we have got international recognition,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. The health department is highlighting the work done in the past two years. Health minister Raghu Sharma said top priority was given to strengthen the health infrastructures. Increasing the limit of free medicine scheme, medicines for the treatment of serious diseases such as cancer, heart, respiratory and kidney diseases have been included and the number of free medicines has been increased to 712 from 607. Residents of neighbouring states also come to medical institutions in the state to take advantage of free medicines. He said Nirogi Rajasthan campaign was started last year and more than 80,000 Swasthya Mitras have been selected in the state. Similarly, Ayushman Bharat-Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojana was launched. So far, approximately 20 lakh people have been benefitted in this scheme by submitting around 34 lakh claims of Rs 1,885 crore. Sharma said increasing the reach of health centres, 112 new PHCs and 200 new health sub-centres have been approved. Besides, 52 have been upgraded to CHC, 12 to PHC and five hospitals at Gangapur City, Peepar, Phalodi, Kekri and Kotputli have been upgraded to district hospitals. Sanganer CHC has been upgraded to satellite hospital. in all, 2,464 beds have been increased in hospitals. Sharma said, “Our government has taken a decision to open government medical colleges in each district. After opening medical colleges in 15 districts, permission has been received to open another 15 new medical colleges. Rs 325 crore has been approved for each.” He said proposals for opening medical colleges at Pratapgarh, Jalore and Rajsamand districts have been sent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/advanced-icu-at-sms-med-college-to-be-launched-today/articleshow/79786304.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Medigadda barrage-bridge may re-open for public from Dec 31||Nagpur: The district administration in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district of Telangana batted an eyelid on Wednesday following an intense daylong stir at the site of Medigadda-Kaleshwar bridge-cum-barrage at Sironcha in south Gadchiroli demanding the bridge to be opened for public and vehicular use. The Telangana administration has now assured to take a decision by December 31. Farmers from at least 11 villages, including Pochampally, Kothapally, Ankisa, Asaralli and others in Sironcha tehsil, led by BJP’s Sandeep Koret staged demonstration near the locked gate of the bridge on Mendigadda barrage, an inter-state project between Maharashtra and Telangana, demanding it to be made available for the public use. The bridge connects Pochampally in Sironcha to Ambatpally in Telangana. However, citing security and other reasons following the Covid pandemic, the bridge has been closed. Though it was BJP-led government in 2019 which had agreed to complete the Medigadda barrage, the saffron party is in the forefront of the agitation here now. “Telangana government has cheated the population in Sironcha,” said Koret. Apart from demanding public passage on the Medigadda bridge, local farmers and residents have also been pressing for completion of five lift irrigation projects for drinking water and also adequate compensation for the damage caused by the backwater that submerged crops and farmlands as Telangana authorities did not reduce storage by opening the gates. “The bridge was used by residents to visit Telangana to search for livelihood. After losing crops and farmlands, closure of the bridge has come as a double blow for the farmers here,” said Koret. He also said the farmers are yet to get compensation for the crop damage and even land acquisition for the project. Telangana administration had issued a letter to their Gadchiroli counterparts, which is in possession of TOI, asking for a proposal to open the bridge and share it’s views on setting up a check post. Bhupalpally district administration also expressed it’s intention on gathering inputs regarding the demand of the farmers from various departments like forest, revenue, irrigation, police and excise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/medigadda-barrage-bridge-may-re-open-for-public-from-dec-31/articleshow/79784925.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 18, 2020||Pune||RT-PCR test cost revised to Rs 850 at Pune airport||PUNE: Flyers going for the RT-PCR test at the city airport on arrival would now save Rs550 each, after downward revision of its price. Confirming the development following the state government’s latest order, airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI, “The RT-PCR test cost has been reduced to Rs850 (from Rs1,400) from Wednesday evening.” Frequent flyers lauded the move. Businessman Shashank Choudhary said, “We are travelling five to six times each month now for business. The test regulation is a hassle for us, but now the charges look a little affordable.” Rajendra Kedia, a Delhi resident, said, “This is a huge relief for middle class people like us. Last month, four of us travelled to Pune from Delhi and we ended up paying Rs5,600 to get the test done at the airport. It is almost equal to one-way flight fare for a person from Delhi to Pune.” For almost a month now, it is mandatory for flyers landing at any airports in Maharashtra from Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan to take the RT-PCR test on arrival in case they do not carry an RT-PCR test negative report with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rt-pcr-test-cost-revised-to-rs-850-at-pune-airport/articleshow/79786309.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: At 1,363, lowest single-day Covid case spike in 100 days||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,363 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the lowest in over 100 days. Earlier, on August 31, it had recorded 1,358 cases. The Thursday’s cases came out of 90,354 tests — 49,102 RT-PCR and 41,252 rapid antigen — conducted, the highest till date, revealed the latest bulletin issued by Delhi’s health department. The positivity rate, meanwhile, stood at 1.51%. A health department official said this was the third consecutive day when it remained below 2%. On December 15 and 16, the positivity rates were 1.9% and 1.96%, respectively. The positivity rate from December 3 to December 7 had successively dipped to 4.96%, 4.78%, 4.2%, 3.68% and 3.15%, respectively. However, on December 8 it rose again to 4.23% and fell to 3.42% on December 9 and 2.46% on December 10. On December 11 the positivity rate was 3.33%, which fell to 2.64% on December 12 and rose marginally to 2.74% on December 13 and 2.15% on December 14. The active cases tally on Thursday dropped to 12,198 from 13,261 the previous day. The bulletin said the total number of cases climbed to 6,13,357, while the death toll mounted to 10,182 with 35 new fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-1363-lowest-single-day-covid-case-spike-in-100-days/articleshow/79784913.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Jat leaders set Dec 25 deadline for quota issue||JAIPUR: Jat leader Nem Singh Fauzdar along with other leaders met special secretary to chief minister (CM) Arti Dogra on Thursday and put forward the0ir issues demanding inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the central OBC list. They urged the state government to write to the Centre in this regard. They also gave a December 25 ultimatum to the state government to address their concerns failing which they would launch an agitation. “The two other demands are candidates, who were selected between 2013 and 2017, should be given appointments (94) in the state. The high Court has already given its order in this regard. The third demand is withdrawal of all police cases registered during Jat agitation in 2016-17,” Faujdar told TOI. “How can only two districts in the state be deprived of OBC reservation,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jat-leaders-set-dec-25-deadline-for-quota-issue/articleshow/79786310.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Jat leaders set Dec 25 deadline for quota issue||JAIPUR: Jat leader Nem Singh Fauzdar along with other leaders met special secretary to chief minister (CM) Arti Dogra on Thursday and put forward the0ir issues demanding inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the central OBC list. They urged the state government to write to the Centre in this regard. They also gave a December 25 ultimatum to the state government to address their concerns failing which they would launch an agitation. “The two other demands are candidates, who were selected between 2013 and 2017, should be given appointments (94) in the state. The high Court has already given its order in this regard. The third demand is withdrawal of all police cases registered during Jat agitation in 2016-17,” Faujdar told TOI. “How can only two districts in the state be deprived of OBC reservation,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/jat-leaders-set-dec-25-deadline-for-quota-issue/articleshow/79792162.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Jat leaders set Dec 25 deadline for quota issue||JAIPUR: Jat leader Nem Singh Fauzdar along with other leaders met special secretary to chief minister (CM) Arti Dogra on Thursday and put forward the0ir issues demanding inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the central OBC list. They urged the state government to write to the Centre in this regard. They also gave a December 25 ultimatum to the state government to address their concerns failing which they would launch an agitation. “The two other demands are candidates, who were selected between 2013 and 2017, should be given appointments (94) in the state. The high Court has already given its order in this regard. The third demand is withdrawal of all police cases registered during Jat agitation in 2016-17,” Faujdar told TOI. “How can only two districts in the state be deprived of OBC reservation,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jat-leaders-set-dec-25-deadline-for-quota-issue/articleshow/79792161.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Astrophysicist from Gujarat elected as TWAS fellow||AHMEDABAD: Well-known astrophysicist and provost of Charusat University, Pankaj Joshi, has bagged a global recognition for his work. He has been elected as a fellow at The World Academy of Sciences (TWAS). Joshi’s election has been backed by American theoretical physicist and a Nobel Laureate, Kip Thorne, and other internationally reputed scientists.  “The nominee has made fundamental contributions in black hole physics, gravitation and cosmology, which have brought him an international acclaim,” the TWAS said in an announcement profiling the physicist. Joshi’s extensive analysis of general relativistic gravitational collapse has been widely recognized as providing key significant insights into the final fate of massive collapsing stars in the universe, space-time singularities and cosmic censorship, it said. Over the past several years, Joshi’s paradigm changing work has shown that massive stars could collapse to black holes, or exploding fireballs called naked singularities. In later case, observable signals from ultra-dense regions near a singularity may reach faraway observers in the universe, it further said. Joshi’s research, some 200 publications in reputed international journals, books and monographs in topmost series from the OUP (Oxford) and CUP (Cambridge) are now widely cited, making this a frontier research field in black hole physics and cosmology. TWAS is a UNESCO programme, based in Trieste, Italy. Apart from Joshi, in the field of physics, a senior professor from Physical Research Laboratory, Srubabati Goswami, has also been elected this year as a TWAS fellow. “Goswami has made outstanding contributions in analyzing and interpreting the results of solar and reactor neutrino experiments in terms of neutrino oscillations,” according to a statement by TWAS. She has spearheaded the development of the India-based Neutrino Observatory (INO) by consolidating its physics potential, identifying major thrust areas of current and future experiments and integrating INO with this worldwide activity, as per the statement. TWAS is the world’s pre-eminent academy of sciences dedicated to the promotion of science, with over 1,100 members representing the best of science in developing countries, including 15 Nobel laureates. TWAS said in a statement on December 15 that it has elected 35 new fellows, bringing total TWAS membership to 1,302. Sixteen new members are women – which amounts to 46% of the new class, a record high, it said. TWAS was founded in 1983 by Nobel Laureate Abdus Salam (physics 1979) on the belief that developing nations, by building strength in science and engineering, could build the knowledge and skill to address such challenges as hunger, disease and poverty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/astrophysicist-from-gujarat-elected-as-twas-fellow/articleshow/79786285.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Limit on guest list no drag on razzmatazz, marriage halls still see booming business||PUNE: Marriage halls in the city are doing brisk business despite the restricted number of people allowed to attend ceremonies. Most venues are booked through December and January, in some cases even February. “Our bookings are full until April. We have some slots open in May. After reopening post-lockdown, business has picked up. We are following social distancing protocols, we have enough staff to ensure that guidelines are properly implemented,” said Arun Gatne, manager at Dnyanal Mangal Karyalaya. Rishikesh Joshi, manager at Suparna Mangal Karyalay in Parvati, said, “We are packed this month and the next. February 2021 onwards we have some open slots. Our staff is not up to full strength considering the capacity at the venue is over 500 guests. But since the number of guests allowed has been brought down to 50, the staff is more than enough to serve them.” December bookings are full but there is a lull in January because of the start of Paush Masa according to the Hindu calender, which is not a good time for performing auspicious functions. “There are few good muhurats in January leading to a break in bookings in the second and third week of the month. We have a staff of 25 on rotation, who are enough to serve 50 guests at a time including catering,” said Prabhakar Kajarekar, owner Shruti Mangal Karyalay on Apte Road. Since a number of families decided to reschedule weddings that were meant to take place during the lockdown, there has been an increased demand for halls. At the same time, there are also a couples, who originally picked dates in December and January. Chetan Kalbhor, a wedding organizer, said, “Many clients, who wished to postpone their wedding or could not have it due to unfortunate circumstances created by the pandemic, are organizing it now. December to February is the peak wedding season, and this time we are also accommodating clients, who rescheduled their wedding along with fresh clients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/limit-on-guest-list-no-drag-on-razzmatazz-marriage-halls-still-see-booming-business/articleshow/79786330.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Jat leaders set Dec 25 deadline for quota issue||JAIPUR: Jat leader Nem Singh Fauzdar along with other leaders met special secretary to chief minister (CM) Arti Dogra on Thursday and put forward the0ir issues demanding inclusion of Bharatpur and Dholpur Jats in the central OBC list. They urged the state government to write to the Centre in this regard. They also gave a December 25 ultimatum to the state government to address their concerns failing which they would launch an agitation. “The two other demands are candidates, who were selected between 2013 and 2017, should be given appointments (94) in the state. The high Court has already given its order in this regard. The third demand is withdrawal of all police cases registered during Jat agitation in 2016-17,” Faujdar told TOI. “How can only two districts in the state be deprived of OBC reservation,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jat-leaders-set-dec-25-deadline-for-quota-issue/articleshow/79792158.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Dip in property registrations during pandemic hit Telangana’s revenue hard||HYDERABAD: Covid-19-induced economic slowdown, stalling of non-agricultural property registrations and initial confusion over the new system have hit the state government’s revenue from registrations. With just three months left in the financial year, the state has earned only Rs 1,742 crore till July, after which there were no registrations. During the last financial year, the state had earned Rs 7,061 crore with document registrations. There are concerns that it could seriously dent income. The registration income of the state has been growing since its formation in 2014. In the 2014- 15 fiscal, the state had earned about Rs 2,756 crore. Though there was dip in income last year as well, there was a jump in the last two months compared to previous year’s income. On an average, 12 lakh sale-related transactions happen in the state, which means lakhs of documents have to be registered. By now, at least nine lakh documents must have been registered, but only around four lakh documents were registered. According to registration and stamps department data, only Rs 20 crore income has been earned and 2,623 challans issued in December till now. When contacted, Telangana planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said the state would be able to reach the target soon after all services get activated. “There are many projects in waiting. Once the initial hiccups are solved, we will see good progress.” Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Telangana, president Ramchandra Reddy said since the registration process was put on hold for some time, there was a lull in the market. “Whenever a new system is put in place, there will be initial dilemma. Once all registration services are activated, the market will rebound.” Meanwhile, Congress MLAs said since registrations were not happening at the same pace as before, it was becoming tough for ordinary people to mortgage their property or obtain loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dip-in-property-registrations-hit-ts-revenue/articleshow/79787357.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lone car driver’s dilemma, to wear a mask or not?||AHMEDABAD: Even after nine months of the corona outbreak and subsequent Lockdown and Unlock, cops in Gujarat are unsure whether a person driving alone in his car should be booked for not wearing a mask or not. TOI talked to several senior police officers and they do not seem to be on the same page regarding the use of mask while he’s still inside the car and driving. However, some cops in the field said they have been instructed to book and fine every single person seen driving a vehicle without a mask on. But other cops aren’t so sure. With the interpretation of the rule in this issue continuing to remain blurry, a person driving his car alone in Bodakdev without a mask may not be booked, but he may be booked for violating the mask rule as soon as he enters the neighbouring Satellite area. The ambiguity prevails even after the state home department had on June 27 issued an office order clarifying when a person should be booked for not wearing a mask. The same order reads, “If a person drives alone in a car then he or she should be exempted from wearing a mask.” It further reads that if a person is stopped by any officer for any inquiry or questioning then “he or she must be covering his/her face with a mask or a cloth.” “Only if more than one person is travelling in a car, then all of them must be wearing masks or covering their faces with cloth,” it reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lone-car-drivers-dilemma-to-wear-a-mask-or-not/articleshow/79784940.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Fight for survival: Streets home to chilling tales||NEW DELHI: Anita was struggling to keep the two babies warm at her shack near Nehru Place flyover on Thursday. “My son is a month old and my friend’s son recently completed three months,” the 25-year-old mother said. “I am unable to keep both the kids warm with just a blanket. My husband is a ragpicker and earns less than Rs 100 daily. This chilly weather has added to our pandemic woes.” Though Anita’s family spend the night at a shelter home, they mostly stay on the footpath during the day along with other ragpickers. Anita said, “I am worried because my older three-year-old daughter has a cold and don’t know how to deal with the weather.” It is people like her that are bearing the brunt of low temperatures in the city. In Sant Nagar nearby, Sangeeta spent an hour collecting wood to light a bonfire near her husband’s bicycle repair shop. Draping a cloth around her face, Sangeeta said, “Thursday was colder than usual. Our hands are icy cold. We lit a bonfire for the first time this winter.” Low-income families, reeling from the pandemic effect, are now struggling in the cold. Autorickshaw driver Ravinder Gautam grumbled, “Schools, colleges and offices are shut due to Covid and we have very few customers. Now, with the weather turning chilly, many people are preferring to stay at home, again hitting our earnings.” Auto driver Prakash, 54, also disclosed that police didn’t permit them to use plastic sheets on their vehicle to ward off the cold. Tea-seller Brijesh Kumar had similar woes at Ambedkar Nagar. “No one is having tea despite the cold,” he claimed. “I think people’s incomes have been hit and they are only spending on absolute necessities.” A few metres away, sweet hawker Ramesh Kumar explained how the cold caused him a headache and he was forced to spend precious money unnecessarily on the hoodie he was wearing. Two labourers at a roadside dig stoically suffered the cold, swearing that working long hours helped keep the cold at bay. Sunita, who arrived in Delhi from Rajasthan’s Gangapur two days ago to sell Christmas caps, said rather optimistically, “We have a few blankets and sweaters and hope they will keep us warm.” In contrast, homeless teenager Bharti could look forward to no small comfort. “No one has provided us with blankets or warm clothes. We stave off the cold by sitting on cardboard pieces,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fight-for-survival-streets-home-to-chilling-tales/articleshow/79784970.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Major fire in OF supplier plastic factory in MIDC||NAGPUR: A massive fire broke out at a plastic manufacturing company, supplying its products to ordnance factory, in MIDC area in Hingna on Thursday night. According to sources, eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot and firefighting operations were underway to contain the flames till filing of this report. No casualty was reported by then. Surprisingly, no senior official from MIDC Hingna fire brigade was present at the spot. According NMC’s fire and emergency services control room, the fire broke out at around 7.30pm at Niyta Nand Udyog Pvt Ltd, owned by one Pradeep Agrawal. Soon the fire engulfed the entire company premises. On being informed, four fire tenders from Hingna MIDC rushed to the spot and started firefighting operations. But as it failed to contain the flames, help was sought from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire department. Soon, four fire tenders from the civic body too joined the firefighting operations. Cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained, said a fire department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/major-fire-in-of-supplier-plastic-factory-in-midc/articleshow/79784930.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Tally exceeds discharges in PMR after 10 days||PUNE: The 10-day trend of higher recoveries than Covid-19 cases reversed in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, with fresh infections (743) exceeding 627 discharges by more than 100. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits continued to report higher cases than recoveries on Thursday. A report released by district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the PMC limits added 363 new patients as against 268 recoveries, while the PCMC areas reported 171 infections as compared to 116 discharges in the last 24 hours. With the Thursday additions, the total caseload rose above 3.54 lakh in PMR, while recoveries shot past 3.37 lakh. The region reported eight deaths on Thursday, including three from the PMC limits, two from the PCMC limits and three from the rural areas. With this, the death toll reached 8,667 by Thursday evening. These included 4,726 fatalities from the PMC limits, 1,726 from the PCMC limits and 2,215 from the rural areas. Health officials said daily deaths have been around 15 to 20 since the last few days. Besides a drop in deaths, the patients on oxygen support have also reduced in both the municipal corporations in PMR, the officials said. The region conducted 8,086 tests on Thursday, witnessing a slight drop from Wednesday’s tests of 8,659. The PMC reported 3,270 tests, highest in the region. The rural areas conducted 2,117 tests, while the PCMC conducted 2,699 tests. The active cases reported a slight rise to 8,940 on Thursday, including 6,334 patients in home isolation and 2,606 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-exceeds-discharges-in-region-after-10-days/articleshow/79786350.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan farmers still waiting for loans to be waived: BJP chief Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: Amid continued farmers’ protest across various states over the farm laws passed by the Centre, BJP state chief Satish Poonia on Thursday said the state’s farmers were still waiting for their loans to be written off. The Congress government promised to waive all agriculture loans, but loans from commercial and scheduled banks were yet to be written off, he said. Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said the Congress had promised to regularise all the contract employees and in this connection asked how many were regularized so far? The ruling party also promised no hike in electricity tariff to farmers for five years. He asked to compare the 2018 bill of farmers and domestic consumers and the bill of 2020, whether the tariff has been hiked or not. Kataria alleged that after the coming of this government, about 21-22 percent IPC crime increased. In which, especially crime against women by 62 percent, SC 70 percent and ST by 85 percent. Should it be considered an achievement, he asked. He also slammed the state government for its handling of the Covid situation. “Today, Rajasthan government has completed two years. On this day, the Congress chose to present a report card of their work for themselves only instead of the people of the state. One cannot forget that in the zila parishad elections, nearly 2.5 lakh voters had voted for BJP and our party won it,” Poonia added. Poonia said the present government was the most unsuccessful one in the history of the state. Nagaur MP and RLP convener Hanuman Beniwal said in the last two budgets, the state government had announced 1.25 lakh posts but recruited only 18,000. He said despite being the chief minister, Gehlot did not inspect a single hospital himself and misled people by holding video conference. The NDA ally claimed that the crime graph had increased and violence against Dalits and women had caused much embarrassment to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-farmers-still-waiting-for-loans-to-be-waived-bjp-state-chief-poonia/articleshow/79791184.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan farmers still waiting for loans to be waived: BJP chief Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: Amid continued farmers’ protest across various states over the farm laws passed by the Centre, BJP state chief Satish Poonia on Thursday said the state’s farmers were still waiting for their loans to be written off. The Congress government promised to waive all agriculture loans, but loans from commercial and scheduled banks were yet to be written off, he said. Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said the Congress had promised to regularise all the contract employees and in this connection asked how many were regularized so far? The ruling party also promised no hike in electricity tariff to farmers for five years. He asked to compare the 2018 bill of farmers and domestic consumers and the bill of 2020, whether the tariff has been hiked or not. Kataria alleged that after the coming of this government, about 21-22 percent IPC crime increased. In which, especially crime against women by 62 percent, SC 70 percent and ST by 85 percent. Should it be considered an achievement, he asked. He also slammed the state government for its handling of the Covid situation. “Today, Rajasthan government has completed two years. On this day, the Congress chose to present a report card of their work for themselves only instead of the people of the state. One cannot forget that in the zila parishad elections, nearly 2.5 lakh voters had voted for BJP and our party won it,” Poonia added. Poonia said the present government was the most unsuccessful one in the history of the state. Nagaur MP and RLP convener Hanuman Beniwal said in the last two budgets, the state government had announced 1.25 lakh posts but recruited only 18,000. He said despite being the chief minister, Gehlot did not inspect a single hospital himself and misled people by holding video conference. The NDA ally claimed that the crime graph had increased and violence against Dalits and women had caused much embarrassment to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-farmers-still-waiting-for-loans-to-be-waived-bjp-state-chief-poonia/articleshow/79791186.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Finance dept to hold pre-budget meetings today||Jaipur: The finance department has kick started pre-Budget 2021-22 consultation meetings for taking feedback and suggestions at a time when the state’s finances are stretched and industrial and services activities are subdued. The department has sent invitations to 33 industry bodies in the state which will be offering their suggestions to improve the business climate in the state on Friday and Saturday. From government side, there would be senior officials from other departments like RIICO, labour, MSME, stamp and registration etc. One of the representatives of the industry body said there are several issues that need urgent attention of the government. But he said the government does not have enough resources to support the industry. “The industry is under a lot of pressure because of lack of demand. Even though many have reduced costs drastically, they cannot get relief because there are certain fixed costs which they have to bear. They have been demanding the government to reduce the fixed costs, but it does not have enough resources to provide relief,” he said. Given the government’s precarious financial condition, others said the pre-consultation meets are going to be a formality like every year. “We don’t think there will be any outcome of these meetings,” said the representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/finance-dept-to-hold-pre-budget-meetings-today/articleshow/79786336.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan farmers still waiting for loans to be waived: BJP chief Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: Amid continued farmers’ protest across various states over the farm laws passed by the Centre, BJP state chief Satish Poonia on Thursday said the state’s farmers were still waiting for their loans to be written off. The Congress government promised to waive all agriculture loans, but loans from commercial and scheduled banks were yet to be written off, he said. Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said the Congress had promised to regularise all the contract employees and in this connection asked how many were regularized so far? The ruling party also promised no hike in electricity tariff to farmers for five years. He asked to compare the 2018 bill of farmers and domestic consumers and the bill of 2020, whether the tariff has been hiked or not. Kataria alleged that after the coming of this government, about 21-22 percent IPC crime increased. In which, especially crime against women by 62 percent, SC 70 percent and ST by 85 percent. Should it be considered an achievement, he asked. He also slammed the state government for its handling of the Covid situation. “Today, Rajasthan government has completed two years. On this day, the Congress chose to present a report card of their work for themselves only instead of the people of the state. One cannot forget that in the zila parishad elections, nearly 2.5 lakh voters had voted for BJP and our party won it,” Poonia added. Poonia said the present government was the most unsuccessful one in the history of the state. Nagaur MP and RLP convener Hanuman Beniwal said in the last two budgets, the state government had announced 1.25 lakh posts but recruited only 18,000. He said despite being the chief minister, Gehlot did not inspect a single hospital himself and misled people by holding video conference. The NDA ally claimed that the crime graph had increased and violence against Dalits and women had caused much embarrassment to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-farmers-still-waiting-for-loans-to-be-waived-bjp-state-chief-poonia/articleshow/79791185.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers still waiting for loans to be waived: BJP chief Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: Amid continued farmers’ protest across various states over the farm laws passed by the Centre, BJP state chief Satish Poonia on Thursday said the state’s farmers were still waiting for their loans to be written off. The Congress government promised to waive all agriculture loans, but loans from commercial and scheduled banks were yet to be written off, he said. Opposition leader Gulab Chand Kataria said the Congress had promised to regularise all the contract employees and in this connection asked how many were regularized so far? The ruling party also promised no hike in electricity tariff to farmers for five years. He asked to compare the 2018 bill of farmers and domestic consumers and the bill of 2020, whether the tariff has been hiked or not. Kataria alleged that after the coming of this government, about 21-22 percent IPC crime increased. In which, especially crime against women by 62 percent, SC 70 percent and ST by 85 percent. Should it be considered an achievement, he asked. He also slammed the state government for its handling of the Covid situation. “Today, Rajasthan government has completed two years. On this day, the Congress chose to present a report card of their work for themselves only instead of the people of the state. One cannot forget that in the zila parishad elections, nearly 2.5 lakh voters had voted for BJP and our party won it,” Poonia added. Poonia said the present government was the most unsuccessful one in the history of the state. Nagaur MP and RLP convener Hanuman Beniwal said in the last two budgets, the state government had announced 1.25 lakh posts but recruited only 18,000. He said despite being the chief minister, Gehlot did not inspect a single hospital himself and misled people by holding video conference. The NDA ally claimed that the crime graph had increased and violence against Dalits and women had caused much embarrassment to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-farmers-still-waiting-for-loans-to-be-waived-bjp-state-chief-poonia/articleshow/79786332.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Vaccination plan for above-50 will rely on data from house surveys||PUNE: The third phase of the Covid vaccination drive — covering those above 50 with underlying conditions — will rely on data collected during house-to-house surveys carried out over the last few months. The Centre is yet to issue detailed guidelines for vaccination among this group, but state health officials said they already have the data for a drive. The officials said that the door-to-door surveys, part of the My Family, My Responsibility campaign, have identified 23.75 lakh citizens with comorbidities. Their ages too have been entered into the data set. “We have this ready data that can be used for the third phase of the priority vaccination drive. But we are yet to receive clear instructions on enrollment,” a health official said. During the surveys, officials said some 60,000 health workers covered a population of 11.92 cr. A senior officer said, “From this number, we found 3,57,173 patients with ILI/SARI symptoms and nearly 51,064 people with early Covid symptoms. Another 8,69,370 citizens had diabetes, 13,08,227 patients had hypertension and 73,055 citizens had heart ailments. This data will be used appropriately during the vaccinations.” Details of beneficiaries during the vaccination’s first phase — limited to frontline medical staff — are expected to be uploaded onto the Centre’s Co-Win app by December 25. So far, more than 4 lakh names from the state have been uploaded, officials said. Most of the beneficiaries are from Pune, Mumbai, Nashik and Nagpur. Details of 16,000 vaccinators have also been fed into the app. These vaccinators will be trained to follow the poll booth-level voting management model for the immunization programme. The commissioner of the National Health Mission N Ramaswami said the first phase of inoculation is expected to include 30 cr beneficiaries, with about three crore from the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccination-plan-for-above-50-will-rely-on-data-from-house-surveys/articleshow/79786370.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Property Tax ID number a concern for residents||HYDERABAD: Even as the high court on Friday asked for Aadhaar, caste and family details to be delinked from the new registration system, many eagerly wait for resuming of nearly 32 registration services as soon as possible. There are nearly 64 types of registrations that take place, and 32 services are mainly used. As part of the registration, system government activated nearly 20 services with five services being activated on first day. Even though the state assured of correction procedures, there is much demand for registration for GPA (General Power of Attorney) with possession-based properties. “In the city, most of joint development ventures happen on GPA basis where the buyer gives a token amount and gets the document completed,” said a city-based builder .The Property Tax Identification number is another concern for many people. However, the initial confusion is adding to slowdown in slot booking. In many sub-registrar offices where there is a lot of rush, the progress is slow, for eg. Rangareddy, Ibrahimpatnam, Gandipet, Serlingampally, Vanasthalipuram areas. “In rural areas adjunct to Hyderabad where generally lot of rush occurs will improve only after LRS applications are solved,” said a sub-registrar. State got nearly 29 lakh applications as part of LRS scheme State planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar said that the system is not to pensile the people but to contain corrupt practices also. “Many builders show the venture as the undivided property just to avoid the stamp duty and later charge flat buyers. It is loss of income to government and for customers, all we wanted is to correct such practices. Rest services will be put in place soon” he said. Congress leader VH Hanumantha Rao said that TRS regime should tell what steps are being taken regarding correction measures of land occupation as part of the new system. “In Gujarat those who occupy land illegally get jail, here there is no such provision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/property-tax-id-number-a-concern-for-residents/articleshow/79787373.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 18, 2020||Meerut||Massive fire engulfs restaurant in Meerut||MEERUT: A massive fire engulfed a restaurant in Meerut on Thursday morning damaging the furniture and interiors. A short circuit led to the fire, however, a probe has been ordered. Nobody was injured in the incident and the damages are being calculated. “Fire erupted at one family restaurant named Son of Swad at Delhi road on Thursday morning. It took as many as three fire tenders to douse the fire in two hours,” Meerut chief fire officer Santosh Kumar Rai said. “The damages are being calculated and approval has been set up in the matter to find the reason behind the fire. Prima facie, it looks like a short-circuit which led to the blaze,” he further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/massive-fire-engulfs-restaurant-in-meerut/articleshow/79784150.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Wildcon-2020 to focus on wildlife conflicts, rescue, rehab||NAGPUR: The Wildlife Research & Training Centre (WRTC) & Wildlife Rescue Centre, Gorewada, has organized a three-day online international conference Wildcon-2020 from December 18 to 20, 2020. Wildcon-2020 will also be followed by the 14th annual convention of the Association of Indian Zoo & Wildlife Veterinarians (AIZWV), Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. The theme of the event is ‘Insights into wildlife conflicts, rescue, and rehabilitation: Challenges and opportunities for conservation’. WRTC has been established by an MoU between Maharashtra Animal & Fishery Sciences University (MAFSU), and Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) in 2015. The centre established in the Gorewada campus provides expertise in the field of wildlife conservation through in-situ and ex-situ conservation programs, health care, management, nutrition, forensics, rehabilitation, conservation, and diagnostics. The centre is rendering veterinary services and expertise to captive and rescued wild animals coming to Gorewada. Presently, 102 animals and birds are under the care and management of the WRTC. “The WRTC is committed to building a centre of excellence in wild animal health care by providing prompt health care services, contributing to conservation breeding, undertaking molecular biology and application-based research for wildlife conservation and establish training hub to cater to all disciplines associated with wildlife conservation,” said Dr Shirish Upadhye, director of WRTC, and co-organizing secretary Vinod Dhoot. Wildcon-2020 will host more than 16 eminent speakers from India and around the globe who will throw light on various issues of wildlife. More than 800 participants from around the country and abroad have registered for the online event. Around 282 abstracts of research papers have been submitted by the participants for inclusion in the abstract to be published at the event. The Organizing Committee has decided to felicitate the best three presentations in each session. The inaugural session will be held at Hari Singh Sabhagruha, near Japanese Garden, Civil Lines on December 18 at 9.30am. Forest minister Sanjay Rathod and animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar will open the event in the presence of senior MAFSU and forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wildcon-2020-to-focus-on-wildlife-conflicts-rescue-rehab/articleshow/79784964.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rare ‘leucistic’ greylag goose spotted near Nal Sarovar||AHMEDABAD: After the white sparrow, white common babbler and a white common crane, another rare white or ‘leucistic’ Greylag goose (Anser anser) has been spotted in Gujarat. The bird was spotted a few days ago by local birders near Nal Sarovar Lake in a flock of greylag geese, about 80 kilometres away from Ahmedabad.  The bird was foraging in Aniyari village near Nal Sarovar when it was spotted by birdwatchers of a nearby village, said Brijesh Chaudhary, deputy conservator of forests, Nal Sarovar. “This is perhaps for the first time that a leucistic graylag goose has been reported. In the last one or two years we have spotted many species including a sparrow and a common babbler in leucistic form in Gujarat,” said Suresh Kumar, a senior researcher at Wildlife Institute of India (WII). In fact, a team of researchers led by Kumar had on February 14 spotted a rare white crane in a flock of common cranes that dotted the Banni landscape with their grey plumages. The greylag geese are a common winter visitor to Gujarat, often seen in large numbers at Nal Sarovar and Thol Lake near Ahmedabad. They feed on aquatic weeds and grass. The white colour plumage seen in this ‘rare’ bird is due of lack of pigmentation. It is a large bird measuring between 75 and 90 centimetres in length weighing about 3-3.5 kilograms. Its distribution is widespread, with birds from the north of its range in Europe and Asia migrating southwards to spend the winter in warmer places. The bird can be identified by its greyish brown plumage and pink bill, pink legs and pink feet. It utters a loud crackling and honking sound. One of the most widespread geese in Europe, they nest mainly in swamps, reedy lakes and in small colonies on coastal islands. Their calls are similar to those of domestic geese whose ancestor is the greylag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rare-leucistic-greylag-goose-spotted-near-nal-sarovar/articleshow/79786335.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Video of cop beating man for not wearing mask goes viral||AHMEDABAD: A video went viral on social media allegedly showing a constable of Khokhra police, Ramesh Bharwad, hitting a man who was not wearing a mask with his lathi. Senior police officials said the incident occurred near Swaminarayan Apartments in Narol and constable Bharwad had gone there with a “She” team vehicle when he saw a man talking on his phone without a mask. Inspector Y S Gamit of Khokhra police station said the incident had taken place on Tuesday in the jurisdiction of Narol police. “We have taken cognizance of the video and are inquiring into the incident,” added Gamit. Zone 5 deputy commissioner of police Achal Tyagi said he handed over the inquiry into the incident to H Division assistant commissioner of police Prakash Prajapati. “The first thing is why did the constable leave his jurisdiction and go to Narol and beat up the man. He should have informed the police control room and Narol police could have taken action over the man for not wearing a mask. There was no need to beat the man. We will take action against the constable after the inquiry is over,” he added. Watch Watch: Cop beats up man for not wearing mask in Ahmedabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/video-of-cop-beating-man-for-not-wearing-mask-goes-viral/articleshow/79784988.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||ACB nets 4 officials for taking bribe in Bikaner||JAIPUR: Continuing its campaign against corruption, the Bikaner unit of ACB arrested an assistant engineer of Indira Gandhi Nahar Pariyojna (IGNP) for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 8,000. It was a double trap by ACB as a junior assistant of IGNP was also arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000. In another case, an engineer and a clerk from mining and geology department of Sriganganagar were arrested for accepting bribe of Rs 20,000. The accused including Pawan Kumar Jakhar, the assistant engineer posted at 16th division of IGNP, Bikaner, and junior assistant (first) Dinesh Kumar Arya, were arrested after a trap was laid against them following corruption complaints. In an another case, a team of ACB an assistant engineer of the mining department, Sriganganagar and a junior clerk of the same department were arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-nets-4-officials-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/79786358.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: IT employees’ association turns to MLC over job loss||PUNE: An umbrella organization of information technology and IT-enabled services (ITeS) employees has approached legislative council member Gopichand Padalkar to take up issues about “terminations, forced resignations and deep salary cuts” in the time of Covid-19. “There were orders from the labour department since March, telling companies not to fire employees. But thousands of employees in IT companies and ITeS firms such as BPOs have either lost their jobs, were forced to resign or accept salary cuts of up to 50%,” said Harpreet Saluja of the organization, Nascent IT Employees Senate. He said the group has received over 78,000 such complaints. Of these, around 45,000 complaints related to being laid off or forced to resign, Saluja added. During Tuesday’s legislative council session, Padalkar said the state government should take action against the companies that have laid off staffers during the pandemic. “Many IT companies have laid off over 45,000 people during the pandemic despite the government’s order. I request the state government to take action against them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/it-employees-association-turns-to-mlc-over-job-loss/articleshow/79786363.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Gold fin branch robbed of Rs 3 lakh cash, 2.5kg gold||WARDHA: Muthoot Fincorp, a gold finance bank, was robbed in broad daylight by a single robber armed with a gun and a knife as soon as the bank opened for daily work at 9am on Thursday. The robber made away with Rs3.18 lakh in cash and 2.5kg gold, and the bike of an employee. Police said Muthoot Fincorp, a finance bank located at Badhe Square, on main road in city, opened at 9am. The woman manager sitting in the cash chamber took the box of cash near her and started work. At 9.05am a courier boy with a black handkerchief over his mouth entered the bank with a courier bag. The other staff remained engrossed in their work without paying special attention to the courier boy. The courier boy reached the female officer in the manager’s cabin, brandished a gun and demanded all the valuables. The staffer handed over Rs3.18 lakh cash from the box and 2.5kg gold. The staffer also took the key of the female employee’s bike and fled from the spot. SDPO Piyush Jagtap said, “We have lodged a complaint on the statement of branch manager Akshay Kharade. There were four employees in the branch at the time of robbery. The robber alone entered the branch pretending to be a courier boy, and suddenly entered the branch manager’s cabin where cash and gold were kept in a locker. The police put the value of the loss at Rs66 lakh, including the cash, gold and the Jupiter bike belonging to the employee. Police sealed off the district boundaries after the bank robbery was reported. The investigation was carried out with the help of dog squad and forensic experts. Police have begun work on finding fingerprints, drawing sketches, and CCTV footage that captured the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gold-fin-branch-robbed-of-rs3-lakh-cash-2-5kg-gold/articleshow/79784957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Jaipur||Low intensity quake jolts Sikar||Jaipur: A low intensity earthquake took place in Sikar on Thursday. It was measured 3 on the Richter scale. Tremors were felt in neighbouring districts including Jhunjhunu. According to Radhey Shyam Sharma, director, Jaipur Met office, the epicentre of the earthquake was Ringas and it emanated from a depth of 5 km. “It was felt at 11.26 am on Thursday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/low-intensity-quake-jolts-sikar/articleshow/79786364.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||Schools in Bokaro gear up for reopening||BOKARO: All prominent schools in Bokaro were gearing up to resume classes after remaining closed for around nine months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The schools in the district have started the preparations after getting the nod from the state government regarding resumption of classes. In the meantime, most schools in the town conducted online classes as physical classes could not be held for most part of the year. The students of Class X and XII, who will be the first batches to attend physical classes when the campuses reopen, would have to wear face masks, carry hand sanitizers, and maintain social distancing during school hours. “We will take care of all the precautions for the safety of our children,” the president of Dr S Radhakrishnan Sahodaya School Complex (an association of private schools), A S Gangwar, said. Gangwar, who is also the city co-ordinator of CBSE and the principal of DPS, Bokaro, said that preparations were going on for reopening the school. “The guidelines of the district administration in this regard are awaited. There will be full compliance with government guidelines. The students will come to the school only after getting the consent from their parents. We are eagerly waiting for the school to open, but taking necessary precautions is important,” he said. The director of Chinmaya Vidyalaya, Mahesh Tripathi, said: “We are waiting for government guidelines and SOPs.” He added, “We may be required to follow a hybrid system for the time being, as only senior students will attend classes in the school in small batches, whereas the rest of the students will continue attending classes through the online mode. We are working on getting an optimal learning outcome.” The director of Pentecostal School Assembly, Daniel Prasad, said: “We have installed extra water taps at the entrance and also procured thermal scanners. The classrooms would also be regularly sanitised with sodium hypochlorite solution. We are planning separate shifts for Class X and Class XII.” The two ICSE schools in the district were also gearing up to organise physical classes. Father James of St Xaviers School said: “Parental consent is a pre-requisite for permitting students to attend classes. We will email the consent form to parents. The willing parents have to sign the form and submit it at the school gate on or before December 26. To ensure adequate physical distancing, the number of students per session will be reduced. We are working on modifying our online class system to benefit those who come to school as well as those who choose to stay home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-in-bokaro-gear-up-for-reopening/articleshow/79786333.cms||Divy Khare
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||Active cases increase in Jharkhand for the third consecutive day, three deaths||RANCHI: The number of active cases increased for the third consecutive day on Thursday. As many as 211 fresh cases were reported while 164 patients were declared cured and discharged from hospitals. Three patients — two in Ranchi and one in Dhanbad — succumbed to the virus. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Thursday, 1,12,332 people have been infected and 97.65% corresponding to 1,09,696 people have recovered. With 1,007 deaths reported till Thursday, the mortality rate in the state continues to be at 0.89%. Once again, the major chunk of infections was reported from urban clusters. Ranchi with 99 cases topped the chart while East Singhbhum reported 32 new cases followed by Bokaro with 23 cases. Hazaribag was next in the list with 13 cases. 14 other districts had new cases in single digits whereas six districts — Dumka, Gumla, Koderma, Latehar, Pakur and Simdega — did not have any fresh case. As on Thursday, while the 7-day growth rate at the national level improved by 0.01% to come down to 0.23%, the state figures went up to 0.15%. It was 0.14% on Wednesday. The seven-day doubling rate in the state stood at 469.46 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/active-cases-increase-in-state-for-the-third-consecutive-day-three-deaths/articleshow/79786274.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||Active cases increase in Jharkhand for the third consecutive day, three deaths||RANCHI: The number of active cases increased for the third consecutive day on Thursday. As many as 211 fresh cases were reported while 164 patients were declared cured and discharged from hospitals. Three patients — two in Ranchi and one in Dhanbad — succumbed to the virus. According to the bulletin released by the state health department on Thursday, 1,12,332 people have been infected and 97.65% corresponding to 1,09,696 people have recovered. With 1,007 deaths reported till Thursday, the mortality rate in the state continues to be at 0.89%. Once again, the major chunk of infections was reported from urban clusters. Ranchi with 99 cases topped the chart while East Singhbhum reported 32 new cases followed by Bokaro with 23 cases. Hazaribag was next in the list with 13 cases. 14 other districts had new cases in single digits whereas six districts — Dumka, Gumla, Koderma, Latehar, Pakur and Simdega — did not have any fresh case. As on Thursday, while the 7-day growth rate at the national level improved by 0.01% to come down to 0.23%, the state figures went up to 0.15%. It was 0.14% on Wednesday. The seven-day doubling rate in the state stood at 469.46 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/active-cases-increase-in-state-for-the-third-consecutive-day-three-deaths/articleshow/79792754.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||JMM calls NCW action on Mumbai ‘rape’ case dirty politics||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI/RANCHI: The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken cognizance of reported rape allegation against Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren and one more person by a Mumbai-based model. However, JMM, the ruling party in Jharkhand of which Soren is the working president, criticised the NCW and said the allegation against the CM is a "false case". Meanwhile, NCW chief Rekha Sharma has written to the director general of police (DGP) of Maharashtra seeking a detailed action taken report of the case which was filed in 2013. The commission has also tweeted, "@NCWIndia has come across media report regarding a model who has alleged that she was raped by @HemantSorenJMM in 2013 and she and her family received threats against speaking about the alleged incident in public. Chairperson @sharmarekha has written to @DGPMaharashtra seeking detailed action taken report of the case filed in 2013 at the earliest." The commission also released a statement in this regard. "It is also reported that the viral letter, reportedly written by the survivor, contains details of incidents that have occurred in the last seven years," the statement read. The statement was referring to the email sent by the model to the Bandra police station seeking to lodge an FIR against Soren for the alleged sexual assault at a star hotel in Bandra in 2013. She had then lodged a complaint with the metropolitan magistrate here but withdrew it following threats. She said she was prompted to lodge a complaint after receiving threats. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone IX) of Maharashtra Abhishek Trimukhe said, “We have received the complaint and the Bandra police is probing and verifying the facts before deciding the further course of action. We did not receive any letter or any direction from the NCW in this particular matter.” Reacting to NCW's tweet, JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said Soren has already filed a defamation case against BJP MP Nishikant Dubey and social media platforms — Facebook and Twitter — in a local court for the "false propaganda". He said, “This is the dirty politics of BJP and they are targeting a CM with baseless allegations and NCW has joined hands." Bhattacharya further said, “If it was not politics, why should it (NCW) tweet the allegations without investigation or before seeking a report from the Maharashtra Police?” He claimed that the case has already been closed by the Maharashtra Police after it found the allegations to be baseless. On August 4, Soren had filed the defamation case worth Rs 100 crore each against the defedants in the Ranchi civil court. The court of sub-judge I Vaishali Srivastava last heard the matter on December 15 and fixed December 21 as the next date of hearing. Soren also filed two injunctions seeking restraints against Dubey, his agents and aides from tweeting against him. Dubey's lawyers had sought time to file replies to the injunctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-calls-ncw-action-on-mum-rape-case-dirty-politics/articleshow/79785289.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Nagpur||Poor facilities ail Nagpur’s first food street ‘Khau Galli’||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s apathy in providing essential amenities has left the city’s first food street ‘Khau Galli’ a non-starter. Khau Galli was inaugurated by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in January and street food lovers were looking forward to this initiative. But NMC failed to provide amenities like drainage, drinking water and toilet facilities. With relaxation in Covid-19 norms, eating joints have been allowed to function. However, the business of all 32 eating joint owners here has been hit very hard due to lethargic attitude of NMC, they told TOI. Amol Joshi, one of the kiosk owners, pointed out that already they had suffered huge financial loss due to ongoing pandemic. “First NMC opened Khau Galli without providing basic amenities and later lockdown was imposed due to pandemic. Even a year later, NMC is yet to provide basic amenities required for eating joint owners and visitors,” he said. Without providing basic amenities, NMC has approached eating joint owners to sign a rent agreement. “We will not sign until the NMC provides all basic facilities,” they said. As per sources in NMC’s garden department, it has asked them (kiosk owners) to pay Rs5,000 per month as rent and an equal amount as monthly maintenance. Due to lack of security, the place has become a haven for anti-social elements, said kiosk owners. According to them, many of them have lost valuables like electric fittings, CCTV cameras to thieves there. One of the kiosk owners’ refrigeration compressor was also stolen. Adding to their woes, a major portion of the retaining wall of Gandhisagar lake towards Khau Galli has caved in, posing a threat to both visitors and eating joint owners. A senior official from NMC’s garden department admitted that basic amenities have not been provided yet but claimed that all the works related to providing required facilities will be carried out soon. Another official from NMC’s project department (Dhantoli zone) said the repair work pertaining to construction of retaining wall of the lake will take some time. According to him, the work is part of NMC’s Rs31 crore (fund allotted by the state government) beautification project for the lake. Earlier, the work was allotted to private firm JP Construction. But as the firm was blacklisted for poor road construction work, the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had scrapped their contract for beautification of lake. Now, the civic body will start the process to award the work again, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poor-facilities-ail-citys-first-food-street-khau-galli/articleshow/79785014.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC stays Speaker’s proceedings against Babulal for defection||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Thursday stayed further proceedings initiated suo motu by Speaker Ravindranath Mahto against former JVM-P chief Babulal Marandi for his alleged defection to BJP. The court has fixed January 13, 2021, as the next date of hearing. Marandi challenged the Speaker’s notice issued to him on November 2. The Speaker had on his own taken cognizance of Marandi “joining” BJP and issued a notice for defection under the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Dal Parivartan ke Aadhar par Nirharta) Rules, 2006 (3rd Edition, 2019). The vires of the rules have also been challenged by Marandi. Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan represented the Speaker and the government during the hearing. Arguing before a division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad, Marandi’s counsel and senior advocate R N Sahay said the Speaker is not empowered to initiate proceedings against any member of the legislative assembly on his own. The Speaker derives powers from the rules which are an offshoot of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution and lay the guidelines in case of defection by a member of an assembly. After hearing the matter from both sides, the bench ordered the Speaker to keep the proceedings in abeyance till the next date of hearing. The court also directed the Speaker and the state government to file a counter affidavit in the matter. Pleading before the court, Sahay said the 10th Schedule Constitution mentions the word “referred” and matters of defection can only be “referred” before a Speaker to initiate further action by either a member of the assembly or by any other person aggrieved by such a defection. “There is no reference of initiation of a suo motu proceeding in the matter by the Speaker in the Constitution. In absence of such liberty, the inclusion of a provision in the Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Dal Parivartan ke Aadhar par Nirharta) Rules, 2006 (3rd Edition, 2019) for the Speaker to initiate proceedings on his own is beyond the scope and spirit of the Constitution,” the senior advocate argued. Sahay added, “Marandi being the chief of the JVM-P had merged with BJP in February 2020. This merger of a political party with another political party has been misconstrued to be defection by the Speaker and had initiated proceedings against my client.” Advocate general Ranjan, however, argued that the Speaker has the right to try cases of defection by members of the assembly. “As a matter of fact, till the matter is pending before the tribunal of the Speaker, the high court does not have any jurisdiction to intervene in the matter,” Ranjan is quoted as saying during the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-stays-speakers-proceedings-against-babulal-for-defection/articleshow/79785201.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand power transmission company works to reduce dependence on DVC||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Ltd (JUSNL), the state-owned power transmission company, on Thursday said they were trying to reduce dependence on the Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC). This statement came in the wake of an assertion by chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday that efforts should be made to reduce Jharkhand’s dependence on DVC for power supplies. The DVC currently supplies around 650 MW each day to seven districts in Jharkhand — Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma, Ramgarh, Chatra and Hazaribag. Over the past several years, Jharkhand has often found itself at the receiving end with the DVC resorting to blackouts in the seven districts, following failure of the Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd (JBVNL), the state-owned power distribution company, to clear payment for power purchases on time. Even as recently as December 3, the DVC had threatened to cut off power supplies to Jharkhand for four hours a day with effect from December 13 after the JBVNL failed to clear its power bills, averaging Rs 150 crore per month, since September this year. The DVC threat was temporarily shelved following hectic parleys between the two power companies. “We are already laying new transmission lines, constructing new grid sub-stations and strengthening the power infrastructure in Jharkhand to reduce dependence on the DVC. New projects are also being envisaged to reduce the dependence on DVC as much as possible,” K KVerma, the managing director of JUSNL, told TOI. “New transmission lines connecting Giridih and Saria along with the Dhanbad to Govindpur transmission line are already functional. The two transmission lines together have already reduced our dependence on DVC by 100 MW each day. A third transmission line connecting Chatra-Latehar-Itkhori along with grid sub-stations is already ready and would be commissioned soon. Once functional, these new transmission lines would further reduce our dependence on the DVC by another 50 MW every day,” the JUSNL managing director said. The West Bengal government has consented for setting up of transmission towers through Purulia district in West Bengal to Chandankiyari in Bokaro. The DVC supplies power to Bokaro, though once the JUSNL towers and transmission lines come up, Bokaro would no longer have to remain dependent on DVC. This would entail a capital expenditure of around Rs 700 crore for which detailed proposals have already been put up to the state government for consideration. DVC power is costly at Rs 5 per unit plus 2% as injection charge and Re 0.51 per unit as transmission charge, aggregating to around Rs 5.52 per unit, though power from other sources is available for as low as Rs 3 per unit. “Setting up new transmission towers, connecting power lines and constructing grid sub-stations, among others, involve a lot of capital expenditure. However, once the required infrastructure is in place, Jharkhand could save as much as Rs 250 crore per month or a staggering Rs 3,000 crore per annum, besides helping reduce dependence on the DVC.” Verma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-power-transmission-company-works-to-reduce-dependence-on-dvc/articleshow/79785128.cms||Tapas Biswas
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||Steel giant wins green award for effective solid waste management||Bokaro: Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) has won the prestigious Greentech Environment Excellence Award, 2020 in the “recycling and waste management” category, officials said on Thursday. The Greentech Award is presented to those for initiating innovative practices towards achieving sustainable goals. The award will be presented during the 20th Annual Greentech Environment Summit in Mahabalipuram on February 12. BSL bagged the award for 98.12% utilisation of its solid waste that is generated from its steel-making process. Every year, BSL generates 25 lakh tonnes of solid waste. “Of the total solid waste, 12.4 lakh tonnes are either recycled or reused, 12.1 lakh are sold, which brings good revenue for the company, and 47,137 tonne of waste is dumped,” BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan said. There are eight kinds of solid waste generated by the plant. Of all the waste contents, the major is blast furnace and LD slags — which now are being reused as raw materials in cement factories — fly ash bricks and others. BSL’s environment control department is now effectively utilising these raw materials as substitutes in many production units inside the plants. The environment control department gave a presentation before the Greentech Environment Award’s jury on BSL’s recycling and waste management measures. The jury consisted of former managing director of Canara bank, the former ONGC director and other eminent personalities. “Based on the application filed and the presentation given before the jury, BSL was declared as the winner,” Dhan said. The director in-charge of BSL, Amarendu Prakash, congratulated the entire fraternity and reaffirmed Bokaro Steel’s commitment towards sustainable development and environmental conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-giant-wins-green-award-for-effective-solid-waste-management/articleshow/79785119.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Ranchi||Schools brainstorm to chalk out a plan for coronavirus-free classrooms||RANCHI: As the state education department has made it mandatory for teachers to conduct online classes from school campus now, schools are brainstorming to put in place a foolproof plan that will ensure that all safety norms are maintained properly, especially when offline classes for Class X and XII examinees resume. Guidelines pertaining to when classes for board examinees will resume are yet to be issued by the education department. Delhi Public School, Ranchi principal Dr Ram Singh said, “We are awaiting the government guidelines on how to conduct offline classes. The school has formed a team that will prepare an elaborate plan to conduct classes smoothly. The team will also speak to other schools for preparing the plan.” He added that many issues, including transportation of students, roster of the teachers conducting online classes and the consent of parents and children are to be discussed. He further said that the students and parents need to be trained regarding their conduct on campus so as to make sure that the safety norms aren’t violated. “The overall aim is to implement the Covid norms properly,” he added. The school has put up advisories, requesting people to maintain the norms, across the campus. Similarly, Guru Nanak Public School here has put up cut-outs, asking people to be cautious, across the campus. Jawahar Vidya Mandir. Shyamli is discussing ways on how to go about conducting offline classes amid the outbreak. “The pandemic is not over yet. Under such circumstances, parents would think twice before sending their kids to school. Besides, many of our students come from far-off places in the state and some will even be coming from Bihar and Chhattisgarh. It is doubtful whether they will be able to attend the offline classes once they resume,” a senior teacher named Shashank Shekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-brainstorm-to-chalk-out-a-plan-for-virus-free-classrooms/articleshow/79785269.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||Schools brainstorm to chalk out a plan for coronavirus-free classrooms||RANCHI: As the state education department has made it mandatory for teachers to conduct online classes from school campus now, schools are brainstorming to put in place a foolproof plan that will ensure that all safety norms are maintained properly, especially when offline classes for Class X and XII examinees resume. Guidelines pertaining to when classes for board examinees will resume are yet to be issued by the education department. Delhi Public School, Ranchi principal Dr Ram Singh said, “We are awaiting the government guidelines on how to conduct offline classes. The school has formed a team that will prepare an elaborate plan to conduct classes smoothly. The team will also speak to other schools for preparing the plan.” He added that many issues, including transportation of students, roster of the teachers conducting online classes and the consent of parents and children are to be discussed. He further said that the students and parents need to be trained regarding their conduct on campus so as to make sure that the safety norms aren’t violated. “The overall aim is to implement the Covid norms properly,” he added. The school has put up advisories, requesting people to maintain the norms, across the campus. Similarly, Guru Nanak Public School here has put up cut-outs, asking people to be cautious, across the campus. Jawahar Vidya Mandir. Shyamli is discussing ways on how to go about conducting offline classes amid the outbreak. “The pandemic is not over yet. Under such circumstances, parents would think twice before sending their kids to school. Besides, many of our students come from far-off places in the state and some will even be coming from Bihar and Chhattisgarh. It is doubtful whether they will be able to attend the offline classes once they resume,” a senior teacher named Shashank Shekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/schools-brainstorm-to-chalk-out-a-plan-for-virus-free-classrooms/articleshow/79792841.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Noida||On way to Chilla, another BKU wing in standoff with cops||NOIDA: Stopped from marching to Delhi and protesting at the Chilla border, around 200 members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ambawata were involved in a standoff with police on Thursday. The farmers tried to block the Noida-Delhi carriageway of the Link Road, but were removed by the police. Members of the BKU-Ambawata wanted to demonstrate at the same site where the BKU-Bhanu was already holding a protest. At a time signs of rift have emerged within the BKU-Bhanu, which is at the forefront of protest at Chilla, several other outfits have started taking out marches in an attempt to vie for attention. The BKU-Bhanu’s move to open the Noida-Delhi lanes of the Link Road hasn’t gone down well with the other outfits, which believe the decision has weakened their resolve. On Thursday, members of BKU-Ambawata came from the Sector 15 side and wanted to march towards the Delhi border. As police tried to stop them from moving ahead, the protesters sat on the road a few metres before the Sector 14A flyover. “We wanted to move towards Delhi but were not allowed. We asked the cops to let us reach the Chilla border, where the other farmers are already sitting. However, the police were adamant not to allow us to reach there. They dragged us from the spot. One of our members suffered injuries,” said Rajkumar Roopwas, the Dadri tehsil in-charge of BKU-Ambawata. The farmers alleged that their Palwal district president, Rishipal Chauhan, was beaten up and suffered injuries. A video showed he had rashes on his back. “Our members were beaten up and no medical aid was provided to them at the police lines, where they were taken to,” the outfit alleged in a statement. At least 22 farmers, including senior members of the outfit, were taken to the police lines. They were released after 4.30pm. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said allowing the farmers to move ahead could have threatened the law and order situation. “Since another group was already protesting there, there could be law and order issues. So, they were removed from the spot. They had also blocked the Delhi-Noida carriageway, which is why they were taken to the police lines. They later handed over a memorandum to the SDM (Dadri),” he said. Later in the evening, around 500 personnel of the civil police, three companies of the Rapid Reaction Force (RRF) and a team of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) were deployed at the border. The BKU-Lokshakti, whose members are sitting in protest at the Dalit Prerna Sthal, has also threatened to block the DND if their other supporters are stopped from entering Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/on-way-to-chilla-another-bku-wing-in-standoff-with-cops/articleshow/79787589.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: FASTag slows down traffic on NH-16, motorists irked||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union transport ministry’s ambitious FASTag project for digitally-enabled toll collection on highways has not had a smooth journey through toll plazas on the NH-16 stretch running through Andhra Pradesh. From lengthy traffic snarls to gross mismanagement and fraudulent transactions, commuters have expressed distress at toll plazas recurrently. The anger of commuters has been directed at both the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the contractual agency. Dhiraj Kumar was driving down to Rajahmundry from Berhampore in Odisha last week. Upon reaching the Bellapadu toll gate in Ichchapuram, he got stuck in a long traffic snarl and it took 25 minutes for him to reach the cash counter from the approach road to the toll plaza. However, Kumar’s plight did not end there. “At the plaza, I was asked to pay the toll in cash as the officials manning the plaza claimed that the scanner at the plaza was unable to read the RFID tag on the windscreen of my car. I paid the toll tax in cash and left the plaza. To my utter surprise, within 15 minutes, I received an SMS that the toll amount has been deducted from my account through FASTAg,” Kumar alleged. Motorists and people manning toll plazas said that there are two reasons why traffic snarls are occurring after the introduction of the new technology. First, at several toll plazas, the scanners aren’t able to read the RFID tags on windscreens of vehicles. As a result, it is taking time for toll workers to find out whether the system has deducted the amount from the motorist’s account or not and if not, then ask the motorist to pay in cash. Second, vehicles without RFID tags are changing lanes at the very last moment as most toll plazas don’t have signboards at adequate distance directing motorists to take the cash lane. “Drivers are getting confused and trying to divert lanes at the eleventh hour creating a mess in front of the plazas. This is leading to traffic jams. Recently, I missed a cash lane and entered the RFID lane. The staff there unnecessarily wasted 10 minutes abusing me and then accepted cash on that lane itself,” said P Krishna, a 32-year-old banker. NHAI officials however believe that these issues will get resolved once toll staffers and motorists get used to the new technology. Toll plaza staffers are worried that the troubles may increase once cash payments at toll plazas are stopped entirely from January 1 and they have to ask motorists without RFID tags to pay double the toll amount. “In such a case, a ruckus is inevitable. We apprehend that traffic may have to remain at standstill till we recover the toll along with the fine from motorists,” a toll plaza staffer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fastag-slows-down-traffic-on-nh-16-motorists-irked/articleshow/79784284.cms||Arpit Basu
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||3 crore in Maharashtra in priority groups for vaccination, says minister||MUMBAI: Training of teams to steer the Covid vaccination drive has begun in the city. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said an estimated 3crore in Maharashtra may be in priority groups for vaccination, including healthcare staff, frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 with co-morbidities. In Mumbai, 'training of trainers' (TOT) will be held in batches of 35 till next week following which training of actual vaccinators would start. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said training will cover use of Co-win software which is used to track vaccine movement nationally, adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) and how to report them, timelines and capacity building. Following TOT, the training of over 1,300 vaccinators will start. "We have resources to vaccinate people in big numbers. We have 1,800 PHCs (primary health centres) and over 10,000 sub-centres. They can all be pushed into vaccine administration if need arises," Tope said. He said unlike Uttar Pradesh where the state is considering cancelling weekly leave of staff to facilitate vaccination, Maharashtra may not need such steps given its resources. Every medical college and hospital in the city has been asked to identify teams of 3-4 to be trained on vaccination. Teams would then train other vaccinators in their institute. Each medical institute has been asked to form their own vaccination teams. Trainers will include doctors from community medicine department of medical colleges, immunisation officials at ward level, doctors from peripheral hospitals. The first round of vaccination of healthcare workers will be carried out in eight centres, including four medical colleges and four peripheral hospitals. The civic body has identified 1.25lakh healthcare workers from the city and plan to finish vaccinating them in 15-20 days once the vaccine arrives. Each beneficiary will be given a second dose after 28 days as per plans. Organisations like UNICEF and WHO are among training partners. Dr Sheela Jagtap, incharge of immunisation in Mumbai, said the training module has been shared by the Centre. It emphasises on AEFI and how to categorise them into mild, serious and severe. Serious and severe AEFIs are meant to be shared with district and state level committees. Meanwhile, the city received 17 refrigerators last week for vaccine storage that were promised by the Centre. They have been distributed to KEM in Parel, LTMG in Sion, BYL Nair in Mumbai Central and RN Cooper in Juhu, and four peripheral hospitals where vaccination of healthcare staff will be done in the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-crore-in-maharashtra-in-priority-groups-for-vax-says-minister/articleshow/79788222.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 18, 2020||India||Narendra Tomar slams Congress, Akalis for reversing stand on agri reforms||NEW DELHI: On a day the Supreme Court stepped in to help resolve the stand-off over the new farm laws, the government doubled down on its outreach to protesters, with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar seeking to demolish the “wall of lies erected by vested political interests” to mislead farmers about the provisions of the trio of farm enactments. In an 8-page letter which was flagged by PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, the minister seemed to target Congress, Left-aligned farmers’ unions, AAP, Akali Dal, experts “who have gone back on their advocacy for the same set of agricultural reforms now posing as neutrals”, and farm unions who had “resiled from support” expressed for the laws only recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/narendra-tomar-slams-congress-akalis-for-reversing-stand-on-agri-reforms/articleshow/79788208.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: GT hospital is non-Covid facility again after BYL Nair||MUMBAI: After BYL Nair Hospital, GT Hospital in Dhobi Talao became the second major public hospital to be reconverted into a non-Covid facility due to a decline in Covid cases. The state-run hospital was converted into a full-fledged Covid hospital in April. The first surgery, a laparoscopic appendicitis removal, was carried out after eight months on Thursday. The hospital's OPD services were started on Monday after a thorough clean-up and fumigation of premises, while operation theatres were started on Thursday. Since the 220-bed hospital was converted into a Covid facility on April 23, it treated 1,541 positive cases and 239 suspected patients. "In the last few weeks, we had merely 11-15 patients undergoing treatment here. Hence, the decision was taken to start non-Covid work," said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of JJ Group of Hospitals that includes GT. The few patients were moved to St George Hospital, which is still a dedicated Covid hospital. Dr Jitendra Sankpal, head of surgery, said surgeries are expected to pick up soon. During pre-Covid days, GT carried out around 200 a month. Due to the conversion, patients in need of surgery were diverted to JJ Hospital, Byculla. Although JJ was kept for non-Covid work, nine transit wards were created for suspect patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gt-hospital-is-non-covid-facility-again-after-byl-nair/articleshow/79788245.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Rajnath-led def council OKs AWACS project, acquisitions worth ₹28,000cr||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry on Thursday accorded initial approvals to military acquisition plans worth Rs 28,000 crore, including the major indigenous project to develop six airborne warning and control system (AWACS) aircraft to boost surveillance capabilities along the China and Pakistan borders. The Rajnath Singh-led Defence Acquisitions Council also gave the “acceptance of necessity (AoN)” for 11 next-generation offshore patrol vessels (around Rs 9,000 crore), 38 extended 400-km range Brah-Mos supersonic cruise missiles (Rs 1,800 crore) and shipborne unmanned aerial systems for the Navy as well as around 40 new modular bridges for the Army. “Majority of the AoNs were in the ‘Buy Indian-IDDM (indigenously designed, developed and manufactured)’ category. Six of the seven proposals, that is Rs 27,000 crore out of Rs 28,000 crore, will be sourced from Indian industry to give a boost to the ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiatives,” said an official. The clear takeaway was the Rs 10,990 crore DRDO project to build the six AWACS or AEW&C (airborne earlywarning and control) aircraft, which act as powerful “eyes in the sky” to look deep into enemy territory. India is behind Pakistan, leave alone China, in this critical arena. The project envisages mounting indigenous 360-degree coverage AESA (active electronically scanned array) radars on six A-320 aircraft, which will be acquired from the existing Air India fleet, as was earlier reported by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajnath-led-def-council-oks-awacs-project-acquisitions-worth-28000cr/articleshow/79788252.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Toll rises to 717 as 3 succumb to Covid||PANAJI: Goa reported three Covid-related deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 717. Among the fatalities was a 75-year-old man from Chorao, who died less than three hours after he was admitted to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals, said the patient had displayed symptoms of the virus five days before he was brought to the GMC but had not consulted a doctor. “His swab was collected when he was brought to the casualty, where he tested positive for Covid-19,” Bandekar said. Another two men – a 72-year-old from Santa Cruz and a 50-year-old from Quepem – also died in GMC. Both had comorbidities. The Santa Cruz resident suffered from hypertension, diabetes mellitus and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), while the Quepem man had cirrhosis and alcoholic liver disease. On Thursday, 88 more people tested positive for Covid-19 and 89 were declared cured. The tally of active cases dropped to 974. With 1,665 tests done during the day, the positivity rate was pegged at 5%. As many as 29 patients were admitted to hospitals and 53 opted to be home isolated. Presently, only 22 patients are in home isolation. Except for Panaji and Porvorim, the caseload of all other centres in North Goa has fallen below 50. In South Goa, Margao has a higher caseload of 155.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/toll-rises-to-717-as-3-succumb-to-covid/articleshow/79786859.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||MVA eyes bullet train land in Bandra-Kurla Complex for Metro 3 car shed||MUMBAI: A day after the Maha Vikas Aghadi government suffered a setback with the Bombay high court staying the Mumbai suburban collector's order to transfer 102 acres in Kanjurmarg for the Metro car shed, CM Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked the state administration to explore the possibility of setting up the Metro 3 car depot on land allotted for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project at Bandra-Kurla Complex and for the Metro 6 depot at Pahadi Goregaon. The Kanjurmarg land could be allotted for the bullet train project-PM Narendra Modi's pet project- "once the dispute over the plot is resolved", sources said. Thackeray on Thursday held a meeting with urban development minister Eknath Shinde, CM's principal advisor Ajoy Mehta and chief secretary Sanjay Kumar to take stock of the situation arising out of the HC verdict. "It was felt that the legal battle over the Kanjurmarg land will be a long-drawn one, and we may not succeed in the litigation. The CM expressed the view that the administration should explore other options like the BKC bullet train terminus land so that work for the prestigious Metro project does not suffer and that the project is completed in a time-bound manner," a senior official told TOI. Tenders for bullet train terminus floated last year The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government is looking into the possibility of using the land earmarked for the bullet train terminus at the Bandra-Kurla Terminus for the Metro 3 car shed. For the Metro 6 car depot it is considering Pahadi Goregaon. The Pahadi Goregaon site was one of the alternatives being discussed to Aarey Colony before the MVA government zeroed in on the Kanjurmarg plot for the Metro 3 car shed. Both the Metro 3 and 6 depots were to come up at Kanjurmarg, the MVA government had decided before the Centre challenged the land transfer and the HC stayed it in its interim order. A major hurdle for the bullet train project in Maharashtra was cleared in November last year when the National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC) floated tenders to build a bullet train terminus in BKC. The bullet train terminus is to be built underground, on approximately 4.9 hectares, while above it will be the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) building, across 50 hectares. The MMRDA had valued this underground land at Rs 350 crore. A senior cabinet member said the HC order on the Kanjurmarg plot was a huge embarrassment for the CM. All along, the official said, an impression was created that there was no dispute on ownership of land, but it was found in the HC that the Mumbai suburban collector had no case. “Prima facie, it appears that neither the collector nor the Mantralaya bureaucrats were sure if the land was disputed. At no stage was the CM informed that the 2018 order passed by the then state revenue minister Chandrakant Patil (saying ownership was with state) had been challenged before the HC by the salt commissioner and before city civil court by one of the land lessees, S R Goradia. We feel the CM will have to fix responsibility for inept handling of the case,” the bureaucrat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-eyes-bullet-train-land-in-bandra-kurla-complex-for-metro-3-car-shed/articleshow/79788257.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 18, 2020||Goa||GMC to get specialised ophthalmology surgeon||Panaji: The Goa cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to recruit an orbit and oculoplastic surgeon at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim on contract basis for a year. While many patients undergo general oculoplasty procedures at the GMC, other specialised procedures are not done here due to unavailability of a specialised orbit and oculoplastic surgeon. Oculoplastic surgery covers a broad range of surgical procedures of the orbit (eye socket), eyelids, tear ducts, and the face. These procedures include congenital anomalies of the eyelids, orbit and lacrimal system, ocular and adnexal oncology, thyroid eye disease and adnexal trauma, reconstruction of the eye ball and socket. With a dedicated orbit and oculoplastic surgeon at GMC, patients with facial injuries from road accidents, eyeball and eyelid malignancies, orbital disease, eye socket surgeries and cosmetic procedures can be better handled with a qualified oculoplastic surgeon. The new appointment will also help in interdepartmental interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-to-get-specialised-ophthalmology-surgeon/articleshow/79786909.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||NCP: Will raise lifeguard issue with President||Saligao: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has come out in support of the Goa Trade Union Confederation affiliated to the All Goa Marine Lifesaving Guards Union, members of which have resorted to a fast unto death at Mapusa demanding for regularisation of their services. NCP has said it will raise the issue with the President who will visit Goa on a two-day visit on Saturday to inaugurate the 60th Liberation Day celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-will-raise-lifeguard-issue-with-president/articleshow/79786946.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Offline classes for IX and XI from January||PONDA: Classes IX and XI will return to the physical mode from January after schools reopen post the Christmas break, director of education Santosh Amonkar said on Wednesday. Offline classes, however, will not be possible for the primary section this academic year, he said. Notification on this has not been issued as yet and it is not clear whether the decision has the stamp of the chief minister Pramod Sawant. Amonkar said presently offline classes have commenced only for students of X and XII. He, however, said that any decision on students of Classes V to VIII returning to schools will be taken later on. He was speaking at the inauguration of a classroom constructed by MRF at Dhaushirem-Usgao. Fearing spread of Covid-19 among students, almost all classes were put on online mode since the lifting of lockdown. But since the students of Classes X and XII needs to complete some practicals essential under the school curriculum, they have been so far allowed to switch over to the offline/physical mode. Soon after starting physical classes, there were some incidents of some schools having to stop classes after their teachers tested positive. Despite this, the education department want to turn the Classes for IX and XII back to the physical mode. The director said that proper SOPs will be followed at all schools to prevent any infection being spread among the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/offline-classes-for-ix-and-xi-from-january/articleshow/79786971.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||GSPCB asks police to locate illegal borewells in Cuncolim industrial estate||PANAJI: Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has written to superintendent of police South Goa asking for an investigation to determine the location of borewells installed by fish meal plants within the Cuncolim industrial estate. The board has sought a report within seven days. The action has been initiated after the board received various complaints that fish meal plants and fish processing units at Cuncolim were discharging waste into illegal borewells. Environmental engineer Sanjeev Joglekar said that the industries have installed several borewells. “It is observed upon the recent findings after the environment audit carried out at one fishmeal plant at the Cuncolim industrial estate, that borewells have been illegally dug and raw sticky water and the like is being discharged into the groundwater, not only by the same unit but others also,” one complaint to the pollution board stated. For the past couple of months, the board has been conducting inspections at the estate to determine locations of the illegal borewells. While it has identified over 20 such borewells where effluents were being discharged by fish meal plants, the location of several others remains to be determined. Another complainant said that there is an urgent need to apply various sections of the “Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, against these fishmeal plants. The board had conducted a Ground Penetration Radar survey of four fishmeal and fish processing units on November 5 and 6. The environmental audit was conducted by the state pollution control board team led by member secretary Shamila Monteiro, along with professor R Jayashakila, professor from the Tamil Nadu Fisheries University, Manjare, BITS Goa, and consultants Hemant Rane and Sanjay Amonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gspcb-asks-police-to-locate-illegal-borewells-in-cuncolim-ind-estate/articleshow/79787009.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Restore beef supply, demands Churchill||Colva: Nationalist Congress Party Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao on Thursday demanded that the government either restore the supply of beef from Karnataka or restart the Goa meat complex. Condemning the new anti-cow slaughter bill passed by Karnataka government, he said that he is against BJP ideologies as their governments have started deciding what people of other faiths eat. However, he praised the Goa BJP chief minister for promising to restore beef supply to Goa. The Benaulim MLA said that Goa requires 15-20 tonnes of beef on a daily basis, which includes commercial and domestic consumption. He also questioned the timing of the bill which he said coincides with Christmas and appealed to the chief minister to get animals from neighbouring Maharashtra. While stating that he will not allow stoppage of beef in Goa, he promised to meet the CM on Friday over this issue. President of the Goa minority association Shaikh Iftikar said that besides Goans, tourists flocking the state also consume the meat. He questioned the exemption of ban on beef being exported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restore-beef-supply-demands-churchill/articleshow/79787065.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Goa cadre admin staff promoted||Panaji: The state government, based on the recommendation of departmental promotion committee (DPC), on Thursday promoted 21 junior administrative grade officers of Goa Civil Service to Selection Grade (group ‘A’ gazetted) with immediate effect. Among them are Dipak Desai, Vikas Gaunekar, V P Dangui, Dipak Bandekar, Deepali Naik, Raju Gawas, Anthony D’Souza, Sandhya Kamat, Damodar Morajkar, Laura Britto e Madre Deus, Irene Sequeira, Shivaji Desai, Vasudev Shetye, Rajendra Morajkar, Rajan Satardekar, Sneha Morajkar, Pravin Barad, Ashok Rane, Upasana Mazgaonkar, Prashant Shirodkar and Sanjeev Gauns Dessai. The government on Thursday issued an order promoting 12 officers to the post of junior scale officers of Goa Civil services, group ‘A’ gazetted with immediate effect. These are Prassani Halarnkar, Nancy Fernandes, Mandar Naik, Gautami Parmekar, Dattaraj Gauns Dessai, Eshant Sawant, Amalia Pinto, Sharmila Gaunkar, K B Salgaonkar, H B Khedekar, Jyoti B Dessai and Tulshidas Karanzalkar. Hemant Dessai and Priyanka Vaigankar have been promoted to the post of junior scale officers of Goa civil service, group ‘A’ gazetted, on officiating basis. The order issued by joint secretary (personnel) Harish Adconkar stated that the two officers shall not be able to claim for regular appointment. The services rendered on an officiating basis in the grade will not be countered for seniority in that grade or for eligibility for promotion to the next higher grade. They shall continue to hold the posts presently held by them until further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-cadre-admin-staff-promoted/articleshow/79787036.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Transport dept to decide on Rs 2 fare hike for autos, Rs 3 for taxis on December 22||MUMBAI: The transport department is considering the option of allowing autorickshaws and taxis to hike fares by Rs 2 and Rs 3, respectively. At the same time, it is also looking at the possibility of freezing auto and taxi permits issued across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The decision for the fare hike will be taken at a Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority (MMRTA) meeting on December 22, sources said. An MMRTA official said, "We have prepared a proposal for a fare hike which has been pending for both taxis and autos for the past five years. This will be discussed at the meeting. MMRTA has already approved the Khatua Committee formula for calculating hikes and any hike will be solely based on it." While the official refused to disclose the proposed hike, sources said the minimum auto fare could be increased from Rs 18 to Rs 20 and the kaali-peeli taxi fare from Rs 22 to Rs 25. Commuter rights activists are opposed to the hike as refusal and overcharging by rogue drivers are still rampant. "Citizens need affordable public transport and it will not be advisable to hike fares at this juncture-the Covid pandemic," said commuter activist Gaurang Vora, adding the government should instead provide a financial package to the drivers and also introduce few welfare schemes. "Why put the burden on commuters?" he asked. Mumbai Autorickshawmen's Union leader Shashank Rao had recently demanded the government give a financial package of Rs 10,000 per month to auto drivers in distress and also waive the EMI interest for the lockdown months. A L Quadros from Mumbai Taximen's Union said several drivers faced financial trouble during Covid, and the fare hike will give them relief as it will boost their earnings. His union had twice submitted a petition to the government, demanding a minimum fare of Rs 25 for kaali-peeli taxis, which are fewer than 20,000. There are 2.3 lakh autos in the suburbs. Navbharatiya Shiv Vahtuk Sanghatana led by Haji Arafat Shaikh is also in favour of an increase in fares to improve the condition of poor the drivers. The decision to freeze permits for autos and taxis will be discussed in detail, an official said, adding even legal opinion was being sought. There has been a rise in the number of autos on the road and with competition, earnings have been badly hit, sources said. On the other hand, there has been no growth in kaali-peeli taxis and there is little demand for this permit. Auto drivers said they have been suffering for five years as there has not been a single paise hike despite the rise in fuel cost, maintenance, insurance, and overheads. Many said they had no earnings during the lockdown and have exhausted savings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-transport-dept-to-decide-on-rs-2-fare-hike-for-autos-rs-3-for-taxis-on-december-22/articleshow/79788264.cms||Somit Sen
December 18, 2020||Delhi||Dharna outside CM Arvind Kejriwal’s house sets wrong example: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Thursday expressed alarm over the ongoing dharna outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence and observed that any permission to allow such demonstrations in a residential area could set a wrong precedent. “There is no problem if you come, protest and leave. But this is going on for 11days. Once you set a precedent, anyone will come and squat there. If this is permitted, then you know what the state of certain areas, such as Ramlila Ground and Jantar Mantar, is, where squatting and protests are permitted. We cannot have that kind of a situation in a residential colony,” Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva remarked. The court’s concerns came while hearing a plea by Civil Lines residents’ association against the protest stating that it was blocking a road and causing inconvenience to the residents. It contended that the protest had been permitted in a residential area and roads leading there were barricaded, which is in violation of the high court’s 2017 direction to restrict dharnas in residential areas and keep the roads clear. The mayors of the three municipal corporations have been protesting outside Kejriwal’s residence seeking release of funds and clearance of alleged pending dues payable to them. The court, during the hearing, observed that tents had come up in the area and there were news reports that stated that the mayors were going to run their office from there. It asked Delhi Police how could office run from there and what arrangements were in place for the protesters to go about their daily routines. While holding protests or dharnas is a fundamental right, people cannot be “squatting in a residential area”, it said. It underlined that public functionaries deal with all kinds of people. “Today it’s one group who are protesting, tomorrow it will be another. Today the protest is peaceful. But once a precedent is set, there will be another group protesting there and then you will come running,” the court said, posting the matter for Friday. In its report, Delhi Police said 20-25 people, including the mayors, started their protest from December 7 at Flag Staff Road outside the CM’s residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dharna-outside-cm-arvind-kejriwals-house-sets-wrong-example-delhi-high-court/articleshow/79788268.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Fatality rates in Nov, Dec are lowest since Covid hit Karnataka||BENGALURU: As with fresh cases, there has been a steep decrease in the number of Covid-19 fatalities in the state in November and December, resulting in the case fatality rate (CFR) — deaths per 100 cases — plunging to its lowest in the two months since the pandemic hit in March. At 0.97%, the CFR in December so far is even better than 0.99% in November. The state reported 610 deaths in November: 340 in the first two weeks and 260 in the second half of the month. The first 16 days of December have so far seen only 193 fatalities, making the continuing decline more pronounced. While November saw 61,485 cases, the corresponding figure for the first 16 days in December stands at 19,768. The total number of people who succumbed to the virus in November is the lowest since July (2,068), from where the number increased in August before marginally dipping in September. The decline has been significant from October (2,304). As of December, Karnataka reported a total 11,971 deaths at a CFR of 1.32%, and only 803 of these were in the past two months. Experts attribute the decline in deaths to multiple factors: From improved awareness that has led to early admission in hospitals, to a dipping positivity rate that has increased the availability of beds among other things. Other than these factors, they said the state now has a better treatment protocol compared to June or July. Having learnt lessons early on, the strategy is now streamlined even in semiurban and rural hospitals. Analysis of weekly death numbers shows that the second week of November had already seen the lowest fatalities (139) since the last eight days of June, when 109 deaths were reported. Weekly deaths have further reduced from there to 109 between November 15 and 21, and 137 in the nine days between November 21 and 30. There were only 89 deaths between December 1 and 7, and another 104 up to December 16. These two weeks, in fact, saw fewer deaths than the whole of June, which had 197 fatalities. At 1.3%, Karnataka’s overall CFR is better than India’s (1.45%), and the government has been trying to bring it down to below 1%. The CFR in November and December is better than even March. This is because March and April, which had 3% and 4% CFR, respectively, had very few cases — 101 and 464 — compared to any other month. Also, the number of cases has been dipping consistently from October, which experts say is also indicative of the virus spread being brought under control, but add that people must still continue to take precautions given expectations of a second wave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fatality-rates-in-nov-dec-are-lowest-since-covid-hit-karnataka/articleshow/79788265.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Feeder bus service likely for new metro corridor in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: A feeder bus network has been planned to improve connectivity in areas near the proposed metro stations in the city. A total of 49 buses will be brought in by 2025 when the metro project is likely to be ready. A copy of the detailed project report (DPR) for the metro corridor, which will start from Huda City Centre, says that the feeder buses would be “ultra modern and customer oriented”, they will be fast, comfortable and cost effective. The air-conditioned vehicles will have low floors so that they are easy to board, attractive and eco-friendly. Each bus will have a capacity of 35 passengers. The report, a copy of which has been accessed by TOI, also contains details of a plan to integrate different modes of mass transportation with the metro service to improve connectivity. “The priority, however, will be to pedestrians followed by public transport and parking facilities for all modes including non-motorized transport (NMT) at all stations,” the report states. The DPR was cleared by the state cabinet earlier this year. In terms of non-motorised transport, a public bike sharing system shall also be rolled out and the two-wheelers can be used within a 2km-radius of a particular metro station. The services will be free for those using the metro. Additionally, the DPR also mentions pedestrian facilities, like continuous footpath that is 2m wide, zebra crossing at intersections. The report also mentions relocation of encroachments. A plan for laying down cycle tracks around metro stations shall also be drawn up depending on availability of the land. The report states that the proposed metro rail system should be user friendly and ensure proper access for differently-abled people, those travelling with small children and those with luggage. It should work for people who have temporary mobility problems and the elderly.” The proposed metro route was approved by the state government in May this year. The proposal will now be sent to the Centre.  It was waiting for the mobility plan, as it is one of the necessary documents for seeking approval. Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials said that once the proposal is sent to the Centre, it will take a minimum of six months for the work to start on the ground. “The Centre has assured that the project will be approved within six months,” said a senior official. Once commissioned, it is likely to get ready in five-six years . As of now, the state government has set a deadline for 2025 for the corridor. The total cost of the project has been pegged at Rs 6,821 crores of which 20% would be from the state, 20% expenses would be borne by the Centre and the remaining amount would be sourced from banks. The total length of the metro corridor will be 28.8 km and there will be 27 elevated stations with a few interchanges. The proposed corridor will start from Huda City Centre and move towards Sector 45. The plan is to link the new corridor with the Rapid rail network in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/feeder-bus-service-likely-for-new-metro-corridor-in-gurgaon/articleshow/79787154.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 18, 2020||Goa||Green tribunal raps authorities for failing to check illegal stone mining||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal has directed the state to take action against illegal laterite stone mining in Maulingem within three months. The move come following the tribunal finding that the authorities “failed to check” illegal mining. Jayashri Rajebhosale co-owner of the land on which the stone quarry lies had complained to the director of mines about illegal mining. “In view of patent illegal extraction of laterite stone, even without environmental clearance, joint committee of the state PCB (pollution control board), the SEIAA (State Environment Impact Assessment Authority) and the district magistrate (with the state PCB as the nodal agency) need to review the entire proceedings and, after reconciling the figures of the illegal mining, ought to take further action in accordance with the law, within three months,” the principal bench of the tribunal stated. There are conflicting reports about the stone extracted. The Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB) said that the number of stones extracted is 8,22,023 while the NIT Surathkal has stated that the extent of extract excavation is 28,40,880. The tribunal directed the GSPCB to reimburse the fee paid to NIT by the applicant since “compliance of law is the responsibility of the Goa state PCB. The study was undertaken under the orders of this Tribunal”. “The applicant cannot be required to bear that cost. The state PCB may thus pay an amount of Rs 2 lakh to cover the fees paid by the applicant as well as the other expenses incurred by the applicant in pursuing these proceedings, within one month,” the tribunal stated. The pollution control board had found that the quarry was operating without its consent. The tribunal in October noted that illegal mining was patent and that the authorities failed to enforce the rule of law. Illegal mining was found by the vigilance department in April 2013 which led to showcauses being issued and claim for recovery made for Rs 5.08 lakhs under the Goa Daman and Diu Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1985. In 2014, mining machinery was confiscated and the tribunal directed that the value of mined material and recovery penalty be estimated. In 2015, NIT Goa was directed to give an estimate of the illegal mining. Two months later, a similar direction was issued to NIT, Karnataka, Surathkal. GFX The total volume of extraction of laterite = 56149.162 m3 Volume after considering average wastage of 15 % = 47726.787 m3 (based on nature of rock) Volume of each laterite brick =35 cm x 30 cm x 16 cm =0.0168 m3 Number of laterite stones excavated =2840880”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/green-tribunal-raps-authorities-for-failing-to-check-illegal-stone-mining/articleshow/79787144.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Honour sand mining order unfailingly, HC tells govt||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has issued showcause notice to the government over the non-compliance of its orders on illegal sand mining and asked the chief secretary to personally ensure that the court’s orders are strictly implemented. The HC asked the government to treat the matter “with utmost seriousness since the issue is just not relating to the compliance of the directions of this court, but concerns the serious environment hazards”. The court directed the government to provide details of cancellation of registration of canoes/boats, trucks, arrests, seizures, confiscation, fines or other steps that may have been taken after advocate general Devidas Pangam stated that the action is being taken by the government to prevent illegal mining. “The material placed on record, at least, prima facie, indicates that illegal sand mining has returned with vengeance and the authorities, who, in the past had done commendable work in preventing it, appear to have let down the guard,” stated the division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and M S Jawalkar. “In the said circumstances, we are constrained to issue notice to the respondents to show cause as to why action under the Contempt of Courts Act be not initiated against them. In addition, we now direct the chief secretary to personally ensure that our orders in relation to illegal sand mining are complied with in letter and spirit, not only by him, but, also by the authorities who were directed to take specific steps to prevent the sand mining or in any case, this rampant illegal sand mining,” the court stated in its order. Pangam submitted to the high court that action has already commenced and authorities are stopping illegal sand mining. The court stated that if action has already commenced, then it is commendable. The court called for replies to be filed by January 11, 2021 without seeking any extension of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/honour-sand-mining-order-unfailingly-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/79787160.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Farm bills will benefit farmers in Goa as well, says Sawaikar||Panaji: BJP on Thursday said that the recently passed farm bills were prepared keeping in mind the needs of the farmers in today’s world, but some forces are trying to create an atmosphere against the bills. Farmers in Goa will also benefit from the bills, BJP said. If our farmers have to be strengthened then these bills are important, former MP and BJP general secretary Narendra Sawaikar told reporters. He said that these bills empower farmers to decide who will be the customer for their products. “These bills also help farmers to move from middlemen in the market who purchase their products and we will be able to see the impact of these bills in the future,” Sawaikar said. The President gave assent to the three bills which were passed by the Parliament earlier. The three bills were the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and were aimed at bringing reforms in the agriculture sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/farm-bills-will-benefit-farmers-in-goa-as-well-says-sawaikar/articleshow/79787173.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat black hole scientist elected TWAS fellow||VADODARA: Noted astrophysicist and cosmologist, Dr Pankaj Joshi, has been elected as a Fellow of the prestigous The World Academy of Sciences (TWAS). President of TWAS, professor Mohammed H A Hassan wrote to Joshi about his election on December 15. Joshi is currently serving as the provost of Charusat University in Changa, Anand. TWAS, based in Italy, has been working on how developing countries can address challenges like hunger, disease and poverty by strengthening science and engineering. Joshi, who has also been a senior professor at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), will be inducted in a ceremony to be held during the next general meeting of TWAS. “This will be a good opening because it will help in connecting India academically in big way internationally and help the citizens, especially the youth. Since TWAS has tie-ups with UNESCO, many opportunities can open in future,” Joshi told TOI. Joshi is an authority on black holes and gravitation theory. His analysis of general relativistic gravitational collapse has been widely recognized as providing significant insights into the final fate of massive collapsing stars in the universe, formation of space-time singularities and cosmic censorship. His research has been reported in more than 200 research papers in international journals and monographs from Oxford University Press and Cambridge University Press among other books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/guj-black-hole-scientist-elected-twas-fellow/articleshow/79784102.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||Panaji MLA wants civic polls on party lines||Panaji: If the Zilla Panchayat elections were fought on party lines then the upcoming municipal elections should also be fought along party lines, said Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate here on Thursday. Monserrate said that conducting civic polls on party lines, as done in larger cities, will be beneficial in the long run. “I feel, and I just discussed this with the CM, if you see other states, even panchayat elections are fought on party lines,” Monserrate said. “If we are fighting ZP elections on party lines why not municipality? I am strongly of the opinion that all should decide that all polls should be fought on the party symbol.” Without referring to any specific MLA or political outfit, the BJP MLA said that those who are against municipal elections on party lines are those who are likely to desert their present party. “Some people who have raised objections maybe they want to leave the party. They want to show their individual power. There are many who are not happy that CM won the ZP elections,” said Monserrate after meeting Sawant at his official residence at Altinho. The Taleigao strongman said that the ZP polls are a wakeup call for all politicians and the results serve as a reminded from voters that their needs have to be addressed. “I am satisfied with the result. This is just the starting part of it where people are telling you that they want more attention and they want us to work hard,” said Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mla-wants-civic-polls-on-party-lines/articleshow/79787191.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 18, 2020||Delhi||11 days on, mayors start indefinite hunger strike in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On the 11th day of their dharna outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence, the three mayors along with other BJP councillors started a hunger strike on Thursday. The mayors, leaders of the house and standing committee chairpersons have been demanding an audience with the CM to put forward their demand of releasing the “pending dues” worth Rs 13,000 crore to the civic bodies. AAP has repeatedly denied that Delhi government has any dues left. Mayors Jai Prakash, Anamika Singh and Nirmal Jain from north, south and east corporations, respectively, started their hunger strike on the dharna site after getting a medical check-up. Prakash said that for the last 11 days, they have been sitting outside the CM’s residence but the CM has neither tried to meet them nor is he ready to listen to them. “All the three mayors have decided to sit on an indefinite hunger strike till Delhi government releases the outstanding funds. We are doing this not because of personal interest but for ensuring that two lakh civic employees and pensioners get their salaries and pensions,” he added. Singh said that the chief minister had become insensitive. “Female councillors are sitting here in extreme cold weather at 4 degrees Celsius temperature but instead of meeting us, the chief minister has been playing politics of allegations. Aam Aadmi Party has been levelling fictitious allegations of corruption and now, they have even called an assembly session on these allegations. I challenge AAP and the CM to carry out any investigation and prove these allegations before the public. Our fight for employees and Delhi’s residents will continue till our rightful funds are released,” she added. Aam Aadmi Party has maintained from the beginning of the dharna that the mayors and councillors are protesting to harass Kejriwal and distract from the issue of nationwide farmers’ protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11-days-on-mayors-start-indefinite-hunger-strike-in-delhi/articleshow/79788293.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Goa||To clear backlog, I-T department urges citizens to opt for central scheme||PANAJI: In order to clear the backlog of pending tax cases, the income tax department on Thursday urged taxpayers facing litigation to utilise the ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ scheme by December 31. The department is giving the scheme utmost priority in a bid to address pending tax dispute cases, said principal commissioner of income tax, Panaji, Amrapalli Das. During an online seminar for chartered accountants and tax professionals, the I-T department said all taxpayers whose cases are under dispute can take benefit of the scheme. Taxpayers who opt for the Vivad se Vishwas scheme only need to pay the disputed tax instead of interest and penalties. “It is requested that the taxpayers of Goa should come forward and avail the scheme so as to avoid any further impacts on the pending contested matters,” said Das. “Vivad se Vishwas scheme is a well-thought scheme brought out by the Government of India to put an end to pending direct tax disputes.” Taxpayers who have appealed against adverse orders can also settle the case by paying half of the disputed tax amount by March 31, Das said. Das has advised taxpayers to file the declaration under the scheme before December 31 to avoid last minute rush. While the last date for filing declaration under the scheme is December end, taxpayers can pay the disputed tax at a later date, said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-clear-backlog-i-t-dept-urges-citizens-to-opt-for-central-scheme/articleshow/79787205.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||NCB notice to Karan Johar over party video||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday issued a notice to filmmaker Karan Johar after taking cognisance of a widely circulated video of a party attended by Bollywood celebrities at his residence in July last year where it was alleged that drugs were consumed. The NCB has requisitioned Johar for the original source of the video to ensure its authenticity before progressing further on the inquiries, said a source. Based on the information gathered and its genuineness, action will be decided, the source added. Johar has been asked to submit the same by Friday. "We have not asked him to appear before us," an NCB official said. In September, Johar had issued a public statement saying that reports of drug consumption at his party were "slanderous" and "malicious". The NCB has been probing the prevalence of contraband in the celebrity circuit since actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death by suicide on June 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ncb-notice-to-karan-johar-over-party-video/articleshow/79788314.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Villa a pipe dream for 8 years, builder asked to pay couple nearly Rs 1 crore||MUMBAI: Observing that when possession is not delivered within the stipulated time, the allottee is entitled to refund with reasonable interest, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directed a Gurugram-based real estate developer to pay Rs 64 lakh to a Mumbai-based family who had booked a villa in 2009, but did not receive possession. Besides Rs 25,000 litigation expenses, the complainants, Andheri residents, Pratibha and Nagendra Singh are also likely to receive Rs 30 lakh interest as the commission has levied 9% interest on the developer, Vatika Ltd. The developer had argued that since there was no prayer for a refund in the Singhs' complaint, they should be directed to take possession of the villa. The developer said the completion certificate was obtained for the villa. However, the commission pointed out that one of their prayers read "pass such orders... as may be deemed fit and proper on the facts and in the circumstances of this case." "This clause covers any other relief which this commission finds appropriate and, therefore, it cannot be said that no order except for the order of possession can be passed in this complaint," the national commission said. The commission cited an SC judgment which held that a person cannot be made to take delayed possession of the plot allotted to him and he can instead seek refund along with compensation. In the complaint submitted in 2018, the Singhs told the commission they were to receive possession in 2012. They also submitted that without their consent, the villa had been changed and an offer for possession of another property was made. The Singhs further said the developer sought additional amounts toward holding charges, maintenance charges and restoration cost which they said flouted terms and conditions of the agreement. The developer claimed cost escalation was due to increase in area of the villa. The developer cited unavailability of manpower, material, electricity and economic slowdown as reasons for delay. It said the agreement had factored in extension of time for reasons beyond the developer's control. However, holding the developer guilty of deficiency in service, the commission said at no stage was the project suspended. "The benefit of this clause is available to the opposite party only when the project is suspended... there is no evidence on record to prove the delay had occurred due to any reason mentioned in the clause," the commission said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-villa-a-pipe-dream-for-8-years-builder-asked-to-pay-couple-nearly-rs-1-crore/articleshow/79788318.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||PM Modi expressed concern over violence at Wistron, says BS Yediyurappa||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa said PM Narendra Modi has expressed concern over violence at Wistron, an iPhone manufacturing company, at Narasapur in Kolar district, and asked the government to not let such incidents recur in the state. The CM told reporters that the state government has already taken measures and declared it’s committed to punishing the perpetrators of the violence. Yediyurappa said the state was offering full support to the company to resume its operations at the earliest and without fear. The government’s action comes two days after the Centre pulled up the state for neglecting early signs of the workers’ unrest at Wistron and delayed police response after violence broke out at the factory on Saturday. Karnataka labour minister Shivaram Hebbar said the government was making efforts to help the Taiwanese manufacturing firm restart its operation in the next two weeks and termed the incident ‘unfortunate’. Contracted workers of the company had ransacked the plant on Saturday, alleging harassment and nonpayment of salaries. The company has put the loss at Rs 43 crore. Police have arrested more than 160 workers in connection with the violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pm-modi-expressed-concern-over-violence-at-wistron-says-bs-yediyurappa/articleshow/79788281.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||One crore aged below 50 with co-morbidities may be on vaccine priority list||NEW DELHI: Around one crore people below 50 years with co-morbidities that can pose higher risk of infection are likely to be inoculated during the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination programme that is expected to begin by January end, officials said. While the above-50 category in the first round of “priority groups” to be given the shots self-selects itself, the identification of people with comorbidities below the age is challenging. The data analysis by the Centre has estimated that around a crore people, with relatively more severe co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension or cardiac issues, may need the shots. A panel has been constituted under the National Expert Group of Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC) for Covid-19 to list specific criteria for identifying people in this category and finalise other modalities like how to contact them. The final number may change once the panel has completed its task. 26cr in 50+ category list of Covid-19 inoculationA government presentation showed 30 crore priority recipients, including 1 crore health care workers, 2 crore frontline workers and 26 crore in the above-50 category and younger persons with comorbidities. The 50 and above category, said sources, will actually add up to 26 crore on its own and there will be an estimated 1 crore persons with co-morbid conditions who need to be in the priority group. While severity of the disease will be a key criteria in the identification of such people, those qualifying in the under-50 category may also have to produce evidence like a doctor’s certification. “We’ll have to make sure the identification is done in a proper manner. It is a task to identify such people who are below 50 years age and are suffering from specific diseases that are severe and can impact their immunity and pose higher risk of infection,” an official told TOI. Individuals may also have the option of uploading data related to age and associated disease conditions on Co-WIN, the digital platform developed by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/one-crore-aged-below-50-with-co-morbidities-may-be-on-vaccine-priority-list/articleshow/79788302.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Techie loses Rs 16 lakh to blackmailers on dating app||BENGALURU: A city-based software engineer lost Rs 16 lakh after fraudsters threatened to upload his nude video online. On December 3, he met a woman named Swetha on a dating app and she asked him to pay Rs 2,000 via a digital payment wallet. Swetha reportedly provided her friend Nikitha’s mobile numbers to him. Nikitha made a video call and he saw her posing nude. This call was recorded and the women used it to blackmail him, a police officer said. The techie said two more women, Preeti Agarwal and Sherin, had threatened to upload the video if he failed to pay. “I transferred Rs 16 lakh through online banking, GooglePay and PhonePe between December 3 and December 13,” the man said in his complaint filed on December 14. Whitefield police registered a case against Sherin, Swetha, Preethi Agarwal and Nikitha under IPC Sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) and sections 66(C) and 66(D) of Information Technology Act. A probe is under way to nab the suspects. In the second case, the 21-year-old man met a woman via a dating app on November 23; the gang used the same method to blackmail him. Five cases of women extorting money from men after luring them into stripping during video calls were reported at cybercrime police stations in a month. One of the victims was a 39-yearold police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-techie-loses-rs-16-lakh-to-blackmailers-on-dating-app/articleshow/79788370.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Daily cases & deaths dip, Mumbai tally under 800 for 13th day||MUMBAI: Daily detections in Covid-19 cases saw a dip on Thursday again after a jump of nearly 1,000 cases a day earlier. On Thursday, 3,880 new cases were reported in Maharashtra, taking overall tally to 18,84,773. The state has reported an average of 4,300 cases in December. Deaths too declined with 65 lives lost on Thursday, down from 95 on Wednesday. The state's Covid toll has reached 48,499, while case fatality rate remained at 2.57%. State officials said of the 65 deaths, 45 had occurred in the last 48 hours and 10 in the last week. The remaining ten were unregistered ones from previous weeks. For the 13th day in a row, daily positive cases remained under 800 in Mumbai. On Thursday, the city recorded 586 cases, down from 795 on Wednesday. City's overall case load reached 2,84,990. From a dozen deaths on Wednesday, it dropped to ten, pushing the Covid toll to 11,013. A civic official said all ten had co-morbidities, while five were above the age of 60 years. There has been an average 12 Covid deaths in the city in December, compared to 20 in the first 17 days of November. Active cases for the city saw a slight rise after a drop of 7,100 cases on Wednesday due to data reconciliation. The city currently has 7,024 active cases, while Maharashtra has a little over 60,000 active cases, its lowest in seven months. As per BMC statistics, only 4,426 of the city's 16,574 Covid beds are currently occupied. Rajesh Tope, minister for public health, said the state government was ready for the vaccination programme. "The vaccination programme is expected to start from January 2021 provided all clearances come in," he added. Tope said the state has done micro planning for Covid-19 vaccination. He, however, said people should not drop their guard even if the possibility of getting a vaccine is drawing closer. Vaccine training for almost 18,000 employees will be completed soon and cold storage arrangements have been done, Tope added. He said the state wishes that the Centre provide vaccines for free. "However, the state will not pass on the responsibility," he said. Meanwhile, Mumbai circle once again saw the highest cases and deaths compared to other administrative divisions. There were 1,067 cases and 20 deaths, while Pune circle had 962 cases and 12 deaths. In MMR, Thane city had 97 new positive cases reported on Thursday that took the tally of infected people to 53,820 while two Covid deaths took the virus toll to 1,219. The recovery rate in Thane was at 95.98%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-daily-cases-deaths-dip-mumbai-tally-under-800-for-13th-day/articleshow/79788382.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 18, 2020||Bengaluru||DySP with CID found hanging in her friend’s flat in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 33-year-old deputy superintendent of police working with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) was found hanging at her friend’s residence in Annapoorneshwarinagar, west Bengaluru, on Wednesday night. V Lakshmi, serving with the CID’s Economic Offence Wing since 2017, was a Karnataka State Police Service officer of the 2014 batch. She was from Masti village in Malur, Kolar district. Married to Naveen Kumar in 2012, the couple lived in an apartment near Konanakunte Cross in south Bengaluru. The couple had no children. Police said Lakshmi went to friend Manohar’s apartment in Vinayaka Layout, Annapoorneshwarinagar, around 8pm on Wednesday. Four detained for CID officer’s deathBesides Manohar, three men — Prajwal, Vasanth and Ranjit — were present in the house. The five partied before dinner, a police officer said. Around 10.30pm, Lakshmi locked herself in a bedroom and did not come out for a long time. “She was upset over personal issues and told us she was depressed. We broke open the lock and found her hanging from the window grills,” Manohar and others told cops. Lakshmi was taken to a hospital where she was declared brought dead. Her husband Naveen Kumar, 35, currently in Hyderabad, and her parents in HSR Layout were informed about the tragedy. Based on a complaint filed by Lakshmi’s father Venkatesh on Thursday, police detained Manohar, Vasanth, Prajwal and Ranjit for questioning. Manohar and Prajwal are contractors with BBMP; Vasanth and Ranjit work with private firms. Venkatesh told reporters: “Like any couple, Lakshmi and Naveen had minor differences. I don’t think that was the reason for her death. Her body was found hanging from the window grills with feet on the floor, giving rise to doubts.” Dismissing rumours of an earlier bid by Lakshmi, Venkatesh said she had taken an overdose of sleeping pills. “She had everything in life – a secure government job, good salary. I don’t think she was depressed.” Venkatesh said Lakshmi’s husband recently quit his job from a private company and wanted to start his own firm. “He was in Hyderabad on Tuesday over business-related issues,” he said. The DCP (west) said they have registered a case of unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/dysp-with-cid-found-hanging-in-her-friends-flat-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79788385.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Hope ‘full disengagement’ at LAC after more talks: India||NEW DELHI: While the next round of LAC talks, military or diplomatic, has not been scheduled yet, the government on Thursday expressed hope that further discussions with China will help both sides to achieve an agreement on a mutually acceptable solution for ensuring “complete disengagement” in all friction points and full restoration of peace as early as possible. “The two sides continue to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels. These discussions have helped both sides enhance their understanding of each other’s positions,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The last round of military talks had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points to end the stand-off in Ladakh. While the two countries have expressed faith in dialogue and said military commanders will meet again, they haven’t yet succeeded in finalising a date for the same. Asked about reports that at least one member of the Chinese Communist Party was recruited by the Indian consulate in Shanghai, Srivastava said he was not in a position to independently verify the information. “We have noted the media reports in this regard... In certain countries, hiring of local staff requires approval of local authorities. However, all our missions and posts ensure due security precautions in this regard,” he said. Reacting to the same media reports, the Chinese embassy in New Delhi said “hyping up the CPC infiltration” was “groundless”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hope-full-disengagement-at-lac-after-more-talks-india/articleshow/79788396.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Amaravati||Polavaram: Work begins on fixing hydraulic crest gates||AMARAVATI: The crucial phase of fixing of hydraulic crest gates at Polavaram project began on Thursday. The irrigation department engineering officials and top officials of contractor firm Megha Engineering and Infrastructure Limited (Meil) expedited the works following the CM’s visit to the project two days ago. Meil has imported 48 hydraulic cylinders from Germany and another 48 are likely to reach the project site next week. Speaking to media, project chief engineer B Sudhakar said that they have started fixing of arm girders which would be used to lift the crest gates of the project. While the project will have 48 gates, there would be eight arm girders to each gate. He said that another four horizontal girders would also be set up at each gate to facilitate smooth operation of the gates. The chief engineer said that the entire set of 12 girders at each gate would weigh around 31 tonnes. He said that 48 gates put together would have 384 arm girders and 192 horizontal girders. “We have entered a key phase of the project as setting up of arm girders and horizontal girders would be an important task to fix the gates,” said the chief engineer. He said they would lift the skin plates of the gates with the help of arm girders. He said that arm girders would be the operational keys of the gates to lift and down. He said that arm girders were being set up by pre-stressing the true-union beams of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/polavaram-work-begins-on-fixing-hydraulic-crest-gates/articleshow/79784843.cms||Samdani MN
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Less than 1% women screened for breast cancer in Andhra Pradesh: Survey||VISAKHAPATNAM: Awareness about early cancer screening and prevention is exceptionally low in Andhra Pradesh despite campaigns run by doctors and health officials. For cancers prevalent among women, such as cervical and breast cancer, the percentage of screening is 4.7% and 0.8% respectively, as per the recently-released fifth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-5). Oral cancer screening among men and women is slightly better, at 6.3% and 7.3% respectively. It is noteworthy that rural areas fared marginally better in breast and cervical cancer screening compared to urban areas. In oral cancer screening, urban areas fared better than villages. In 10 out of 13 districts in Andhra Pradesh, less than one per cent of women in the 30-49 age-group have undergone breast examination for cancer, the exceptions being Krishna (2.1%), West Godavari (1.8%) and East Godavari (1%). In six out of 13 districts, less than three per cent of women have undergone even a single screening test for cervical cancer. The highest screening rate was found in Kadapa (13.4%) followed by Nellore (10.2%) and West Godavari (7.1%). Screening for oral cancer, oral cavity examination, was less than five per cent among women in seven districts. The best-performing districts in oral cancer screening are: Guntur (14.6%), West Godavari (13.1%) and Krishna (12.3%). The lowest screening was reported in Kurnool (2.9%), Kadapa (3.6%) and Srikakulam (3.8%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/less-than-1-women-screened-for-breast-cancer-in-ap-survey/articleshow/79784871.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: No additional medical seats, high court told||CHENNAI: The National Medical Commission (NMC) on Thursday informed the Madras high court that additional seats cannot be created in 24 medical colleges in Tamil Nadu to accommodate candidates under the 7.5% reservation provided for students from government schools, as it requires prior sanction of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has repeatedly held that the high courts cannot order creation of such additional medical seats, V P Raman, counsel for NMC,said. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas moved by candidates who got allotted to self-finance medical colleges through reservation but opted to waitlist as they could not afford the fee. A day later, the state government announced that it would sponsor all such students who are allotted seats in self-financing colleges. Claiming that they would not have opted to waitlist if the announcement was made a day before during their counselling a batch of such students have moved the present petitions. During the course of hearing, Justice N Anand Venkatesh suggested creating additional seats as a onetime measure to accommodate the students totalling 60. However, in view of the submissions made by the NMC, the judge refrained from passing any such order. If such order is challenged and eventually reversed by the Apex Court it would be more cruel for the students, the judge said. Earlier, advocate-general Vijay Narayan informed the court that so far 11 MBBS seats have been reverted to the state quota from the all-India quota and in addition to 15 BDS seats. Therefore, as per the present status we have 26 seats which can be allotted to the students, he said. Representing a petitioner, senior advocate P Wilson submitted that priority must be given to students who are in the waitlist. As the AG also concurred with the submission, Justice Anand Venkatesh directed the authorities to conduct a separate counselling for such students after the conclusion of the second of regular counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-no-additional-medical-seats-high-court-told/articleshow/79788398.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||534 new Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, two deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh added 534 Covid-19 cases to its tally even as 498 people recovered on Thursday. The state reported two deaths taking the overall toll to 7,069. Twelve of the 13 districts in the state reported below 100 new infections. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state has increased to 8,77,348. According to the media bulletin released by the state command control room, the state tested 63,821 samples on Thursday. With this the total number of tests conducted in the state so far has increased to 1,10,65,297. Out of the 534 new cases detected on Thursday, the highest of 130 was reported from Chittoor followed by 74 in Krishna district, Guntur (54) and West Godavari (51). Kurnool saw the lowest of 13 cases in the state. With 498 recoveries on Thursday, as many as 8,65,825 people have been cured of the disease in the state. The state now has 4,454 active cases, out of which the highest of 838 are in Krishna district and the lowest of 73 in Vizianagaram. All the 13 districts have less than 850 active cases, as on Thursday. Meanwhile, Anantapur and West Godavari districts reported one death each. Chittoor has reported the most number of Covid-19 deaths (836) till now and Vizianagaram the least (238).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/534-covid-19-cases-in-ap-two-deaths/articleshow/79784880.cms||---
December 18, 2020||India||Nepal must learn from Lanka, be vigilant about China: CDS||NEW DELHI: Nepal should learn from other countries like Sri Lanka and stay vigilant in its dealings with China, said chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday, in remarks that may not go down well with the PM K P Sharma Oli-led government in Kathmandu. Noting that the “unique, deep and extensive” ties between India and Nepal have been built over centuries, Gen Rawat said, “In the present age, Nepal is also opening up to other nations, including China, based on its independent foreign policy”. “Here, I would like to stress that India’s goodwill comes with no strings attached. Nepal is free to exercise its choices in international affairs but it should stay vigilant and learn from some cases of Sri Lanka and other nations who signed agreements with other countries in the region,” he added. It was an obvious reference to the way China has entrapped several Asian and African countries in debt through infrastructure projects. India has concerns that China, with its infrastructure projects and other strategic inroads into Nepal, is working against New Delhi’s interests in the country. He emphasised the need for India and Nepal to further strengthen their ties for the “peace and prosperity of the people of both the countries, who are already inseparable”. Gen Rawat was addressing the annual dialogue between the Centre for Land Warfare Studies in New Delhi and the Nepal Institute for International Cooperation and Engagement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-must-learn-from-lanka-be-vigilant-about-china-cds/articleshow/79788400.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Maoists kill contractor, set vehicles ablaze||VISAKHAPATNAM: Maoists on Monday killed a contractor by slitting his throat and set ablaze three vehicles in protest against the construction of road in Goliaguda under Mattili police station limits in Odisha’s Malkangiri district which borders Visakhapatnam. The deceased contractor, Sukumar Mandal, was laying the road under the PMGSY scheme. The incident took place when Sukumar visited the work site where Maoists caught him and killed him on the spot. They then set ablaze the contractor’s vehicle and construction vehicles on the site. The militants left a poster at the incident with a warning to the administration.  Police suspect that the incident was an attempt by Maoists to make their presence felt in the district. On November 13, two Maoists were killed by security forces in an encounter at Singavaram forest which falls in the district’s Jodambo panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoists-kill-contractor-set-vehicles-ablaze/articleshow/79784890.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Magic metal scam: Four of gang arrested in Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Vizianagaram police on Thursday arrested four of a five-member gang for allegedly cheating people by luring them into investing in copper iridium, a compound believed to have ‘magical properties’. The gang is alleged to have duped two persons in Nellimarla of Rs 25 lakh. The accused have been identified as: Keerthi Lakshmana Rao (32), Dasari Srinivas (59), Chandaka Venkata Rao (54) and Pativada Appa Rao (54), all residents of Nellimarla and Pusapatirega area in Vizianagaram district. Police are on the lookout for one more person involved with the gang. Nellimarla police sub-inspector, L Damodhar, said that there are gangs carrying out rice-pulling scams convincing people to invest in machines or vessels that test copper iridium — an alloy which is claimed to have magical properties and is valuable for its magnetic power. The gangs go around demonstrating this quality by pulling rice, which is a trick, involving mixing the grains with iron particles, the sub-inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/magic-metal-scam-four-of-gang-arrested-in-vzm/articleshow/79784894.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vistadome coach train to Araku from tomorrow||VISAKHAPATNAM: The railways will re-operate the glass domed Vistadome coach between Visakhapatnam and Araku from December 19. The service was cancelled for nearly nine months following the Covid-19 induced curbs from March 22. The train service will be resumed from December 18, but the coach will be attached to the train from the next day. The coach will have 40 seats and the passenger fare is Rs 650. “Keeping in view the need of the tourists and public demand, we decided to provide additional stoppages at stations like Borra Caves and augmentation of the Araku train with Vistadome coach to provide a memorable and comfortable journey to the travelling public,” AK Tripathi, senior divisional commercial manager, Waltair division, said. According to the rescheduling timetable, the train 08514 Visakhapatnam-Araku-Kirandul special express will leave Visakhapatnam daily from 6.45am till January 20 to reach Araku at around 11am. In return direction the train 08513 Kirandul-Araku-Visakhapatnam special express will leave Araku daily at 4pm till January 21 to reach Visakhapatnam at 8.20pm. A new sleeper class also additionally attached apart from the Vistadome coach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vistadome-coach-train-to-araku-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79784908.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Srikakulam to clean up all water tanks||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following the outbreak of a ‘mysterious’ disease in Eluru for which hundreds of people had to be hospitalised, the Srikakulam District Water Management Agency (DWMA) has set decided to clean and develop all village tanks and ponds that serve as sources of drinking water. The project has been taken up to keep the water clean of hazardous elements such as pesticides and waste. Many tanks, brimming with water after recent rains, remain unused in Srikakulam. This is because of a purported lack of maintenance and the water not being clean enough to drink. Many village water tanks have even turned dumping yards. The DWMA has identified 10,629 tanks from all 2,356 villages under 38 mandals in Srikakulam district to clean up. These tanks will be developed as ‘model tanks’ by filtering water, cleaning up surroundings and provisioning benches and walking tracks. DWMA project director H Kurma Rao said that the agency plans to engage locals who will shoulder the main responsibility. “Our job is to develop the ponds and tanks. We will hand them over to villagers who will be solely responsible for cleaning and protecting their prime water source from open defecation and other hazardous elements,” Kurma Rao told TOI. The project director and his team have selected a pond at Pedapadu on the outskirts of Srikakulam to develop with a fund of Rs 15 lakh under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS). “We will first finish one pond by January. Then, on similar lines, we will cover the rest of the tanks by the end of 2021. It will be the first-of-a-kind task in the country if completed according to our plans,” added the project director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/srikakulam-to-clean-up-all-water-tanks/articleshow/79784921.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Asansol civic chief quits TMC; Adhikari loyalists follow suit||Kolkata: Asansol civic boss and Trinamool West Burdwan chairman Jitendra Tiwari gave up all posts and resigned from the party within hours of Suvendu Adhikari’s exit on Thursday. Tiwari didn’t even wait for the meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday despite the CM’s phone call a day before asking him to have patience till then. But, unlike Adhikari, Tiwari didn’t resign as MLA. “I was willing to wait till the meeting with Didi on Friday. That is why I gave up my civic post but didn’t quit the party. An hour into my resignation as Asansol administrator, some Trinamool men at the instruction of Kolkata party leaders vandalized the Pandabeswar MLA’s office. I realized it was time to leave,” Tiwari said. “People voted me to the Assembly from Pandabeswar. I will talk to them and take a decision,” he added. Tiwari’s resignation came a day after TMC rebels huddled themselves at disgruntled East Burdwan MP Sunil Mandal’s Kanksa residence in the presence of Adhikari. The Asansol civic head followed it up on Thursday morning by putting in his papers in the civic body and resigned from the district chairman’s post. Tiwari resigned from TMC hours later, citing the “attack” on his office at Haripur. He alleged that TMC block president Narendranath Chakraborty vandalized his office, prompting him to send his resignation to Trinamool president Subrata Bakshi. The rebel leader parried questions if the recent CBI investigation into the coal scam was a trigger to his hurried action. Taking the cue, three Tiwari loyalists from Kulti and Durgapur put in their papers. Trinamool West Burdwan general secretary and outgoing borough chairman of Durgapur Municipal Corporation severed ties with the party and also gave up the civic body post. Two leaders from Kulti also tendered their resignations. BJP Mahila Morcha president Agnimitra Paul however, said, she felt there was a popular discontent against Tiwari. “I have been receiving calls from people. None of them want Tiwari. He hasn’t done anything in past nine years and suddenly he realised that Asansol could have been made a Smart City. Everyone is eager to join BJP now and that is quite expected. It is up to the highest authority to decide if they want to induct him,” she said. Babul Supriyo tweeted: “When I said the same and repeated as to how Asansol has been deprived by Mamata Banerjee it always sounded like a political accusation. I am happy Jitendra Tiwari ji cud ultimately garner the courage to spell out the truth.” Adhikari’s exit also cascaded a few resignations. In Hooghly, Dankuni Municipality vice-chairman Debashis Mukherjee gave up his civic post. At West Midnapore, Trinamool Kishan-Khet Mazdoor cell president Dulal Mandal also put in his papers. (Inputs from Md Asif, Suman Mandal, Falguni Banerjee, Subhro Maitra and Sujoy Khanra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asansol-civic-chief-quits-tmc-adhikari-loyalists-follow-suit/articleshow/79786692.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata hospital set to conduct Sputnik V phase III vax trial||KOLKATA: The phase III clinical trial of Sputnik V — the Russia-made candidate vaccine for Covid-19 — will be conducted in the city at Peerless Hospital. The institute is expecting a DCGI (Drug Control General of India) clearance soon for it to start from the first week of January. The hospital’s ethics committee met on Thursday and approved the trial. “The phase III trial of Sputnik V vaccine will be conducted on 1,500 healthy volunteers from acro-ss the country,” said Snehendu Koner, head of business development with CliniMed LifeSciences, a site management organization for drug and vaccine trials which is looking after site selection in Bengal on behalf of Dr Reddy’s, the pharma major that has joined hands with Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for the trial of Sputnik V, as well as its distribution in India. “It will involve 100 volunteers at Peerless,” he added. The approval by the hospital’s ethics committee will be forwarded to Dr Reddy’s on Friday. The latter, in turn, will forward it to the DCGI. “We will start the trial once we get DGCI’s nod. The vaccines should hopefully arrive by the first week of January,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, clinical research director at Peerless Hospital, who will be the principal investigator of the trial. Like the Covaxin phase III trial, currently on at ICMR-NICED Kolkata, the Sputnik V trial will be double-blinded placebo-controlled, where half of the volunteers would get the actual vaccine and the others a placebo. The Covaxin trial period is a year, but the Spuntnik V trial woluld be a six-month study. “Each volunteer will get a second shot 21 days after the first shot. There will be an antibody test on day 42, and the volunteer will be followed up for 180 days,” said Bhowmick. Koner said the volunteers who get the placebo “would not be denied the actual vaccine after analysis of the trial opens up.” CliniMed LifeSciences has already started mobilizing volunteers in anticipation. Peerless, too, will start enrolling volunteers. Apart from Peerless, 15 other sites across the country would be conducting phase III trials of Sputnik V on a total of 1,500 volunteers. College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital was the first institute in Bengal that was selected for phase II trial of this candidate vaccine. But the government-run medical college missed the phase II trial as approvals did not arrive on time. But it is likely to be part of the phase III trial as the college’s ethics committee meeting is likely to take place soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-hospital-set-to-conduct-sputnik-v-phase-iii-vax-trial/articleshow/79787517.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||BJP hopes for more TMC desertions||Hooghly/Kolkata: Bengal BJP leaders saw in Suvendu Adhikari’s exit clear signs of Trinamool Congress losing grip on its ranks. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said many more from Trinamool were set to follow in Adhikari’s footsteps while BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy said the Trinamool tally would slide below 100 in the coming assembly polls. “Suvendu Adhikari is not alone. Many Trinamool leaders will jump off the sinking ship now,” Ghosh said. The BJP leader said his party’s doors were open for Trinamool workers who were “suffocating” in that party. “There is a rush to desert Trinamool. Everyone is trying to jump off the sinking boat now. It is quite logical. A day will come when TMC will be left with a handful of leaders. Everyone will desert the party. It will be a sad day for them,” Ghosh said at Hooghly’s Baikunthapur on Thursday. Ghosh alleged that the Trinamool brass had beefed up surveillance on their partymen. “Many of them are on the party’s radar. But such policing cannot keep Trinamool intact,” he said. Roy had little doubt about Trinamool’s electoral fate. “In politics, one has to be with the people. The slide begins the moment a party loses its connection with the grassroots, its workers. This party (Trinamool) will gradually become a one-member party,” he said. The BJP leader took a dig at Trinamool’s attempt to brand his party’s functionares outsiders. “It seems Bengal is outside India. Nobody will believe them now,” Roy said. Bengal BJP leader Samik Bandyopadhyay said Adhikari had kickstarted a trend that would continue till December-end. “Trinamool should be worried as this will continue now. Given the trend, we can at most expect them as a strong opposition in the state after 2021 (polls),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-hopes-for-more-tmc-desertions/articleshow/79786807.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Haldibari rail route from B’desh opens after 55 years||Haldibari (Cooch Behar): A goods train with 33 bogeys flagged off from Bangladesh on Thursday revived the Chilahati-Haldibari rail route after 55 years amid thunderous cheers on both sides of the border. The train, flagged off by Bangladesh railway minister Nurul Islam Sujon, was greeted by thousands as it reached Zero Point from Chilahati station. It chugged into India at Haldibari around 2pm. “It’s like a dream come true. We are now looking forward to passenger trains on this route. We have heard stories of how Darjeeling Mail, pulled by a steam engine, used to run from Sealdah to Siliguri along this route,” said Haldibari resident Sajal Chakraborty. Darjeeling Mail, one of the oldest trains between Kolkata and north Bengal, could be among the first passenger trains to operate on the revived route three months later. It will save nearly five hours between Sealdah and New Jalpaiguri Station (NJP). While flagging off the goods train, Sujon reportedly announced that a passenger train would ply from Dhaka to Siliguri three times a week from March 26, and trains from NJP would go to Sealdah via Bangladesh’s Chilahati, Domar, Toronbari, Nilfamari, Sayeedpur, Darshana and Parbatipur before entering India through the Gede border.  Loco master Amal Sarkar said: “This is a prestigious moment for us as we have been entrusted the job of taking the engine from Chilahati to Haldibari. We are honoured.” The goods train had two drivers, assistant drivers and guards each. The NJP ADRM and other railway officers received the train at Haldibari. Thursday’s launch has made five of six India-Bangladesh rail links operational. The other four connecting West Bengal with Bangladesh are Petrapole-Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singhabad-Rohanpur and Radhikapur-Birol. The Haldibari-Chilahati route is expected to enhance Bangladesh’s connectivity to Assam too. Work is progressing on the rail link connecting Agartala in Tripura and Akhaura. The 180 BSF battalion will be deployed at the International Check Post, Haldibari to man gates on the rail track. The 65 BSF Battalion looks after the border in this sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/haldibari-rail-route-from-bdesh-opens-after-55-years/articleshow/79787007.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||EC Bengal in-charge meets officials to ensure fair polls||Kolkata: Deputy election commissioner and in-charge of West Bengal Sudip Jain, during his meeting with officials, DMs and SPs of south Bengal on Thursday, made it clear that the panel was committed to conduct free and fair polls and if needed, might declare all booths in the state sensitive. Jain also met chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and said EC wanted cooperation from the state to conduct free and fair polls in this ‘new normal’ situation. “The commission has asked all DMs and SPs to send daily report to the commission and identify trouble-mongers from now so that none of them stay outside once there is election notification. The commission is keeping a close watch on the law and order situation and will take all possible steps so that all voters can give their votes,” a senior official in the CEO office said. Considering the recent allegations by the opposition, the EC wants to give a level-playing field to all parties. The deputy election commissioner ensured that it was the duty of EC to bring all voters to booths and for that, there would be no dearth of central forces, the official added. The EC wanted state officials to follow the Bihar model and so Bihar CEO H R Srinivas — who successfully conducted the Bihar assembly polls amid the Covid pandemic — virtually participated in the meeting and explained the possible measures to be taken. “The proposals for increase of booths, numerous resting places so that people do not crowd outside booths and security arrangements were discussed,” the official added. In the evening, Jain met Bandopadhyay. Jain asked the chief secretary to arrange for an adequate number of BLOs so that correction of voters’ list can be done properly, the official said. Speaking after meeting Jain, TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee said: “We have told the commission BJP is attacking chief minister Mamata Banerjee in a malicious language and this is not healthy for free and fair polls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-bengal-in-charge-meets-officials-to-ensure-fair-polls/articleshow/79787126.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||IPS officers assigned new posts. Brazen move to control state: CM||Kolkata: The Centre on Thursday informed the state government and three Bengal-cadre IPS officers marked for “central deputation” that they were being posted in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the Bureau of Police Research and Development for a period of three to five years. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee called it a “blatant misuse of emergency provisions” of the law and aimed at “demoralising officers serving in Bengal”. The state government would not allow “this brazen attempt by the centre to control the state machinery by proxy”, she added. Officials here indicated that the state government was likely to dig its heels in, leading to an escalation that could head to the court. The three IPS officers — South Bengal inspector-general Rajeev Mishra, Presidency Range deputy inspector-general Praveen Kumar Tripathi and Diamond Harbour superintendent Bholanath Pandey — were in charge of overseeing BJP national president JP Nadda’s security arrangements last week when his convoy heading towards Diamond Harbour was pelted with stones. The Union ministry of home affairs notice assigned Mishra to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Tripathi to the Sasashtra Seema Bal and Pandey to the Bureau of Police Research and Development. Mishra and Tripathi have got the maximum five-year central deputation tenure, Pandey a three-year deputation. Banerjee called the central move “despite the state’s objection... a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provisions of IPS Cadre Rules (1954)”. “This act is a deliberate attempt to encroach on the state’s jurisdiction and demoralise officers serving in Bengal. This move, particularly before the elections, is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It is unconstitutional and completely unacceptable! We will not allow this brazen attempt by the centre to control the state machinery by proxy! Bengal is not going to cow down to expansionist and undemocratic forces,” she tweeted. The centre on November 10 told states to nominate IPS officers for central deputation to fill up vacancies at various levels, adding that some states were not meeting the requirement of sending 40% of officers. This stipulates that Bengal has to send around 75 officers for central deputation. It has sent only 12, arguing that it has far fewer officers at its disposal than its quota of 347 IPS officers. The list for December says ITBP has seven vacancies at the inspector-general level, the SSB has 23 vacancies at the deputy inspector-general level and BPR&D six vacancies at the superintendent of police level. But the central government letter, officials here say, is “without immediate precedence”. The state government usually sends across an offer list (none of the three IPS officers figured on that list). “Handpicking officers for central deputation and bypassing the established practice of consulting state governments is something new here. The Election Commission has done this in Bengal, dispatching an officer to report to Delhi at short notice and directly appointing officers bypassing the state’s proposals, but we must keep in mind that the EC derives enormous powers from Article 324 of the Constitution,” a senior bureaucrat said. “But all-India service norms come under Article 312 of the Constitution, where the thrust is on a more consensual approach,” he said but added that the centre would be “the referee for any dispute”. Officials here said the case was a throwback to the Jayalalithaa regime’s legal stand-off with the centre on a similar issue early last decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ips-officers-assigned-new-posts-brazen-move-to-control-state-cm/articleshow/79787474.cms||Saibal Sen
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||CRPF seeks Shah security details from Bengal govt||Kolkata/Midnapore: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has written to the West Bengal government seeking details of security arrangements made for Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit beginning Friday night. The central security agency wants the state to send the plan by Friday afternoon. The Centre’s concern over Shah’s security follows complaints of security lapses after BJP president J P Nadda’s convoy was attacked on its way from Kolkata to Diamond Harbour on December 10. CRPF authorities want the state to follow all measures laid down by protocol. Shah will reach Kolkata on Friday night and leave for a public meeting in Midnapore on Saturday morning. In Kolkata, the Union minister is expected to visit many places and meet people. Shah will call on Shahid Khudiram Bose’s aunt at her home. Siddheswari Kali Temple will be Shah’s next stop. He will leave for the Karna Garh temple in Midnapore on Saturday and have lunch with a mason’s family there. Shah will then address the rally at Midnapore College Grounds. On December 20, the BJP leader will visit Visva-Bharati. Midnapore Police held a meeting on Thursday to give final touches to security arrangements. Unlike 2018, when a shamiana built for the audience collapsed while Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered his speech, police ruled out any such arrangement this time. Bengal BJP leaders expect a huge turnout at Shah’s rally, where many from Trinamool will join the show. “Bengal is now a top priority for the Prime Minister and the home minister. The PM used the photo of Cooch Behar Palace as backdrop during his virtual meeting with Bangladesh premier Sheikh Hasina. Last week, he had used a photo of Dakshineswar temple during India-Uzbekistan summit,” a state BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crpf-seeks-shah-security-details-from-bengal-govt/articleshow/79787086.cms||Sujoy Khanra
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu won polls because of Mamata, says Trinamool MP||Kolkata: Allaying fears that Suvendu Adhikari’s defection might bleed the party, Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha MP Saugata Roy on Thursday said the rebel leader was a political pygmy compared to party chief Mamata Banerjee and won elections only because of her. Roy reminded that Suvendu had lost both an assembly poll and a Lok Sabha election before he became an MLA in 2006 with Banerjee’s backing. He said it was she — and not Suvendu alone — who propelled Nandigram to the national stage. The MP, who was leading the now-failed attempt to placate Suvendu, said the latter was no “palowan (heavyweight)” in Bengal politics. “Even in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamool lost seats in districts where he was asked to oversee party affairs. In Bankura and West Midnapore, we lost four seats. He may have a pocket of influence in East Midnapore, but had it not been for Mamata Banerjee, it would have been impossible for him to grow in political stature on his own. Yes, it is a setback, but we will recover lost ground,” Roy said. The TMC veteran stressed that “pre-election stunts and aaya-ram-gaya-raam politics” was unacceptable in Bengal. “Joining BJP, which swears by Hindutva, is against Trinamool ideologies. In Bengal, principles and ideologies matter. People here vote for ideological convictions. The BJP is trying to do here what it has done in other states, like MP and Karnataka, but Bengal is different. There is no leader close to Mamata Banerjee’s stature,” Roy said. State panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee said “a few leaders going away” would make no impact on a several lakh-strong party base. “The party is about lakhs of workers and their faith in Mamata Banerjee. Even if a few leaders like me or someone else goes, it will make no impact,” he said. Trinamool state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “With due respect, people who are leaving the party have enjoyed plum positions in the government. They now want more. Citing ideological differences is misplaced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-won-polls-because-of-mamata-says-trinamool-mp/articleshow/79786741.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Vadodara||Croc-infested rivulet cleaned up||VADODARA: The next time you stand over the bridge beside MS University’s (MSU) commerce faculty near Kalaghoda junction, chances are that you may able to sight not just a crocodile but a Gangetic flapshell turtle in the Bhukhi Nullah. Around 200 students of MSU’s science faculty cleaned the crocodile infested stretch of the rivulet under the United National Environment Programme’s (UNEP) Plastic Tide Turner Challenge in February this year. UNEP has now recognized their efforts and published their story about how the abode of the crocodiles and flapshell turtle has been revived, although on a small stretch, on its website. “I was the first student from MSU to participate in the challenge and I selected Bhukhi Nullah since I had to dedicate myself to a river or stream under the challenge,” said Sneha Shahi, who led the students in cleaning the rivulet. Shahi completed her post-graduation in environmental sciences in August. During the cleaning work they removed 300 kg of waste including plastic, thermocol, glass bottles and construction debris. A lot of the waste was sent for recycling. Cleaning work was the part of first phase of challenge. “The first phase was about monitoring, mapping and quality assessment of the stream while the second phase was about biological assessment and implying biological structures,” Shahi added. The second phase could not start due to the lockdown. “We knew that there were turtles including flapshell in Bhukhi Nullah, but they were never sighted. After the clean up we could see and identify it very well,” Shahi said. It was immediately after the cleaning work that students had seen a 12-foot long crocodile near the bridge connecting the science faculty with DN Hall campus. “If cleaning work in this small stretch could bring such change, then if the garbage coming from the upstream is stopped, the rivulet can breathe again,” said professor Kauresh Vachhrajani, head of environmental sciences department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/un-recognizes-msu-students-efforts-to-revive-croc-infested-bhukhi-nullah/articleshow/79783722.cms||---
December 18, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu quits TMC, all eyes on Shah visit to his home turf||KOLKATA: Suvendu Adhikari finally resigned from the Trinamool Congress on Thursday, paving the way for his formally joining the BJP. Thursday’s move — the final break with the party with which he has spent more than two decades and much of his political career — caps a series of resignations over the last three weeks from various government posts and comes two days before Union home minister Amit Shah is due to address a BJP rally in Midnapore. “I am thankful for all the challenges and opportunities afforded to me,” the resignation letter addressed to Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee said. He would “always value the time” he spent with the Trinamool, the letter added, without casting any aspersion on either his old party or any of his former colleagues. Read AlsoDidi aide Suvendu Adhikari exits TMC, sparks a spate of resignationsFormer Bengal minister and estranged Mamata Banerjee aide Suvendu Adhikari quit Trinamool Congress on Thursday, taking the third and possibly final step in his journey to BJP and opening the floodgates for a bunch of resignations by his loyalists and at least one disgruntled senior colleague — MLAThe Trinamool called the resignation “a drama on a delayed reawakening of the conscience”. “BJP old-timers will not get a chair in their party office, given the manner in which these ‘tatkal’ BJP leaders are flocking to their party,” Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. The BJP reacted with confidence, with state president Dilip Ghosh saying this was the start of a process that would end with everyone — except CM Banerjee, her nephew and party MP, Abhishek Banerjee, and minister Firhad Hakim — leaving the party. Read AlsoAsansol civic chief quits TMC; Adhikari loyalists follow suitKolkata: Asansol civic boss and Trinamool West Burdwan chairman Jitendra Tiwari gave up all posts and resigned from the party within hours of Suvendu Adhikari’s exit on Thursday. Tiwari didn’t even wait for the meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday despite the CM’s phone call a dayGovernor Jagdeep Dhankhar, too, waded into the issue on Thursday, forwarding a letter written by Adhikari — where he spoke of his apprehensions of being harassed by state government agencies — to CM Banerjee. Assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, however, said Adhikari did not follow some rules while resigning as an MLA and added that he was looking into the issue. Adhikari maintained he was “ethically right”. “I am ignoring this entire issue. The speaker may, at the most, call me to verify my signature. Ethically, I am right,” Adhikari said. Late-evening reports said Adhikari had reached Bhubaneswar and was flying to Delhi to meet senior BJP leaders. He might fly back to Bengal on Friday night along with Shah, his aides said. The Trinamool Congress has maintained Adhikari’s leaving the party has nothing to do with ideology and everything to do with “the hunger for power”. Party senior MP Saugata Roy, who was negotiating with Adhikari on the Trinamool’s behalf till December 2, has blamed Adhikari’s “deputy CM-CM aspirations”. Grassroots party workers reacted with anger, with posters bearing Adhikari pictures being torn off in East Burdwan’s Kanksa and even on his home turf, Contai, in East Midnapore. Trinamool workers, in a sign of what might follow, took control of Adhikari’s party office in Haldia. But his resignation — and his imminent move to formally align with the BJP — means the Trinamool will have to reorganise its strategy in a vast swathe of south and central Bengal. The focus now will be on the rest of the Adhikari clan, which wields considerable influence in East Midnapore: family patriarch Sisir Adhikari is Contai MP; one brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, is Tamluk MP; and another brother, Soumendu Adhikari, is the Contai Municipality chairman. Adhikari’s influence extends to several other Bengal districts, like Murshidabad and neighbouring West Midnapore (where he has been the party’s minder), as well. Adhikari has been raising his dissidence quotient since end-November. He first quit the chairmanship of the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners on November 26 and then resigned from the state cabinet a day later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-quits-tmc-all-eyes-on-shah-visit-to-his-home-turf/articleshow/79787478.cms||---
