December 19, 2020||Chennai||Sanchita Shetty looks elegant at The Luxury Affair event at ITC Grand Chola||When the holiday season approaches, it’s all about social gatherings and light-hearted conversations around vacation plans and shopping. And these folks were spotted at one such do, where hearty conversations and laughter filled the air. Among others, a couple of celebs, too, were spotted at this event. While actresses Vimala Raman and Ineya made fashion statements, sporting chic dresses, Sanchita turned heads as she walked in, wearing an elegant sari. Whereas, television host Bhavna turned up in a one-shoulder dress and rocked her look by complementing it with a choker necklace and smokey eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sanchita-shetty-looks-elegant-at-the-luxury-affair-event-at-itc-grand-chola-chennai/articleshow/79797718.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: ‘Missing’ health officer surfaces after 60 hours||BENGALURU: Under pressure from various quarters after he began cracking down against quacks and pharmacies indulging in unethical business practices, a health officer sent his family members and police into a tizzy by remaining incommunicado for more than two days. He switched off his mobile phones and drove for over 800km before making contact. The man on the move was Manjunath HA, a taluk health officer at Hoskote, on the outskirts of Bengaluru. Manjunath, who had gone off the radar around 8pm on December 15, surfaced on Friday morning and told cops that he drove around aimlessly as he was disturbed by threat calls. Manjunath’s family and friends had approached Hoskote police and lodged a missing person’s complaint. His friend R Gopalkrishna said in the complaint: “Manjunath is a friend of mine. Recently, he had raided Sujata clinic on College Road, Hoskote and seized some material. On the afternoon of December 15, a few men, including Jayaraj and Balu, shouted at Manjunath for raiding the clinic and threatened him to return the seized material. On the same day around 8pm, he went incommunicado as both his mobiles were switched off.” By Thursday, 10 special teams were formed to trace Manjunath. Since his mobiles were switched off, they started tracking CCTV footage of toll gates in and around Bengaluru. By evening, one team found that Manjunath’s car had passed Nelamangala toll gate on Bengaluru-Pune Highway and headed towards Hassan. Three teams reached Hassan by night and began a search for Manjunath. Meanwhile, he called superintendent of police, Bengaluru Rural, Ravi Channannavar on Friday (between 6and 8am). “I saw on TV that your men are looking for me. I am fine. I will come and meet you,” he told Channannavar, who directed him to visit Nelamangala police station. Channannavar told reporters they are probing the matter. When asked about the threats faced by Manjunath, the SP said: “We will take a statement from Manjunath and then proceed with investigation.” Manjunath said he had panicked after what happened. “A few men threatened me on Tuesday for raiding the clinic. I approached police, who pacified them. But the threats continued and I decided to leave Hoskote,” he said. He first drove his car to Chikkaballapura and then to Ramanagara before dropping into Mysuru on Wednesday morning. “From Mysuru he went to Nanjanagud and then to Madikeri. Later, he visited Mangaluru and returned to Hassan,” Channannavar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/missing-health-officer-surfaces-after-60-hours/articleshow/79803619.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Don’t give sermons on fundamental rights: Karnataka court to petitioner||BENGALURU: The high court pulled up the CPI(M) for not properly understanding the case which pertained to a rally held in Bengaluru on December 5. In its affidavit, the party, which has been arrayed as a party-respondent, made an attempt to emphasise its fundamental right to protest. Pointing out that the PIL is for implementing MHA guidelines during the pandemic, chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said the party should not give sermons on fundamental rights and the court will not approve it. He added that nobody’s fundamental right to hold protest is being infringed upon by the court. Sensing the mood of the court, counsel for the party apologised and said it was not their intention. The court directed the Bengaluru city police commissioner to file an affidavit indicating whether any rally was held in the city on December 5, when the Karnataka bandh call was given, and any action initiated by police regarding non-compliance of health protocols as listed in the SOP. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka gave this direction after the government submitted that no rally was allowed that day. The petitioners, on the other hand, insisted a rally took place. In the statement filed in court, it was stated that Rs 250 fine was collected from 181 persons for not wearing or improper wearing of masks and 32 persons were fined for violations of social-distancing norms. The government also indicated by way of notification issued on December 9, the fine amount under Epidemic Diseases Act Regulation has been reduced to Rs 10,000. The next hearing on the PIL filed by Letzkit Foundation, a Bengaluru-based NGO, is on January 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/court-to-petitioner-dont-give-sermons-on-fundamental-rights/articleshow/79803637.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Auto driver held for raping girl in grove||BENGALURU: An autorickshaw driver was arrested on Thursday on charges of driving a passenger to an isolated place and sexually assaulting her on December 10. The girl’s accurate description of the accused and his vehicle and police’s effort to collect 20 CCTV images between Thanisandra and Nagawara traffic junctions helped track the driver. The accused is Devanahalli resident Mubarak Pasha, 28, who is married and has two minor kids. The 18-year-old girl is a computer science student, who funds her education and family expenses by working as an usherette in marriage functions. Police said the girl boarded the auto near Thanisandra bus stop on December 9 and Pasha took her to an isolated place after driving for 1.5km. He pushed her into a grove and raped her before leaving her behind. The girl reached home and filed a complaint next day after she was persuaded by her friend. Based on her complaint, police registered a case under IPC section 376. The girl told police she lives with her mother and is studying final-year computer science. During her spare time, she had taken up the job of hosting/welcoming guests at wedding halls. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/auto-driver-held-for-raping-girl-in-grove/articleshow/79803638.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Police couple with no kids found hanging||BENGALURU: A police couple was found dead on Friday morning: Suresh, 34, attached with Sampigehalli subdivision’s ACP office, and wife Sheela, 36, with city intelligence, Bengaluru, were found hanging at their Kothanur house. Suresh from Kolar and Sheela from Chikkamagaluru fell in love and got married 10 years ago, but they were unhappy since they had no kids, police said. Neighbours said they had an argument on Thursday night and Sheela locked herself in one room while he slept in another. Next day at 6am, Suresh woke up and knocked on Sheela’s door but there was no response. He then peeped through the window and found her hanging. Police said Suresh sent messages through WhatsApp to two colleagues and Sheela’s sister, telling them to rush to his house. But before they could arrive, he went to his room and hanged himself. Police said no suicide notes were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/police-couple-with-no-kids-found-hanging/articleshow/79803642.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||M Venkaiah Naidu urges media to be wary of fake news, false crusades||The 24-hour news cycle in the era of instant journalism has blurred the lines between news and fake news, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said and urged media to exercise caution in dissemination of information. Delivering the MV Kamat Memorial Endowment Lecture on ‘Journalism: Past, Present and Future’ on Friday, Naidu expressed concern over proliferation of fake news which has put “journalism at crossroads”. He referred to the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, saying, “Journalism based on taking up false crusades as witnessed in the case of suicide of a film actor recently, is a fellow traveller. Both are aimed at increasing readership and viewership and should be avoided.” He added that technology has caused disruption in the media space, and while social media has given people a wider canvas to express themselves freely, “the world is witnessing the downside of it in the absence of self-regulation and protocols. In this era of saturated information and over-abundance of news, the very news is getting devalued”. Naidu also dwelt on the struggles of the print industry, saying it has been “hijacked” by social- media giants and said India must also evolve appropriate revenue-sharing models for the survival of traditional media. He said news and views must remain strictly separate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/venkaiah-urges-media-to-be-wary-of-fake-news-false-crusades/articleshow/79803647.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No decision yet to deduct four-day wages during strike||BENGALURU: State-run bus corporations said no decision has been taken so far to deduct the pay of transport employees who participated in the four-day strike. KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC dismissed as baseless complaints of some unions that 200 employees who participated in the protests from December 11 were suspended. KSRTC said a few FIRs have been registered against those involved in assaulting staffers who reported for duty and those who blocked buses. “Action has been taken against 13 KSRTC employees,” the utility said, adding the issue of deducting salaries during the strike period will be discussed at the board or government level. BMTC said they have taken action against three employees for assaulting on-duty staff during the strike, while NEKRTC said action was initiated against nine employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-decision-yet-to-deduct-4-day-wages-during-strike/articleshow/79803652.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Former BJP MLA held with 16 live bullets at Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport||BENGALURU: A former BJP MLA from Lingsugur in Raichur district was nabbed at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) with 16 live bullets, compatible with a .32mm-caliber pistol, in his handbag. Sleuths from Central Industrial Security Force seized the ammunition and handed him over to Bengaluru police. Airport sources identified the politician as Manappa D Vajjal, 60, who was to travel to Hyderabad on Wednesday via Air India flight AI 568, scheduled to depart at 1pm from KIA. A CISF team, which was carrying out security checks on passengers and their hand luggage, spotted something unusual when Vajjal’s handbag passed through the scanner. Officers soon intercepted the BJP functionary and opened the bag in his presence to find 16 live bullets of a .32mm caliber handgun. Following preliminary probe, the airport security team handed Vajjal over to KIA police for further investigation and legal action, sources added. In a similar case on Tuesday evening, another CISF team unearthed a single bullet of a .32mm caliber handgun from the wallet of a passenger, who was identified as Faisal Kazi from Dharwad. It was spotted during screening of his hand luggage before he was scheduled to board IndiGo flight 6E 181 from Bengaluru to Mangaluru. Kazi was also handed over to KIA police, airport sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ex-mla-held-with-16-live-bullets-at-kia/articleshow/79803655.cms||Petlee Peter
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Traffic to be studied for high-speed rail lines||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: The proposed Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru high-speed rail corridor seems to be on track with the Centre undertaking preparatory work so that land can be acquired and construction can begin on time. National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) will soon conduct a traffic study for the four proposed high-speed rail corridors, including the 435-km line between Chennai and Mysuru, to assess travel demand and prepare a detailed project report. Though the Centre will prioritise Mumbai-Ahmedabad and Delhi-Varanasi routes, the corporation is working simultaneously to complete groundwork for other corridors. By January first week, an agency will be identified for the study, which is supposed to be completed in 180 days. The traffic survey will be done because detailed project report for the four lines — Chennai-Bengaluru-Mysuru, Mumbai-Hyderabad (711km), Delhi-Amritsar (459km), Varanasi-Howrah (760km) — is being prepared, said an official. The main objective is to assess existing traffic characteristics and estimate the travel demand for high-speed rail systems on the route for 20 years. Experts say such corridors will reduce journey time by 50%. The Mysuru-Bengaluru-Chennai route can be covered in around one and half hours. Travel demand assessment will include ridership on the proposed routes, station load and section loads between stations and peak hour/peak direction traffic. Traffic data of road, rail and air travel for the past five years, fare structure, population density, urban development, the need for travel, category of travellers and other details will also be gathered so that travel demand modelling can be done for the 435km route. Lidar-based technology and cameras may be used to track vehicle count. “The study will also help the authorities prioritise a route for construction. If a route has good travel demand and has people who are ready to take high-speed trains, the government may push for construction of the line first. After the DPR is prepared and alignment is fixed, the state government will have to acquire land,” said a railway official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/traffic-to-be-studied-for-high-speed-rail-lines/articleshow/79803660.cms||V Ayyappan
December 19, 2020||India||Quad officials meet virtually, discuss ways for cooperation on countering disinformation, Covid response||NEW DELHI: The senior officials from the United States, Australia, India, and Japan met virtually today as part of regular Quad consultations to advance a "free, open, and inclusive" Indo-Pacific region, according to a statement released by the US State Department. Quad is the informal grouping of US, Australia, Japan and India. The four nations discussed "practical ways" to cooperate on countering disinformation, to "strengthen" supply chain resiliency, and to coordinate efforts to support countries vulnerable to malign and coercive economic actions in the Indo-Pacific region. The officials also explored opportunities for future Quad engagement on humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, coordinating efforts on Covid-19 response and vaccines and expanding coordination in multilateral forums, including the United Nations and related organizations. During the meeting, the officials reviewed recent strategic developments throughout the Indo-Pacific region, including the South China Sea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the Mekong sub-region. “The four countries welcome the opportunity to continue regular consultations, including at the Ministerial, senior official, and working levels as a testament to the growing diversity and depth of engagement among the Quad members,” the department said. The meeting between the officials comes after the foreign ministers from four Indo-Pacific nations - India, US, Japan and Australia met in Tokyo on October 6, 2020. which aimed at countering China's growing assertiveness in the region. The meeting had drawn an irksome response from the Chinese back then, wherein Beijing cautioned the four nations not to form "exclusive cliques" that threaten the interests of third parties. (With agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/quad-officials-meet-virtually-discuss-ways-for-cooperation-on-countering-disinformation-covid-response/articleshow/79803487.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||College Street turns over a new leaf post Amphan and lockdown lessons||The pandemic induced lockdown and cyclone Amphan – 2020 was a double whammy of sorts for the myriad bookstores dotting College Street. Unattended stocks worth lakhs got infested with termites and even more got washed away like paper boats. The heartbreaking images that went viral online made all of us wonder if the double tragedy would sound the death knell for what the city endearingly likes to address as boipara. However, even before bidding adieu to this year, College Street has got on the path to recovery by shedding old-school methods and exploring new techniques like online transactions and a fresh supply chain with bicycle riders and bikers. From negligible digital footprint, boipara is gradually warming up to the concept of e-reading. Unsurmountable lossesAmong the most horrific memories of cyclone Amphan, the photos of the floating books in the muddy waters of College Street continue to haunt regulars. As per estimates, books worth more than Rs 50-60 lakh were destroyed by the cyclone. “It literally felt like our legacy, our profession, was drowning in this catastrophic year,” recalled Subhankar Dey of Dey’s Publishing. “From March, it was heartbreaking to see the buzzing neighbourhood of College Street in the silence of death during the lockdown. Then came the Amphan mayhem, after which we realised that we can’t afford to give up. The one thing that these nine months have taught us is that no matter what, we have to reach out to the readers. There has always been an underexplored world of digital marketing, e-books, audiobooks and so on. We have started focusing more on that now,” he said. From cash-only to digitalElaborating on this paradigm shift, publisher Avik Sarkar of BoiChoi, a Bengali books selling portal, said, “The market that had so far avoided even the idea of online payments suddenly realised that it’s a do-or-die situation. The orthodox boipara has started thinking of adapting to a digital marketing model, new supply chain and expanding their knowledge about books and readership beyond the dingy alleys of College Street. Right now, there is an undercurrent between those who provide heavily discounted books but have poor service and those who provide uninterrupted customer service but less discounted books online. The virtual fistfight over capturing the online market is a very good sign for a space where there has hardly been any stir in the recent past. Covid and Amphan have changed the perception of boipara.” The market is yet to get back on its feet with the pandemic fear looming large, but Subhankar says, “There has been a four to five fold increase in online demand compared to the pre-Covid era.” A brand new supply chainSeveral publishing houses have created biker gangs to supply books across Kolkata and some of them have even tied up with India Post to reach all over the country. Many youngsters have started delivering books on bibliophiles' doorsteps using their two-wheelers. Tarun Shaw, who has been delivering books on his scooter for the last 34 years, became a victim of depression in the lockdown. “Initially, I saw it as a small break from the crazy life we were leading. But when the cash stopped flowing in and the book stocks and savings started declining, I literally went into depression. Even during the unlocking period, the officers whom I supplied books for decades restricted my entry. That was a really bad time. But this pandemic taught me not to give up. Soon after the lockdown ended, I started getting orders from the far interiors of the city. Earlier, I used to sell books to designated offices, but now that has diversified. The profit margin has reduced, but that is just a small price to pay for reclaiming my lost business,” he said. New readers, new booksThe only positive impact of the pandemic was the emergence of new readers. “That is the most optimistic side of the story,” said Tridib Chatterjee of Patra Bharati and the president of Publishers & Booksellers Guild. “The period between April and June was the worst. I saw how small publishers literally succumbed to the pressure. Then we got new readers, as work from home and restricted social life inspired many people to either start or get back to the practice of reading. There is a rise in demand and many of the new readers are repeat customers. Though small publishers are still struggling due to the enormous loss that they had to incur, that slight rise in readership is what we are pinning our hopes on. Some of the bigger publishers have also started publishing new books,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/college-street-turns-over-a-new-leaf-post-amphan-and-lockdown-lessons/articleshow/79804772.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
December 19, 2020||India||Unilateral actions by some nations hurt Indian Ocean Region equilibrium: Army vice chief||BENGALURU: Lt Gen SK Saini, vice chief of army staff, on Friday said India’s role in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) is now a strategic obligation and not just a choice anymore. Reiterating the economic and strategic importance, Saini said India would need to have a robust roadmap to implement its strategy for the region amidst increased threat perceptions. Its strategic location, economic and otherwise, and the slow but steady shift of power from the West to East have made the IOR a hub of global geo-political rivalry, Saini said as part of the Aero India webinar series organised by the Indian Military Review and Centre for Joint Warfare Studies with the ministry of defence. Increasing interests of extra-regional forces and other non-traditional threats have made the region volatile and a potential global battlefield, Saini said and added: “While non-state actors and piracy threaten security and peace, unilateral actions by some nations are hurting the equilibrium.” While he did not name any specific country, Saini said such actions were causing turbulence and giving rise to an intense superpower rivalry. “...Some nations are not just questioning rights of the IOR nations to utilise their exclusive economic zones, but are also threatening the sovereignty of some of the strategic islands,” he said, adding that India’s role in the region, therefore, is now a strategic obligation in quest of peace and stability in the region. Saini, while stating how global powers want to partner with India, appreciated the navy for its role in the IOR. “International engagement will be an important aspect towards maintaining peace and security in the region,” Saini said. Chinese AggressionIn a specific discussion on Chinese challenges to India's interests in the IOR, experts, including serving and retired Indian officers and experts from the US and Australia expressed concerns over the growing Chinese presence. Rear admiral Jaswinder Singh, assistant chief of naval staff (foreign cooperation & intelligence), while echoing Saini’s comments said it was imperative that India further its role as a preferred security partner in the region. Retired rear admiral of the US navy, Michael McDevitt pointed out how compared to eight years ago when the first vessel was deployed in the IOR, China is now looking at its 36th deployment, and said: “In the past few years, China hasn’t been hesitant in deployment of submarines too, and we may soon have a situation where they are in the region full-time. There is also the threat of aircraft carriers.” Ex-navy chief Admiral (retd) Arun Prakash said that an intrusive and aggressive China poses a looming threat and pointed out how the country has been supplying technology and equipment to Bangladesh, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. “We’ve lacked adequate insights into the Chinese mindset, probably because of inadequate scholarship and diplomacy, which has led to misreading of intent even as China has been sending adequate warning signals right from the 1950s. It is time that the government commission a white paper on China and even evolve a China-specific strategy even if that isn’t a public document,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unilateral-actions-by-some-nations-hurt-indian-ocean-region-equilibrium-army-vice-chief/articleshow/79804725.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 19, 2020||Pune||Bose Krishnamachari on contemporary art, technology and art at public spaces||The name Bose Krishnmachari is synonymous with contemporary art in India. A believer in juxtaposing various disciplines of art, Bose dabbles in vivid abstract paintings, figurative drawings, sculpture, photography, multimedia installations, and architecture. On his recent visit to Pune, where he had discussions about contemporary art with art lovers at a curated show, Bose, who is also the founder member and president of Kochi Biennale Foundation and Biennale director of Kochi-Muziris Biennale, offered his perspective on art, use of technology in the field and how the pandemic has affected consumption of the medium. At his show in the city, Bose meticulously curated works of five noted contemporary artists - Benitha Perciyal, Manish Nai, Sudarshan Shetty, Sumedh Rajendran and Tanya Goel - who work in ‘delicate material’. “Material because the material is extremely important in contemporary art. It is also imperative how artists are practicing with the material and using examples and evidence from urban landscapes, social life, and day-to-day experiences,” he says. Today, art is no longer confined to the four walls of a gallery or museum. It has become a part of public spaces, and Bose asserts that to educate people about contemporary art, urban spaces need to incorporate art, sculptures, and installations in places like parks, cafes, bus stops, etc. “Art is seen in a different light now. Unlike the West, we hardly have museums for contemporary art in India. Education is the most important aspect of art, and having art in public spaces is one way of making people aware of it. Urban architecture and planning must also put emphasis on bringing elements of art into a city’s culture,” he says. Read AlsoBose Krishnamachari, Shubigi Rao make it on art power listBose Krishnamachari, president, Kochi Biennale Foundation (KBF) and Shubigi Rao, curator, Kochi-Muziris Biennale 2021, have been included in the Power 100 list, an annual ranking of most influential people in art world brought out by ArtReview.Read AlsoBose Krishnamachari: I travel to the nostalgic world through my family albumThe artist and Kochi-Muziris Biennale co-founder pens his lockdown thoughts for Kochi TimesThe pandemic has seen museums across the globe going digital and making some of the finest pieces of work accessible to people from the confines of their homes. Bose feels that while galleries going the digital way isn’t a new phenomenon, the pandemic just made the practice more prevalent. “Even before the pandemic happened, the digital space existed for art. However, during the pandemic, the space became extremely active and popular. I am sure there is going to be something else in the future too, for example, augmented reality. I think as artists we have to support this kind of transition. I feel art, design, and science should come together for these institutions to sustain and survive,” adds Bose, who, through Kochi Biennale, has been using a similar approach to make art accessible to people. The art curator says today’s generation of artists are blessed with technology which gives them access to artworks from all over the world, something he didn’t have while starting out. “Imagination travels faster than light. When I started out, if someone told me about a painting by Picasso in some art gallery in Paris, I had to imagine it in my head. Now, because of technology, it’s available for viewing at the click of the mouse. However, this has pushed the younger generation away from reading and conversing. When you read regularly, converse with people, listen to their stories, and practice your art every day - whatever medium it is - it pushes the boundaries of your imagination. I think our imagination is shrinking because of technology,” he shares. Read AlsoKochi-Muziris Biennale team: Expo could revive people’s spirits and boost economyAround the world, most cultural spaces and events have taken on an online avatar, with prestigious museums and even international film festivals going the digital route. India’s own mega art event, the Kochi-Muziris Biennale (KMB), which hosts nearly 100 contemporary national and internationalThe lockdown had confined him to his house, but his imagination was still wild and free. He feels that while the pandemic has led to chaos in our lives, an artist can turn that chaos into order. “I am an optimistic person and I can see a lot of interesting creations coming up in this current phase, not all of them necessarily being COVID-related artworks. What’s also interesting is that while the pandemic has given people and artists the opportunity to connect to artists nationally and internationally through technology, it has also given scope to analyse themselves, introspect and look inwards,” concludes the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi winner who is known for revolutionising the contemporary art scene in India and putting it on the global map. Talking about how technology has impacted us, Bose says, “When I started out, if someone told me about a painting by Picasso in some art gallery in Paris, I had to imagine it in my head. Now, because of technology, it’s available for viewing at the click of the mouse. However, this has pushed the younger generation away from reading and conversing. When you read regularly, converse with people and listen to their stories and practice your art every day - whatever medium it is - it pushes the boundaries of your imagination. I think our imagination is shrinking because of technology. On a parting note, he added, “My advice to the young generation of thinkers and art practitioners is to travel the world, have conversations with their contemporaries and the older generation as well. I was lucky enough to do that and that his why I have been able to live my life this way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bose-krishnamachari-on-contemporary-art-technology-and-art-at-public-spaces/articleshow/79804751.cms||Amrita Prasad
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||Man, his parents & 3 siblings booked under anti-conversion law, 9th such case in UP||BAREILLY: A 27-year-old man along with his parents, three siblings and three others was booked under the sections of rape, extortion and 3/5 of anti-conversion law by police in Shahjahanpur on the complaint of a 40-year-old woman on Friday. This is the first case registered in Shahjahanpur district under the new law, and ninth in UP. The incident was reported from Chowk Kotwali area of Shahjahanpur. In her complaint, the victim had alleged that the accused introduced himself as Sunil and came close to her. One day, he allegedly raped her on gun-point and took her obscene pictures which he then used for blackmailing her. “Later he revealed that he is a Muslim and forced me to convert for ‘nikah’ with the help of his family members and a cleric,” the complaint said. When she resisted, she was raped by the accused in the presence of her mother, it alleged. SHO of Kotwali police station, Pravesh Singh, said, “We have registered an FIR under the sections of new anti-conversion law and rape on the complaint of a woman. The main accused has been arrested and we are questioning him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-his-parents-3-siblings-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-9th-such-case-in-up/articleshow/79805740.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 19, 2020||Goa||For Donachie, life is easy on the field but not inside a bio-secure bubble||PANAJI: James Donachie is not among those flashy central defenders who will make flying last-ditch tackles or send towering headers that end up at the back of the net. Even if he does not get noticed – in the true sense of the word -- during a game, his effectiveness cannot be doubted. Ask FC Goa if they are happy with their replacement for Mourtada Fall and they’d ask you to look at the numbers. So, what do the numbers tell you about the towering Australian defender? That he is the highest passing defender in the league after his central-defensive partner at FC Goa, Ivan Gonzalez. That he won the ball with 78 percent of the tackles he’s made, that he has a 76 percent win ratio in aerial battles and his pass completion better than several midfielders at 89 percent. For someone who was handpicked after Goa failed to convince Iranian World Cupper Roozbeh Cheshmi, Donachie hasn’t done bad for himself. “Every team is different, so you have to adjust. Every country is different, so you have to adapt. You have to win in this environment,” the Australian defender told TOI on Friday. Goa have not exactly started winning. They have two wins from their first six games in the Indian Super League but contrary to what the table shows, they are right on top. “My opinion is we are better than anyone else. Teams haven’t scored against us from open play. We play the most attractive football and that’s the team you want to play, score goals in open play. That’s what fans want to see. The Mumbai and ATK Mohun Bagan games were frustrating. In terms of the football we play, we are up there with the best,” said Donachie. Donachie was signed after Goa finished as the best – at least in the league stage – last season and qualified for the AFC Champions League. He has enough experience there, having been a regular with Australian teams for the last four seasons. “I’ve played this style for a majority of my career. It’s been quite similar to playing out from the back. I am enjoying playing that way. It also played a big part in coming here,” said Donachie. Since coming here, Donachie has realised life is not easy, off the field. The coronavirus pandemic meant he had mentally prepared himself for life inside a bio-secure bubble. But a ‘bubble’ in Australia which he experienced last season was relatively easy. “In Australia, we were able to walk outside and get a coffee or walk near the beach. The games were played behind closed doors. Here, it’s hotel-training, hotel-games. Speaking to other foreign players, I know it’s challenging (for everyone). “We are at the two-month mark now. We have Christmas coming up and that will be challenging. Humans need socialisation, humans need interaction. To do this for five months will be difficult,” said Donachie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-donachie-life-is-easy-on-the-field-but-not-inside-a-bio-secure-bubble/articleshow/79805826.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 19, 2020||India||Home secretary holds virtual meeting with West Bengal chief secretary, DGP over law and order||NEW DELHI: Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla on Friday held a meeting with West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and DGP Virendra via video-conferencing during which they discussed the law and order situation in the state including the recent incidents regarding Central protectees. The meeting comes in the wake of last week's attack on the convoy of BJP president J P Nadda, who has 'Z category' security cover manned by CRPF, as he travelled to Diamond Harbour. The home ministry had on Thursday asked the West Bengal top officials to come for the law and order review here on Friday. This was the second time that such a request had been conveyed to state brass, the first being on December 11. West Bengal chief secretary had then reverted requesting that his and DGP's presence at the proposed December 14 meeting be dispensed with. However, following the second letter from the home ministry sent on Thursday, the state brass agreed to the law and order review but reportedly sought a virtual discussion citing their inability to travel on account of Covid risk. Finally, the home secretary held the meeting by video-conferencing -- hearing the state government's version of the recent events and the alleged threat faced by political leaders including Central protectees touring the state -- on Friday evening. The meeting was attended by Intelligence Bureau director. The home ministry brass is believed to have expressed its concern at the recent cases of mob attacks on political leaders including Central protectees, especially in view of the fact that they shall be travelling more frequently to the state in view of impending assembly polls. States are under an obligation to work with the Central para-military forces protecting a VIP and coordinate the arrangements to be made by their police to ensure his foolproof security within their jurisdiction. The home ministry had, as part of an exercise to fix responsibility for alleged lapses that may have led to the attack on Nadda's convoy, ordered three IPS officers from the state cadre to be brought on Central deputation. Rajeev Mishra (ADG, South Bengal), Praveen Tripathi (DIG, Presidency Range) and Bholanath Panday (SP, Diamond Harbour) were in charge of the security arrangements for Nadda's visit. TMC had slammed the Centre's move as an attack on federal structure and refused to relieve the IPS officers. However, the home ministry on Thursday once again wrote to the state chief secretary reiterating its decision to "immediately" have the three officers on Central deputation, especially as they have already been given new postings against existing vacancies in Central police forces/organisations. It cited Rule 6(1) of the IPS Cadre Rules that clearly states that the Centre's decision would prevail in the event of a disagreement between the Centre and state on matters of Central deputation of IPS officers. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had however hit back on social media on Friday, denouncing the home ministry's "order of Central deputation...despite the State's objection" as "a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rules 1954".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/home-secretary-holds-virtual-meeting-with-west-bengal-chief-secretary-dgp-over-law-and-order/articleshow/79806402.cms||Bharti Jain
December 19, 2020||India||PM Modi attacks opposition again, says ready to clear farmers’ doubts||BHOPAL: A day after the Supreme Court asked the Centre if the new farm laws could be put on hold for talks with agitating farmers’ unions, PM Narendra Modi said it had been more than six months since the legislations were passed and nothing was done to stop MSP or dismantle mandis. “Now suddenly, a web of doubts and lies is being cast as efforts are being made to serve certain political interests. The shoulders of farmers are being used to fire,” the PM said, attacking opposition parties, which, he said, had failed to implement meaningful reforms when in office. "They have no answer to our question as to which clause is a problem... tell us," he added. The PM’s speech came as the stir launched by Punjab, Haryana and west UP unions is in its third week and saw him vigorously defend the farm laws, as he said farmers must be given the choice to sell to buyers who give a better price. Without naming Congress, he said previous governments had the opportunity to implement the Swaminathan Commission report on farm incomes but it was the NDA that “dusted off the files” and did so. He said Congress governments promised loan waivers in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan only to betray farmers. Read AlsoAgri minister has made effort to engage in humble dialogue, do read his letter: PM Modi to farmersPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar through his letter to farmers has made an effort to engage in a humble dialogue, and appealed to the 'annadaatas' to read it.Modi said a “big lie” that MSP was being discontinued was being spread by parties who failed to act in the interest of farmers when in office and this was being repeated again and again to sow doubts among farmers. He reeled out statistics to show how payments to farmers as well as volume of procurement had risen after NDA assumed office and said MSP had been expanded to new crops. Read AlsoAmid farmers’ protests, PM Modi comes out in strong defence of agriculture lawsAmid ongoing protests by some farm organisations, PM Modi on Sunday strongly defended the new farm laws and said the changes met the long-pending demands of the agriculture sector and a new set of rights for farmers had also started delivering results. In his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’,Addressing farmers of MP virtually, the PM made it clear that while the government was ready to engage unions opposing the farm reforms, it was unlikely to pause them. “If anyone still has any concerns, then with our heads bowed and our hands folded, and with all humility, we are willing to discuss all issues with them and assuage their fears,” he added. He said India’s farmers could not wallow in backwardness any longer as agriculture progressed across the world. “What should have been done 25-30 years ago is being done now. We have acted on what was being discussed for years. These new laws are not overnight, every central and state government has discussed and considered these measures," he said. “The issue is why should Modi get the credit... I dont want credit, you take it,” he said. Loan waivers were basically about cancelling loans for some big farmers, he added. “The three farm laws are beneficial for farmers and important for the development of agriculture in our country. The laws should have been enacted 25-30 years ago, but previous governments only mentioned them in their manifestos...Our intentions are as pious as the holy Ganga and Narmada rivers. Every step taken by us is in the interest of farmers,” the PM said. He said the PM Kisan programme will mean transfer of lakhs of crores to farmers without a “cut culture” and said this was several times more than a once in five year Rs 50,000 crore loan waiver. Modi said the opposition was spreading canards on the MSP system being shut down. “There can be no lie bigger than this. In the previous government, MSP for wheat was Rs 1,400 per quintal, now it is Rs 1,975 per quintal, and MSP for paddy has been raised from Rs 1,310 per quintal to Rs 1,870,” he added. The PM said the “second biggest lie” was that mandis would be closed. “It has been six months since the farm laws were implemented but not a single mandi has been closed in the country. We are making APMCs stronger and robust with an expenditure of Rs 5,000 crore. All talk about closing APMC is wrong,” he assured. The new laws on contract farming were meant to empower and protect farmers, the PM said. “We have ensured that under the new laws, the agreement maker doesn't escape his responsibility. The sponsor has to pay a heavy penalty to the farmer if he ends the contract whereas a farmer can end the contract on his own without any penalty. The new strict regulations are for sponsors and not farmers,” he said. “Today, Rs 1,600 crore is being transferred to the accounts of more than 35 lakh farmers, without any middlemen or cuts in between. It has become possible due to the system created in India in the past 5-6 years, which is being applauded across the world,” he added. Cold storages, warehouses and other agriculture-related infrastructure worth Rs 70 crore were inaugurated, too. About 2,000 fishermen and cattle farmers were provided with Kisan Credit Cards. “Doubling farmers’ income is PM Modi’s resolve. The new farm laws have made farmers independent. They can now sell their produce at their will, anywhere. Scrapping stock limit will lead to more procurement with farmers getting more benefit,” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said. Watch Take credit for reforms but don't mislead farmers: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-attacks-opposition-again-says-ready-to-clear-farmers-doubts/articleshow/79806443.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Farmers irked with Narendra Tomar, PM Modi for linking stir to opposition||NEW DELHI: Farm unions on Friday objected to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s comments linking the ongoing protests with opposition parties and said the farmers were determined to continue their agitation seeking repeal of the new farm laws. “In place of addressing the issue of repeal of the three farm Acts which erode farmers hold on land and farming, and establish MNCs and big business to grow in agriculture, he (PM) has reduced himself to a party leader, undermining his role as a responsible executive head of the country, expected to solve problems,” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said in a statement. The AIKSCC, which has been coordinating with all 40 unions which participated in talks with the government, was referring to Modi’s remarks during his address to a ‘Kisan Sammelan’, held across Madhya Pradesh through video conferencing. On Tomar’s open letter to farmers on Thursday, the AIKSCC said it was full of references to Congress, AAP and Akalis (SAD), which were not the issues the farmers were protesting about. “He (Tomar) has made fictitious claims that farmers will not lose their land, which is contradicted by the Contract Act, 2020, which provides for farmers’ land to be mortgaged under Section 9 and for recovery of dues from farmers under Section 14.7 as arrears of land revenue for advances taken from the company under Section 14.2 of the Act,” the committee said.The AIKSCC will issue an “open reply” to Tomar’s letter on Saturday, with point-wise objections on other clauses of the newly-enacted farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-irked-with-narendra-tomar-pm-modi-for-linking-stir-to-oppn/articleshow/79806461.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Amit Shah arrives in Kolkata on 2-day visit||KOLKATA: BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah arrived in Kolkata after 1 am on Saturday on a two-day visit to take stock of his party's affairs in West Bengal ahead of the Assembly elections slated to be held in the next few months. In a tweet upon his arrival in Kolkata, he wrote, "I bow to this revered land of greats like Gurudev Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and Syama Prasad Mookerjee." Reached Kolkata!I bow to this revered land of greats like Gurudev Tagore, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar & Syama Prasad… https://t.co/IuOc44avi0— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1608322209000Speculations are rife that Suvendu Adhikari, who gave up his cabinet portfolios and the Trinamool Congress, may join the BJP during Shah's visit along with a slew of disgruntled TMC leaders, including some MLAs such as Silbhadra Dutta and Jitendra Tiwari. Shah will address a public rally at Midnapore on Saturday where a number of TMC leaders are likely to join the saffron party. The BJP's state chief Dilip Ghosh has said that Shah and party president J P Nadda would visit West Bengal every month till the assembly elections, likely in April-May, are over. Nadda was on a day-long visit to north Bengal in October and came on a two-day tour last week, while Shah was in the state for two days in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-arrives-in-kolkata-on-2-day-visit/articleshow/79806494.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Hathras case: CBI charges four with gang rape, murder||AGRA/LUCKNOW: Nearly three months after a 19-year-old Dalit girl from a village in Hathras said in her dying declaration that she had been raped by four upper caste men in her village, the CBI filed a chargesheet against the four accused. They had been arrested in September. "The CBI filed its chargesheet in the court of special judge (SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act) B D Bharti in Hathras and invoked charges against the four accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Luv Kush," defence counsel Munna Singh, who is representing the accused, told TOI on Friday. The four have been charged under Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 376A (punishment for causing death of resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim) and 376D (gang rape) of the IPC, and under Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of 10 years or more against a person on the grounds that the person belongs to an SC or ST community). The court has scheduled the next hearing on January 4. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, which is monitoring the investigation, will take up the case on January 27. The CBI had registered the case on October 11 and started investigating two days after that. After several field visits, statements, polygraph tests and brain electrical oscillation signature profiling tests over two months, the CBI filed its 2,000-page chargesheet. "There were over 700 pages of supporting documents, the main contents of which ran for 30 pages. The witness list is four pages long," a source told TOI. Another CBI source said analysis of the postmortem report by central forensic experts was also done before the chargesheet was filed. In the evening, the CBI issued a statement on its chargesheet, adding, as a postscript, "The public is reminded that the above findings are based on the investigation done by the CBI and evidence collected by it. Under Indian law, the accused are presumed to be innocent till their guilt is finally established after a fair trial." Days after the girl had died at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on September 29 and hastily cremated at her village past midnight without her family's consent, ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar had said that there was "no evidence of rape" on the basis of a forensic report of samples taken 11 days after she had been allegedly violated. The main accused, Sandeep, had then written a letter from prison claiming innocence, saying he was involved with the girl and her family resented their relationship. This was around the time alleged records of calls exchanged between the girl’s elder brother and Sandeep were also leaked. Upper-caste communities, meanwhile, had been mobilising support in favour of the accused. In October, a former BJP MLA had organised a "support" meet at his Hathras residence for the accused. On Friday, the victim’s brother and sister-in-law were at Hathras court, under a CRPF security cover. In the village where they live, they are one of four Dalit families alongside 60 upper caste ones. "This is a step forward in our quest for justice. The CBI chargesheet vindicates our stand," the victim’s elder brother told TOI. "But actual victory will only come when the accused are punished … We have no faith left in the police. They did not treat us well. But we are happy with the investigation now." The dead girl's sister-in-law added, "We want the DM to be removed. That's our only demand now." The DM, Praveen Kumar Laxkar, had been seen in a video purportedly asking the brother to fall in line because the media "would leave" at some point. In the evening, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra issued a statement of support: "I am heartened to see that an important step towards providing... justice has been taken by the CBI and hope that it will bring the victim’s family some comfort."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hathras-case-cbi-charges-four-with-gang-rape-murder/articleshow/79806505.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 19, 2020||India||As Amit Shah heads for Bengal, 2 more MLAs quit TMC||KOLKATA: All roads from Trinamool Congress’s divided house appeared to lead to BJP as the procession of disgruntled functionaries following former Bengal minister Suvendu Adhikari out of the party grew longer on Friday. As home minister Amit Shah landed in Kolkata late evening for a series of rallies over the weekend, Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta and Contai (North) legislator Banashree Maiti quit TMC, while at least one more — Dipali Biswas from Malda’s Gajol — indicated that she had made up her mind to join BJP. Trinamool also lost its minority cell general secretary Kabirul Islam and Midnapore Municipality chairman Pranab Basu to what now looks like an exodus rather than a trickle. BJP sources claimed that not less than 30 others from Mamata Banerjee’s party — MLAs, MPs, zilla parishad and municipality functionaries and state-level office-bearers — would go saffron at Shah’s Midnapore rally on Saturday. The rally would be a “game-changer” in Bengal politics, they said. Read AlsoFresh jolt to Mamata Banerjee as third MLA quits party in two daysIn another blow to Mamata Banerjee, Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta resigned from the Trinamool Congress on Friday. This is the third major exit from the party in two days. On Thursday, Suvendu Adhikari quit the party after giving up his cabinet portfolios in the state government and resigning asBasu, who used to be a district mentor group member in TMC, named seven district office-bearers and at least one MP, East Burdwan’s Sunil Mandal, as being BJP-bound. Mandal has yet to confirm or deny that he will join BJP at Shah’s rally. TMC isn’t the only dissent-ridden party BJP seems to be gaining from. CPM’s Tapasi Mondal, the MLA from East Midnapore’s Haldia, is said to be among those ready to cross over. The desertion bug bit Trinamool’s Birbhum bastion as well, where former Bolpur Municipality councillors Arup Roy and Shelley Roy resigned on Friday, sparking speculation that they might be joining BJP when Shah visits the district on Sunday. Aides of arch-rebel Adhikari, who quit TMC on Thursday along with MLA Jitendra Tiwari from West Burdwan’s Pandabeswar, said he had been flooded with phone calls from disillusioned former colleagues wanting out. The former Nandigram MLA will soon go on a tour of the districts as a BJP member, they said. BJP sources in Delhi said Shah’s Midnapore roadshow with “more than 40” former TMC functionaries, including Adhikari, was intended to send out the message that the saffron party does not lack faces worth fielding in the assembly polls next year. “There will be a steady stream of exits after Kharmas (a supposedly inauspicious 15-day period running till December 21) and the Mamata government will be in a crisis by mid-January,” said Arjun Singh, a former TMC member who is now the BJP MP from Barrackpore. While Trinamool comfortably retains its majority in the assembly, more desertions from its ranks could dent Mamata’s aura of invincibility that her second victory created. With politics already taking a violent turn in parts of Bengal, signalling strength is seen as critical in reassuring supporters and winning new adherents. (With inputs from Sanjib Chakraborty, Sujoy Khanra, Subhro Maitra & Someswar Boral in Bengal and Akhilesh Singh in Delhi)Watch Amit Shah in Bengal: BJP seeks to cement advantage over rebellion-hit TMC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-amit-shah-heads-for-bengal-2-more-mlas-quit-tmc/articleshow/79806515.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||‘Can’t jail people for infinity while looking for others’||NEW DELHI: Applicants cannot be made to remain in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter, a Delhi court has said while granting bail to two men lodged in jail since April 2020, after being arrested for rioting in northeast Delhi. “Needless to say, the investigation in the matter is complete; chargesheet has also been filed; trial in the matter is likely to take a long time,” additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said. Dinesh Tiwari, the counsel for Shah Alam and Riyasat Ali, had sought bail on the ground of parity with the co-accused persons in the case. It also came on record that Alam is the brother of former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, the main accused. Tiwari argued that the accused had been identified by the witnesses for they belonged to a particular community. He also highlighted that after completing the investigation, police had filed a chargesheet. “No useful purpose would be served by keeping them behind bars, as the trial in the matter is likely to take a long time,” submitted Tiwari. Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary contested the submission by saying that the two men had been identified by the witnesses and therefore they couldn’t take the plea of parity. “There is every chance that if released on bail, the applicants may threaten the witnesses, who are residents of the same locality…,” it was argued. The court noted the two accused had “neither been named in the FIR nor there are any specific allegations against them”. “Admittedly, the applicants are neither visible in any of the nine CCTV footage obtained by the investigating agency nor any CDR location is available in the matter,” it added. The order further underscored that the present case was a “general case” about the use of the building of main accused Hussain by the rioters as well as commission of acts of arson and looting of public and private properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-jail-people-for-infinity-while-looking-for-others/articleshow/79806519.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||India cases cross 1 crore 323 days after 1st, last 1 million 2nd slowest||NEW DELHI: India on Friday became the second country in the world after the US to register one crore (10 million) confirmed Covid-19 cases even as the pandemic continued to recede in the country. It took 29 days for cases in India to increase from nine million to 10 million, making it the slowest rise since the first million cases. Even average daily deaths during these 29 days were the lowest after the first one million. India’s Covid numbers have been falling for three months now, ever since the caseload crossed five million on September 15.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The country’s total caseload crossed the grim one crore milestone after 27,022 fresh infections took the tally to 1,00,04,893 on Friday night. The US has recorded over 1.7 crore till now while Brazil is in third place with a count of over 71 lakh. Both countries have recorded a much higher number of cases and deaths than India in the past few days. Deaths per million in India stand at 104, the second lowest among the world's 20 worst-hit countries. Only Indonesia, which is currently at number 20 in total caseload, has had fewer deaths per million at 71. In terms of daily cases, India hit its peak almost exactly three months ago on September 17, when 98,795 fresh infections were recorded in a single day. In these three months, cases have surged for a few weeks at a stretch in some states such as Delhi but the overall trend has been of a steady decline despite the festive season and further relaxations in restrictions across states. Southern states see most dramatic decline in casesSome of the most dramatic decreases in cases were seen in the southern states, which, along with Maharashtra, were a major contributor to India's Covid surge from July to October. When India's caseload hit nine million on November 19, the southern cases had a 37% share in the total tally. In the last one million cases, the south's share had dropped to 27% despite numbers in Kerala continuing to remain relatively high. India remains one of only two nations among the 10 worst-hit countries of the world which is yet to see a second surge in cases. The other country is Argentina. The reason(s) why India's numbers have been consistently falling for three months now remain in the realm of speculation. The last countrywide serological survey, for which results are publicly available, was carried out in August. It said 6.6% of Indians aged 10 and above had had the infection. That meant, in absolute numbers, around 6.9 crore Indian (aged 10 and above) had been infected by August, since there are around 105 crore Indians in that age bracket. Only the latest survey will reveal where the numbers stand in more recent months but it's unlikely that the figure would be high enough for herd immunity to start kicking in, except perhaps in some pockets of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-cases-cross-1-crore-323-days-after-1st-last-1m-2nd-slowest/articleshow/79806546.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 19, 2020||India||SC stays ‘disturbing’ Andhra HC order||NEW DELHI: The Y S Jaganmohan Reddy-led Andhra Pradesh government scored a brownie point against the high court on Friday with the Supreme Court staying an HC order intending to adjudicate “whether there is a constitutional breakdown in the state or not” and termed the order “unprecedented and disturbing”. While hearing a habeas corpus petition and other pleas on alleged police excesses and atrocities, an HC bench of Justices Rakesh Kumar and J Uma Devi had said on October 1, “On the next date, the senior counsel appearing on behalf of the state may come prepared to assist the court as to whether in circumstances, which are prevailing in the state of Andhra Pradesh, the court can record a finding that there is a constitutional breakdown in the state or not.” Appearing for Andhra Pradesh in its appeal against the HC's interim order, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said in the constitutional structure of federal governance in India, the courts could not decide whether the constitutional machinery has broken down in a state, which is solely in the domain of the Union government as the consequences of such a determination would warrant dismissal of an elected government and imposition of central rule. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian took no time to term the HC order “unprecedented and disturbing”. “In my entire career as a judge and even as a lawyer, I have never seen an order like this passed by an HC or the Supreme Court,” the CJI said. Before staying further proceedings in the case before the HC, the CJI-led bench said, “We find it disturbing. We are staying the order.” In its order, the bench said, “Issue notice, returnable immediately after the ensuing Christmas/New Year holidays. Until further orders, there shall be a stay of further proceedings.” This was the second time this week when the Andhra government, which was engaged in a spat with the HC, had tasted success, the first being the SC collegium’s decision to recommend transfer of AP HC CJ J K Maheshwari to Sikkim HC after CM Jaganmohan Reddy wrote a letter in October requesting the CJI to restore the "neutrality" of the HC. In its special leave petition against the HC’s October 1 interim order, the AP government said, “The HC, in an unprecedented manner and without any basis or pleadings by any of the parties to that effect, had passed the order.” “Under the scheme of the Constitution, it is Article 356 that deals with failure of constitutional machinery in a state. Under this Article, if the President, on receipt of a report from the governor of a state or otherwise, is satisfied that a situation has arisen in which the government of the state cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the President can impose President’s rule. This is a power exclusively vested in the executive. The power in this regard, like sending a report either to the President or the governor or to record a finding in that regard, cannot be exercised by the judiciary.” The state government further said, “Constitutional courts do not have any judicially discoverable and manageable standards to determine if there has been a constitutional breakdown in a state. This is essentially an executive function and is necessarily required to be based on detailed factual analysis. The courts simply do not have any means to decide such questions. In fact, the order is a serious encroachment on the powers of the executive as enumerated. under the Constitution and is thus violative of the doctrine of separation of powers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-stays-disturbing-andhra-hc-order/articleshow/79806570.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 19, 2020||Patna||JD(U): People don’t take Tejashwi Yadav seriously||PATNA: The ruling JD(U) once again questioned the absence of the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav from the state’s political scene. JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad expressed surprise over Tejashwi going into hibernation after formation of the new government led by CM Nitish Kumar in the state. “What is more embarrassing is that even senior RJD leaders have no idea about his whereabouts,” he said. Alleging that Tejashwi has never played the role of the leader of opposition in the true sense of the term, Prasad on Friday said, “Neither Tejashwi nor his RJD ever played a positive role of the opposition. Their only agenda is to oppose the NDA government on one pretext or the other.” The JD(U) leader further said, “It’s because of this attitude that nobody now takes him (Tejashwi) seriously. He has virtually become the butt of a joke by remaining out of the state for long. Now the people of the state have also become reluctant towards him for obvious reasons.” Prasad said it was not the first occasion when Tejashwi had been out of the political scene for long. “Be it the case of death of children due to encephalitis or floods or Covid-19 pandemic, he has remained aloof from the people. When people expect him to be with them in crisis, he prefers to remain incommunicado,” the JD(U) spokesperson said. He cited instances when the leader of opposition didn’t attend the proceedings of the state assembly and remained incommunicado for several weeks altogether. “He remains in Bihar only to suit his political aspirations. He has nothing to do with the sufferings of the people,” Prasad alleged. RJD, however, dismissed the allegations. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “Tejashwi is very much active and aware of the happenings in Bihar. He will be among the people whenever they need him,” he asserted. Tejashwi, however, slammed the state government through his tweets over the incidents of crime in the state. He expressed his concern over the attack on the vehicle of a judicial officer in Nalanda by some antisocials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-people-dont-take-tejas-seriously/articleshow/79802791.cms||Ramashankar
December 19, 2020||Patna||Jitan Ram Manjhi blames RJD for spurt in crime in Bihar||PATNA: Former CM and Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi on Friday held the main opposition RJD responsible for the rise in the incidents of crime in the state. Manjhi, who is undergoing treatment after being infected with coronavirus, tweeted, “If you (RJD) and your allies succeed in convincing workers and leaders lodged in jails, about 80% incidents of crime will automatically decline.” Slamming the RJD and its allies for shedding crocodile tears over some recent incidents of crime, Manjhi said, “This is a misnomer and nothing else. But people are aware of their intentions. They will not be misled by their ulterior motives.” Manjhi’s remarks came in response to former CM Rabri Devi’s statement on the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. Rabri, in her statement, had said, “There is bloodbath all around. People are being butchered. The credit goes to the ruling party.” The HAM(S) chief, however, said major incidents of crime have been detected by the police and accused arrested. On Thursday, he had urged CM Nitish Kumar to ensure the release of the poor languishing in jail for violation of prohibition law. The children and many families of the poor were on the brink of starvation as the earning members were lodged in jails for more than three months for petty crime like violating liquor ban in the state. “The government should look into the grievances of such families and make provision for release of those accused on bail,” he had tweeted. HAM(S) meet on January 6: The HAM(S) national executive committee meet that was earlier slated on December 18 will now be held on January 6, the party’s secretary-general and minister Santosh Suman said on Friday. The date has been extended as HAM(S) president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is recuperating from Covid-19 infection. Party spokesman Danish Rizwan said the election of the party president and other office-bearers will be held at the January 6 meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-blames-rjd-for-spurt-in-crime-in-bihar/articleshow/79802770.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Mount Abu freezes as mercury falls further to minus 2.6C||PALANPUR: As the cold wave across the north India intensified, the mercury fell further below to minus 2.6 degree Celsius on Friday at Mount Abu in Rajasthan. The minimum temperature at the hill station in the Aravalli mountain range went below zero degree Celsius for the first time this year to minus 1 on Thursday. The chilly weather also engulfed North Gujarat district of Banaskantha with Deesa town recording temperature of 9.6 Degree Celsius, the lowest this winter. The cold winds from the north added to people’s woes as most of them preferred remaining indoors. Besides Banaskantha, districts like Mehsana, Sabarkantha Aravalli and Patan too reeled under bitter cold, forcing people to keep themselves warm around bonfires by the roadside. According to the weather department, there was no respite from the cold spell as temperatures are likely to drop further due to heavy snowfall in the hilly states of North India. Farmers, especially potato growers, are happy as the cold weather is conducive for their Rabi crop. Deputy director of agriculture department in Palanpur, P K Patel said that even if the mercury falls further it will be beneficial for the crop. “Total area of potato cultivation had has reduced by 5,000 hectare in Banaskantha as the farmers could not afford the high price of seeds. This year potato has been sown in 60,000 hectare while other Rabi crop covered 4.95 lakh hectare in the district,” added Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mount-abu-freezes-as-mercury-falls-further-to-minus-2-6c/articleshow/79803056.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Former BJP corporator held with firearm||RAJKOT: A former BJP corporator in Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) was detained with a country-made pistol from near Airport Road railway crossing on Thursday night. Police said that they found country-made pistol worth Rs 20,000 and five live cartridges worth Rs 500 from the car of Sanjay Dhava (46), former BJP corporator from ward 17 of Rajkot city. According to case details, Dhava’s employee Kamlesh Patel was detained for driving in an inebriated state and was also booked for violating curfew on Thursday night. After Patel was detained, he called Dhava, urging him to bail him out of the problem. While Dhava was going to the police station in his car, he was stopped near Airport Road railway crossing for allegedly breaking night curfew rules. “During checking of his car, we found the pistol and cartridges, following which we booked Dhava under the Arms Act and section 188 of the Indian Penal Code dealing with the violation of government notification,” said L L Chavda, an inspector with Pradyuman Nagar police station. During interrogation, Dhava said that he had bought the pistol and cartridges 15 years ago from an arms dealer in Madhya Pradesh for self protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/former-bjp-corporator-held-with-firearm/articleshow/79803166.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Land needed for CISF at NTPC plants in A’bad||AURANGABAD: The district administration is identifying land for setting up a battalion headquarters of Central Industrial Security Forces (CISF), which looks after the security of two mega power plants in Aurangabad. The battalion’s residential buildings will be built on the land being identified. Aurangabad DM Saurabh Jorwal said the state land and revenue reforms department has been asked to provide 70 acre land in the district for this purpose. “The land will be made available soon,” he said. The CISF provides security to two mega power projects — Nabinagar Power Generating Company Limited (NPGCL), a wholly owned company of NTPC, and Bhartiya Rail Bijli Company Limited, a joint venture of Indian Railways and NTPC — in Aurangabad district. “Three to four companies of CISF are always deployed on the two power plants. More CISF personnel would be required as work on the projects is to increase. In such a situation, it has been decided to make the CISF’s battalion headquarters here to facilitate the operations and also to provide additional forces, when needed,” said Vijay Singh, chief executive officer of NPGCL. The proposal to allot land for CRPF camp in Langurahi village under Madanpur police station area and in Sagarpur village under Deo police station area is also under consideration of the district administration. More than a decade ago, there was a proposal to establish a CRPF battalion headquarters in Aurangabad. For this, some land was also made available in the industrial complex near the district headquarters. But, later, the matter was kept pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/land-needed-for-cisf-at-ntpc-plants-in-abad/articleshow/79802142.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Top 3 startup competition winners get seed funding||PATNA: Manmohan Singh of B D College, Buxar, Adarsh Kumar Mishra of Patna College and Abhas Kumar of Indira Gandhi National Open University emerged the first, second and third at the state-level eYouthscape startup competition organized by Patna University (PU) in collaboration with Medha Foundation. They were awarded the first instalment of seed funding of Rs3 lakh, 2 lakh and 1 lakh respectively at a function held at Wheeler Senate House on Friday. Altogether 1200 budding entrepreneurs from all over the state participated in the startup idea competition and the ten best entries were selected for the award. Seven others who were awarded an android phone included Nishant Saurav of B N College, Saharsa, Akash Kumar of L N Mishra Institute, Patna, Akriti of Magadh Mahila College, Patna, Sudhiksha Kumari of MBA course, PU, Gaurav Kumar Ranjan of Rural Development, PU, Arti Kumar of Social Work, PU and Vishal Gaurav of Patna Science College. Giving away the awards to the winners, PU vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary said instead of hankering after government jobs, youths should try to become entrepreneurs and help ensure sound economic growth of the society. PU is striving hard to prepare the youths for jobs as well as entrepreneurship. Establishment of an incubation hub at the university and organization of eYouthcape startup Bihar competition were small steps in this direction, he added. Speaking as the chief guest, former PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh stressed the need of building and entrepreneurial environment on the campus by ensuring skill development of students. He said entrepreneurship development has now become a necessity for channelizing the energy of more than 1.30 crore youths in the age group of 18-23 years. The state should take advantage of its demographic dividend, he added. PU placement cell convener Ashim Lal Chakraborty welcomed the guests. Medha’s director Byomkesh Mishra and its state head Ravi Ranjan Mishra also spoke on the occasion. PU pro-VC Ajay Kumar Singh along with senior officials and academics of PU attended the function. The VC also presented appreciation letters to the students selected for placement in Azim Premji Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/top-3-startup-competition-winners-get-seed-funding/articleshow/79802694.cms||B K Mishra
December 19, 2020||Business||Sensex hits 47k for 1st time as eco hobbles to recovery||Mumbai: The sensex hit a new lifetime high above the 47k mark on Friday at 47,026 points, and closed a tad below the milestone at 46,961 — still 70 points up from its previous close. The gain came even as the economy lagged behind with the previous quarter GDP growth rate at a negative 7.5%, shrinking exports and retail inflation at close to 7%, which is much above the RBI’s target level of 6%. On Friday, the Nifty on the NSE too closed at a new high of 13,761 points. Market analysts said that a global liquidity deluge at zero interest rate, the easing of Covid infections and the rollout of the vaccine are the main factors behind the worldwide rally, which is also helping the Indian market. In addition, the resilience of the domestic economy despite one of the world’s strictest lockdowns between March and May is prompting foreign funds to infuse money into the market at record speed, which is pushing indices higher, the analysts added. The record rally is also making investors richer. At Friday’s close, BSE’s market capitalisation was at Rs 185.3 lakh crore, up from its late March low of Rs 100 lakh crore. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services chairman Raamdeo Agrawal, the markets oscillate depending on greed and fear. “During the initial days of the Covid pandemic, it was the fear of the unknown that led investors globally to resort to panic selling.” This, like several other indices around the world, also pulled the sensex to a multi-year intraday low at 25,639 points in late March. From then on, as talks of a vaccine started, infection statistics showed mortality rate dropping to low single digits, fear about Covid receded and the Indian economy started opening up. These factors attracted investors back into the markets. “Around the world, central bankers, backed by their experience of tackling the 2008 crisis, pumped in record amounts of money into the economy at zero interest rate. This brought back confidence among investors globally and incremental liquidity started chasing risky assets, including stocks in emerging markets like in India,” Agrawal said. Data shows that after net outflows of nearly Rs 69,000 crore in March and April together, foreign funds have net infused over Rs 2 lakh crore into Indian stocks, of which Rs 1 lakh crore came since November. As a result, the sensex rose 18.5% during the same period. According to NSE chief economist Tirthankar Patnaik, the Indian economy is showing signs of a recovery after two quarters of Covid-related stress, with growth in the current quarter likely to be back above zero. “The market benchmark Nifty has returned 13% year-to-date, despite a 23% fall in March. The market’s recovery since then has been led by significant foreign institutional flows — November’s $9-billion was the highest in 13 years — and the overall figure of $21 billion this fiscal has been the highest in a decade.” However, “India isn’t alone here. Positive sentiments after a decisive US election verdict, and multiple Covid-19 vaccines entering phase-3 trials have led to a global equity rally that saw the US markets rise 11% in November — the highest in over 40 years. Closer home, a faster-than-anticipated recovery, falling Covid-19 cases, and a strong reform push by the government have supported the recovery,” Patnaik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-hits-47k-for-1st-time-as-eco-hobbles-to-recovery/articleshow/79806418.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Business||Accenture’s strong growth a positive sign for Indian IT sector, say analysts||Chennai: Accenture’s strong 4% growth in the quarter ended November and raising revenue guidance has reaffirmed the IT services industry’s expectations of demand recovery post the initial slump due to Covid-19. Given that Accenture posted a healthy increase in outsourcing revenue, and felt more confident than earlier about the future, revising its guidance, analysts expect Indian IT players to show a similar direction of recovery in terms of bookings and growth.Accenture’s quarterly revenue was up 4% in US dollar terms, and the company raised its revenue guidance for fiscal year 2021 from 2%–5% to 4%–6%. Outsourcing revenue at $5.43 billion grew 9% year-on-year. New bookings at $12.9 bn rose 25% YoY. “Accenture’s ‘beat and raise’ November 2020 results prove that the time has come, and release of this pent-up demand has partly started driving services industry growth,” Prashant Shukla, director of research firm Everest Group, said. “The results show enterprises are opening up their spend with vendors, and Indian IT players will reap significant benefit from this trend. We expect good acceleration in revenue performance and continued momentum in booking trends in Dec’20 quarter of Indian IT services players,” he added.Analysts at Emkay Global Financial Services noted that a broad-based demand recovery and sustained growth momentum in order booking of the outsourcing business augur well for Indian IT peers.“Accenture’s blockbuster growth in outsourcing and BFSI would have a big positive rub-off on Indian IT stocks,” analysts at Edelweiss Securities said. “Financial Services, after sagging for more than a decade, is coming back with a promise of strong spends,” they added. For the ongoing quarter ended December, Edelweiss expects furloughs in the IT sector will be equal to or lower than earlier years, and margins will expand again.Kotak Institutional Equities noted that Accenture has confirmed the trend post-Covid where companies across sectors are accelerating cloud adoption and digital transformation to save costs. “The company’s performance reinforces our view that IT services spending will accelerate driven by the themes of experience, cloud adoption and core modernization,” analysts Kawaljeet Saluja and Sathishkumar S, wrote in a note. However, the magnitude of recovery for Indian IT is expected to be lower than that seen by Accenture given that a large part of Accenture’s recovery was driven by come-back in discretionary demand — a category traditionally lower for Indian IT. The revenue growth of Indian IT companies will depend on how well they can capture the opportunities from accelerated cloud adoption, and speed-to-market has become an important consideration as enterprises are accelerating their digital transformation, Kotak Institutional Equities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/accentures-strong-growth-a-positive-sign-for-indian-it-sector-say-analysts/articleshow/79804689.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 19, 2020||Varanasi||4 held for posting ad for sale of PM’s Kashi office||Varanasi: Four persons, including a government school teacher of Chandauli, were arrested by Bhelupur police on Friday for posting an advertisement on an online site for sale and purchase-OLX- to sell the building in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency office is being operated in Jawahar Nagar Extension area. The building owner had no idea about the advertisement while the accused posted it posing as brokers mentioning the cost of property as Rs 7.50 crore. SSP Amit Pathak said, “The advertisement came to light on Thursday evening. After ensuring the removal of the advertisement from the site, the Durgakund police outpost in-charge lodged an FIR against Laxmikant Ojha, a government school teacher, and one unidentified persons with Bhelupur police station under section 419, 420 (cheating), 467, 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471 (forged document) and 500 (defamation) of IPC.” On Friday, police arrested Ojha and three others who assisted him in this act, said Pathak. During initial interrogation, the arrested persons claimed that they came to know that owner of the property is interested in selling the building after which they posted the advertisement as brokers. However, they had attached forged documents along with the advertisement and also mentioned wrong address, said inspector Bhelupur Amit Mishra. The Modi’s constituency office in-charge SS Pathak said, “Nobody, even owner of the building in which the office is being run in Jawahar Nagar Extension area, was aware about this advertisement. The owner denied having any plan to sell out his property. The advertisement also contained wrong address as the office building was shown in Krishnadeo Nagar Colony. After it became clear that it was a mischief, the matter was brought to the knowledge of senior police officials.” The advertisement contained detailed description of the building like it is two-storied, has four bed rooms, four bathrooms, two parking sites in carpet area of 6,500 sq ft. The police officials immediately swung into action and sought details of the persons who placed the ad from the officials of the site. The advertisement was taken off from the site by Thursday evening and an FIR was in late night. The constituency office of Modi was initially opened in Ravindrapuri in 2014, when he won parliamentary election from the first time. This office had become popular as mini-PMO. In February it was shifted to a new building in Jawahar Nagar Extension under the limits of Bhelupur police station area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/4-held-for-posting-ad-for-sale-of-pms-kashi-office/articleshow/79803084.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Attack on Hilsa judge: Patna high court asks DGP to submit ATR||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday ordered the state DGP to submit a complete action taken report (ATR) on the alleged attack on additional district judge Jay Kishore Dubey near Hilsa Surya Mandir in Nalanda on Thursday evening. Dubey is ADJ-I at sub-divisional court at Hilsa. The high court has fixed December 23 for hearing the matter again. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar took suo motu cognizance of media reports about the attack on Dubey’s official car while he was returning home from the court. Advocate General Lalit Kishore submitted that no firing took place near the judge’s car as reported in the media. He submitted that the firing took place at another place. Kishore assured the court that police would ensure action against the assailants expeditiously. This was the fourth such incident in the last two months when judges of subordinate courts had come under attack in state. While two of the incidents had taken place with additional district judge rank judicial officers in Aurangabad, one incident happened with a judicial magistrate in Jehanabad. Two separate PILs were filed before the Supreme Court and the Patna high court on the basis of representations of Bihar Judicial Services Association (BJSA) and All India Judges Association in the matter of abusing, manhandling and chasing of ADJ Dinesh Kumar Pradhan up to his residence by a police sub-inspector during area domination with paramilitary forces in Aurangabad on October 21 during the state assembly elections. The Supreme Court has taken up the matter of manhandling of Pradhan and sought a reply from the state government. Before the matter was taken up by the Supreme Court, BJSA secretary Ajit Kumar Singh had written to the state DGP seeking action against erring police officers in Pradhan’s case. He had also expressed his serious concern over such attacks on judicial officers in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/attack-on-hilsa-judge-hc-asks-dgp-to-submit-atr/articleshow/79802736.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Blogger held, booked for fraud||PATNA: Blogger Kiran Yadav, who was arrested in Vaishali for her objectionable speech made in a video released on social media against Lord Rama and his father Dashratha, has also been booked in another case of embezzling money collected in the name of helping the family of Gulnaz Khatoon, who died after allegedly being burned for resisting molestation bid. Gulnaz (20), died during treatment at PMCH on November 15. She was allegedly burned by three of her neighbours at Rasulpur Habib under Chandpura police outpost of Desari police station in Vaishali on October 30. An FIR was registered against three persons on November 2. One of the named accused is still evading arrest.Vaishali SP Maneesh on Friday said police came to know that Kiran, a native of Chandpura, is a well-known social media figure. “The embezzlement case is being investigated against her. Her video criticizing a particular god could lead to communal tensions. Police took cognizance of the video and arrested her,” he said. Desari police station SHO Seraz Hussain said Gulnaz’s mother lodged an FIR against Kiran on December 15 alleging that she had run social media campaigns seeking financial assistance for them and embezzled the money collected. “We will take her on remand in the embezzlement case,” he said. Seraz said Kiran’s husband Raju Rai and three others — Satish Rai, Vijay Rai and Chanda Rai — are also accused in the case. They are not arrested yet. He said Gulnaz’s mother did not mention the amount embezzled by Kiran. He said villagers told the police that Kiran’s husband was in the Army but had been courtmartialled. Town police station SHO Subodh Kumar said Kiran’s objectionable video went viral on social media on December 2. “An FIR under relevant sections of IPC and Section 67 of Information Technology Act was registered against her the same day. But she was arrested on December 16,” he said. “Her seized cellphone would be sent to forensic laboratory for analysing the details. The objectionable video was recovered from it. Police would ensure that video gets deleted from social media platform,” he added. Police said Kiran has several social media profiles and pages in which she criticised PM Narendra Modi, BJP, RSS and their supporters in objectionable language.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/blogger-held-booked-for-fraud/articleshow/79802192.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Only 13% participation in 3rd phase trial for Covaxin||PATNA: While the third phase trial of Biotech’s Covaxin for Covid-19 began at AIIMS-Patna almost a week back, only 133 (13.3%) people had taken the shot at the hospital till Thursday, against the target of 1000. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, has urged people to come forward for the trial. He said the first and second phase test results were quite good and had no adverse impact on the health of volunteers. As per the media report, people’s participation in the third phase trial for Covaxin at national level is 70 to 80% less than the target. Dr Kumar said unlike the first and second phases, when the trials had to be done in small and specific groups with the given target of 50 people, the third phase does not have such restrictions and they have to carry the trial on 1000 people. “In the first two phases, the age group to be administered the vaccine was 18 to 65 years. But there is no cap on the upper limit in the third phase as even patients with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension can participate in the trial,” he said. He said though ICMR did not tell exactly how many antibodies were produced in the bodies of volunteers who had taken vaccines in the first and second phases, it said the quantity was good. Dr Kumar said anyone interested in the third phase trial could directly come to AIIMS-P OPD or get registered on 9471408832 or 9919688888. Participants will also be given Rs750 for conveyance. After taking the vaccine, volunteers have to take another shot after 28 days. However, those who had tested positive for Covid-19 in the past cannot participate in the trial. Talking about Covaxin, Dr Kumar said it has been made with the killed virus and hence chances of any reactions are negligible. Other vaccines are either made by modified RNA or with live attenuated virus. DM: Motivate people to volunteer for trial: DM Kumar Ravi on Friday asked the officials to motivate people to come forward for the Covaxin trial at AIIMS-Patna. He also instructed them to form task force at district and block level for smooth distribution of vaccine once it is available. A meeting was held with AIIMS-Patna director and staff of PMC, health department, education department, supply department, district rural development agency and integrated child development services to prepare the list of volunteers and get the trial done properly. AIIMS-P superintendent said Covaxin has no side-effects and anyone above 18 years of age could volunteer for the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/only-13-participation-in-3rd-phase-trial-for-covaxin/articleshow/79802655.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 19, 2020||Patna||Fuel demand in country to rise: Barauni Refinery ED||BEGUSARAI: Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has decided to review all its greenfield expansion projects under refining segment in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, which affected the existing fuel demand in the country, Barauni Refinery executive director (ED) Shukla Mistry said on Friday. She also said the company is planning to increase its petrochemical production in order to avoid the market risks owing to the current volatile situation. Mistry was interacting with local media persons online to brief them about the recent developments, involving IOC as well as the Barauni Refinery which is its only crude oil refining unit in the state. “The global fuel demand is set to register decline, or at best may reach up to the pre-Covid level till the year 2035. In comparison, the oil demand in the country is expected to increase consistently till 2050. However, the company has set its eyes on the opportunities expected due to increased use of electric vehicles in the country in future. To tap it, the company is working towards establishing charging points at its retail outlets,” Mistry said. “The company is also minutely evaluating many advanced battery technologies, which will help in establishment of the manufacturing of metal air batteries for electric vehicles,” she added. Mistry claimed that Barauni Refinery has successfully completed all its projects under BS-VI, enabling it to produce clean fuel and also run its operations more efficiently. “The first half of the financial year 2020-2021 remained harsh for Barauni Refinery as well as Indian Oil as a whole as all the units had to be run well under capacity owing to steep fall in demand due to the pandemic. Yet, there was rise in demand of domestic fuel across the country and the company successfully managed to tackle this exceptional situation,” she said. “The capacity expansion project and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) production project based indigenous technology under Aatmnirbhar Bharat scheme are well on track and expected to meet the scheduled time frame,” Mistry claimed. She also claimed that Barauni Refinery helped local health workers by distributing all kinds of desired kits during the pandemic under its corporate social responsibility scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fuel-demand-in-country-to-rise-barauni-refinery-ed/articleshow/79802099.cms||Rajiv Kumar
December 19, 2020||Patna||535 more test positive for coronavirus in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,45,932 on Friday with 535 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Active cases, however, stood at 5,053 in the state as 2,39,538 people have so far recuperated from the virus. As per the daily Covid bulletin issued by the health department, four deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Apart from the health department’s bulletin, four deaths were also reported by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna on Thursday. The victims included two from Patna and one each from Begusarai and Madhubani. No fresh death was reported at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Thursday, but two Covid positive patients were admitted to the hospital. Of the 535 fresh Covid cases reported in the last 24 hours, Patna accounted for 179. Among other districts, 35 cases were recorded in Saran, 26 in Nawada, 24 each in Gaya and Muzaffarpur, 21 in Begusarai and 19 in West Champaran. Meanwhile, 581 people recovered from the infection in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the tally for cured persons in the state to 2,39,538. With new cases and discharged patients, Bihar’s recovery rate stood at 97.40% on Friday, 2 % higher than the national average of 95.40%. Health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Thursday that 1,22,444 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the number of total samples tested so far to more than 1.68 crore. Also, preparations are underway for distribution of Covid vaccine, once it is available. A meeting in this regard was convened by Patna DM Kumar Ravi with officials of health department and others. The DM ordered creation of task force at district and block level and preparation of action plan for the vaccination. It transpired at the meeting that district level task force has already been formed and steps are on for formation of the block level task force. The DM also asked the officials to rope in government employees at panchayat level, including those working in Integrated Child Development Scheme, civic bodies and education department. “Lists should be prepared area-wise and it should be tagged to employees in the respective areas so that immediate action is taken as soon as vaccine is available,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/535-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-bihar/articleshow/79802669.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 19, 2020||Patna||University teachers being promoted illegally: Experts||PATNA: Hundreds of university and college teachers in the state are being promoted as associate professors and professors for the last one decade in alleged violation of the promotion rules and regulations. The state government, in July 2010, had made it mandatory for all the state universities to make appointment and promotion of teachers in accordance with the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations, 2010. The regulations specifically prescribe appraisal performance indicator (API) score for the promotion of teachers under the career advancement scheme (CAS). The UGC regulations, 2018 also prescribed the desirability of teachers’ academic assessment under certain parameters for promotions under CAS. However, the universities in Bihar continue to promote teachers to next higher ranks as per the old promotion statute implemented in 2005, allegedly without giving any consideration to API score. Universities all over the country except those in Bihar have been using API score for granting promotion (a minimum of 75% is required). Interestingly, a couple of years back, Raj Bhavan constituted a three-member committee headed by Patna University vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh and comprising Munger University VC Ranjit Kumar Verma and Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University VC A K Roy to draft a new statute for promotions under CAS. Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, the chairman of the committee, said, “The new statute was drafted in 2019 taking into consideration all the provisions prescribed in UGC regulations, 2018, including academic assessment of teachers before their promotion.” The draft statute was sent to the state education department for its approval more than a year ago, but it is still gathering dust in the department. State higher education department director Rekha Kumari said the file is still with the department. “It could not be disposed of due to Covid-19 pandemic, but now the department has taken up the matter,” she said, adding the matter would be cleared soon. Legal experts point out yet another violation of the rule in continuance of the promotion of teachers by the university selection committee. As early as on August 14, 2013, the Act governing university selection committee was amended to exclude ‘teacher’ from its purview. It was left with the power to appoint only “principal and officers of the universities” as mentioned in Patna University and Bihar State Universities Amendment Act, 2013. Patna high court senior lawyer R K Shukla observed that the promotion of teachers under CAS through the university selection committee after August 14, 2013 is in violation of the provisions of aforesaid amendment university Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/university-teachers-being-promoted-illegally-experts/articleshow/79802676.cms||B K Mishra
December 19, 2020||Kanpur||Couple elope together days before marriage||Kanpur: A young man, who has been engaged for over a year and was supposed to tie the knot next year after Holi, eloped with his bride-to-be. The bizarre incident came to light on Thursday after a complaint was lodged at the Akbarpur Kotwali police station in Kanpur Dehat district. The two have not been traced so far. The couple’s families have approached Akbarpur police station and lodged a complaint in this regard. Sources said the marriage of the Kanpur Dehat’s Akbarpur-based youth was fixed with a Kripalpur girl and was to be solemnised next year after Holi. However, on December 10, the couple mysteriously disappeared from their homes. According to Inspector Akbarpur Kotwali, Tulsiram Pandey, the youth left his house on December 10 while the girl also left her house the same day saying that she was going to a nearby market with regard to wedding-related purchasing. “It was when the two, who are major, remained untraceable almost for a week, their family members approached us on Thursday with a complaint. Separate police teams have been formed and dispatched to possible locations to trace them. We have also put their mobile phone numbers on surveillance and are trying to zero-in on them. Though the woman’s father had charged the youth with abducting his daughter, during preliminary investigations it has come to fore that the woman had eloped with him on her own will,” said Pandey further. While speaking to a close relative, it was revealed that the two after their engagement were in touch with each other over the phone, besides having been meeting often. The incident has, however, left both the families red-faced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-elope-together-days-before-marriage/articleshow/79803189.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||In bid to steam out corona, people getting burns||Ahmedabad: In the initial stages of the Covid-19 pandemic, a couple from the city were scared of the viral infection and cases were reported around them. A close neighbour had also tested positive. They thus stepped up their ‘preventive measures’. On the suggestion of relatives, they maintained a cycle of doing steam inhalation every four hours. It was not only for the two of them though – they also started inhalation for their three-year-old. Once, while getting a steam at 2am, the boy accidentally upset the hot water vessel and scalded himself. The boy suffered 16% burns and had to be treated at a hospital. This is one of the 16 cases documented by a team of doctors led by Dr Vijay Bhatia, head of the plastic and reconstructive surgery department at SVP Hospital, which was published recently in IJCMCR. The co-authors were Kena MP, Sruja DN and Ranjit RZ. The team took into consideration the period from March to August and analysed 16 cases of burns due to steam inhalation. “There is no direct evidence that steam inhalation can prevent or cure Covid-19. But this is a popular belief and many from the city and state have started taking it as a preventive measure. A large section uses a vessel containing hot water for the purpose. While steam directly doesn’t cause severe burns, the hot water does,” said Dr Bhatia. “We used to see 2-3 such cases every year during the winter months. Now, in five months, we witnessed 16 cases, or one case every 10 days.” The researchers concluded that the traditional method of steam inhalation was employed by many especially during the lockdown months. But leaning over the vessel is dangerous and instead electrical appliances should be used if it’s used for symptomatic relief from common cold. They added that burns have both physical and emotional impact on the patients. The temperature of a vessel containing hot water is over 100 degrees celsius and could lead to second-degree burns, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-bid-to-steam-out-corona-people-getting-burns/articleshow/79803649.cms||Parth Shastri
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Customs’ gold worth Rs 1 crore missing||RAJKOT: Gold worth Rs 1.10 crore, which was seized during smugglers’ heydays in the eighties, is missing from the custody of Jamnagar customs department. What’s even more surprising is though the precious metal was confirmed missing four years ago, an official complaint was lodged with the Jamnagar police only on Friday as the internal probe could not trace the culprits. According to the FIR lodged by Ramsingh Yadav, an inspector with Jamnagar customs department, the samples of smuggled gold and silver seized during various raids by Bhuj custom division during 1971 to 1996 were kept at the latter’s office. However, the office building got damaged in the 2001 devastating earthquake and nearly 3149.398 gram gold along with silver was transferred to Jamnagar custom office. The suitcase containing the gold was sealed by the responsible officials of Jamnagar and Bhuj division. The suitcase had the seal of the customs department depicting the year 2001 and signatures of gold depositor and receiver. The department says some government officials are involved in this gold siphoning. “The suitcase containing the samples was handed over to the officials of Bhuj custom division on October 18, 2016 when they came to Jamnagar to take custody of this gold. The suitcase had the same seal. Thereafter, the seal was opened in the presence of Jamnagar and Bhuj custom divisions officers and jewellers were called as witnesses after completing the inquest. The suitcase keys were missing so the lock was broken. It was then found that the 2,156.722 gram from the five samples seized between 1982 to 1986 was missing,” the FIR states. The current market value of this missing gold shown in the FIR is Rs 1.10 crore. Officials have cited “departmental procedure” for lodging the complaint four years after the theft, said KL Gadhe, inspector, B-division police station. According to sources, after getting to know about the missing gold, officials started internal communication and informed the chief commissioner of Gujarat. The chief commissioner on December 11 asked Jamnagar division to register a formal police FIR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gold-worth-rs1-10-cr-missing-since-2016-customs-dept-lodges-fir-now/articleshow/79802944.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: These three are leaving lasting mark at protest||NEW DELHI: Manjinder Singh, a 25-year-old farmer, couldn’t hold his excitement on Friday as three tattoo artists from Ludhiana had come to the protest site at Singhu border to support the farmers. The trio was inking tattoos for free. While Manjinder already had two tattoos, he added a third one saying “Har Maidan Fatah” in Gurmukhi. Chetan Sood, one of the artists, said, “This is our way of supporting the farmers. We have designs related to the Punjabi culture. Whoever wants to get a tattoo engraved can take a pick from them. We’ll be here for at least three days.” The inking artists are a part of a tattoo club based in Ludhiana. They reached Delhi via Sonipat border on Friday and set up their stall near the main stage. The stall was a hit among youngsters with Sood stating that in three hours they had made 10 tattoos. Among the patterns were pictures of a tractor, a farmer ploughing a field with bullocks, maize, the map of west Punjab, the head of a lion, apart from several slogans. “My old tattoos are related to the life of my family members, but the new one will be of the struggle that I’m a part of and would be fighting till the end,” said Manjinder. Older farmers, however, were more interested in the Steelman Academy physical therapy centre. Amandeep Singh, also known as Steel Man of India, had come from Kurukshetra to Singhu border 20 days ago to give physical therapy to farmers. “I am a trained physiotherapist and a mixed martial arts fighter. I’m assisting everyone who has body pain. I have a special machine brought from abroad that helps heal pain,” said Amandeep, who is also a part of Midland Langar Seva Society UK. Using a portable microphone, he makes announcements asking anyone with any kind of pain to visit the stall. Similarly, the foot massage centre set up by Khalsa Aid also had a long queue of elderly farmers eagerly waiting for their turn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/these-three-are-leaving-lasting-mark-at-protest/articleshow/79805202.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 19, 2020||Business||Have retail investors figured out the market move? It seems so||MUMBAI: Retail investors in equity mutual funds are showing signs of maturity. In October and November, as both sensex and Nifty touched new highs on a regular basis, the investors took out a record amount of money — over Rs 15,400 crore — from equity funds. They reinvested this into short-term debt funds, which are comparatively less volatile than equities. Compare this with the huge net buying of stocks — aggregating over Rs 17,900 crore — in March and April this year, when the markets had crashed and then showed some recovery. According to Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) chairman Nilesh Shah, the investors — retail and HNIs — are definitely being more mature, although “it’s not a homogeneous crowd … not everyone is rational”. This matured behaviour is also showing up in the data. During November, investors took money off every type of pure equity schemes as large-caps led with a net outflow of Rs 3,289 crore, followed by multi-caps (Rs 2,842 crore) and value & contra funds (Rs 1,323 crore). At the same time, November recorded net inflows of Rs 27,108 crore in low-duration funds, followed by short-term funds (nearly Rs 13,100 crore) and corporate bond funds (almost Rs 11,100 crore), Amfi data showed. It also shows outflows from overnight and liquid schemes. However, most investors in these funds are corporates and this reflects their demand to meet cash flow needs. On the other hand, over 95% of equity fund investors are individuals. In March, when the markets were hitting multi-month and multi-year lows on a regular basis, almost every type of equity scheme had recorded net inflows, while most debt funds recorded net outflows. According to analysts, this behaviour — of buying at markets’ lows while selling when markets are at a high and valuations look stretched — is being observed only in the past few years. According to Morningstar India director (fund research) Kaustubh Belapurkar, there are definite signs of increasing maturity from Indian investors. “Equity funds witnessed an uptick in inflows when the markets corrected in March. We have witnessed similar such activity over the past two-three years, whereby the inflows into equity funds increased whenever markets have corrected. On the other side, we have also seen outflows increase from equity funds as markets made new highs, as investors looked to rebalance their equity portfolio back to their desired asset allocation levels.” Historically, Indian investors bought when markets were high, endured pain as indices slid to multi-year lows from those highs, and lost patience to hold on to their investments and sold as markets bottomed out. According to Axis MF MD & CEO Chandresh Nigam, investors’ maturity could be gauged if they don’t get into an asset class at the wrong time and again get out at the wrong time. Nigam said the recent actions of equity fund investors have been “reasonably rational”. “Investors are putting money in mutual funds through the SIP route. During panic situations, they are not going out. However, not 100% of the investors are matured enough…but they are improving.” Amfi data shows monthly inflows are hovering at the Rs 8,000-crore mark since December 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/have-retail-investors-figured-out-the-market-move-it-seems-so/articleshow/79806426.cms||Partha Sinha
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Provoked, angry lion shows who’s boss||RAJKOT: A king disturbed in his siesta is a dangerous proposition — a fact this snooper found out almost at the cost of his life. But foresters claim the accused went too far with his felonies of playing wildlife paparazzi — by provoking a sleeping lion and then to try and make him pose for the lens — which made the lion lose its temper. A video that went viral on Friday reveals how the intruder tried to video record a fully grown male lion is resting in a farm. The person, who was hiding behind a wall of stones, then teases the lion trying to make it look at the camera. At this, the king of the jungle was irritated and showed its displeasure through its body language and roared aloud. However, the man ignored it all in his greed for a good shot and continued to record, which truly got the lion’s goat. It decided to end the nuisance and sprang to its feet with a roar and with such ferocity that the intruder ran for his life. While the forest department is still trying to confirm where the video had been recorded, it is also probing whether this amounts to harassment of the animal and also if the person should be booked under wildlife protection Act. Anshuman Sharma, deputy conservator of forest Gir (east) division told TOI, “We have started an inquiry into where this video was recorded and are also probing whether this amounts to harassment of the lions.” Watch Angry lion chases away man in Gujarat's Rajkot, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/provoked-angry-lion-shows-intruding-paparazzi-who-rules/articleshow/79803079.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||With eye on polls, Kolkata Police focuses on law & order||KOLKATA: Ahead of the civic and Assembly elections to be held next year, the police top brass on Friday instructed the force to pull up its socks and ensure there is no pendency in submitting law-and-order reports, comply with non-bailable warrants and take stock of pending case diaries. “It is important to be ready with the necessary reports when the Election Commission meetings are convened around two months from now. Police stations must prepare all law-and-order reports on time and update pending case diaries,” said an officer. Each police station has been asked to monitor and videograph local agitations if necessary. With Union home minister Amit Shah visiting the city, police have also been asked to be on guard during an anti-CAA rally from Ramlila Maidan near Moulali where hundreds of civil society organizations are likely to express support for protesting farmers. Every police station has also been asked to implement the Supreme Court mandated guidelines and run a dedicated women’s help desk. This will encourage women to report complaints of domestic violence and other crimes. Police stations have also been asked to set up multiple CCTV cameras with sound recording capability. Divisional DCs, ACPs and OCs have been asked to keep tabs on pending FSL reports that are creating issues during filing of final charge sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-eye-on-polls-kp-focuses-on-law-order/articleshow/79803281.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Truck ploughs into three autos, kills pedestrian, injures four||KOLKATA: A pedestrian was killed and three auto drivers and an auto passenger were severely injured after a truck rammed into them at a stand for the three-wheelers near 3A bus terminus in Thakurpukur on Friday afternoon. Initial investigations suggested reckless driving by a motorist led to the accident. According to CCTV footage and witness accounts, a car had tried to overtake the truck from the left but suddenly stopped when the signal turned red. This forced the truck driver to swerve the other way. However, he ended up grazing the car and hitting a pedestrian before ramming into the autos. Nimai Mondal, 70, a retired government employee and resident of Biswaspara in Joka, was walking by the autos when he was hit by the truck. He died on the spot. “The elderly man was flung off the road and fell on his back and bled profusely from the head and legs. He seemed unconscious when he was taken to a local hospital. He was declared dead there,” said Bapi Das, a local resident who saw the accident. Mondal’s relatives said he was returning home after buying medicines from a shop beside the 3A bus terminus. The truck reduced the three autos, which ply on the Thakurpukur-Taratala route, to a heap of mangled steel. Their drivers — Santu Seal, 32, Jayanta Mallick, 48, and Sambhu Halder, 30 — had to be extricated from the crumpled vehicles. A passenger — Kalipada Gharami, 55 — was also rescued from one of the autos. While Seal and Mallick were discharged after first aid, the others have been admitted to SSKM Hospital. The truck driver attempted to flee the spot, but local residents caught him and handed him over to the police. A case of death due to rash and negligent driving has been registered against him. Though medium and heavy goods vehicles are not allowed in most parts of the city, they are allowed to ply on some stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/truck-ploughs-into-three-autos-kills-pedestrian-injures-four/articleshow/79803259.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||ATM heist gang member nabbed from UP railway station||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police detective department has arrested the main accused in ATM heists from UP’s Mathura junction railway station. Md Shaheed, 29, is a key member of a Mewati gang that broke into multiple ATMs and decamped with cash. The cops had traced Shaheed to Firozpur Jhirka in the Mewat region in Haryana, about 115km from Mathura. Trailing a white SUV used during the theft of Rs 13 lakh from an ATM in Tiljala led to the breakthrough in coordination with Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan police. Financial transactions carried out just before the break-in on November 20 also helped. The gang changed the number plate of the car thrice during the journey but were unable to throw the cops off. “We used over 500 CCTV frames from toll plazas between Kolkata and Mathura to narrow down the suspects. The car’s smartcard was recovered with help from police in Haryana in a month-long probe that took our teams to UP, Rajasthan and Haryana,” said a source. The Haryana and UP police are helping Kolkata Police raid multiple places in Mewat in search of the other associates of the accused. “After exchanging information with Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan cops, we found that the gangs behind this type of crime only use cars without records of present owners. We activated sources and managed to trace their vehicle. We used the owner’s details to proceed and arrested Shaheed,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/atm-heist-gang-member-nabbed-from-up-railway-stn/articleshow/79803285.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 19, 2020||Patna||‘Sacrifice’ son for the sake of country: RJD’s Shivanand Tiwari to Sonia Gandhi||PATNA: RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari launched a vitriolic attack on ally Congress and its leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday, saying the latter lacked the leadership quality to inspire people. He also appealed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to “forsake son’s love” for the sake of the country and think of an alternative as Congress was the “only alternative” for BJP in the country. In a social media post, Tiwari compared Congress with a boat which neither had an oak nor a boatman. “Leave alone the common people, even his (Rahul) party men do not have faith in him, and they are leaving the party. Despite bad health, Sonia Ji is somehow managing the affair because of helplessness,” read a part of Tiwari’s post. His scathing attack on the Mahagathbandhan ally came a day before the Grand Old Party’s scheduled meeting of senior leaders on Saturday. Tiwari recalled how Sonia managed the affairs during Sitaram Kesri’s time when Congress was at a low, and she helped the party bloom again. Tiwari also mentioned how several senior leaders were against Sonia becoming the prime minister in 2004 because of her foreign roots and how she picked Manmohan Singh to lead the country. He urged Sonia to make a similar sacrifice again for the sake of the country by forsaking the love for her son. “Today, to the same Sonia Gandhi we ask — party? or son? Or better we say son? or democracy? The Congress party is going to hold an important meeting and I do not know whether my words will reach her. But the kind of trouble the country is facing, it is compelling me to say these things,” Tiwari stated. This is for the second time after the Bihar assembly election that Tiwari has hit out at Rahul publicly. Soon after the election, he had blamed Rahul for the Mahagatbandhan’s loss. His statement did not go down well with the state Congress leaders. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra demanded that RJD take immediate action against Tiwari and said the latter was speaking the words of BJP and paving his way to switch to the saffron party. “Such a statement is not expected from an alliance partner and we expect opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to expel people like Tiwari from the party who are talking on behalf of BJP,” Mishra said. He added that Congress members would be waiting for Tejashwi to initiate proper steps in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sacrifice-son-for-the-sake-of-country-rjds-tiwari-to-sonia/articleshow/79802758.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dwarf cattle to be next household pet?||VISAKHAPATNAM: Punganur dwarf cattle, native to Chittoor district and the world’s smallest humped cattle breed, may soon be a household pet. ABC Mutually Aided Cooperative Society Limited, a state government-authorised semen bank, has on an experimental basis created two dwarf bulls that weigh 200 kilos each, against the average weight of bulls that can attain a maximum of 1,500 kilos. Society manager P Srikanth said the bulls weighed around 30 kilos at the time of their birth two years ago. Now, they have come to the stage of releasing semen. “We decided to provide the semen of these bulls to interested people with the intention of creating a culture/trend among people adopting cattle, similar to dogs and cats. We have sent the semen samples for laboratory tests at Southern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (SRDDL), Bengaluru. We will be ready to provide the semen of these bulls from 2021,” Srikanth told TOI. Animal Rescue Organisation secretary Gopal R Surabattula said such cultures may become common for future generations. At present, some individuals adopt the animal as a pet and though this is a new trend, it may become popular if animals of a lower weight are provided. “Every discharge of cattle like dung and urine is useful for the owner. The maintenance of cattle as pets is also cheaper since they don’t eat meat,” Gopal said. KVV Satyaveni, managing director of Sri Seetaraama Semen Bank at Alamuru in East Godavari said, “We are making all possible efforts to bring down the weight of the cattle as much as possible so that people can easily adopt them as their pets. People would surely adopt the cattle as pets if we provided them with the best hybrid products.” Satyaveni further said the present cost of each Punganur dwarf cattle is around Rs 5 lakh and dependent on demand. If production is high, cost can be reduced, she said. When contacted, a senior official at the animal husbandry department said, “Our role is at present limited to milk production from cattle and provision of quality breed. The concept of fashion cattle and cattle as pets is presently going on out of their department activities. In future, we may consider it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dwarf-cattle-to-be-next-household-pet/articleshow/79802627.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 19, 2020||Allahabad||Change of name part of right to expression: Court||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has held that change of name is a part of right to expression guaranteed under Article Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India. Allowing a writ petition filed by one Kabir Jaiswal, Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “As the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, freedom of expression through the change of name cannot be denied to the petitioner in the present case and he is entitled to change his name.” The court also directed the CBSE to issue a fresh certificate recording the name of the petitioner as Kabir Jaiswal in place of Rishu Jaiswal within a period of two months. According to the petitioner, he had appeared in the Secondary School Examination in the academic year 2011-13, i.e., Class-X, and Senior School Certificate Examination in the year 2015, i.e., Class-XII, conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi in the name of Rishu Jaiswal, son of Santosh Kumar Jaiswal and had passed the said examinations also. Later, the petitioner with an intent to change his name from Rishu Jaiswal to Kabir Jaiswal, got a notice published in the notification in the Gazette of India and moved an application for correction of the name from Rishu Jaiswal to Kabir Jaiwal. In the petition, the petitioner claims that the name was changed in the Aadhaar card and the PAN card also in pursuance to the Gazette Notification. However, when the petitioner moved an application through the school concerned for change of name in the certificates, granted by the CBSE, the school in question forwarded the request to the Board and the Board vide order dated May 27, 2020, rejected the application for change of name on the ground that the particulars of the school records do not show the change of name as sought by the petitioner. The said order was challenged in the present writ petition. The court delivered this decision on December 2 that came to light on December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/change-of-name-part-of-right-to-expression-court/articleshow/79803499.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 19, 2020||Patna||Oxford honours NU vice-chancellor||PATNA: The Academic Union, Oxford in its Oxford debate on ‘Universities of the future’ conferred the Honorary Professorship to Sunaina Singh, the vice-chancellor of Nalanda University (NU), in recognition to her expertise in the fields of science, economy and healthcare. As per a statement issued by NU, the award is recognition to Singh’s achievements to reinvent the historic university and its academic architecture. All the academic leaders present in the webinar from Europe, USA, Africa and Asia appreciated her efforts to bring the culture of excellence to maturity at Nalanda. Speaking in the Oxford debate on December 15, Singh shared her insights on how she is engaged in recreating NU as a symbol of Asian renaissance and resurgence. She said the credit for allocation of land for the sprawling campus goes to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar. Singh shared her experience on the emerging trends of educational transformation during pandemic. She pointed out that the future universities should remodel and reinvent itself in sync with the rhythm of the increasingly complex and continuously changing world. “The generation of our times faces multifaceted challenges, such as climate change, instability and divisive boundaries across nations and civilizations. Thus, the courses need to be refashioned to build it more innovative, integrated and comprehensive with qualities of critical thinking, empathy, creativity and problem-solving skills,” Singh said. The NU VC stressed the need for interdisciplinary education in higher studies for holistic development of students. She said the courses need to focus on social aspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oxford-honours-nu-vice-chancellor/articleshow/79802267.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Former BJP corporator held with firearm||Rajkot: A former BJP corporator in Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) was detained with a country-made pistol from near Airport Road railway crossing on Thursday night. Police said that they found country-made pistol worth Rs 20,000 and five live cartridges worth Rs 500 from the car of Sanjay Dhava (46), former BJP corporator from ward 17 of Rajkot city.According to case details, Dhava’s employee Kamlesh Patel was detained for driving in an inebriated state and was also booked for violating curfew on Thursday night. After Patel was detained, he called Dhava, urging him to bail him out of the problem. While Dhava was going to the police station in his car, he was stopped near Airport Road railway crossing for allegedly breaking night curfew rules. “During checking of his car, we found the pistol and cartridges, following which we booked Dhava under the Arms Act and section 188 of the Indian Penal Code dealing with the violation of government notification,” said L L Chavda, an inspector with Pradyuman Nagar police station. During interrogation, Dhava said that he had bought the pistol and cartridges 15 years ago from an arms dealer in Madhya Pradesh for self protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/former-bjp-corporator-held-with-firearm/articleshow/79803145.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Elderly man held for raping 8-year-old girl in Bihar's Katihar district||PATNA: A 60-year-old man, who had allegedly raped an eight-year-old girl at a village under the Manihari police station area in Katihar district, was on Friday forwarded to judicial custody. SHO of Manihari police station Ashok Kumar said the incident had occurred on November 14, but the family of the minor girl did not bring it to the notice of the police due to social stigma. “The girl’s mother finally lodged an FIR against the accused, Jammu Khan, on Thursday and the police arrested him,” the SHO added. He added the girl’s medical examination was conducted on Thursday. However, her statement was yet to be recorded before judicial magistrate. “Khan, a farmer, was working in his field when he spotted the girl outside her house. He took the girl inside the house as her parents were not present there. There, he raped the girl,” the SHO said, adding the police will file chargesheet in the case after getting medical report of the survivor and conducting necessary investigations. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-man-held-for-raping-8-year-old-girl/articleshow/79802183.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: First phase of railway recruitment test concludes||PATNA: The first phase of the computer-based test (CBT), conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) to fill 1.4 lakh vacant posts in railways, concluded at various centres in Patna, Ara, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Dhanbad and Hazaribagh in Bihar and Jharkhand on Friday. The first phase of CBT had started on December 15. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said around 7,644 candidates had appeared for the CBT at different centres in Bihar and Jharkhand under the jurisdiction of the ECR on the first day on December 15. “In four days, over 16,000 candidates appeared for the test at these centres,” he said, adding Covid protocols were followed at all the centres during examinations. “Observers were deployed at all the centres to conduct the test. Candidates were allowed to enter centre premises only after thermal screening. It was mandatory for each candidate to sign a self-declaration proforma stating that they are fit to sit in the examinations. Those showing Covid symptoms were asked to take the test later on,” the CPRO said. He added the second phase of the CBT will be conducted from December 28 to March 2021 and the third phase in April or June next year. “About 2.44 crore candidates have applied for various posts in railways across the country. The RRB faced a tough time shortlisting eligible candidates and issuing e-admit cards to them amid Covid pandemic,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/first-phase-of-railway-recruitment-test-concludes/articleshow/79802687.cms||Kumod Verma
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 10-year-old girl raped in car by brother-in-law||RAJKOT: A 10-year-old girl was raped inside a car, allegedly by the husband of her cousin sister, in a village near Gondal, on Thursday. The local crime branch (LCB) detained the accused Bhupat Chavda, 32, from his native Kagdadi village of Morbi district on Friday evening. Chavda has an estranged relationship with his wife who has been living with her parents and brother in Devchari village near Gondal for the last seven months. On Thursday, Chavda came to Devchari village and went to his wife's maternal uncle's house. "Chavda told his wife's uncle that he had purchased a new vehicle and wanted a young girl to perform the traditional puja with her hands and show it to his wife. Finding it an auspicious thing, his wife's uncle agreed to send his 10-year-old daughter with Chavda," said Ajaysinh Gohil, inspector, local crime branch. However, Chavda took the girl on the outskirts of the village and raped her in the car. He the dropped the girl outside his wife's house and fled to his native. Later, his wife's brother had dropped the girl to her house. However, she fell unconscious in the night and was rushed to Virpur government hospital where doctors found that she had been sexually assaulted. The girl was then referred to Rajkot Civil Hospital. As soon as her father lodged a complaint, the LCB team was dispatched to Morbi and they caught Chavda. When he was brought to the police station, the girl's relatives strongly demanded that he be handed over to them. Senior police officials also reached there and convinced and placated them. "We will arrest Chavda after his Covid test," said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/10-year-old-girl-raped-in-car-by-brother-in-law/articleshow/79802984.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Rashtriya Lok Samata Party files cases against Kangana Ranaut||PATNA: State lawyers’ cell president of Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) Shyam Bihari Singh on Friday filed a complaint case in the Patna civil court against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for retweeting a “derogatory and insulting” tweet against party president Upendra Kushwaha.  Another complaint case was filed by RLSP general secretary Vinay Kushwaha against Kangana in the Gaya civil court on Thursday. The party’s legal cells in all the 38 districts across the state will lodge cases against the actor in the days to come, RLSP chief spokesman Afzal Imam Malik said. रालोसपा द्वारा आयोजित चुनावी सभा की तस्वीर का दुरुपयोग करने से आपको राजनीति की पाठशाला में प्रवेश मिल जाएगा !कंग… https://t.co/E3bhQWaoiU— Upendra Kushwaha (@UpendraRLSP) 1607070788000 Twitter India has also been named in the two cases. Kangana had retweeted the tweet of one “YoYo Funny Singh’ in which Kushwaha had been presented in an insulting and derogatory manner on December 3, party spokesman Bhola Sharma said. The photograph of an election rally addressed by Kushwaha was attached with the tweet. Kushwaha was dubbed as member of the ‘tukde tukde’ gang. RLSP spokesman Malik said Kangana attempted to put RLSP in poor light and hurt the sentiments of lakhs of party workers. Reacting to Kangana’s retweet, Kushawaha had tweeted, “You will get entry into the ‘pathshaalaa (middle school)’ of politics, as you have misused the photo of an election rally organised by the RLSP. Kangana ji, why do you have such a little understanding (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlsp-files-cases-against-kangana/articleshow/79802230.cms||Abhay Singh
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid Christmas: Andhra Pradesh hotels steer clear of planning events||VISAKHAPATNAM: Brace for a quiet Christmas and New Year’s eve celebration this year as hoteliers and restaurateurs in the state have decided against hosting events of any sort on these two days in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Although a few hotels are trying to convert their conference or banquet halls into restaurants to increase the seating capacity, most restaurateurs are not willing to make any special arrangements for these two days. “We had decided not to host any events related to Christmas or New Year celebrations this year. In fact, most hotels and restaurants won’t make any special arrangements for these two days,” Prasant Singu, president of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh, told TOI. Hoteliers claimed the state government has not issued any advisory till date. However, there are apprehensions that the administration might place a restriction on Christmas and New Year events or impose a curfew on Christmas and New Year’s eves. “Even if you host an event, people would not actually turn up because of such apprehensions. So hoteliers and restaurateurs have taken this decision proactively,” added Singu. Under such circumstances, some hoteliers are hoping that restaurants might have a relatively good business this year because people heading out to these events might opt to come out only for dinner. “It means we can expect a decent crowd at the restaurants. In that case it would be difficult to maintain social distancing. So, we are keeping additional seating arrangements ready at our banquet hall in case it is required,” said a senior official at a star hotel in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-christmas-hotels-steer-clear-of-planning-events/articleshow/79809959.cms||Arpit Basu
December 19, 2020||Amaravati||Covid Christmas: Andhra Pradesh hotels steer clear of planning events||VISAKHAPATNAM: Brace for a quiet Christmas and New Year’s eve celebration this year as hoteliers and restaurateurs in the state have decided against hosting events of any sort on these two days in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Although a few hotels are trying to convert their conference or banquet halls into restaurants to increase the seating capacity, most restaurateurs are not willing to make any special arrangements for these two days. “We had decided not to host any events related to Christmas or New Year celebrations this year. In fact, most hotels and restaurants won’t make any special arrangements for these two days,” Prasant Singu, president of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh, told TOI. Hoteliers claimed the state government has not issued any advisory till date. However, there are apprehensions that the administration might place a restriction on Christmas and New Year events or impose a curfew on Christmas and New Year’s eves. “Even if you host an event, people would not actually turn up because of such apprehensions. So hoteliers and restaurateurs have taken this decision proactively,” added Singu. Under such circumstances, some hoteliers are hoping that restaurants might have a relatively good business this year because people heading out to these events might opt to come out only for dinner. “It means we can expect a decent crowd at the restaurants. In that case it would be difficult to maintain social distancing. So, we are keeping additional seating arrangements ready at our banquet hall in case it is required,” said a senior official at a star hotel in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-christmas-hotels-steer-clear-of-planning-events/articleshow/79809957.cms||Arpit Basu
December 19, 2020||Varanasi||Illegal wall on land captured by jailed MLA razed||Varanasi: In a major action initiated against jailed muscleman, MLA Vijay Mishra, the Bhadohi administration and police on Friday ensured demolition of the boundary wall on around a two-and-a-half bigha land, which was the property of Navdhan village gram sabha in Gyanpur area. SP (Bhadohi) RB Singh said, “A joint team of administration, police and land revenue department demolished the boundary wall of two-and-a-half bigha (6000 sq mt) land of the gram sabha, which was illegally captured by Mishra. The land was returned to the gram sabha. The cost of the property is over Rs 5 crore.” Action was initiated after the court of tehsildar Gyanpur gave its decision in the case of land grabbing by Mishra, said officials. Vijay Mishra is in Agra jail following his arrest in Madhya Pradesh on August 14 in a case lodged by his relative Krishna Kanth Tiwari against him, his wife, MLC Ramlali Mishra and son Vishnu, at Gopiganj police station on August 8. Tiwari had alleged that the trio forcibly got his property registered in their name. While Ramlali and Vishnu are absconding, order for attaching their property had already been issued by the court. His property in Prayagraj had also been targeted. On November 18, Mishra was brought to Mirzapur from Agra jail to produce him before the CJM court in a case of issuing treat to a priest of Vidhyachal for extortion. Before the fresh series of criminal cases filed against him and his family members, Mishra already had 71 criminal cases against him, and 10 cases pending in MP/MLA court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/illegal-wall-on-land-captured-by-jailed-mla-razed/articleshow/79803114.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid Christmas: Andhra Pradesh hotels steer clear of planning events||VISAKHAPATNAM: Brace for a quiet Christmas and New Year’s eve celebration this year as hoteliers and restaurateurs in the state have decided against hosting events of any sort on these two days in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Although a few hotels are trying to convert their conference or banquet halls into restaurants to increase the seating capacity, most restaurateurs are not willing to make any special arrangements for these two days. “We had decided not to host any events related to Christmas or New Year celebrations this year. In fact, most hotels and restaurants won’t make any special arrangements for these two days,” Prasant Singu, president of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh, told TOI. Hoteliers claimed the state government has not issued any advisory till date. However, there are apprehensions that the administration might place a restriction on Christmas and New Year events or impose a curfew on Christmas and New Year’s eves. “Even if you host an event, people would not actually turn up because of such apprehensions. So hoteliers and restaurateurs have taken this decision proactively,” added Singu. Under such circumstances, some hoteliers are hoping that restaurants might have a relatively good business this year because people heading out to these events might opt to come out only for dinner. “It means we can expect a decent crowd at the restaurants. In that case it would be difficult to maintain social distancing. So, we are keeping additional seating arrangements ready at our banquet hall in case it is required,” said a senior official at a star hotel in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-christmas-hotels-steer-clear-of-planning-events/articleshow/79802634.cms||Arpit Basu
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man challenges law, uses it to block deal||AHMEDABAD: Daanish Qureshi is one of the first persons to have approached the Gujarat high court to challenge the constitutional validity of the Disturbed Areas Act on the grounds that its enactment and implementation is aimed at targeting a particular community in the state. He has approached the high court once again, this time resorting to the provisions of the same law with a view to block a land deal in the Makarba area. The 2018 amendments to the Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provisions of Tenants from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act now make government permission mandatory for everyone who buys or sells property in areas notified as disturbed areas. A land deal in Makarba brought Qureshi to the high court on Wednesday with a petition filed through advocate K R Koshti. Qureshi raised the issue of permission granted by the deputy collector under the Disturbed Areas Act for a land deal in Makarba last year. He, being the power of attorney holder for Hiraben Vaghari, raised an objection in November 2019 against the application filed by Ami Enterprise and its partner Mahendra Parmar to obtain permission for a land deal. Qureshi maintained that the land did not have title clearance and the builders were hiding pending court cases pertaining to the land. But the authority granted permission for sale/purchase in July 2020. Qureshi has moved the HC against the permission under the Act, with advocate Koshti submitting that the authorities could not have granted permission when pending cases were pointed out. The law clearly bars the authorities from doing so for land on which litigation is pending. After a preliminary hearing, Justice Biren Vaishnav issued notice to the authorities and posted a further hearing for February 8. On his resorting to the provisions of the very law whose constitutional validity he has challenged, Qureshi said, “If I have challenged the law, it does not mean I am excluded from the law. Like every other citizen, I am bound by it. I have not asked for imposition of the law in this case, but I have been objecting to a false affidavit filed in the process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-challenges-law-uses-it-to-block-deal/articleshow/79803673.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Agencies join hands to unclog Kolkata airport during fog disruptions||KOLKATA: Flight delays owing to fog during the time of pandemic has forced multiple agencies functioning at Kolkata airport to roll out extraordinary measures to prevent crowding in the terminal. While airlines are trying to inform passengers about delays and revised reporting and departure schedules through messages to stave off crowding, CISF is delaying security check to keep the security hold area congestion-free. The airport operator, too, has rolled out measures like increasing the seating capacity in the security hold area and utilizing a part of the international wing in the integrated terminal building for domestic passengers. Earlier this month, flight movements were disrupted on three back-to-back days because of heavy fog when visibility at the runway had dropped below 50-metres. While 33 and 50 flights were disrupted on the first and third day, respectively, major delays were averted on the second day because of better visibility at the runway even as the rest of the airport premises were covered in thick fog. As a result, passengers of multiple flights had accumulated at the airport within a short period of time, throwing caution to social distancing protocols. Some passengers like Rudraksh Sinha even posted on Twitter a photograph of the crowded terminal and tagged Kolkata airport authorities and IndiGo to address the issue. “We have a big terminal that is currently running low on capacity considering the limited number of flights operational due to the pandemic. Hence, even with the excess crowd, there is still enough space for all of them inside the terminal. But to ensure social distancing protocols, we have made provisions for extra seats in the security-hold area. A part of the international security-hold area – around gates 12, 13 and 14 — is also being used to accommodate domestic passengers during emergency situations,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. On part of the airlines, a senior official of a private airline said they had been sending text messages to the flyers, alerting them about the revised reporting and departure schedules. The official added: “If worse comes to worse, passengers will be asked to board the aircraft of flights whose departures are on hold due to fog to make some space in the terminal.” Before the pandemic, more than 65,000 passengers used to travel through the airport. Post-pandemic, the highest number they have reached in recent times is 38,100 with 150 departing and 155 arriving flights. “The number of passengers are slowly increasing but they are still way less than what used to travel daily before the pandemic. We are, however, strictly adhering to Covid-related health guidelines,” said an airport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/agencies-join-hands-to-unclog-airport-during-fog-disruptions/articleshow/79803690.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||New search committee to be formed for Vidyapith VC post||AHMEDABAD: After a controversy erupted over the appointment of a new vice-chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith, questions are being raised about the appointment of the members in the selection committee itself. This committee, entrusted with identifying the next vice-chancellor, flouted some rules in the appointment of its members. The controversy comes as the varsity, founded by Mahatma Gandhi, is in its 100th year. The four-member selection committee appointed by Vidyapith trustees consisted of only three members and the fourth member, to be nominated by the University Grants Commission (UGC), had not been brought on board, sources in Gujarat Vidyapith said. “The UGC has now ordered a new search committee to be formed,” a source said. Questions are also being raised on whether the current members were appointed legally. The selection committee had recently recommended the name of former Vidyapith registrar, Rajendra Khimani, for the vice chancellor’s post. The term of the present vice-chancellor, Anamik Shah, ends on December 31. There is growing uncertainty over the candidature of Khimani and whether he can take charge as the new VC on January 1, or if the appointment is challenged, can he re-apply for the post. The next available option is to select the next best candidate of the three names that were initially proposed, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-search-committee-to-be-formed-for-vidyapith-vc-post/articleshow/79803688.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court lets Chaudhary file nomination for dairy election||AHMEDABAD: The city sessions court on Friday permitted former state home minister and ex-chairman of Dudhsagar Dairy to fill in and sign his nomination form for elections to the dairy’s management committee. Vipul Chaudhary, who was arrested in connection with the alleged bonus scam worth Rs 14 crore, submitted before the court that he was chairman of the Mehsana District Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd (Dudhsagar Dairy) for many years. His arrest was made at a time when elections were announced for the dairy management. He was arrested at this time so he could not participate in the election. He urged the HC to allow him to go to Mehsana and file his nomination because of the deadline, December 20. Later, Chaudhary changed his prayer and sought permission to sign the nomination papers and affirm an affidavit in support of the nomination form before a notary when he is produced in court on completion of his remand period. The state government vehemently opposed Chaudhary’s request and submitted that the court had no authority to pass any order on such applications. After hearing the case, the court said, “The prosecution cannot restrain the accused from exercising his statutory right to contest elections on the basis of unsubstantiated apprehensions and merely because an FIR has been filed against him”. It permitted Chaudhary to file his nomination for the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-lets-chaudhary-file-nomination-for-dairy-election/articleshow/79803686.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Restaurant workers sleep with brazier in room, two men choke to death||Rudrapur: Two men suffocated to death and one other was admitted to hospital in a critical condition after they all slept with a coal-brazier (angithi) in the room of the restaurant where they were employed on Thursday night. The accident took place in Dineshpur area of Udham Singh Nagar district. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Sanjeev Kumar Nath (22) and Akash Kumar (24) whereas 23-year-old Anupam Kumar Nath is undergoing treatment. All of them worked at a sweets shop owned by Jagdip Singh in Jaynagar village. Inspector Nityanand Pant, SHO, Rudrapur police station, said that Anupam, who regained consciousness, told police that they were using an angithi due to severe cold on Thursday night but forgot to put it out. Also, oxygen supply was completely cut off as doors and windows were closed. Notably, Sanjeev and Anupam are siblings. The official added that inquest proceedings were filed under Section 174 of CrPC for two deaths and autopsies will be done to ascertain the cause of deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/restaurant-workers-sleep-with-brazier-in-room-two-men-choke-to-death/articleshow/79802645.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Panel set up to look into anganwadi workers’ grievances, HC told||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Friday informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that the education secretary has set up a committee to look into the grievances of anganwadi workers. This information was given by the state counsel to the HC bench of Justice Ritu Bahri during the preliminary hearing of a petition filed by Sukhjit Kaur and 135 other anganwadi workers against Punjab. The petitioners’ contention is that they have been looking after small children in 3-6 years age group for several years, but in November 2017, the government ordered shifting of all anganwadi centres into primary schools, where sikhia providers/education volunteers would impart education to them while anganwadi workers would take care of their nutrition. Thus, anganwadi workers and sikhia providers/education volunteers have become partners in all round development of pre-primary class students/children. The grievance of petitioners is that the state government granted permission to sikhia providers/education volunteers to pursue one-year diploma in early childhood care and education (NTT) from IGNOU, but the facility was not extended to anganwari workers. Also, the government notified new rules ‘Punjab State Elementary Education (Pre-Primary School Teachers) Group C Service Rules, 2020’, on November 3, 2020, making the diploma a necessary qualification for recruitment of pre-primary teachers. The state government advertised 8,393 vacancies of such pre-primary teachers on November 23, 2020, rendering all anganwari workers ineligible for appointment, while thousands of sikhia providers/education volunteers became eligible for ongoing recruitment of pre-primary teachers. The petitioners have contended that under the National Education Policy-2020, anganwari workers who have done 10+2 are entitled to six-month training in early childhood care and education. The petitioners have, therefore, sought directions to the government to give them permission for doing diploma in early childhood care and education from IGNOU and also to keep the ongoing recruitment process for 8,393 teachers pending till they become eligible by completing the diploma. The matter has now been adjourned for hearing in the first week of January 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-set-up-to-look-into-anganwadi-workers-grievances-hc-told/articleshow/79805272.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||SFJ case: NIA slaps sedition charges on 10 Khalistani terrorists||MOHALI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed chargesheet against 10 Khalistani terrorists, including designated terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, in Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) case in the special NIA court in Mohali. The chargesheet has been filed against Pannun, a resident of New York, US, Pargat Singh, Sukhraj Singh alias Raju, Bikramjit Singh alias Vicky, Manjeet Singh alias Manga, Jatinder Singh alias Goldi, Gurwinder Singh alias Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi, Harpreet Singh alias Happy, Kuldeep Singh alias Keepa and Harmeet Singh alias Raju. They all have been charged under sections 120-B (conspiracy) and 124-A (sedition) of IPC and sections 13, 16, 17, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) (UA-P) Act, 1967. The case relates to a series of acts of violence including arson in Punjab during 2017-18, propaganda activities, including both online and ground campaigns in support of SFJ and Referendum- 2020. These acts were committed by a gang of radicalised Sikh youth under direction and financial assistance from SFJ handlers located abroad as part of an organised conspiracy to launch a concerted secessionist campaign for creation of Khalistan. This case was initially registered by Punjab police at Sultanwind Police Station, Amritsar (City) on October 19, 2018. It was subsequently re-registered by NIA at Delhi on April 5, 2020. Investigation revealed that SFJ, a secessionist outfit, launched an incessant campaign using numerous social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and YouTube channels as well as a number of websites to propagate sedition and disturb peace and harmony in India. These social media accounts are being used to radicalise impressionable youth and breed enmity on the grounds of region and religion. Investigation also clearly established that Gurpatwant Singh Pannun (leader of SFJ), radicalised and recruited the other accused into SFJ, an organisation declared as ‘Unlawful Association’ under UA(P) Act. The accused received funding from their handlers located abroad through various MTSS platforms to further the conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sfj-case-nia-slaps-sedition-charges-on-10-khalistani-terrorists/articleshow/79805298.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Pay up or face action, KMC warns major tax defaulters||KOLKATA: With Rs 90 crore in kitty from a section of 28,000 property tax defaulters who had applied for a cent per cent interest waiver on outstanding amount, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has now set sights on major tax defaulters. Sources in the KMC revenue department on Friday confirmed that the department was sending a reminder letter to the major defaulters to take advantage of the unique waiver scheme or face the consequences. Armed with the KMC Act (1980), the civic body’s assessment wing can attach property of a defaulter after serving him/her notice to clear the dues within a specified timeframe. A crack team has been formed to go through the waiver applications, scan them and track down major defaulters who owe the cash-strapped civic body over Rs 1 crore and are yet to apply for the scheme. “This reminder is being perceived as a threat letter to the defaulters. We are ready to bail out a defaulter from crisis who intends to clear dues. Otherwise, we will be compelled to take drastic action after expiry of the stipulated period,” said a KMC official. “We have already tracked down some habitual and major tax defaulters who have not applied for the waiver scheme. We are sending them letters to remind them of availing the opportunity. After expiry of the application period, we will send them notices to pay up or else we will be forced to attach their properties,” a KMC official said. The official said no less than 50 prime properties spread across south Kolkata were under the civic lens. While the KMC assessment department had introduced a scheme for complete waiver of interest and penalty on property tax dues from October with a December 31 deadline for application and February 28 for making payment, hoping to net around Rs 1,000 crore, the civic body is nowhere near the target, conceded a section of the KMC revenue department officials. In earlier waiver schemes, KMC had offered a 50% waiver of accumulated interests. According to a KMC revenue department official, lack of response from major defaulters has prompted the civic body’s assessment wing to take up the issue with the civic brass to book habitual defaulters who have dodged payments for years. “We are even ready to reconcile our demands if a property owner can prove us wrong and issue fresh notice after giving adjustments. But based on a consensus and a go-ahead by the brass, we will conduct raids against those who won’t clear their dues,” said a revenue department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pay-up-or-face-action-kmc-warns-major-tax-defaulters/articleshow/79803693.cms||Saikat Ray
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata station gets a snazzy lounge||KOLKATA: Kolkata station, the only one in the country to handle two international trains between India and Bangladesh, has now got a premium waiting lounge. This will be of great help to those passengers who need to spend some time at the station and freshen up. The waiting lounge, inaugurated on Thursday, has a spa, hair dressing facilities and exclusive recliners that can be accessed for nominal charges. Indian Railways has been setting up such lounges on a Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode at all important stations across the country to cater to the needs of both business travellers and tourists. Apart from the Maitree Express and Bandhan Express that run between Kolkata, Dhaka and Khulna, there are also a large number of trains running from Kolkata station to the rest of the country. Many people, both business travellers and tourists, arrive at the station from other parts of the country for connecting trains from Howrah and Sealdah or even flights. Hence, the launch of the executive lounge will be helpful for them,” said a senior Eastern Railway (ER) official. Many people also check out of hotel rooms to avoid an additional day’s rent and spend some time at stations before boarding trains. The swanky lounge will also be an attraction for people travelling to and from Bangladesh. “The fully air-conditioned lounge has been constructed on platform 1 on an area of nearly 2,000 sq ft. It has a wide range of facilities available for nominal charges. There is a game zone and an area earmarked for massages. After freshening up, people can avail of snacks, tea and coffee. The PPP model has been adopted for better maintenance, efficient operations and greater accountability. The lounge will be of great assistance for people who get off trains reaching the station very early in the morning or start late,” the official added. Passengers will be able to access this lounge by paying Rs 30 per head for each hour. For this initial charge, they would have access to plush sofas and the gaming zone. Nominal charges would apply for additional benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-stn-gets-a-snazzy-lounge/articleshow/79803699.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Allahabad HC stays arrest of accused||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the arrest of a man booked by UP Police under the recently promulgated Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, for allegedly trying to marry a woman with intentions of converting her to another faith. This is the first time that an affected party has approached the high court against this ordinance. Hearing a writ petition filed by one Nadeem from Haridwar, who was booked by UP Police, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal directed the state police not to take any coercive action against the accused, Nadeem, who was booked by UP Police on November 29 on a complaint filed by one Akshay Kumar of Muzaffarnagar. The petitioner had taken the plea that constitutional validity of the said ordinance is before another division bench of this court. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued that the ordinance is ultra vires of the Constitution of India and any criminal proceeding initiated under the provisions of the ordinance shall be quashed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/court-stays-arrest-of-accused/articleshow/79806144.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 19, 2020||Goa||GIDC will float tender for coal block soon: CM||Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation’s (GIDC) consultant, aXYKno Capital Service Pvt Ltd, gave a presentation on the Dongri Tal II coal block along with the process to select a mine developer cum operator (MDO). Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who was present for the presentation, said that the tender to appoint the MDO would be floated within 15 days. “The consultant has prepared the RFQ (request for qualification) and we have decided to float the RFQ in say around 15 days,” said Sawant after chairing the Public-Private-Partnership steering committee meeting. GIDC had asked the Union coal ministry for additional time to appoint a mine developer-cum-operator and pay the Rs 196 crore performance guarantee for the Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh. The coal block was allocated to Goa as part of the fifth tranche of the allotment by the coal ministry and the state was supposed to ink the agreement by October 30, 2019. However, due to paucity of funds, GIDC could not pay the instalments upfront and decided to instead select the MDO who would pay the performance and bank guarantee for the coal block on behalf of the state. During themeeting, Goa Tourism Development Corporation’s (GTDC) passenger ropeway project between Panaji and Reis Magos was also taken up for discussion. “The chief minister has instructed the department officers concerned to complete all the procedures, including obtaining the no-objection certificate from departments, by January 31,” said GTDC chairman Dayanand Sopte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-will-float-tender-for-coal-block-soon-cm/articleshow/79806148.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Rajnath Singh opens Military Lit Fest, recalls 1971 war||CHANDIGARH: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday inaugurated the fourth Military Literature Festival (MLF), dedicating it to the warriors who died defending the motherland. The three-day outdoor festival is an indoor virtual event this time because of the pandemic. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, governor V P Singh Badnore, and the Army’s Western Command started this joint initiative in 2017. Switching it on from Delhi, Rajnath said it was befitting to hold the military festival in Punjab, the land of heroic martial traditions. He regretted missing it last year due to the extended Parliament session but said this time it was golden jubilee of the 1971 war victory in which 93,000 Pakistani soldiers had surrendered to the Indian Army after the liberation of Bangladesh. The Punjab governor described how the event brought military history, values, traditions and ethos to the public. CM’s senior adviser Lieutenant General (retd) T S Shergill lauded the Western Command for supporting the MLF. Former Jammu and Kashmir governor N N Vohra said: “War stories had come into the public glare from just military gatherings. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rajnath-opens-military-lit-fest-recalls-1971-war/articleshow/79805289.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Temple trust seeks action against cop||AHMEDABAD: The Gopinathji Devmandir Trust of Gadhada has approached the Gujarat high court seeing directions to local police not to interfere in the day-to-day affairs of the temple trust. The trustees have filed a petition and sought inquiry into an incident that occurred on December 6, when a Botad DSP Rajdeepsinh Nakum allegedly barged into a meeting and misbehaved with the trustees. They have sought action against the police officer after the inquiry and sought declaration from the court that the police officer’s action on that day was unconstitutional. The temple trustees have also urged the HC to order local police to vacate the temple’s campus and not to enter the premises without court’s directions. The public prosecutor sought time from the court to address it on the issue, and further hearing is posted next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/temple-trust-seeks-action-against-cop/articleshow/79803694.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||SC: Affordable treatment part of right to health||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday termed the worldwide fight against Covid-19 as “world war” and asked states to act vigilantly and harmoniously with the Union government while directing them to increase policing of crowded places to strictly enforce the 'mask must' rule as well as other preventive norms. The apex court emphasised that fundamental right to health includes affordable treatment. “It is a world war against Covid-19. Therefore, there shall be a government-public partnership to avoid world war against Covid-19. Every state must act vigilantly and work with the Centre harmoniously. It is time to rise to the occasion. Safety and health of citizens must be the first priority, rather than any other considerations,” a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said. The bench said treatment of Covid patients had become very costly and was going beyond the reach of the common man. “Even if one survives from Covid-19, many times financially and economically he is finished. Therefore, either more and more provisions are to be made by the state government and the local administration or there shall be a cap on the fees charged by private hospitals, which can be in exercise of the powers under the Disaster Management Act," the bench ordered. Expressing shock and dismay over the casual attitude of people towards the dreaded infectious disease that has killed over one and a half million people world over and 1.45 lakh in India, the bench said police should be deployed in more numbers in crowded places to monitor and enforce ‘mask must’ rule and other preventive standard operating procedures. “More and more police personnel shall be deployed at places where there is likelihood of gathering by people, such as food courts, eateries, vegetable markets (wholesale or retail), sabzi mandis, bus stations, railway stations, street vendors etc. curfew on weekends/nights be considered by states where it is not in place,” the bench said. “In a micro containment zone or in an area where the number of cases are on the higher side, to cut the chain, they should be sealed and there should be complete lockdown so far as such areas are concerned. Such containment areas need to be sealed for a few days except essential services. The same is required to break the chain of virus spread. Any decision to impose curfew and/or lockdown must be announced long in advance so that people may know and make provisions for their livelihood, like ration etc," it said. “As far as possible, unless must, no permission shall be granted by the local administration or the collector/DSP for celebration/gathering even during day hours and wherever permissions are granted, the local administration/DSP/collector/police in-charge of the local police station shall ensure the strict compliance of the Covid guidelines/SOPs,” it added. There should be a mechanism to check the number of people attending such functions/gatherings, such as particulars with respect to how many people are going to attend the celebration/gathering, timings during which the celebration/gathering is to take place etc, it said. The SC stressed the need for more and more testing and declaration of correct facts about Covid infections to prevent the public from becoming negligent by getting the impression that things are getting better. “Whenever directions are issued under the Disaster Management Act directing corporate hospitals/private hospitals to keep 50% or any other percentage free municipal beds, it must be strictly complied with and there shall be constant vigilance and supervision,” the bench said. The bench factored in the fatigue of doctors and health workers who have been working tirelessly and continuously for the last eight months and asked the Union government to devise a mechanism to give them intermittent rest. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta assured the court that the Centre was already working on a scheme and would finalise it within a few days. Keeping in view elections in some states next year necessitating political rallies, the SC asked states and UTs to issue directions to ensure compliance of EC guidelines on political gatherings and rallies. It asked states to file affidavits within four weeks regarding compliance of its directions. The bench considered fire safety issues relating to hospitals and said all states and UTs must appoint a nodal officer for each Covid hospital, who shall be made responsible for ensuring compliance of all fire safety measures. It directed setting up of district-level committees for carrying out fire audits of each Covid hospital at least once a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-affordable-treatment-part-of-right-to-health/articleshow/79806574.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 19, 2020||Kanpur||Nursing home staffer alleges molestation, booked for fraud||KANPUR: A female staffer of a pathology lab of a nursing home located in Kidwainagar who filed a police complaint against two persons of the hospital management alleging molestation, has landed in a soup as the latter have filed an FIR against her on charges of cheating and dishonesty. The woman filed a complaint at Kidwainagar police station of the city against the hospital’s lab director and in-charge, alleging that the two were behaving with her in an indecent manner for a week and molested her on multiple occasions. “When I offered resistance and refused to bow before their indecent demands, they also accused me of bungling Rs 2.5 lakh and also held captive after snatching my mobile phone. They also forcibly took signature of my brother on a blank paper. When I went to Sanjay Van police out-post with my complaint and narrated the ordeal to the policemen, they didn’t pay any heed,” stated the woman in her complaint. The woman thereafter approached the Kidwainagar police station with her complaint on Thursday. Inspector Kidwainagar Dhanesh Prasad said, “We have conducted an investigation and dispatched a report to the SSP office for further action. Going by preliminary findings, charges levelled by the woman appear to be suspicious.” He added, “Following a complaint by the nursing home management, we have lodged an FIR under section 406/420 of Indian Penal Code against the female staff of the hospital. Further investigations are underway in this regard.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nursing-home-staffer-alleges-molestation-booked-for-fraud/articleshow/79803278.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||Man, his parents & 3 siblings booked under anti-conversion law, 10th such case in UP||BAREILLY: A 27-year-old man along with his parents, three siblings and three others was booked under the sections of rape, extortion and 3/5 of anti-conversion law by police in Shahjahanpur on the complaint of a 40-year-old woman on Friday. This is the first case registered in Shahjahanpur district under the new law, and 10th in UP. The incident was reported from Chowk Kotwali area of Shahjahanpur. In her complaint, the victim had alleged that the accused introduced himself as Sunil and came close to her. One day, he allegedly raped her on gun-point and took her obscene pictures which he used for blackmailing her. “Later he revealed that he is a Muslim and forced me to convert for ‘nikah’ with the help of his family members and a cleric,” the complaint said. When she resisted, she was raped by the accused in the presence of her mother, it alleged. SHO of Kotwali police station, Pravesh Singh, said, “We have registered an FIR under the sections of new anti-conversion law and rape on the complaint of a woman. The main accused has been arrested and we are questioning him.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-his-parents-3-siblings-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-10th-such-case-in-up/articleshow/79803719.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||New tech-&-law course at NUJS||Kolkata: For the new-age lawyer, having legal knowledge is just not enough. You also have to be adept with the ways technology is being used in every sphere of life, its far-reaching impacts on businesses, ethics, norms and traditions, its stretchable limits and the pitfalls. To help students get a better grasp of how technology has impacted modern life, National University of Juridical Sciences (NUJS) has asked a law firm to frame a course that has just been introduced in the curriculum. This is the first time that NUJS has allowed an outside agency to frame and teach a course to its law students. The teaching-learning is happening in the online mode presently. The course will also be the first of its kind across national law schools of the country. The course — ‘Legal innovation and technology’ — is an eight-week programme that will be run by legal firm Algo Legal. The curriculum has been framed by the firm, which is also providing the faculty for the course. There is no cap yet on the number of students who can opt for the course. “The course will cover a diverse set of interesting topics like data digitization, smart documentation, concepts of legal design thinking and the culture of compliance. Breakthrough areas of artificial intelligence and the far-reaching impacts of digital technology in today’s life will be part of the rhetoric, simply because a new-age lawyer has to tackle related issues,” said NUJS vice-chancellor Nirmal Kanti Chakraborty. “The law practice is continuously evolving all over the world because of the huge impact of technology and so our students have to have a training to ride this wave of change. We hope the course will give them a headstart,” said Rasmeet Charya, spokesperson of Algo Legal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-tech-law-course-at-nujs/articleshow/79803703.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 19, 2020||Allahabad||‘This Magh Mela will be a unique spiritual event’||Prayagraj: The forthcoming Magh Mela which will be organised along the Sangam in Prayagraj will be a unique and spiritual event. Reason: This year, Jupiter and Saturn will be only 0.1 degree apart and the world will witness this phenomenon after 397 years. The last time that they both were so close was in 1623. Jupiter and Saturn conjunction takes place every 20 years. Noted Prayagraj-based astrologer Amitabh Gour said, “Before the Sun enters Capricorn on January 14, 2021 and the Magh Mela starts, a very unique celestial event will be occurring in the solar system. Jupiter will be changing sign on December 21and will enter Capricorn, where it will meet the ringed planet Saturn. The two will form a conjunction till April 4, 2021. Interestingly, the sun will also accompany this great conjunction from January 14, 2021.” “This conjunction will take place in uttra ashada nakshatra of Capricorn sign. Such proximity between these two giants will induce a situation of planetary war among them.” He said, “Jupiter being in its debilitated sign will be weak, whereas Saturn being the lord of Capricorn will appear to be winning the war. There would be widespread consequences of this great conjunction and the entire world be impacted significantly, whether positively or negatively.” “Jupiter in such a weak position will not be able to deliver positive results and may witness some kind of political unrest, abrasion in economies and financial position of countries. On the other hand, Saturn signifies labourers, farmers, mining work, hard working masses, construction activities etc,” added the astrologer. “We hope that the aforementioned sectors would benefit from this conjunction. It is also believed that Saturn’s strength would influence this pandemic positively by limiting the spread of the disease further,” said Gour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/this-magh-mela-will-be-a-unique-spiritual-event/articleshow/79803583.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kanpur||Couple wrongly avail benefit of Govt plan, probe ordered||KANPUR: The Unnao district administration has ordered a probe into alleged irregularities under “Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana” following reports that a married couple having two children had again tied the knot to claim benefits under the ambitious scheme. “We have got reports that a married couple from Bichhiya block who are parents of two children re-married in the greed of availing benefits of the Mukhyamatri Samuhik Vivaah Yojana,” said Gyanendra Singh, district social welfare officer. The official said that they had taken serious note of the complaint. “On the instructions of the DM, the re-marriage done at Nawabganj block by a married couple hailing from Bichhiya block, is being probed by a committee formed under him. Instructions have also been issued on taking action against the couple, besides village head and other officials at the block level. A probe team visited the married couple’s village on Friday, wherein it came to fore that the two were in a live-in relationship and had married each other five years ago,” he said. The ‘Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana’ is a mass marriage scheme wherein Rs 35,000 is is directly deposited/transferred into the beneficiaries account, besides they are also gifted household items worth Rs 10,000. Under the scheme, mass marriages are conducted by the social welfare department. Programmes in this regard are organised by urban local bodies like nagar panchayat, nagar palika and nagar nigam, kshetra panchayats, zila panchayats, government organisations and NGOs, authorised by the district magistrates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/couple-wrongly-avail-benefit-of-govt-plan-probe-ordered/articleshow/79803286.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai realtor told to pay Rs 20 lakh for flouting green norms||CHENNAI: National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday directed a Chennai-based private property developer to pay a compensation of Rs 20 lakh for violating environment norms. Voora Property Developers Private Limited started laying foundation for a sea-facing luxury apartment at Tondiarpet in Chennai without obtaining environmental clearance. The firm in 2019 had proposed to construct a 27-floor apartment, named ‘Ocean’s 27’, at an estimated cost of Rs 40 crore. Though it obtained planning permission from Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and building plan approval from Greater Chennai Corporation, it did not obtain environmental clearance. Even as the application was pending, construction was started at foundation level in violation of Environmental (Protection) Act 1986, said M R Thiyagarajan, president of Meenva Thanthai K R Selvaraj Kumar Meenavar Nala Sangam. When he approached NGT Southern Zone, the firm was restrained from proceeding with further construction and constituted a committee to inspect the site. The committee recommended an environmental compensation of Rs 12.37 lakh for damage caused to the environment, especially in a Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ). The petitioner’s counsel Maheshwaran argued that the report didn’t mention about the old bore well in the site and possible illegal extraction of groundwater through the well. So the committee again inspected the site in October and confirmed that the old well was closed by Voora and they purchased water, required for construction, from outside and brought it to the site using tankers. Referring to a 2018 Supreme Court order, which fixed environmental damages in such cases as Rs 100 crore or 10% of project cost (whichever is higher), NGT Southern Zone imposed a compensation by taking only 0.5% of the project cost because the only project was in preliminary stage. So Voora was directed to pay Rs 20 lakh as compensation instead of Rs 12.37 lakh, recommended by the committee. Since the firm had already paid Rs.11.47 lakh, it was told to deposit the remaining money with TN Pollution Control Board within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-property-developer-told-to-pay-rs-20-lakh-for-violating-green-norms/articleshow/79803741.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Severe cold conditions to prevail over U’khand plains: MeT||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Friday issued an orange alert, according to which, a few places in the plains, especially in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts, are likely to reel under cold-to-severe cold conditions during the next 48 hours as mercury continues to settle considerably below normal level. For instance, the maximum temperature in Pantnagar (Udham Singh Nagar ) was recorded at 10 degrees Celsius, almost 13 notches below normal, while the minimum temperature remained at 2.5 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal on Friday. In Haridwar too, the maximum temperature settled at nine degrees Celsius, more than 10 notches below normal level. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in Dehradun remained at 21 degree Celsius and the minimum hovered at 3.6 degree Celsius. According to Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, “Cold day conditions along with dense fog is likely to prevail in the plain districts while ground frost may occur at isolated places in Uttarakhand in the next few days. The present climate conditions are likely to continue till at least December 22.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/severe-cold-conditions-to-prevail-over-ukhand-plains-met/articleshow/79802660.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Metro opens more exit gates to control crowd||Kolkata: Metro took another step towards normalcy on Friday, opening up more than one exit gates at four stations of the north-south line. As per the SOP in Covid times, customized entry/exit were allowed at each of the stations to control footfall ever since Metro resumed operations on September 14 after a 175-day hiatus. From Friday, an extra exit gate each opened at Central, Chandni Chowk, Jatin Das Park and Mahanayak Uttam Kumar stations. The decision was taken after reviewing the footfall at these four stations. When the carrier restarted operations, some stations with heavy footfall — like Dum Dum, Esplanade and Kavi Subhas — have had two exit gates open. But at most stations, only a couple of gates — one each for entry and exit — were opened for passengers. Since e-passes are required to be booked in advance to access stations, only single entry gates are kept open. From Monday, the e-pass hours were reduced to two-and-a-half in the morning and three in the evening. So, police and RPF personnel have been guarding the entry gates during these times — 8.30am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm — where male passengers, aged between 15 and 59, must show their colour-coded pass. The elderly were exempted from booking e-passes in advance during lean hours from September 16. Later, they were exempted all through the day. And then, women and children below 15 years were exempted from booking e-passes. From Saturday, no e-passes will be needed during weekends. The authorities have been able to keep a maximum of 400 passengers on each train with the help of these digital passes. But barring peak hours, most trains do not ferry that number. “We will have to do away with e-passes completely. E-passes, after all, are only a compulsion because of the pandemic,” Metro general manager Manoj Joshi had told TOI. Sanjay Chatterjee, the developer of the e-pass technology, said, “It will be interesting to see how things pan out on Saturday, without the e-passes.” Even without office-goers, Metro had clocked 1.1 lakh ridership last Saturday. Only 43,586 rode on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-opens-more-exit-gates-to-control-crowd/articleshow/79803714.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 19, 2020||Kanpur||Fire at warehouse in Panki, 2 firemen injured in rescue ops||Kanpur: Two firemen were injured during a rescue operation at a cardboard warehouse at site no 1 in Panki 1 after a massive fire broke out there on Friday morning. Fire department personnel Sadanand suffered injuries after a major portion of wall at the entrance of the warehouse caved in while fire personnel Sachin Kumar suffered deep cuts while trying to remove glass partition during the rescue operation in the warehouse. The two have been admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital for treatment. “They had also inhaled some noxious gases, so they both have been kept under observation,” a doctor at LLR told TOI. Fire officer Kailash Chandra said a massive fire broke out during packaging work at a warehouse in Panki’s site no: 1 during the wee hours of Friday. The cause of the fire is suspected to be electric short-circuit, he said. Even as four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the blaze, fire spread to a huge dump of combustible material in the warehouse. “During the rescue operation, our two firemen got trapped and suffered injuries. They were, however, rescued by other firemen and rushed to LLR Hospital,” he added. In another incident, a major fire broke out at a grocery shop in Khoya Bazar area under Moolganj police station limits early on Friday morning. No injuries were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fire-at-warehouse-in-panki-2-firemen-injured-in-rescue-ops/articleshow/79803239.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Video emerges: Three more face murder case||Ahmedabad: Krishnanagar police on Friday registered a case of murder a week after a man was killed by a father-son duo and their three aides over a road rage incident in Krishnanagar on December 10. The cops had first registered a case of assault against a man, Nishu Shah, and his father, Hitesh Shah, residents of Naroda, who allegedly attacked Dhruvrajsinh Bhati, a resident of Nava Naroda, with swords and sticks after Bhati’s scooter hit their scooter in Krishnanagar. Bhati’s friend Chirag Marathi witnessed the accident and stated before police that the father-son duo had also called three other men who attacked Bhati. Later, Bhati was taken to a private hospital where he died during treatment on December 11. Police arrested Hitesh and Nishu but did not begin an inquiry against three others. But after a video showing three other accused assaulting Bhati went viral, police named three unidentified accused in the murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/video-emerges-three-more-face-murder-case/articleshow/79803736.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 40-year-old man sodomized by friend, another films act||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old man from Vasna on Thursday filed a complaint of unnatural sex against his friend and alleged that another friend shot the video of the act. The victim said yet another friend egged the perpetrator on. In his FIR filed with Vasna police, the complainant said that he was sitting near a bonfire with his three friends — Mayur Parmar, Sanjay Vanelia, and Deep Kataria — on the night of December 12. He said the three men began teasing him and demanding sexual favours. According to the FIR, Sanjay and Deep prodded Mayur to sodomize the complainant. Mayur tore off the complainant’s clothes, sodomized him, and forced him to perform oral sex. Sanjay filmed the assault on his cellphone. Later, the three tormentors sent the video to some residents of the complainant’s locality. On Wednesday, the complainant’s health deteriorated and he was admitted to VS Hospital in Ellisbidge. Later, he was shifted to Civil Hospital where a medico-legal case was filed. Vasna police have registered a complaint of unnatural sex and abetment against the three men. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/40-yr-old-man-sodomized-by-friend-another-films-act/articleshow/79803711.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Extend fee payment date to January-end: Panjab University students||CHANDIGARH: The students of Panjab University (PU) protested outside the vice-chancellor’s office and demanded extension of the last date for the payment of fees. Students demanded to defer the second installment of the examination fee and tuition fee. It was last week that the university had issued a notice to submit the examination fee and tuition fee for the second installment. The students have also written a letter to the vice-chancellor stating that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their families are facing financial crises and therefore, the second installment of examination fee and tuition fee being charged from them continuously should be deferred to January. Earlier, the Panjab University administration had agreed to divide tuition fees and allowed students to pay in installments. This was also done after strong protests were held by various student organisations. BOX: December 31 is last date for PhD, MPhil admissionsThe department of public administration, Panjab University, Chandigarh, has invited applications for admission to M Phil, Ph D programme for the session 2020-21. According to the schedule, the last date for the submission of application is December 31. The date of online interview (online mode) has been fixed as January 11, 2021from 2 pm onwards. The final merit list will be displayed on January 12, 2021. Candidates can submit their applications through email at publicadmn_pu@pu.ac.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/extend-fee-payment-date-to-jan-end-pu-students/articleshow/79805330.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||Governor, CM extend L-Day greetings||Panaji: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Pramod Sawant have extended their greetings to the people of the state on the occasion of Liberation Day. “This is an occasion to remember with gratitude all the great men and women who sacrificed their lives to secure liberation of Goa. Many people from adjoining states had also joined hands with the people of Goa in the liberation struggle and we are beholden to them,” the governor said. “It is indeed a remarkable day in Goa’s history, as our state attained freedom from 450 years of Portuguese rule. The state has experienced ups and downs since then — socially, economically, yet, have stood strong, shining like a star, holding tight to its cultural heritage,” the chief minister said. “As we commemorate the 60th year of its Liberation, let us work together towards the betterment of the state. Let us resolve to keep it clean and green, sustainable and a peace loving place,” Sawant added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/governor-cm-extend-l-day-greetings/articleshow/79806174.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Stronger gut can give you stomach to fight Covid||NEW DELHI: While we have been laying the entire emphasis on respiratory health and hand hygiene to combat Covid-19, the focus should also be on the gut as it plays an equally important role in fighting ailments. This was highlighted by experts at an online talk on the topic “Covid and Gut” organised by Celiac Society of India. Most experts were of the view that equal emphasis needed to be laid on gastrointestinal (GI) and cardiovascular health to fight the viral disease. They emphasised that with two-thirds of the immune system residing in the gut, strengthening it meant providing immunity. Gastroenterologist Dr Ajay Bhalla of Fortis Hospital said data showed that almost 30% of Covid-19 patients had GI symptoms and many of them showed no respiratory problems. Clearance of the virus took longer in many patients who had GI symptoms, such as diarrhoea or abdomen pain. Seconding his observation, Dr Pankaj Verma, head of integrated medicine department at Rajasthan Hospital, said he received almost 30 Covid patients a day with acute GI symptoms that had preceded nasal symptoms. These symptoms helped many doctors in predicting the Covid-19 infection and most often those tested turned out to be positive. Chef Sanjeev Kapoor stressed that the gut started at the mouth and intervention needed to be done there for a healthier lifestyle. This meant having a healthy diet. For those allergic to gluten, he said ragi and rice flour were easily available alternatives. Nutritionist Ishi Khosla insisted that everyone needed to include foods in their diet to ensure no supplements were needed. Having fermented vegetables, avoiding sweetened beverages, not starting the day with fat-laden bakery products such as rusk or cookies, avoiding binging on deep fried oily namkeen or reusing oils to deep fry food and adding more fruits and vegetables to the daily diet, she said these modifications were a good way to make diet healthier. Dr Tom O’Bryan, an expert on gluten and other food sensitivities, said recognition of gut health and food sensitivities helped solve a lot of health problems across the globe. “There is no study to prove that those who have Celiac disease are more at risk of getting Covid-19. However, due to a weaker immune system, if they get it they are at a higher risk. So, they need to be extra careful,” he added. “A stronger gut doesn’t cure Covid-19, but it builds a stronger immunity. Focusing on a rainbow diet or meals rich in fruits and vegetables and giving equal importance to Vitamin D are important,” said O’Bryan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/stronger-gut-can-give-you-stomach-to-fight-covid/articleshow/79805378.cms||Amin Ali
December 19, 2020||Varanasi||95% decline in encephalitis deaths, eradication in sight||GORAKHPUR: Till three years ago, the encephalitis ward at Gorakhpur BRD medical college used to be over crowded with three to four children on a single bed, but now most are empty as both cases and casualties have dipped massively in the region due to the focused approach of Yogi Adityanath government. Notably, encephalitis deaths have declined 95% this year even amid Covid-19 pandemic and the disease will be eradicated at this rate. Encephalitis caused numerous deaths in east UP since the last four decades but it is now obvious that previous governments paid no heed and never took action as the menace is now controlled in just three years. The first encephalitis case was reported in East UP in 1978. Till 2017, the deadly disease claimed the lives of more than 50,000 children and left a similar number suffering with physical and mental disabilities. Yogi made encephalitis eradication the top agenda on becoming chief minister and launched Dastak Campaign for spreading awareness by involving health workers and teachers. Vaccination started, potable water supply reached villages and open defecation ended with Swachh Bharat Mission. Yogi also focused on strengthening the health care system and CHCs, PHCs were turned into encephalitis treatment centres so that patients get treatment in villages instead of rushing to cities and losing life due to time lag. Gorakhpur has 23 encephalitis treatment centres, including 9 CHCs and 13 PHCs. Mini Paediatric Intensive Care Units (PICU) were set up at Chauri Chaura, Gagha and Piprauli CHCs where three pediatricians, four nurses, technician, pharmacist and other staff were provided besides beds, medicines, oxygen and ventilators. Two beds at PHCs and six at CHCs were reserved for encephalitis patients. The results have been excellent and encephalitis has been halted. Facilities at BRD medical college were also upgraded and beds in high dependency unit increased from 6 to 60, ventilators doubled to 120, warmers for newborns increased by nearly 300% to 40 and beds in the pediatric ward increased from 154 to 500. As facilities were upgraded at CHCs and PHCs in districts, the number of patients coming to BRD medical college also came down. Senior pediatrician and chief campaigner of encephalitis eradication drive, Dr R N Singh says other states should adopt UP model to control encephalitis. “Yogi ji fought the battle for two decades and has managed to control encephalitis menace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/95-decline-in-encephalitis-deaths-eradication-in-sight/articleshow/79803154.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 19, 2020||Varanasi||Prime accused in Mau’s first ‘love jehad’ case arrested||VARANASI: The prime accused in the first case of ‘love jehad’ registered in Mau district, Rahul Khan was arrested with two others near Azamgarh border by the Mau police on Friday. The kidnapped girl was also rescued by the police. Additional SP Mau Tribhuvan Nath Tripathi said that the teams working on this case were tipped-off about the possibility of the kidnappers moving towards Azamgarh when they cordoned Ausarpur area. They intercepted the SUV in which the girl was being taken by three person to Azamgarh, he said adding that one of the arrested persons was identified as the main accused Rahul Khan. Rahul and his two accomplices were sent to jail while the rescued girl was sent to the district hospital for medical examination, said Tripathi mentioning that the girl’s family had lodged a complaint with police on December 3 alleging that she had been kidnapped two days before her marriage on November 29 by Rahul Khan and his aides. A named FIR under Sections 366, 368 and 3/5 of UP Prohibition of unlawful religious conversion ordinance 2020 had been lodged against 14 persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/prime-accused-in-maus-first-love-jehad-case-arrested/articleshow/79803128.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGI’s self-care handbook for seniors with comorbidities||CHANDIGARH: Seeing how seniors with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension suffered during Covid-19 lockdown and later, public health workers at the PGI and the government-appointed surveillance experts recommend them self care. In a publication, the public health workers have listed how self-care monitored with telemedicine can be a future tool for home care of the elderly. Co-author professor P V M Lakshmi said: “The virus put an additional burden of self-care on people with pre-existing chronic medical conditions (like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, and cancer). So we began reviewing literature to come up with a handbook for the physicians and the patients.” The study, 'Role of self-care in Covid-19 pandemic for people living with comorbidities of diabetes and hypertension”, was published in the Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care. Doctors Saurabh Gupta, Ashu Rastogi, Lakshmi, and Manmeet Kaur from the PGI departments of community medicine and endocrinology are the authors. Self-care includes dietary precaution, medication adherence, home-based exercises, self-monitoring of blood glucose and blood pressure, reducing salt intake, self-foot examination, and stress management. Dr Lakshmi said: “Primary care physician is more likely to ensure adherence to self-care plan durig the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgis-self-care-handbook-for-seniors-with-comorbidities/articleshow/79805365.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||State public prosecutor cautions people||Hyderabad: Warning people to be cautious, C Pratap Reddy, State Public Prosecutor, Telangana High Court said, "All unauthorized lenders who are trying to profess themselves as bankers do not have any permission to operate as bankers. They do not have any legal backing for their operations. Anyone who operates as a banker without the required permission from RBI is committing a crime." When the law does not permit even licensed bankers to resort to coercive recovery methods, the question of sparing these unauthorized banking operators, their mobile apps, and their inhuman recovery practices does not arise, he said, adding, “The pressure tactics of the recovery agents tantamount to criminal acts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-public-prosecutor-cautions-people/articleshow/79803750.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath releases over Rs 445 crore to more than 97,600 SHGs||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said self-help groups (SHGs) can play a vital role in women empowerment, especially in rural areas, by making them self-reliant. Releasing over Rs 445 crore to more than 97,600 SHGs under State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM), the CM said, “Self-reliance in women not only increases the confidence of a family but also that of a village and the community as a whole.” Praising an SHG in Prayagraj for providing uniform to 17,000 children, the CM said, “The state government is providing uniform and sweaters to 1.8 crore schoolchildren, which is equivalent to the population size of New Delhi.” He said women SHGs were willing to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). “For this, the administration needs to conduct dialogue with SHGs and channelize their energy. The government has worked in this direction in the last 8-10 months when coronavirus pandemic was at its peak,” he added. Citing the example of Balinee milk producer, an SHG in Bundelkhand region which did a business of around Rs 46 crore and earned a profit of over Rs 2 crore, Yogi said: “Potential lies in every district of the state. The government machinery will have to play a key role in making women self-reliant.” The CM said that appointment of Banking Correspondent-Sakhi (BC-Sakhi) would help rural populace in getting banking facilities and ensuring that financial help from the government under various schemes reach the needy. “Nearly 59,000 gram panchayats are proposed to have public toilets which would be maintained by members of SHGs who would get compensation for the job,” he said. Yogi reiterated that the government had decided to give priority to women SHGs in allocation of ration shops and women should be trained for the purpose. “The government has decided to give SHGs the responsibility of providing nutritional food to women and children in all 800 development blocks of the state. In the first phase, the project is being carried out in 200 blocks. The success of this project would turn out to be a standard in the country and help us control mother and infant mortality rate,” he said. “The project may be linked to manufacturing of ready-made garments while making raw material available to women and providing help in marketing of their produce. SHGs can play a big role under One District, One Product (ODOP) scheme of the state government and meet the objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. SRLM inks MoU with pvt bank for SHG training: UP State Rural Livelihood Mission (UPSRLM) has signed an MoU with ICICI Bank for technical support and training to SHGs in Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Deoria, Prayagraj, Barabanki and Lucknow. The term of agreement would be of five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-releases-over-rs-445cr-to-more-than-97600-shgs/articleshow/79806196.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Teachers’ Union continues stir, threatens graft complaint against VC||CHANDIGARH: The Panjab University Teachers’ Union (Puta) protest entered the 29th day on Friday as the PU authorities have turned deaf ears. Puta executives held a dharna in front of the vice-chancellor’s camp office. The main reason behind the protest is postponement of meetings of the selection and screening committees for career advancement scheme (CAS) interviews. The same were scheduled on November 21 and 22, but were suddenly postponed by the VC. Since then, Puta has been protesting daily. On Friday, the protesting members raised slogans asking the VC to start working at least now when the whole country has been unlocked. Further, Mritunjay Kumar, president, Puta, reiterated the resolution of Puta that in case the VC fails to withdraw his illegal orders, allowing Dr Devinder Dhawan to retain the house, without any such authority vested with him and in violation of the PU calendar, Puta will file a formal complaint of corruption against the VC to different vigilance agencies of the country. “The VC seems to be under some obligation due to which he has indulged into such an act of corruption at the cost of his own reputation and the prestige of the university headed by him,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/puta-continues-stir-threatens-graft-complaint-against-vc/articleshow/79805338.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corporate guests, domestic leisure keep hotel biz afloat||Ahmedabad: Hospitality is amongst the worst hit sectors after the pandemic, left gasping over vanishing revenue inflows. While the wedding season did provide some cushion to hoteliers in terms of revenues, the second wave, night curfew and the Kamurta period which just set in, has once again dampened sentiments. However, a revival in corporate movement has provided the much-needed cushion to hoteliers to be able to sustain business. Despite this, the occupancy level which is customarily around 80-85% at hotels around this time of the year is still at one-third hovering near 30-35%. “Business through weddings was a big breather for the industry, grappling with revenue inflows. However, we lost out on a significant chunk of this business due to the night curfew. Hospitality is a sentiment-driven business and the night curfew played a major dampener because people are reluctant about visiting the city. Corporate guests however, continue to come, giving hotels the chance to keep occupancy levels floating between 30% and 40%,” said Narendra Somani, president, HRA – Gujarat. The night curfew imposed in Ahmedabad has impacted the hospitality business to a great extent. Industry players said that many are enhancing their offerings in the corporate as well as domestic leisure segment to woo guests. “Even though there are very few bookings for social gatherings and weddings, newer revenue streams are opening with domestic leisure picking up. This has substituted our revenue stream,” said Deep Preet Bindra, general manager, Courtyard by Marriott. “At the same time, we are enhancing our food and beverage offerings, while following all the safety and hygiene protocols,” he further added. To woo domestic guests, hoteliers are also launching staycation packages besides promoting the food and beverage segments aggressively to be able to sustain revenues. Vivek Sharma, general manager, Renaissance Ahmedabad Hotel, said, “With Christmas and New Year just around the corner, we have launched Unlock Holidays with Renaissance package for our guests so that celebrations can be held at the hotel with specially curated offerings. While the wedding season will resume after mid-January, we are witnessing good traction for this offer and our corporate clients continue to stay from time to time.” With hotel business overall taking a hit, the average daily rate (ADR) has also declined ever since the pandemic and has failed to pick up, said industry sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corporate-guests-domestic-leisure-keep-hotel-biz-afloat/articleshow/79803760.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 19, 2020||Allahabad||Illegal house constructed by Atiq aide razed||Prayagraj: Continuing its offensive against illegal properties owned by criminals and gangsters, a joint team of the Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration pulled down the house owned and constructed by history-sheeter Farhan in Bamrauli road area of the city on Friday. Farhan is a key aide of mafia turned politician Atiq Ahmad, said the police. The team was accompanied by heavy police force along with para-military personnel and representatives of the district administration. The area was barricaded, and all routes leading to Farhan’s house was blocked before the drive was started. Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) zonal officer Sat Shukla told TOI that Farhan’s property was constructed on 700 sq feet and no map was sanctioned for it. The value of the property was worth crores of rupees. Farhan has around two dozen criminal cases lodged against him at different police stations of the state, including that of extortion and murder. His name also surfaced in BSP MLA Raju Pal murder case. On Friday morning, the joint team of PDA, administration and police reached the spot to raze the house owned and constructed by Farhan illegally in Chapia turn area. The police restricted the movement of locals towards the site, and at least two JCBs were being pressed into service to raze the illegal guest house. Farhan is currently lodged in a jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-house-constructed-by-atiq-aide-razed/articleshow/79803533.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Tears can tell Covid-19, PGI on with research||CHANDIGARH: Not only the blood but also the tears of an infected person contain coronavirus. The PGI is working on using these tears to check Covid-19's severity and detect the antibodies. Of the 120 subjects whom the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has enrolled, 30 each are in the healthy, moderate, mild, and severe categories. Principal investigator Dr Reema Bansal said: “This is a novel idea. We know that cytokines (proteins released in response to infection) are present in tears in most eye diseases. If cytokines are all over the body, it should express in tears as well. We are using this hypothesis to explore the presence of antibodies and cytokine in Covid patients.” On with a two-year study, the PGI is getting the antibody test kits required. It will collect tears along with conjunctival and nasopharyngeal swabs, besides the blood samples of Covid patients. The samples of conjunctival swabs (colleced from both eyes) will be stored at -80°C for shipping to a laboratory and processed for antibody assay (paired with blood), and cytokine analysis (again paired with blood) for future study. Dr Reema Bansal said: “The aim is to have a faster, non-invasive, patient-friendly way of fluid collection for virus and antibody tests. After we find antibodies or cytokine, we will look for a pattern and if it correlates with the severity of the disease.” She said: “One theory says the virus travels from the nose to the eyes, while the other says it goes from the eyes to the nose. We’ll check.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tears-can-tell-covid-19-pgi-on-with-research/articleshow/79805364.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 19, 2020||Chennai||After 35 years of trial, CA, former Madras Race Club staff found guilty of tax fraud||CHENNAI: After 35 years of trial, a city court sentenced a chartered accountant and a former staff with the Madras Race Club to four years of rigorous imprisonment for conspiring to cheat the government exchequer by filing false income tax return claims in the name of jackpot winners at the races by forging their signatures and creating bogus firms in their names. According to the prosecution, the forgeries were committed between January 1979 and June 1984. The prosecution submitted that the jackpot winners at the horse races at Chennai and Ooty were paid after deduction of TDS (tax deducted at source) and a temporary TDS certificate was issued. The prime accused, N K Mohnot, the CA, had availed the particulars of winners of large bets through the staff at the club and obtained duplicate TDS certificates by forging signatures of the winners stating that the originals were lost. In some case, original TDS certificates were also procured by Mohnot. Mohnot then prepared false IT returns for such winners and filed the TDS certificates before the income tax officials. “In certain cases, Mohnot used to create fictitious firms with certain race winners as partners and claim refund of TDS on behalf of such firms,” the department’s probe found. According to the prosecution, Mohnot had filed fake return of income with false statements before the IT officials of various zones in Tamil Nadu including Chennai and committed similar offences before Trivandrum and Mumbai tax offices. One of the witnesses of the prosecution, who was a jackpot winner for a race held in 1979, had deposed before the court that he had availed TDS certificate and got refund too. Mohnot availed a duplicate TDS on behalf of the jackpot winner in 1982. The jackpot winner categorically denied that he had engaged Mohnot to file returns on his behalf. Mohnot had created a bogus company by stringing together the names of two jackpot winners to get a tax refund. The individuals too deposed before the court that they had never met the accountant. Terming the length of the proceedings in this case as excessive, the additional chief metropolitan magistrate (Economic Offences Cases), S Hermies, said the contribution of the accused in the delay is immense. The prosecution had completed the examination of witnesses well before 1987. The delay is solely on the account of the attitude of one or the other accused, the court observed. “The main accused, who is a person of higher social strata, has indulged in activity of committing offence against the state which has to be viewed seriously,” the court said and sentenced Mohnot and the other accused Sundararaj to four years imprisonment. The court also directed the accused to pay a total fine amount of Rs 6.3 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-35-years-of-trial-ca-former-race-club-staff-found-guilty-of-tax-fraud/articleshow/79803768.cms||Srikkanth D
December 19, 2020||Goa||Protest against infra projects resumes||Vasco: As a mark of restarting their agitation against the three linear projects proposed to pass through the Western Ghats, protesters under the banner of Goyant Kollso Naka started the night protest at Arossim tracks near St Lawrence Chapel at 10.30pm on Friday. The protest will continue till Saturday, Goa Liberation Day. Heavy police force along with Railway police were deployed for the protest. Hundreds of protesters were seen sitting on the tracks, shouting slogans, singing songs with a message that they will not rest till they stop the double tracking in Goa for coal transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protest-against-infra-projects-resumes/articleshow/79806216.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Christmas celebrations in Chandigarh: No midnight mass, carols to be sung online||CHANDIGARH: Christmas celebrations will be grey but full of spirit this year. The Tricity churches will not hold midnight prayer this year on Christmas Eve. However, live telecast of the morning prayer will be done from many churches. Also, to avoid gathering and to contain the spread of Covid-19, the procession organised every year ahead of Christmas will not be carried out. City markets are however all set for Christmas celebrations. Even outside the Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19, a temporary market has been set up and people can buy Christmas tree, decorative items, santa caps and clothes. The carol singing will also be done online from December 22 onwards. The theme of celebration this year is family and all the Tricity churches under Shimla and Chandigarh diocese have asked their members to celebrate Christmas at home this year. The celebration will be simple and peaceful. Father Prem Anand, president, Tricity’s churches association, said, “We will follow strict rules and guidelines given to us by the administrations and by Bishop Ignatius Mascarenhas of Shimla and Chandigarh diocese. There will no late night celebration like past years because of the restrictions. On December 24, the churches will carry out mass from 6 pm till 9 pm. On December 25, we will hold morning prayers at 8 am which will be telecast live for the people and the church will remain opened for people to come and pray.” “At every church, volunteers will be there to ensure people maintain social distancing and sanitise their hands properly. We will not take out any procession as per the past practice. Around 8,000 to 10,000 people used to participate in the procession, but due to Covid-19, we cannot have gathering of so many people,” he added. At the Christ Church CNI in Sector 18, a small group of people will do carol singing and movement will be restricted during the Christmas celebration. People are also planning to avoid gatherings for their own safety. “We are already in the process of decorating our house to make it Christmas ready. We have planned a small get-together for family and friends,” said Victor, a resident of Manimajra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/xmas-no-midnight-mass-carols-to-be-sung-online/articleshow/79805397.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Mutiny aboard Cong, BJP ships in Pkl, 6 runners edgy||Panchkula: Rebels might damage six official BJP and Congress candidates in these municipal elections, so after the withdrawal of nominations, the bigwigs have started persuading or disciplining the mutineers. Prominent rebels in the Bharatiya Janata Party include former deputy mayor Sunil Talwar and senior woman activist Seema Garg, contesting against official candidates Jai Kaushik and Sonia Sood in Wards 5 and 4, respectively. Haryana Youth Congress secretary Anil Chauhan is running from Ward 1 against official candidate Kuljeet Warraich, who seeks his fourth election. District Youth Congress president Mukesh Sisarwal is now an independent from Ward 2 against official choice Pankaj Chaudhary. Former councillor Omvati Punia is another independent, against Congress candidate Sharanjeet Kaur, who seeks second term. Congress candidate Ravi Kant Swami faces partyman Ravinder Pathak in Sector 19. Former deputy mayor Sunil Talwar said: "My group never voted for or supported the Congress in the council or corporation polls. For 10 years of ground work and loyalty, what did I get as reward from the BJP? The voter is supreme and I have put my fate in his hands. Now no looking back." Seema Garg blamed the last-minute change of candidates. She said: "I was part of the BJP's women's unit when the party was hardly popular in Haryana. I took a lot of responsibilities and now to accommodate an aspiring mayor, the party gave the election ticket to his wife, whom nobody in the constituency knows. She might have tghe blessings of the high command or the (state assembly) speaker, but I have the blessings of my electorate." Ravi Kant Swami, Congress candidate from Sector 19, blamed disgruntlement for the presence of rebel candidate Ravinder Pathak in the field as independent. Swami said: “Many people apply but the party's election ticket can go to only one. We had resolved to accept the official candidate.” District BJP chief Ajay Sharma said: “Dhananjay Gupta from Ward 9 and another rebel for mayor have withdrawn.” Congress crisis manager Shashi Sharma says Anil Chauhan and Mukesh Siswarwal were sacked for not coming round."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mutiny-aboard-cong-bjp-ships-in-pkl-6-runners-edgy/articleshow/79805384.cms||Manvir Saini
December 19, 2020||Allahabad||PIL on conversion ordinance: Allahabad HC asks govt to file reply||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to file its reply in response to a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of a recently passed ordinance, the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Law, 2020, which deals with unlawful religious conversion just for the sake of marriage. The ordinance was promulgated on November 27, 2020. However, the court refused the request of the petitioner’s counsel to stay the ordinance during the pendency of the petition and directed the additional advocate general Manish Goyal, representing the state government, to file the government's reply by January 24, 2021. Hearing the PIL filed by a high court lawyer, Ajay Kumar, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal directed to list it as a fresh case on January 7, 2021, and said that on the next date the petition shall be heard finally at this stage. The petitioner had challenged the anti-conversion ordinance, saying that it was both morally and constitutionally invalid. Hence, he requested the court to declare this law as ultra vires of the Constitution. Besides, in the interim request, the petitioner requested the court to direct the authorities not to take any coercive action in pursuance thereof.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-pil-against-anti-religious-conversion-ordinance/articleshow/79803621.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-vice prez of SCB in BJP||Secunderabad: Even as the ministry of defence is gearing up to announce elections for the Cantonment boards, several former and aspiring political leaders are looking towards the BJP. On Friday, a seasoned politician and former vice-president of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) Jampana Pratap joined BJP in the presence of state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar at the party’s head office in Nampally. Pratap was elected twice as SCB VP in 2003 and 2008. He began his political career with the Congress in 1992, later he joined YSRCP and TRS. Incidentally, Pratap is the third VP to join BJP in the last four weeks. J Rama Krishna and Banuka Narmada Mallikarjun are the other two top Cantonment politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-vice-prez-of-scb-in-bjp/articleshow/79803784.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||City cop awarded for Nigerian phishing probe||Kolkata: Inspector from the Kolkata Police cyber cell, D A Lakra, has bagged the prestigious Indian Cyber Cop of the Year award from DSCI (Data Security Council of India) after he had detected a Nigerian phishing case and ensured his conviction within three months. He took just 10 days to probe the case. Last year, the award was won by a CBI officer. Commissioner Anuj Sharma felicitated Lakra on Friday. “Felicitated Inspector DA Lakra who has been awarded #DSCI (Data Security Council of India) Cyber Cop of the Year Award for investigation and speedy conviction in a Cyber Fraud case. #Congratulations #Proud @KPDetectiveDept,” Sharma tweeted. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-cop-awarded-for-nigerian-phishing-probe/articleshow/79803797.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||High court stays its Sukhna catchment demolition order||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed its order of demolition of legal and unauthorised constructions in Sukhna catchment area, including Kansal, in a relief to hundreds of residents. A division bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu passed the order on a review petition of Kansal residents, Punjab government and others. The court issued notice to the respondents for March 18, 2021, directing there would be no new construction or renovation in the area. The order has come as a relief for hundreds of residents of adjoining villages, including Kansal that falls in Mohali district and houses VVIPs of Punjab. Many bureaucrats, police officers, MLAs, MPs or ministers and top politicians of Punjab had developed their bungalows, farmhouses and houses in the area. On March 2, the high court had declared Sukhna Lake as a legal entity, ordering demolition of legal/unauthorised constructions in its catchment area within three months and slapping a fine of Rs 100 crore each on Punjab and Haryana. The court had directed chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana and UT adviser to constitute high-powered committees to fix accountability for “such large-scale” unauthorised constructions. The court had ordered demolition of all kinds of construction carried out in the catchment area, as delineated in the map prepared by the Survey of India in September 2004. The court had made it clear that all those who had raised constructions in the restricted area after getting their building plans cleared from the local authorities would be entitled to a compensation of Rs 25 lakh each. Directions had also been issued to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the role of officials who permitted and cleared the building plans. A division bench headed by Justice Rajiv Sharma had passed the orders while deciding a 2009 case related to saving Sukhna and stopping illegal activities in the catchment area. CONSTRUCTIONS IN KANSAL, VILLAGES SAVED The high court order has come as a major relief for hundreds of residents of adjoining villages, including Kansal that falls in Mohali district and houses VVIPs of Punjab. The order was passed on a review petition of Kansal residents, Punjab government and others WHAT THE March 2 order said The detailed high court order on March 2 had stated, “All commercial/residential and/or other structures constructed in the catchment area of Sukhna Lake falling in the areas of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh, as delineated in the map prepared by the Survey of India on September 21, 2004, are illegal/unauthorized.” Sukhna a wetland On June 17. the UT administration had issued final notification for declaration of 493 acres of Sukhna Lake as a wetland under Wetland (Conservation and Management) Rule 2017, implying that encroachments, setting up of any industry, dumping of waste, discharge of untreated waste and effluents from industries, and any construction of permanent nature within 50 metres from it will be banned ESZ for Chandigarh only On January 25, 2017, the Union ministry had issued the eco sensitive zone (ESZ) notification for Chandigarh. On September 17, 2015, the ministry had issued the draft notification only for the sanctuary area that fell under UT and not for the section that came under Punjab and Haryana. Thereafter, the UT had submitted its objections, urging the ministry to issue a notification for the entire ESZ to protect the sanctuary, whose 90% area fell under the jurisdiction of Punjab and Haryana. Turning down its demand, the ministry has declared ESZ only for Chandigarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-court-stays-its-sukhna-catchment-demolition-order/articleshow/79805422.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Truth has prevailed’: PGV questions admin’s role||LUCKNOW: The Congress on Friday hailed the CBI chargesheet in the Hathras case, which invoked charges of gang rape and murder against all four accused, besides sections of the SC/ST Act. Party national general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi said: “The truth has prevailed. The CBI charge sheet filed today stated that the 19 year old victim was brutally gang-raped and murdered. The development raises serious questions on the Adityanath government, UP Police, ADG law and order, district magistrate of Hathras and senior functionaries of the state administration.” Stating that UP government left no stone unturned to deny the victim dignity in life and also in death, Priyanka charged that senior officers and bureaucrats out rightly denied any rape, intimidated her family and indulged in blatant shaming of the victim. “I cannot forget the anguish of the victim’s mother who could not even bid her daughter goodbye. All that her family sought was justice for their child,” recalled Priyanka, adding, “I am heartened to see that an important step towards providing justice has been taken by the CBI.” Congress legislative party leader, Aradhana Mishra stated that the CBI charge sheet has exposed the CM and his official machinery. “They all tried their best but failed to hide the truth,” she said, thanking the Lucknow Bench of the Allahabad High Court for overseeing the investigation undertaken by the central agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/truth-has-prevailed-pgv-questions-admins-role/articleshow/79806204.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||CHB nod to IT Park housing scheme||Chandigarh: The board of directors of Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Friday approved the group housing scheme at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park, commonly known as IT Park. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore had already given the go-ahead to its design in July but the pandemic had delayed the project. A project report was placed before the board in its meeting on Friday, which in-principle approved the scheme. A senior CHB official said there would be 728 flats in the scheme and cost of the flats was yet to be finalised. According to information, CHB would develop the project on two plots, measuring 10.51 and 6.43 acres. In all, there would be 728 flats of three categories (4, 3 and 2 BHK) in seven-storey towers. The towers would have two basements with provision of parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors. Though the exact rates of flats were yet to be decided, the tentative cost was between Rs 1.5 crore and Rs 2.75 crore. The project land was part of 123 acres that CHB got back from Parsvnath Developers following a long-drawn legal battle after a residential project, Prideasia, failed to take off. The board has decided to launch the scheme after it failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites in an e-auction two years ago. Due to the high reserve prices, not many developers evinced interest in the auction. High-end flats for government officials of the administration, Haryana and Punjab were also planned in the area. 728 FLATS CHB will develop the project on two plots, measuring 10.51 and 6.43 acres There will be 728 flats of three categories (4, 3 and 2 BHK) in seven-storey towers. The towers will have two basements with provision of parking of two cars for each flat in addition to surface parking for visitors Though the exact rates of flats are yet to be decided, tentative cost ranges between Rs 1.5 crore and Rs 2.75 crore The project land is part of 123 acres that CHB got back from Parsvnath Developers after a long-drawn legal battle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chb-nod-to-it-park-housing-scheme/articleshow/79805424.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt in T run like a HUF business, says Tarun Chug||Hyderabad: Calling chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao as ‘raja,’ BJP state affairs in-charge and party national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Friday said the TRS government in Telangana is run like a Hindu undivided family (HUF) business. Addressing reporters for the first time after he was appointed as in-charge of Telangana affairs, Chugh said there is an entire family of father, son, daughter and nephew. “People of the state have witnessed two calamities — Covid-19 and floods — but the raja (KCR) did not come out of his farmhouse. Worse still, the government did not distribute the flood relief to the poor families and farmers,” he alleged. He said Modi government at the Centre is for the poor. “People of Telangana want someone who fights for the poor but not a raja,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-in-t-run-like-a-huf-business-says-tarun-chug/articleshow/79803776.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Forensic lab gets new wing to deal with seized firecrackers, explosives||NEW DELHI: The overburdened Forensics Science Laboratory in Rohini has started a new wing called Veera Centre to deal exclusively with explosives and seized firecrackers. The new wing has the technology required for quick forensic examination of pyrotechnics, which has become necessary after the National Green Tribunal banned the sale and use of fireworks to check air pollution. The new unit has so far received 19 cases. With NGT hearing numerous pleas seeking action against pollution caused by firecrackers in NCR, especially when the ill health effect of poor air exacerbates the intensity of Covid-19 infection, it was important to have a dedicated forensics unit that could carry out quick examinations for faster results. FSL has augmented the examination facility it was using to carry out tests on seized crackers with new technology. The Veera Centre at Sector-23, Rohini, according to laboratory director Deepa Verma, “has an explosive residue examination facility”. She explained, “A blast or an explosion is destructive in nature, which means a major part of evidence may have been destroyed by the blaze. Therefore, the application of relevant scientific techniques for collection and preservation of minute scientific details to establish trace evidence is a big challenge in this field.” Verma added, “The lab is also reviewing the possibility of adding a firecracker emission testing facility to enable measurement of particulate matter and gaseous pollutants resulting from firework in order to establish the efficacy of green crackers.” This year, the FSL handled 19 cases involving explosives, one more than in 2019. “However,” said Verma, “we receive on average 70 cases related to explosives in a year. Each case consists of approximately thirty exhibits.” The lab is equipped with sophisticated instruments to carry out various analyses. During initial examination, a simple test is carried out to determine the components and the presence of compounds in an explosive. Other complex processes analyse low explosive and high explosive contents. Sanjeev Gupta, who is in charge of crime scene examination, said, “The burning of fireworks is an exothermic process and it generates significant amounts of particulates, smoke, gases such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, as well as suspended particulate matter which makes the air less healthy to breathe. The new installations in Veera Centre will instantly handle the explosion-related examinations and reveal information that will be a great help to our investigating agents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forensic-lab-gets-new-wing-to-deal-with-seized-firecrackers-explosives/articleshow/79805464.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||No-trust motion against SCB VP||Secunderabad: A special meeting will be convened on Saturday by the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) to take up the no-confidence motion, moved against its vice-president J Rama Krishna. This is the second time in three months that a no-confidence motion is moved against Rama Krishna. Earlier, on September 22, seven of the eight elected members of SCB voted in favour of the motion. But Rama Krishna moved the high court on the grounds that he was not served the 48-hour notice, mandatory as per the Cantonment Act. The court ruled in favour of Rama Krishna. Once again, the members moved the motion and it will be taken up on Saturday. Rama Krishna, who quit TRS to join BJP, is likely to be removed and ward no 1 member J Maheshwar Reddy is expected to become the new VP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-trust-motion-against-scb-vp/articleshow/79803828.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: E-sanjivani portal gets high clicks||LUCKNOW: At least 4,000 persons are making use of the e-sanjivani portal started by the state health department to provide virtual medical consultation to the people of the state. According to an assessment undertaken by the government, more than 2.80 lakh persons have used the platform since its launch. “UP ranks second only to Tamil Nadu,” an official spokesperson said. Stating that the tele-consultation facility is being provided by over 500 MBBS doctors and 40 specialists, the spokesperson said: “The service gained popularity among the people in such a short time.” Health officials said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had envisaged that the people of the state should get medical consultation while remaining at their homes during the pandemic period. “The service paid rich dividends by saving more than 2.8 lakh people from the getting exposed to the pandemic virus,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/e-sanjivani-portal-gets-high-clicks/articleshow/79806215.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Trio held for stealing pesticides worth Rs 91 lakh||HYDERABAD: Rachakonda police on Friday arrested three offenders who stole Rs 91 lakh worth of pesticides belonging to Coromandel International. Police recovered the stolen property from their possession. The company stores its stock at a godown on the city outskirts under the Adibhatla police station limits. The main accused is an employee of Coromandel. On December 2, N Venkataraju, manager of Shri Krishik Bharati Agency godown in Manneguda where Coromandel’s stock is kept for distribution, lodged a complaint with police alleging that during the past two months 98 cartons of pesticides of Coromandel stored at the godown have been stolen by unknown persons. The theft came to light when Venkataraju conducted an audit of the stock and two workers were removed from the job, suspecting their involvement. Based on the plaint, Adibhatla police registered a case and along with LB Nagar CCS police launched a probe. During the probe, police identified the involvement of the main accused, R Dinesh Roy, 27, a Coromandel employee. Roy is connected with the dispatch work at the godown. The trio was caught at the Bongiulur gate in Adibhatla on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trio-held-for-stealing-pesticides-worth-rs-91l/articleshow/79803865.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Peddapalli man claims Geeta is his daughter||HYDERABAD: Is 30-year-old Geeta, who came home from Pakistan five years ago, the same woman as Saritha who went missing from Peddapalli district? Yes, says Saritha’s father Bolli Swamy of Tharupalli village. He is certain that Geeta is none other than his daughter Saritha who went missing when she was just 7 or 8 years old. Swamy insists that a DNA test be done so that the row over Geeta’s identity is resolved . “I met the collector and I was assured that my petition would be looked into,” Swamy, who works in the gram panchayat in Kalvasrirampur mandal, said. Sometime during 2002, his younger daughter, born with speech and hearing impairment, went missing from their home. “By the time I returned from the field, my hut was burnt due to an electric wire falling on it,” Swamy recalled. “Someone told me that they saw her heading to the railway station. I searched and waited for five years,” he said. When Geeta, Indore-based hearing and speech impaired woman, was brought to Basar in Nirmal on December 15 by an NGO in Indore in the hope of finding her parents, Swamy looked closely at her photographs on social media. Swamy said he noticed a mole on Geeta’s left eyelid which even Saritha had. Geeta was in Pakistan for 13 years before she was handed over to India by Pakistan. In October 2015, the then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj took interest in Geeta’s case and Pakistan handed her over to India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peddapalli-man-claims-geeta-is-his-daughter/articleshow/79803854.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Applicants for flood relief question Telangana govt on delay in aid||HYDERABAD: Flood relief applicants, who were promised cheques worth Rs 10,000 each, want their application money worth Rs 400-Rs 500 back after Mee Seva centres said no more applications would be accepted for the aid. Prior to this, many had applied for the aid before GHMC elections, and many received Rs 10,000 in their respective accounts, while others are still waiting for the reply as to whether they would get aid or not. The state government had announced immediate flood relief in Hyderabad after rain wreaked havoc in many localities. Families had suffered huge losses in the flood fury and some lost their loved ones. “If it was an election gimmick then the government should ask Mee Seva centres to return our money taken as service charge,’ said Kausar Sultana from Hussaini Alam. “We had to undergo much suffering in long queues outside Mee Seva Centres to apply with online applications. Everyone spent Rs 400- Rs 500 with a hope to get flood relief but to our surprise we were told to forget the money,” another applicant, Najma Begum, told TOI from Ramnastpura area. “Tens of thousands have applied for flood relief but they are in a dilemma whether they would get it or not. If they are not going to be paid then how would they get their money back? The people were assured they would receive money but how and when?,” saaid Mohammed Haji Mastan, asking GHMC to clarify on the application charges and flood aid. Ahmed Khan, a physically-handicapped man, told TOI that his belongings were damaged in the rain but he is yet to get relief funds despite submitting online application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/applicants-for-flood-relief-question-govt-on-delay-in-aid/articleshow/79803901.cms||Omar bin Taher
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||No isolation zone on aircraft operating int’l flights under 4 hours||Times News Network Mumbai: As air travel gets increasingly safer with norms like mandatory testing for Covid, airlines have begun seeking relaxation of certain norms. Following a request from Air India, the ministry of civil aviation has now removed the requirement of an isolation zone inside aircraft for flights under four hours. Under the ministry’s standard operating procedures (SOP), when Air India restarted international flights in May, the last row had to be reserved as quarantine area and so the seats had to be left vacant. However in the recent months, with Covid testing emerging as a mandatory requirement for international passengers, the probability of a passenger developing and showing symptoms on board the flight has reduced. In the last week of November, the Air India chairman and managing director sought the relaxation of that norm for all international flights. In an office memorandum issued on December 16, the ministry amended the said norm to allow flights with duration of four hours or less to be operated without such a quarantine area. Airlines operating international flights, like Mumbai-Dubai, for instance, don’t need to block the last row three seats from now. “Airline shall carry sufficient number of PPE kits to be provided to passengers who develop symptoms while in flight,” the ministry order said. For flights of over four hour duration, the last row on the right-side aisle (in case of twin aisle aircraft, right-side of the right aisle) of the aircraft should be reserved as a quarantine area for handling possible in-flight emergencies, the order, signed by Usha Padhee, joint secretary, MoCA, said. The medical emergency protocols issued by the ministry earlier in August said that “in case of ill passenger or a passenger showing Covid-I9 symptoms like fatigue or cough, high fever etc, the passenger should be isolated from the other passengers’’. Such a passenger or passengers were to be guided to the quarantine zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-isolation-zone-on-aircraft-operating-intl-flights-under-4-hours/articleshow/79806283.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Women’s safety panel visits Yadadri Bhuvanagiri||Hyderabad: A high-level core committee on the safety of women, comprising IAS and IPS officers visited Yadadri Bhuvangiri district on Friday and discussed additional measures required for the safety, protection and security of women. Smita Sabharwal said that based on suggestions from various quarters the government is keen to implement measures as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said that women’s safety is the top priority of his government. Smitha, who is the secretary of the CM, said that district collectors should personally look into sexual harassment complaints and take immediate action. The guilty employees should be suspended and departmental action should be initiated without any delay. “Just as people demand laying of roads in villages, they should also demand that there be proper street lighting,” she said, as that would offer some sort of security. She advised women to call 181 to lodge complaints of domestic violence.Government whip in the assembly and Alair legislator Sunitha Mahendar Reddy suggested that village level committees should be constituted for counselling and providing help to women. Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district collector Anita Ramachandran said incidents like the Hajipur village crime, where three minor girls were raped and murdered, were unfortunate and should never be allowed to happen again. Nalgonda district collector Prashant Jeevan Patil said that public representatives should play a greater role to implement measures for the safety of women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womens-safety-panel-visits-yadadri-bhuvanagiri/articleshow/79803868.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops who lost lives to Covid-19 national heroes: Hyderabad CP||HYDERABAD: Commissioner of police, Anjani Kumar lauded the 34 police personnel, who lost their lives while performing duties during the Covid-19 pandemic, as national heroes. The commissioner was speaking at a commemoration meeting organised in honour of the 34 police personnel who lost their lives in the line of duty. The meeting was held in the commissioner’s office and was attended by the family members of the deceased cops. “Death of a family member, especially the head of the family in a span of 10 days is shocking to anyone. What police personnel have done during the past eight months while performing duties during the floods when some of their own houses were flooded and shifting patients to hospitals and working at hospitals during the time of pandemic is what is called, performance beyond the call of duty,” Anjani Kumar said. Police Commissioner and senior officers paid floral tributes to all the departed police officers in the presence of their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-cp-cops-who-lost-lives-to-covid-19-national-heroes/articleshow/79803856.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Mathura-Vrindavan road to be 4-lane: Uttar Pradesh minister||LUCKNOW: Energy minister Shrikant Sharma, while dedicating Rs 2,100 crore sewerline projects in his constituency in Mathura on Friday, said that the new sewerline network would solve the problem of waterlogging in several colonies, affecting over 2,100 families. The energy minister also announced that the Mathura- Vrindavan road would be made four-lane soon. Sharma, who was in Vrindavan for dedicating some projects to the public and also to lay foundation stone of new projects, said that as a Brajvasi he had been trying to serve his people and “it hardly matters whether they voted for the BJP or not”. “There can be no discrimination in development,” remarked the minister, who has been constantly initiating developmental projects in his constituency and meeting the people and holding special camps to address their civic and other problems. He said that civic works to the tune of Rs 121 crore have already been done in the constituency. Work on the 130- km-long sewerline project is also in full swing and a 75-km sewerline has been laid, claimed the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mathura-vrindavan-road-to-be-4-lane-min/articleshow/79806224.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sex worker’s kid can dream, thanks to this cop||NEW DELHI: Bhumi’s life could have been like her mother’s had she not met sub-inspector Kiran Sethi, in charge of the GB Road police post. Bhumi (name changed), the five-year-old daughter of a sex worker, can now study and hope to become a doctor. During a random field visit in October, Sethi met Bhumi who told her that she wanted to become a doctor. Moved by her charm and intelligence, Sethi spoke to her senior officers and the girl was moved to a shelter home on Friday. Bhumi’s mother, who lives in a brothel on GB Road, was initially apprehensive about the plan but Sethi convinced her. “When I met the girl, I found her so active, intelligent and emotional; she showed a keen interest to study. She was sad that she couldn’t study to fulfil her wish,” Sethi said. “I spoke to her mother and made her understand that this atmosphere may hamper her child’s future and she may be forced to join the same profession. She finally showed interest and, after discussing with my senior officers, I got the girl counselled by the child welfare committee at Mayur Vihar,” the SI said. Bhumi stayed at the brothel till now as her mother wanted to spend Diwali with her. “From wanting to be a doctor, she now wants to be like Sethi ma’am. When I spoke to her she told me to send her clips and colourful rubber bands. She promised to eat on time, play and study hard. I will be happy if she achieves her dream,” the mother said after speaking to Bhumi over phone. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia has been organising various programmes for the rehabilitation of sex workers. Besides health camps and yoga sessions, a workshop on painting diyas was organised before Diwali. “Her spirit moved me and we made all efforts to ensure she achieves her dream. While she was leaving, she said goodbye to each of us,” Bhatia said. Bhumi was gifted a school bag, colouring books and colours. “The chain of prostitution may be broken if every such child is guided to a bright future,” Bhatia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sex-workers-kid-can-dream-thanks-to-this-cop/articleshow/79805544.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Civic doctors to hire autos, campaign for tax payments||Kolkata: The health department officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation, who have been fighting tooth and nail to ward off Covid-19 threat, will now take the additional burden of campaigning against the city’s property tax defaulters. According to a recent order issued by a deputy chief health official, who also acts as an OSD, senior health department officials, including borough executive officials and medical officials, will need to take part in the campaign. The civic health officials will need to hire auto rickshaws for conducting a neighbourhood campaign to ask the property tax defaulters to clear their dues with the help of the ongoing scheme that allows 100% interest and penalty waiver on property tax dues. “This type of campaign is very crucial for us and we need the health department’s help in campaigning for the waiver scheme,” said a KMC assessment department official. Given a funds crunch that has hit the civic body badly, the campaign will be of great help, felt a KMC assessment department official. However, some medical officials, who have been working as Covid-warriors, felt it would be a burden on them amid the pandemic. “We were only told that Atin Ghosh, a senior member in the board of administrators, wants us to be a part of the property tax campaign,” said a KMC medical officer. Ghosh said the officials were told to arrange for the vehicle and nothing more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-doctors-to-hire-autos-campaign-for-tax-payments/articleshow/79803864.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Why the delay in extending Metro rail to Old City: Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Goshamahal legislator T Raja Singh along with the newly-elected BJP corporators visited Bhagyalaxmi temple in Charminar on Friday. Police in Old City made a routine bandobust for the high-profile visit. The state BJP chief and others offered puja at the temple. “We have come here along with the newly-elected corporators to seek blessings and pledged to work for the city’s development,” said Bandi Sanjay. Lashing out at the AIMIM, the state BJP chief questioned the delay in extending the Metro rail to Old City. “Why hasn't any industry been established here and why doesn't the Metro rail project resume in Old City? Though the AIMIM had an alliance with previous governments and it still has an alliance with the existing regime, the Old City is lagging behind in development,’’ he alleged. During GHMC poll results, BJP emerged as the second-largest party, dislodging the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) from half the seats it had held. While the BJP tally went up from 4 in 2016 to 48, the TRS numbers went down from 99 to 55. Since the GHMC polls, the Bhagyalaxmi temple abutting the historic Charminar has become a centre of attraction. During the poll campaign, Union home minister Amit Shah too had visited the temple and offered puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-the-delay-in-extending-metro-rail-to-old-city-bandi/articleshow/79803932.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Adilabad MIM president opens fire over cricket match||HYDERABAD: Adilabad police took district AIMIM president into custody after he shot at two persons using a pistol and injured another man with a knife during an argument over a cricket match in his neighbourhood in Adilabad on Friday. The accused, Md Farooq Ahmed, is AIMIM’s Adilabad district president and ex-vice chairman of Adilabad municipality. “Two persons suffered bullet injuries and one person suffered a knife injury,” Adilabad additional SP (Operations) Rajesh Chandra said. According to police, trouble started at 6 pm on Friday. An argument broke out between Farooq Ahmed’s nephew and others during a cricket match they were playing in the neighbourhood at Tatiguda Colony. “Soon elders from both the groups as well as Farooq joined the argument. Soon, scuffle ensued between the two groups and Farooq opened fire at others,” Rajesh Chandra said.  “The injured were shifted to RIMS hospital,” additional SP said. Police sources said that those injured are from another political party and Farooq held a grudge against them after a loss in municipal elections. Police quickly apprehended Farooq and seized the pistol from his possession. We have initiated proceedings for cancellation of his weapon’s license. Police pickets have been set up in the area to prevent any kind of untoward incidents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/adilabad-mim-prez-opens-fire-over-cricket-match/articleshow/79803895.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Defence minister gives DRDO systems to forces||HYDERABAD: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday handed over three indigenously developed Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) systems to Army, Navy and Air Force at a function held in Delhi. One of the systems is being produced by BEL at Machilipatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Rajnath Singh handed over the Indian Maritime Situational Awareness System (IMSAS) to the Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, ASTRA Mk-I missile to Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria and Border Surveillance System (BOSS) to the Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane. On his Twitter account, the defence minister also announced that he would be on a two-day visit to Telangana. He will review the combined graduation parade at the Air Force Academy at Dundigal and also interact with IAF trainees and their families. “I will also visit certain DRDO facilities,” the defence minister said. Among the systems handed over at the armed forces at function in Delhi was BOSS which is an all-weather electronic surveillance system successfully designed and developed by Instruments Research & Development Establishment, Dehradun. The system has been deployed at Ladakh border area for day and night surveillance. The system facilitates monitoring and surveillance by automatically detecting the intrusions in harsh high-altitude sub-zero temperature areas with remote operation capability. This system is being produced by Bharat Electronics Limited at Machilipatnam in AP. The IMSAS is state-of-the-art, fully indigenous, high performance intelligent software system that provide global maritime situational picture, marine planning tools and analytical capabilities to Indian Navy. The Centre for Artificial Intelligence & Robotics (CAIR), Bengaluru and Indian Navy jointly conceptualised and developed the product and the BEL, Bengaluru has implemented it. The ASTRA Mk-I is the indigenously developed first beyond visual range (BVR) missile, which can be launched from Sukhoi-30, light combat aircraft (LCA), Mig-29 and Mig-29K. Rajnath Singh also gave away awards to DRDO scientists for outstanding contributions in various categories during the function. The awards include DRDO Lifetime Achievement Award 2018 to NV Kadam for his contributions for developing control and guidance schemes for missiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/def-min-gives-drdo-systems-to-forces/articleshow/79803912.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to supply pulses and spices to students||JAIPUR: As the pandemic continues and schools are likely to remain shut for a few more months, the state government has decided to supply cooking conversion cost to students as well. Till now, the government was supplying wheat and rice to students and now cooking conversion cost that includes – pulses, cooking oil and spices - will also be provided. This is being done to provide nutritious food to students, which is part of the midday meal but defunct now due to lockdown. Midday meals commissioner Bhanwar Lal said, “We have a pre-defined cost of per student which has not been used as schools are closed. We are already giving rice and wheat to students now we will soon start distributing cooking conversion cost as well. The plan is being approved and we will start by December-end of in the first week of January.” The money per student from classes I to V is Rs 4.97 and for class VI to VIII is Rs 7.45 for cooking conversion cost. The money is pending since month of March when the lockdown was announced. It will be given calculating the total amount. Cooking conversion cost may be delivered in phases as it won’t be possible to deliver at one go. It will be a duty of the government teacher to arrange for the packets to be delivered at home or they will inform parents to collect it from the school. Vipin Sharma, vice-president of Primary and Secondary School Government Teachers’ Association said, “This is going to be a tedious job to keep track on spices and if a packet is torn or go missing as teachers will responsible. Already, we have to give homework and collect it which itself is challenges. Thwe government should not make teachers do such stuff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-supply-pulses-and-spices-to-students/articleshow/79803922.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Plans for iPhones to outgoing mayor, corporators on hold||HYDERABAD: With the term of GHMC standing committee coming to an end within 60 days, corporators have planned to gift themselves a piece of luxury. However, the procurement plan has been put on hold for now. The civic body has accorded administrative sanction for Rs 27.2 lakh for purchasing 20 iPhone 12 Pro Max (512 GB), each priced at no less than Rs 1.30 lakh (average). According to GHMC records the proposal was made in June. The phones are being procured for 15 standing committee members as well as Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan, deputy mayor Baba Fasiuddin and three officials. The committee consists of eight TRS corporators and six AIMIM corporators. Incidentally, six TRS corporators, who are part of the committee, lost in the recent GHMC elections. The sanction has been criticised by the BJP. “The BJP feels the move is atrocious, irresponsible and a brazen abuse of power by the mayor and deputy mayor. They (standing committee members) gifted themselves phones worth Rs 30 lakh,” said BJP spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao. GHMC officials admitted that delay in administrative sanction has resulted in controversy and they are holding the decision to procure phones on hold. “The proposal to give gadgets to elected representatives is a traditional process. The same is followed every year in assembly too. The proposal was tabled much ahead of election, but finalising the tenders post election resulted in controversy, we have put the decision to procure phones on hold,” said a GHMC official. MAUD principal secretary Arvind Kumar on Friday instructed GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar to indefinitely hold the decision of procuring phones. The move also received flak from the Forum for Good Governance (FGG). “At this point of time, when the corporation has a deficit budget, giving away phones is unwarranted. It is morally and ethically wrong,” said FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plans-for-iphones-to-outgoing-mayor-corporators-on-hold/articleshow/79803904.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||Azam Khan’s MLA wife set to walk out of jail after 11 months||RAMPUR: Tazeen Fatma, 71, the Rampur MLA and wife of SP leader Azam Khan, was on Friday granted bail by a court in a case of alleged forgery of documents to capture a piece of land falling under the Enemy Property Act. Fatma is expected to be set free from Sitapur jail on Monday after getting bail from the court of additional district and sessions judge Parmender Kumar. According to the prosecution lawyer, Fatma has been in Sitapur jail since February 2020. Fatma is facing 34 criminal cases registered at various police stations of Rampur district. While her husband, Azam Khan, now 72 years old, has at least 100 cases registered against him. Additional district government counsel (ADGC), appointed at MP/MLA court, Ramautar Saini, said, “Tazeen Fatma has got bail in all the cases registered against her.” In 2017, following a complaint of a local businessman, Akash Kumar Saxena, the son of BJP leader and former cabinet minister Shiv Bahadur Saxena, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the then Rampur district magistrate Shiv Sahai Awasthi to inquire into allegations that government land had been handed over to Azam Khan’s trust. Later, in his report, DM Awasthi said that he found 34 acres of enemy property land under the Jauhar University campus. He said since the land was covered by the walls of the university, the district authorities could not attach it. Later, an FIR was filed against Azam, his wife and son in August 2019 under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will) 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of the Public Property Act, 1984. The Enemy Property Act enables and regulates the appropriation of property in India owned by Pakistani nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-khans-mla-wife-set-to-walk-out-of-jail-after-11-months/articleshow/79802743.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Cov detection centres for Sagar pilgrims||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation will set up Covid-19 detection centres at the makeshift camps for pilgrims who will head to Gangasagar via Kolkata in the first week of January. Firhad Hakim, chairman, Board of administrators (BoA), held a meeting on Friday with the heads of all essential services departments in the KMC to discuss the health arrangement for the pilgrims who will start assembling in the city from across India by the end of the year. “Besides setting up health camps at Howrah, Sealdah and Kolkata stations, we will also arrange for an isolation camp at Babughat. If the pilgrims fall sick or show Covid-19 symptoms, they will be tested,” Hakim said. NGOs will be made responsible for health screening of the pilgrims, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-detection-centres-for-sagar-pilgrims/articleshow/79803914.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Shots fired at Hyderabad man in US||HYDERABAD: A Hyderabad man had a narrow escape after gunshots were fired at him in Chicago in the US while driving back home after his job hours. Syed Siraj Mehdi (30) whose family resides in Chanchalguda, escaped unhurt when he was fired at while on hi s way home in north of Devon. Though the incident took place on December 4, the matter came to light only on Friday. Syed Abul Hasan told TOI that he came to know about the attack on his son through MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan. Siraj was reportedly in shock after he was shot at. “He stayed back in his room in the suburbs of Chicago until some friends went there and spoke to him. He was dazed after the incident,” his mother said. Hasan said, “We are concerned for his safety. We want the government to take interest in the case.” Siraj did not disclose the shooting incident to his parents though he had spoken to them twice after the incident. Siraj was returning home when some persons in two cars trailed him and tried to force him park his car. When Siraj switched on the indicators and evaded them, the culprits fired at him. The bullets hit the car but Siraj was safe as he sped off. Amjed Ullah Khan said two persons sitting in a car shot four times at Siraj. “Four bullets were fired on him, but he is safe. Holes in the back seat of Siraj’s car show that automatic guns were used,” he said. The MBT leader said he had called up Siraj and spoke to him. Khan brought the matter to the notice of external affairs minister S Jaishankar, Indian ambassador to the US & Indian consulate general in Chicago and requested them to take up the matter with US authorities. “The culprits in the shooting case of Siraj and other (similar) cases have not been identified so far,” he said in a letter to the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shots-fired-at-hyd-man-in-us/articleshow/79803933.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Boy injured due to negligent driving, woman booked||Hyderabad: After the visuals of a car accident in Old City went viral on social media, Kalapathar police registered a road accident case against a woman who injured a four-year old boy while trying to reverse the car at speed in Misrigunj. At 8.30 pm on Thursday, businessman Mohammed Javeed, 34, from Kalapathar, lodged a complaint with police alleging that on December 13, he along with his family members, went to his mother-in-law’s house near Madrasa Ayesha in Misrigunj to observe Gyarvi Sharif. On December 15 evening, at around 5.15 pm, when his four-year-old son, Mohammed Asif, was sitting in front of the house in Misrigunj, his family heard a loud noise outside. “We found that a Hyundai car (TS11EB9000) being driven by a woman had hit Asif while she reversed the vehicle negligently at high speed. Asif came under the car and sustained injuries on his back. He is undergoing treatment at a nearby hospital,” Javeed told police. Javeed also alleged that the car was driven by one Nasreen Fathima. Based on a complaint, police registered a case under Section 337 of the IPC against Nasreen Fathima. “The boy is out of danger as luckily he fell in the gap between the tyres. We have issued notice to the accused to appear for questioning,” Kalapathar inspector S Sudarshan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/boy-injured-due-to-negligent-driving-woman-booked/articleshow/79803917.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Marriage garden owners demand relaxation in license fee||Jaipur: Pandemic has severely affected the wedding industry this year with many marriage garden owners going bankrupt. Initially, weddings were cancelled when the pandemic was at its peak but as it started to ebb, the government allowed weddings with restrictions. Recently, the Jaipur Marriage Garden Association requested the government to give them relaxations in license fee.Every year, marriage garden owners have to renew their licenses that include paying fees i.e. Rs 20 per yard, yearly sanitation fees of Rs 30,000 per marriage garden and Rs 3,000 fire NOC. The association wants relaxation on this for the 2020-21 financial year.Association president Bhawani Shankar Mali said, “We met UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal who forwarded our application to the UDH secretary. We have requested the government to consider our situation. Around 10% of the marriage gardens in the city have gone out of business. Others are barely making ends meet.”After lockdown restrictions were lifted, the marriage season started from November 24 to December 15 with a limit of just 100 guests. Marriage garden owners have halved their rates and other expenses. The next marriage dates will begin from April 2021.UDH officials claimed that they were looking into the situation and will take decisions soon. Most probably the department is planning to give a certain percentage of relaxation instead of complete waiver of fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/marriage-garden-owners-demand-relaxation-in-license-fee/articleshow/79803906.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Brave dies once: Last thoughts of Kakori martyr||FAIZABAD: Exactly 93 years ago, on December 19, 1927, officials at Faizabad district jail were making preparations early morning for the hanging of a revolutionary. It was biting cold. The jail superintendent inspected the rope, sandbags and other parts of the gallows. Fully satisfied with the arrangements, he called out to his subordinate, “Bring him here”. In his book, ‘Kakori case ka hero, Ashfaqullah Khan’, Dr Salman Shahjahanpuri writes that officials strode out with 10 soldiers and the door of a cell opened with a harsh sound. This was the last time that the cell would open for the freedom-fighter and revolutionary Ashfaqullah Khan, the main accused in Kakori case. The patriot, who had been waiting for the call, asked cheerfully, “Is everything ready?” The firmness of his voice made clear that he did not have an iota of fear which unnerved those who had come to take him to the gallows. With great difficulty, the officer said: “Yes”. Ashfaqullah closed the Holy Quran that he was reading, put it under his arm, stood up and said, “Let’s go”. He took two steps at a time to the gallows. Before being hanged, he tied the Quran on his chest and recited the ‘Kalma’. In a letter written from jail to his nephews Razi Ullah Khan and Khalil Ullah Khan, Ashfaq wrote, “The brave dies once, cowards daily… I have been accused of loving my country and for this crime I have been given the death sentence. The only wish I have from you both is that after my death you must read the proceedings of my case. You will come to know that to what extent I loved my motherland as a true Muslim.” After his death sentence was pronounced, Ashfaq spent most of his time reciting the Quran. On the first left-hand page of his copy of the Quran, Ashfaq expressed his feelings by praying to the Almighty: “Aye mere paak khuda, Hindustan ki sarzamin par azadi ka suraj ab jald tulu farma” (O Almighty, let the sun of Independence shine over Hindustan, my motherland, soon).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/brave-dies-once-last-thoughts-of-kakori-martyr/articleshow/79806249.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 19, 2020||Agra||CBI charges 4 accused in Hathras case with gang-rape & murder||AGRA: Nearly three months after a 19-year-old Dalit girl from a village in Hathras said in her dying declaration that she had been raped by four upper caste men in her village, the CBI filed a chargesheet against the four accused. They had been arrested in September. “The CBI filed its chargesheet in the court of special judge (SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act) BD Bharti in Hathras and invoked charges against the four accused — Sandeep, Ravi, Ramu and Lovekush,” defence counsel Munna Singh, who is representing the accused, told TOI on Friday. “The chargesheet was filed on the basis of the victim’s dying declaration.” The four have been charged under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape), 376A (punishment for causing death of resulting in persistent vegetative state of victim) and 376D (gang rape) of the IPC, and under Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act (offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of ten years or more against a person on the grounds that the person belongs to an SC or ST community). The court has scheduled the next hearing on January 4. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court, which is monitoring the investigation, will take up the case on January 27. The CBI had registered the case on October 11 and started investigating two days after that. After several field visits, statements, polygraph tests and brain electrical oscillation signature profiling (BEOSP) tests over two months, the CBI filed its 2,000-page chargesheet. “There were over 700 pages of supporting documents, the main contents of which ran for 30 pages. The witness list is four pages long,” a source told TOI. The chargesheet includes the reports of tests conducted on the four accused, including the brain electrical oscillation signature profiling done in Gujarat three weeks ago. Another CBI source said analysis of the postmortem report by central forensic experts was also done before the chargesheet was filed. In the evening the CBI issued a statement on its chargesheet, adding, as a postscript, “The public is reminded that the above findings are based on the investigation done by CBI and evidence collected by it. Under the Indian law, the accused are presumed to be innocent till their guilt is finally established after a fair trial.”Days after the girl had died at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on September 29 and hastily cremated at her village past midnight without her family's consent, ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar had said that there was “no evidence of rape” on the basis of a forensic report of samples taken 11 days after she had been allegedly raped. The main accused, Sandeep, had then written a letter from prison claiming innocence, saying he was involved with the girl and her family resented their relationship. This was around the time alleged records of calls exchanged between the girl’s elder brother and Sandeep were also leaked. Upper caste communities, meanwhile, had been mobilising support in favour of the accused. In October, a former BJP MLA had organised a “support” meet at his Hathras residence for the accused. On Friday, the victim’s brother and sister-in-law were at Hathras court, under a CRPF security cover. In the village where they live, they are one of four Dalit families alongside 60 upper caste ones. “This is a step forward in our quest for justice. The CBI chargesheet vindicates our stand,” the victim’s elder brother told TOI. “But actual victory will only come when the accused are punished … We have no faith left in the police. They did not treat us well. But we are happy with the investigation now.” The dead girl's sister-in-law added, "We want the DM to be removed. That's our only demand now." The DM, Praveen Kumar Laxkar, had been seen in a video purportedly asking the brother to fall in line because the media "would leave" at some point. In the evening, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra issued a statement of support: “I am heartened to see that an important step towards providing ... justice has been taken by the CBI and hope that it will bring the victim’s family some comfort.” (With inputs from Pathikrit Chakraborty in Lucknow)(The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-charges-4-accused-in-hathras-case-with-gang-rape-murderchargesheet-filed-victims-family-says-its-first-step-towards-justice/articleshow/79802738.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books two Hyderabad firms for Rs 274 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered two separate cases against two companies in Hyderabad for misappropriation of Rs 274 crore. A case was booked against Agarwal Industries, its CMD Anirudh Pershad Agarwal and directors Murarilal Agarwal and Satish Kumar Agarwal. The accused obtained loan from Allahabad Bank (now Indian Bank) using fake documents and diverted the funds to other businesses and for personal gain. They caused a loss of Rs 200 crore to the bank. The company was involved in processing of crude oil to edible oil and selling under brand name ‘Gold Mohar’ and ‘Gold Coin’. The accused have shown on record that they purchased stocks from Singapore-based companies, but on verification it was found that there were no stocks. The forensic audit revealed the fraud. The company is located in Afzalgunj. In a separate case, the CBI booked Secunderabad-based RE Cables and Conductors Private Limited for Rs 74 crore loan fraud. Apart from the company, the CBI issued an FIR against directors — Hitesh R Jain and Ramesh O Jain. The accused caused Rs 74 crore loss to State Bank of India commercial branch at Secunderabad. The CBI alleged that the firm fudged books and obtained loans. The company issued letters of credit credit (LCs) in the name of other beneficiaries fraudulently. The forensic audit revealed the issuance of LCs fraudulently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-two-city-firms-for-rs-274-crore-loan-fraud/articleshow/79803943.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 19, 2020||Delhi||1,418 fresh Covid cases, positivity rate at 1.6% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A total of 1,418 fresh cases were reported on Friday following over 88,000 tests carried out in the preceding 24 hours. The positivity rate stood at 1.6%. This is the fourth consecutive day when the positivity rate has remained below 2%. The national capital’s death toll mounted to 10,219 with 37 new fatalities. The positivity rate was 1.5% on Thursday, 1.9% on Wednesday and 1.9% on Tuesday. According to the latest bulletin issued by the Delhi health department, 88,400 tests were conducted on Thursday, including 48,180 RT-PCR tests and 40,220 rapid antigen tests. Between December 3 and December 7, the positivity rate was to 4.9%, 4.7%, 4.2%, 3.6% and 3.1%. However, on December 8, it had risen again to 4.2%, falling to 3.4% on December 9 and 2.4% on December 10. However, December 11 had recorded a positivity rate of 3.3%, which fell to 2.6% on December 12, rose marginally to 2.7% on December 13 before falling again to 2.1% on December 14. The number of active cases in the city dropped to 11,419 on Friday from 12,198 the previous day. According to the bulletin, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city stands at 6,14,775. Data shared on the Delhi Corona app shows 82% of Covid-19 beds in the national capital are currently lying vacant. Half the ICU beds with a ventilator and 77% without ventilator support are vacant. In November, nearly all ICU beds were occupied in the top private and public hospitals due to heavy rush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1418-fresh-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-1-6/articleshow/79805615.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||'Love jihad': No evidence, court allows release of man; ultrasound confirms wife miscarried||BAREILLY: The 22-year-old woman whose husband was arrested for “love jihad” under UP’s new anti-conversion laws while she was sent off to a shelter has had a miscarriage, an ultrasound examination at a private lab has confirmed. The couple was “reported” to the police by a local Bajrang Dal unit when they were on their way to get their nikah registered. Her husband and brother-in-law, in jail for 13 days now, are set to be released after police didn’t find any evidence to support the allegation that the woman had been forcibly converted. TOI had on Tuesday reported that the woman said she had miscarried. “We found that the woman had had a miscarriage. There is an infection in her uterus, which should be treated to avoid further complications,” Dr PS Sisodia, who performed her ultrasound at the registered private lab in Dhampur in Bijnor district, told TOI on Friday. The report, a copy of which is with TOI, found “bulky UT with endometriosis (tissue growing outside the uterus) and … blood clots in the UT.” The woman had alleged that she lost her baby after the district hospital, where she had been admitted with bleeding and severe abdominal pain, administered “injections”. The hospital had, until Friday, declined to comment on the miscarriage and denied her allegation. After the private lab results came to light, acting chief medical superintendent of the Moradabad district hospital Dr Nirmala Pathak told TOI, “The reports provided by ultrasonologist Dr RP Mishra clearly said the foetus was visible but heartbeat was not there.” Dr Mishra told TOI, “We were doubtful about the baby when the first ultrasound was performed. The heartbeat was not found. For the second test, we used a Doppler ultrasound but the heartbeat could not be found then either. For confirmation, I had asked for a trans vaginal scan because sometimes there are chances that the baby survives.” The woman, taken to the hospital on December 11 and then again on December 13 from the shelter, had not been given her medical files when she was released on the grounds that it was a “medico-legal” case. Police on Friday, however, said they don’t need the medical report. Back with her in-laws at Kanth, the woman was still not sure how to receive news of her husband about to walk free. “I have been told for the past five days that he will be released. He’s not out yet. I have not been able to speak to him even after losing my baby,” she told TOI. “We love each other. What is the point of court-registered marriages if things like these happen to people in love?” Her husband had not been released at the time of filing the report. An official at the Moradabad jail, on condition of anonymity, said the release order, ‘parwana’, had not reached them till Friday evening. Police have filed a report in the district court under Section 169 of the CrPC (release of accused when evidence is deficient) and requested release of her husband and brother-in-law. “The court ordered their release on personal bonds of Rs 50,000 each,” Moradabad ASP (rural) Vidya Sagar Mishra said on Friday. Chairperson of UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Dr Vishesh Gupta, who had earlier said that the foetus was alive, was not available for comment. The woman had said he was “tortured” at the shelter she had been sent to when her husband and brother-in-law were arrested. Her detention, district probation officer Rajesh Gupta said, was only in keeping with instructions for legal procedures: “We had kept her at the shelter on the instructions of the Kanth subdivisional magistrate that she be kept here till her statement is recorded … Whatever happened at the hospital is outside our jurisdiction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/love-jihad-no-evidence-court-allows-release-of-man-ultrasound-confirms-wife-miscarried/articleshow/79802744.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||Man beats woman to death over dowry, case filed after court intervenes||Pilibhit: Almost four months after a woman, 26, was beaten to death allegedly by her husband, a court in Pilibhit has directed police to register a case against the accused.Following the order of the chief judicial magistrate’s court, police filed the case on Thursday evening. “After the court order, the accused, Amit Azad, was booked under IPC sections 304-B (dowry death), 498-A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband), 504 (intentional insult) and also under section 3, 4 of dowry prohibition act,” said Shrikant Dwivedi, station house officer (SHO) of Pilibhit Kotwali police station. According to the complainant, Mahesh Pal, the father of the woman, he had to approach the court after police didn’t file an FIR.Azad and Renu Singh got married on February 22, 2016. The father of the woman also claimed to have given “dowry” before the wedding. “I had given dowry worth Rs 20lakh, including a Wagon R car, gold jewellery and a number of other items,” Pal said.But, according to Pal, Renu’s husband and in-laws started demanding Rs 10lakh more. After several fights, they separated on October 26, 2018.A case was also filed against Azad in the matter, which was later referred to the ‘alternative dispute resolution’ (ADR) centre at the district court campus last year.According to the complaint, on August 19 this year, the day hearing was fixed, Azad barged into his house in Pilibhit, slammed Renu on the ground by holding her hair and started kicking her.By the time the family members could rescue her, she had sustained severe internal injuries. She was rushed to a private hospital where she died the next day, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-beats-woman-to-death-over-dowry-case-filed-after-court-intervenes/articleshow/79802746.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 19, 2020||Meerut||4.20lakh unlettered people identified in UP to be educated under Centre’s scheme||Meerut: As many as 4.20lakh unlettered people have been identified under ‘Padhna Likhna Abhiyan’ in Uttar Pradesh so that they can be taught under the basic literacy program of the Central government. As a part of the initiative, a committee has been formed to conduct the program. “As many as 4.20lakh illiterates have been identified under ‘Padhna Likhna Abhiyan’ in Uttar Pradesh. Out of the total people identified, 75% are women and 25% are men. A committee will be formed to chalk out a plan of action in this regard,” said Sanjay Sinha, director, secretary, Raajya Saaksharta Mission Praadhikaran.Sinha further said that participation of school and college students will also be required to fulfill the dream of teaching the identified people.“A yearly calendar should be made highlighting the number of classes and people who will be involved in training the identified people. Also, a report in this regard should be sent to the state authorities from time to time,” said Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/4-20lakh-unlettered-people-identified-in-up-to-be-educated-under-centres-scheme/articleshow/79802756.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||Three booked for illegal possession of govt land||Pilibhit: Two men along with a farmer were booked in Pilibhit district on Thursday evening for alleged possession of a government land of over one hectare and using it for farming.The revenue administration had got the land freed from their "illegal possession earlier, too, but it was again occupied by them".According to Mohammad Yunus, a lekhpal posted at Amaria tehsil, the land grabbers were identified as Jwala Prasad and Mohammad Tariq while the farmer who was cultivating the land was identified as one Mohammad Nasir. They all belong to Kurri village under Sungarhi police station limits.Referring to the revenue status of the land, the lekhpal said a part of it was entered into the official records as a yard for stacking the harvested crops and the remaining area was left uncultivated.SHO Atar Singh said that the three named persons were booked under section 447 (criminal trespass) of IPC and sections 2, 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-booked-for-illegal-possession-of-govt-land/articleshow/79802751.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Parents, private schools decide to appeal against Rajasthan HC judgment||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court judgment on the private school fees is facing criticism from both parents and private schools. Both the parties have decided to appeal against the judgment, calling it disappointing. Forum of Private Schools of Rajasthan in their statement said, private schools’ heads have expressed extreme disillusionment and loss of faith in the government machinery to empathise with the educator’s woes. They have objected that parents are still not bound to pay any amount of fees until the schools re-open. Sandeep Bakshi, a member of the forum, said, “We have decided to file an appeal in the Supreme Court as we haven’t received any relief. Moreover, homes and hearths of lakhs of teachers stand threatened as the directive has further aggravated the situation for schools in every way. Most schools are in complete financial strain and challenges of fee recovery continue unabated.” Similarly, parents’ organization has also decided to appeal against the judgment stating it to be ambiguous. Sunil Yadav, president of the All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum said that the judgment has left many loopholes. “The judgment nowhere mentions fate of a student who hasn’t attended online classes, and how will they be promoted? We are not ready to pay 60% or 70% fees just for online classes. Moreover, Rajasthan High Court has said that the school fee committee should decide the matter which is not fair as in many schools, there is still no fee committee despite the School Fees Act, 2016. The judgment is an utter disappointment and we are thinking of appealing against it,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-pvt-schools-decide-to-appeal-against-hc-judgment/articleshow/79803935.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water & power issues, but 2 BHK occupants say dream realised||HYDERABAD: Not all the beneficiaries of the 2BHK scheme are happy with their possessions. While some complained about lack of power supply and drinking water, others said that their dream of living a dignified life has been realised. A resident of a 2BHK in Kattelamandi near Nampally said that electricity is yet to be provided. “Though we moved into this complex around 40 days back, we don’t have a power connection. We are forced to draw electricity from the street lights,” M Raju of Kattelamandi told TOI. Jai Kiran, who visited his relatives in the Nampally 2BHK complex, said, “Though I applied I was not allotted a house under this scheme. I have three children and approached the revenue officials but there was no use,”. P Sabita said that she was delighted to become the owner of a newly-constructed house. “I am happy that we were allotted a house. If they give us proper water supply and electricity this flat will become a perfect home for our family,” Sabita said. Beneficiaries in Ziaguda said that they are not getting drinking water. “We are depending on bore water and are purchasing drinking water. Sometimes we also get free water from NGOs and the government. Sewage issue is also a concern,” said Ratan from Ziaguda. However, GHMC officials said that these issues will be fixed. “We already gave a representation to the government. The civic issues raised by the residents will be resolved soon,” said B Srinivas, GHMC deputy commissioner of Goshamahal circle. In Ziaguda 1,152 2BHK flats were built under the state government’s housing scheme with Rs 95.58 crore. In Nampally, 103 flats were allotted and the construction cost was Rs 9.3 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-power-issues-but-2bhk-occupants-say-dream-realised/articleshow/79803941.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Hindu man in custody for eloping with Muslim woman||MEERUT: A 25-year-old man was “recovered” from Rishikesh with a Muslim woman he was accused of kidnapping, about 170km away from Meerut where they lived, fell for each other and eloped on Sunday. Their fate will now be decided in a Meerut court which will take a call on the case filed against the accused, an adult. The woman, meanwhile, has told police that she wanted to live with her lover. Owner of a confectionary shop, Naman Madaan, used to frequent Farha’s home in a Muslim-dominated colony for delivery of goodies in Meerut. Farha, 23, liked cakes, and soon started liking Madaan too. Facing resistance from their families, the couple finally decided to leave their homes and stay together. On December 13, they reached Rishikesh and got married in a temple. Farha decided to switch to Hinduism, and she chose a name too, Mahi. Back home, a storm was brewing. Farha’s brother, Mohd Irshad, filed a police complaint alleging kidnapping of his sister by Madaan. An FIR under IPC section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) was registered against Madaan, a resident of Shastri Nagar locality. “On the evening of December 13, Naman Madaan lured away my sister. I found some cash missing and a mobile phone was recovered of which we were unaware of. Strict action should be taken against the kidnapper,” Irshad alleged in a written complaint to the police. In an interesting turn of events, members of a saffron outfit sprang into action and alleged that Madaan was kidnapped, and not vice versa. After five days of search, the couple was “recovered” by police from Rishikesh on Thursday evening. Now Madaan is in police custody. According to Sanjay Verma, station house officer (SHO) of Nauchandi police station, “The woman has denied any foul play in her relationship with the man. Farha also said she has not been pressured to elope and had gone with Madaan to get married in a temple in Rishikesh.” Their statements were recorded in the court on Friday, and the verdict is yet to be known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hindu-man-in-police-custody-for-eloping-marrying-muslim-woman-who-changed-her-religion/articleshow/79802760.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 19, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar comes up with Uttar Pradesh’s first helpline portal for third gender||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A promise of better life drew more than 50 members of the transgender community to the district magistrate’s office in Muzaffarnagar on Friday morning. All of them wanted to lead a normal life and "pick up work which normal people do" after quitting their traditional profession. Some wanted to go to colleges, while others were willing to start their own business. And, they also wanted to be saved from the daily harassment that they go through, which range from teasing to molestation due to their different looks. While launching the state’s first online helpline for the community, district magistrate (DM) Selva Kumari J promised to provide them all the help and resolve their problems. Through the website, which will start its operation next week, the administration will provide guidance to the people of the community on education, rehabilitation, health issues and also the much-needed physiological support. There are at least 380 transgender people in the district. And most of them earn their livelihood by dancing and collecting ‘shagun’ from families witnessing weddings or new births. The transgender people, who came to the DM office on the invitation, were also informed about Central government website from where they can get identity certificate. “The meeting was held under the ‘Mission Shakti’ programme, which has been going on for weeks. The transgender people face several issues and need guidance on education, security, health etc. They are also worried about their future. We have noted their concerns and will help them through ongoing government policies. Help of NGOs will also be taken,” the DM said. District probation officer (DPO), Mohammad Mustakeen said, “The administration is going to launch a web portal for transgenders where they can ask for help. It will be the first such web portal in Uttar Pradesh where they can register themselves for education and other help.” One of the participants of the third gender said, “It was a good experience. We sat and discussed our problems with the senior officers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-comes-up-with-ups-first-helpline-portal-for-third-gender/articleshow/79802761.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 19, 2020||Meerut||Govt consulted 1.5L farmers from various unions before introducing farm bills: Smriti Irani||Strap: Sonia ji not a farmer but opposing farm laws, Amethi MP attacks Gandhis in UP Meerut: Union minister and Lok Sabha MP from Amethi Smriti Irani claimed that the farm bills were introduced by the agriculture minister only after holding consultations with 1.5 lakh farmers from unions across the country.Addressing a 'Kisan Sabha' in Meerut on Friday, Irani said, "There were discussions for 20 years. And just before the bills were introduced in Parliament by the agriculture minister, he held online consultations with 1.5 lakh farmers from different unions."Irani's 'Kisan Sabha' in Uttar Pradesh comes just a day after CM Yogi Adityanath addressed a farmers' gathering in Bareilly. The 'Kisan Sabha' is part of BJP's outreach programme amid the ongoing massive protests by farmers at Delhi-NCR and Delhi-Haryana borders against the three contentious farm laws. Irani said, "It was assured in the Parliament that MSP would not be scrapped. Farmers should not be misguided by the claims of Opposition parties."During her speech, the Cabinet minister also outlined achievements of the Centre's various public welfare schemes like the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and Ayushman Yojana. Taking a direct swipe at Congress party and its top leaders for backing the farmers' agitation against the new farm laws, she said that the Opposition claims that the one who made the bills isn't a farmer, but "then is Rahul Gandhi a farmer? Is Sonia Gandhi a farmer?""The ones who cannot differentiate whether chillies are red or green in Parliament, are they farmers? Ones who grow 40-inch potatoes and talk about putting potatoes from one side and getting gold from the other, are they farmers?" the minister for textiles and women and child development said as she attacked the Gandhis.She was flanked by several BJP MLAs and MPs from the region, including her Cabinet colleague and Muzaffarnagar MP Sanjeev Balyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/govt-consulted-1-5l-farmers-from-various-unions-before-introducing-farm-bills-smriti-irani/articleshow/79802759.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Phase 3 trial of Covaxin launched in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Congress MLA Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya is among the 130 people who were administered the first dose of phase 3 trial of country’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, ‘Covaxin’ prepared by Bharat Biotech. The vaccination started Thursday and in the past two days, 130 people have received the shot. It is the first Covid vaccine trial happening in the state, in which people have shown great enthusiasm and got themselves registered for trial dose. Under phase 3 trial, the principal investigator of the clinical trial has to enroll 1,000 people in the state, which may exceed later. The volunteers will receive two doses of the trial vaccine, 28 days apart. So far, as many as 1,000 people have got themselves registered for the trial dose of Covaxin, who are in the age group of 18-65 years. Even patients with controlled diabetes and hypertension have also been enrolled for trial dose. Malviya got the first trial dose around 11am on Friday along with four other people known to him. “More and more public representatives should come forward for the trial so that people will have full faith in the scientists of the country and volunteer themselves for the trial,” said the MLA from Bagidora in Banswara district. “I have no side-effect of the vaccine,” he said. The third phase trial has been launched in Jaipur, funded by Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune. The volunteers are being given 0.5ml of vaccine. In just two days, 130 volunteers were given the vaccine dose. “People are excited and taking part without any fear. We started registration for volunteers 10 days ago,” said Manish Jain, principal investigator of clinical trials and consultant pulmonologist at Maharaja Agrasen Super Specialty Hospital, Jaipur. “Since first two phases have already been completed, people are showing willingness to volunteer for the trials. The vaccine is safe and no side-effects have been reported in the past two days. People may report mild fever after the first dose, but we have not seen even a single case yet,” said Dr Jain, who is keeping an eye on the health of those given trial doses. Even the hospital staff, where the trial is being done, have volunteered for the vaccine. “We have to give a trial dose to 1,000 people, but we are continuing registration for volunteers as the number may exceed 1,000,” said Dr Jain. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is among the frontrunners in the vaccine race in the country. Photo caption: MLA from Bagidora and Congress leader Mahendra Jeet Malviya gets trial dose of Covaxin in Jaipur on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phase-3-trial-of-covaxin-launched-in-jaipur/articleshow/79803940.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Kin claim man attacked by tiger in Ranthambore||JAIPUR: A 45-year-old man was injured in a suspected animal attack in Ranthambore on Friday evening. The victim was identified as Ramesh Gurjar who was apparently attacked while he had gone to water his field in Banpur Chiroli village in Sawai Madhopur district. According to sources, the farmer was attacked by a tiger though he did not sustain any major injuries. “While the victim’s family claimed that the Gurjar was attacked by a tiger, the forest department refuted these claims and said that he was injured due to some other attack. Coincidentally, this is the fifth time in the past three years that a person of the same village has been supposedly attacked by a wild animal”, said a source. Earlier this year, a 45-year-old man was allegedly attacked by a tiger in Khandar range in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in January. The victim, identified as Ramdhan Gujjar, a resident of Baandpur village on the periphery of the reserve, had gone inside the core forest area to graze cattle when he was attacked by the tiger. Increased human activity and fast-shrinking forest spaces have led to an increase in man-animal conflict at RTR. However, the relocation programme continues to move at a snail’s pace in absence of funds. Sources claimed that the villagers who had been relocated have also returned to their original villages. The department cannot relocate the villagers using force and they have to vacate houses voluntarily. Moreover, successive governments did not take much interest as it requires huge amount of funds. The department further claims that relocation of villages on the periphery is not possible presently as there are not many takers for the present compensation package of Rs 10 lakh per family. In the package, the forest department offers, 6.25 bigha agriculture land, a plot, Rs 2.50 lakh cash. However, many villagers are not willing to shift due to the sentimental value attached to their land and other reasons, claimed sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kin-claims-man-attacked-by-tiger-in-rbore/articleshow/79803942.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rein in cartels, realtors urge government||Ahmedabad: Alleging cartelization by cement and steel makers, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the government’s immediate intervention to regulate the prices of construction raw materials. According to the pan-India body of real estate developers, the cement prices have increased by 23% and the steel prices have increased by more than 45% since the beginning of this year. The cement price has surged from Rs 349 per bag (50kg) in January to Rs 420-430 per bag in December 2020.  Similarly, the steel price has firmed from Rs 40, 000 to Rs 58,000 per tonne during the same period. CREDAI said the abrupt increase in prices is “highly unethical and amounts to unfair and restrictive trade practices”. The industry body further added that the continuous upsurge in steel, cement and other raw materials has resulted into an inevitable increase in construction cost to the realtors, who are now faced with a situation that will create a delay in delivery, stalling of projects in some cases, thereby impacting the homebuyers at large. “Real estate sector had already been facing headwinds owing to stalled construction due to Covid-19 for most part of the year. Now the continuous and unchecked surge in the basic raw materials has created a deadlock and added to the uncertainties amongst the developer fraternity,” CREDAI said in a statement. “The real estate sector has been working on wafer thin margins and is battling unsold inventory on one hand and unfinished projects due to lack of funds on the other. With a stagnant demand, developers have not increased the prices and are selling projects at affordable rates,” said CREDAI Chairman Jaxay Shah. Stating that there is an urgent need to control the spiralling prices of cement, steel and other raw materials, Shah requested the government to take necessary steps at the earliest. “Like all sectors the real estate sector too has come out of near zero business in the first 2 quarters and was hopeful of revival during the festive season. High raw material costs make projects financially unviable and are causing distress amongst developers. I humbly, request the government to do the necessary and arrest the price hike of cement, steel,” said Satish Magar, president, CREDAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rein-in-cartels-realtors-urge-government/articleshow/79803953.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops arrest two thieves, recover autos & cellphones||Hyderabad: Rajendra Nagar police arrested two thieves and recovered Rs 3.2 lakh worth stolen property from their possession on Friday. Based on specific information, police arrested, Azam Khan, 24, a painter from Sikh Chawni and Md Shafi, 23, a glass fitting worker from Rajendra Nagar at Chintalmet X Roads. Police seized three stolen auto rickshaws and two cell phones, all worth Rs 3.2 lakh from their possession. Accused were identified through CCTV footage analysis and arrested. The accused were sent to judicial remand.  TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-two-thieves-recover-autos-cellphones/articleshow/79803951.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Mount Abu shivers at -2.5° Celsius||JAIPUR: There is no respite from the shivering cold in the state for the fourth consecutive day on Friday. Majority of the places witnessed a dip in minimum and maximum temperatures. Mount Abu in hills and Churu in plains remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of minus 2.5°C and minus 0.3°C, respectively, was recorded. Attributing the continued dip in the mercury to the active northerly winds Jaipur Met office stated that from next week there would be little respite from the shivering cold conditions. People in Jaipur got up to the coldest morning of the season so far as a minimum temperature of 6.2°C was recorded. In past one week there is a drop of almost 10°C in the minimum temperatures. Due to the shivering cold conditions roads wore an empty look during early morning and late evening hours. People confined themselves to their homes. Mild fog and mist on the highways especially connecting Jaipur to Sikar, Jaipur to Churu and Jaipur to Agra affected vehicular traffic. “For Agra, usually it takes six hours, but during foggy days, our buses are moving slowly and are taking almost eight to nine hours,” said a senior officer of RSRTC. Many places in the state witnessed minimum temperatures below 5°C as Mount Abu and Churu were followed by Sikar where a minimum temperature of 1°C was recorded, Pilani 1.5°C, Bhilwara 2.1°C, Chittorgarh 3.5°C, Bikaner 4.3°C, Sriganganagar 5.2°C, Kota 5.3°C, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer 5.7°C each, Jaipur and Udaipur 6.2°C each, Ajmer 6.7°C and Barmer 6.9°C. Meanwhile, western Rajasthan is under the grip of severe cold wave conditions especially in its rural and remote areas. Temperature at CAZRI centre in Chandhan was recorded zero degree. Many areas witnessed frost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mount-abu-shivers-at-minus-2-5-celsius/articleshow/79803946.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Victory torch reaches Dehradun, war heroes, 'veer naris' felicitated||Dehradun: The 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaal' (victory torch) lit for the year-long 50th anniversary celebrations of the 1971 war which marks India's triumph over Pakistan reached Dehradun on Friday. As a tribute to the war heroes of 1971, the Army officials of Clement Town, under the command of GOC of the Division, felicitated the veteran and 'veer naris' (war widows) who led the country to victory. Apart from saluting and honouring the torch, the Army officials, led by Commandant of Indian Military Academy (IMA) Lt Gen Harinder Singh and GOC 14 Rapid (Strike) Maj Gen Rahul R Singh, also felicitated the war veterans and the widows. ‘Veer naris’ - Chitra Devi, Bhundra Devi and Prabha Devi - were felicitated. The war veterans who were felicitated were Lt Gen (retd) Anand Swarup, who was at the forefront of the 1971 battle. Brig Mahendra Pratap Gupta, Brig N K Gupta, Brig Balraj Kapur, Honorary Capt Dhan Singh, Honorary Capt Mohan Prasad Joshi, Honorary Capt SS Bisht, Sub Awtar Singh, ME-1 Narinder Kumar Oberai, Indian Navy, Cpl Ranjith Singh Negi, Indian Air Force and CPO Mahendra Singh, Indian Navy were also honoured. “I became the commandant of a force that was quite brief. It was raised in November and dismantled in December of 1971. But, we fought a decisive battle. The happiness I have seen on the faces of people of Bangladesh was a great feeling,” said Lt Gen(retd) Anand Swarup who added that battles of today will be fought by technology and modern equipment and hence there should be training in that direction. On December 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lit the torch at the National War Memorial in New Delhi to mark the 50th anniversary celebrations of the ‘Vijay Diwas’. The torch started its movement from Delhi and went via Meerut to Dehradun. “The torch will be later taken to Ambala and then to Jammu - its final destination, after covering the entire Northern Command, under the aegis of India Army,” a statement said. Overall, there will be four victory flames to be lit and taken to the headquarters of Indian Army in four cardinal directions, which will be amalgamated into one single flame at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, on December 15, 2021. Victory flames may also be taken to Bangladesh by the tri-services team of Indian Army. “It is our moral responsibility as the citizens of India to take pride over the deeds of our national heroes. One can always contribute even without being physically present at the location. All you have to do is to light a candle in the name of the brave hearts,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/victory-torch-reaches-dehradun-war-heroes-veer-naris-felicitated/articleshow/79802777.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||TRSMA members meet CS, seek extension of academic year till July||Hyderabad: Members of the Telangana Recognized School Management Association (TRSMA) met chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Friday and sought extension of the academic year till July 2021 and a comprehensive academic calendar declaring the schedule of all examinations. In a representation submitted to the CS, the TRSMA members said that most budget private schools in the state are on the verge of closure due to the financial crisis. “About 3,000 budget private schools are on the verge of closure due to the financial crisis as most of them are in rented buildings and have monthly financial commitments. While teachers have lost jobs, students are facing academic loss. We request the government to give low interest loans from the state finance corporation with a moratorium of 12 months,” read the representation. They added that a separate category of budget schools charging average fee of less than Rs 35,000 annually should be created. The association urged the government to extend the academic year till July 30, 2021 for Class 1 to 9 and get at least 120 physical working days to bridge the loss in studies. “Promotion to the next academic year may be given only after summative assessment 2,” said the representation. The association also sought release of SSC public examination notification, schedule and model paper. It also sought extension of renewal of recognition till 2021-22 to all schools whose recognition has expired as Covid-19 relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trsma-members-meet-cs-seek-extension-of-academic-year-till-july/articleshow/79803952.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Dip in fresh coronavirus infections continues||JAIPUR: Continuous dip in new Covid infections continued as 1,076 cases were reported on Friday taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,97,029. With 10 fresh deaths, the toll has reached 2,599. Also a minor relief came with the number of active cases which have now dropped to 13,058 in the state. However, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 265 fresh cases and with two new deaths the total number has reached 486. However, 798 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 4,805 active cases, which is a big relief as this number was last witnessed in September. Day care has been effective in treating symptomatic patients with remdesivir therapy,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 101 cases were reported. Except for these two places, majority of the districts recorded less than 100 fresh infections. Karauli received no cases on Friday. Other stations where cases were reported include Kota 94, Pali 91 and Udaipur 70. “Most importantly the districts including Ajmer, Bikaner and Alwar, which were reporting more than 100 cases for past two months, have seen drastic dip in fresh infections,” the officer added. With 10 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,599. Of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur while one death each was reported in Ajmer, Banswara, Bhilwara, Kota, Pali and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/dip-in-infections-continues-jaipur-jodhpur-continue-to-get-max-cases/articleshow/79808118.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dip in fresh coronavirus infections continues||JAIPUR: Continuous dip in new Covid infections continued as 1,076 cases were reported on Friday taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,97,029. With 10 fresh deaths, the toll has reached 2,599. Also a minor relief came with the number of active cases which have now dropped to 13,058 in the state. However, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 265 fresh cases and with two new deaths the total number has reached 486. However, 798 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 4,805 active cases, which is a big relief as this number was last witnessed in September. Day care has been effective in treating symptomatic patients with remdesivir therapy,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 101 cases were reported. Except for these two places, majority of the districts recorded less than 100 fresh infections. Karauli received no cases on Friday. Other stations where cases were reported include Kota 94, Pali 91 and Udaipur 70. “Most importantly the districts including Ajmer, Bikaner and Alwar, which were reporting more than 100 cases for past two months, have seen drastic dip in fresh infections,” the officer added. With 10 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,599. Of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur while one death each was reported in Ajmer, Banswara, Bhilwara, Kota, Pali and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dip-in-infections-continues-jaipur-jodhpur-continue-to-get-max-cases/articleshow/79803949.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Dip in fresh coronavirus infections continues||JAIPUR: Continuous dip in new Covid infections continued as 1,076 cases were reported on Friday taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,97,029. With 10 fresh deaths, the toll has reached 2,599. Also a minor relief came with the number of active cases which have now dropped to 13,058 in the state. However, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 265 fresh cases and with two new deaths the total number has reached 486. However, 798 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 4,805 active cases, which is a big relief as this number was last witnessed in September. Day care has been effective in treating symptomatic patients with remdesivir therapy,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 101 cases were reported. Except for these two places, majority of the districts recorded less than 100 fresh infections. Karauli received no cases on Friday. Other stations where cases were reported include Kota 94, Pali 91 and Udaipur 70. “Most importantly the districts including Ajmer, Bikaner and Alwar, which were reporting more than 100 cases for past two months, have seen drastic dip in fresh infections,” the officer added. With 10 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,599. Of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur while one death each was reported in Ajmer, Banswara, Bhilwara, Kota, Pali and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/dip-in-infections-continues-jaipur-jodhpur-continue-to-get-max-cases/articleshow/79808115.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Dip in fresh coronavirus infections continues||JAIPUR: Continuous dip in new Covid infections continued as 1,076 cases were reported on Friday taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,97,029. With 10 fresh deaths, the toll has reached 2,599. Also a minor relief came with the number of active cases which have now dropped to 13,058 in the state. However, Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 265 fresh cases and with two new deaths the total number has reached 486. However, 798 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 4,805 active cases, which is a big relief as this number was last witnessed in September. Day care has been effective in treating symptomatic patients with remdesivir therapy,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 101 cases were reported. Except for these two places, majority of the districts recorded less than 100 fresh infections. Karauli received no cases on Friday. Other stations where cases were reported include Kota 94, Pali 91 and Udaipur 70. “Most importantly the districts including Ajmer, Bikaner and Alwar, which were reporting more than 100 cases for past two months, have seen drastic dip in fresh infections,” the officer added. With 10 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,599. Of these, two deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur while one death each was reported in Ajmer, Banswara, Bhilwara, Kota, Pali and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/dip-in-infections-continues-jaipur-jodhpur-continue-to-get-max-cases/articleshow/79808117.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 90,000 crore lined up for metals sector||AHMEDABAD: In a major boost to the metals industry in Gujarat, investments to the tune of Rs 90,000 crore have been proposed, according to the state industries and mines department. The data was shared by M K Das, the additional chief secretary of the department, during his presentation on Friday at the special state session of the ASSOCHAM foundation week. The event was organized virtually on Friday. “Upcoming projects in the metal sector include a Rs 40,000 crore investment by ArcelorMittal for the expansion of its facility,” Das said. “Essar Steel has also proposed investing Rs 35,000 crore near Surat. Vedanta Group recently inked an MoU with the state government for an investment of Rs 10,000 crore to set up the world’s largest zinc smelter plant in the state.” Das said Aditya Birla group has committed investments worth Rs 4,150 crore for aluminium recycling. He said the company will also invest Rs 500 crore this year and Rs 2,500 crore next year for an expansion in the copper business. Manikaran Power Limited will invest in a lithium refinery. “With more lithium battery plants proposed in Gujarat, there is a move to procure lithium from Australia and refine it in Gujarat,” Das said. “Therefore, the refinery will be a huge capacity enhancement in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-90k-cr-lined-up-for-metals-sector/articleshow/79803959.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Will urge PM to hand over ‘Chaurasi Kutiya’ to state tourism dept: Satpal Maharaj||Dehradun: With an aim to develop the ‘Chaurasi Kutiya’, popularly known as “Beatles Ashram”, into a prominent tourism destination, culture and tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Friday said that he will urge the Prime Minister to hand over the place to the Uttarakhand tourism department. The site is currently under the forest department. “Chaurasi Kutiya is a place of both spiritual and heritage importance and is currently in a dilapidated state due to lack of maintenance. If the tourism department gets the responsibility to maintain this place, then we can preserve it as a Word Heritage site and attract tourists from all over the world. I have asked the officials to make a plan in this regard and then, I will urge the PM to hand over this place to the state tourism department,” said Satpal Maharj. Chaurasi Kutiya, located in Rishikesh, was the meditation academy of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi between 1960s and 1970s. The ashram gained international attention in 1968 when the members of English rock band “The Beatles” — John Lennon, Paul McCartney, Ringo Starr, and George Harrison — learnt meditation here along with other international celebrities like Donovan, Mia Farrow, and Mike Love. The place got the attention of tourists till late 80s and was abandoned in the 1990s. It was given to Uttarakhand forest department in 2003 and was opened for public in December 2015. The minister also asked the officials to start work on an action plan to develop the Pakhro Safari Park in the state. “I am requesting the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Shivraj Singh Chauhan, to give a white tiger to Uttarakhand. It would be a great opportunity for tourists if they get to see a white tiger in the Safari,” said Maharaj. He also instructed the tourism department officials to focus on ‘Timersain Yatra’ as the inner line in the Niti Valley has been removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/will-urge-pm-to-hand-over-chaurasi-kutiya-to-state-tourism-dept-satpal-maharaj/articleshow/79802793.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: VHP crowdfunding drive for Ram temple from January 15||LUCKNOW: International vice-president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and general secretary of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Champat Rai Bansal on Friday formally announced the 44-day drive, beginning Makar Sakranti (January 15), to collect funds for the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya. TOI had reported on July 14 about VHP’s plan to collect funds for Ram Temple. Addressing reporters in Lucknow, Rai said the campaign, which would continue till Magh Poornima on February 27, would connect every person with the ambitious project associated with Lord Ram. The development comes more than a year after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of a temple and the Centre constituted a trust to oversee its construction. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya on August 5 this year. “The present generation needs to know about every aspect of the temple. For this, we would reach out to at least half the population of the country and tell them about the temple’s history,” he said, adding that VHP would reach out to people from North-East states to Kutch in the west and up to Andaman & Nicobar Islands in the south. “People bore pain to get Ram Janmabhoomi. Now, it is time for them to donate for the temple. Money should not be a problem in any work related to God,” Rai said, adding that VHP workers would reach out to people with coupons and receipts of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000. VHP cadre will also hand out a picture of the temple to people making donations. “The entire temple, which is being constructed by L&T, will be made out of stone. The temple will be three-storied, each measuring 20 feet. The length of the temple is proposed to be 360 feet and width 235 feet. The height of the temple, measured from the ground to the pinnacle of sanctum sanctorum will be 161 feet,” he added. Rai said soil testing had been done till the depth of 200 feet to study the impact in case of an earthquake. “Experts from IITs (Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Guwahati), Central Building Research Institute, L&T and engineers of Tata Consultancy Services are preparing foundation which will remain unaffected for a period of 1000 years.” “Experts have come across sand at the depth of 200 feet which is also being attributed to the existence of river Saryu at a distance to the west of the temple,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vhp-crowdfunding-drive-for-ram-temple-from-jan-15/articleshow/79806260.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chennai||Education loan requests dip by 30%-50% in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The still raging Covid-19 pandemic that has affected every sector has hit educational loans too. Banks say they have received 30%-50% fewer applications this year over last and expect a 25% dip by the end of the financial year. Delay in college admissions, remote learning, reduction in expenditure incurred by parents and the deferred payment option given by colleges are being cited as possible reasons. Lack of physical movement among states and parents’ desire to keep their wards near them might have also played a role. A senior State Bank of India (Tamil Nadu and Puducherry circle) official said about 2,300 applications worth Rs 240 crore were sanctioned in April-November in TN this year. “About 4,000 education loans applications were sanctioned in 2019.” Lenders also say there will be a pent-up demand from students in the second or third year. “Certain nationally-reputed engineering colleges charge Rs 12 lakh-Rs 15 lakh for normal engineering courses, compared to other local colleges which charge Rs 4 lakh-Rs 5 lakh. Students who did not apply this year could apply during the second year,” he said. Indian Bank, which sanctioned about 1,500 education loans worth Rs 114 crore between April and November in 2019, approved 640 applications worth Rs 57 crore in the same period this year. M Aruna, deputy general manager of Indian Bank, said many colleges had still not re-opened. “There is always a rush from north India to pursue engineering courses in Tamil Nadu. That excitement has declined... However, students are in the middle of joining medical colleges after the counselling, and one needs to wait and watch till the end of January 2021,” she said. S Kanimozhi, deputy general manager of Canara Bank, said medical counselling was still on and students were yet to come in person for verification of originals. “For students admitted to IITs, we have provided the option of availing from the branch on the campus, under Vidya Turant loan scheme.” S Vaidhyasubramaniam, vice-chancellor of SASTRA deemed university, said many institutions began issuing bona fide certificates for education loans only from December. “Students can approach banks for loans only after getting fee estimates and bonafide certificates. So, we will get the full picture only in January,” he said. Institutes such as SRM Institute of Science and Technology have allowed students to pay in installments. “Maybe, they will take education loan later,” said vice-chancellor Sandeep Sancheti. P Selvaraj, secretary of Consortium of Self-Financing Professional, Arts and Science Colleges said students will get bona fide certificates only when they come to colleges. “During the pandemic, banks are not showing enthusiasm to disburse education loans.” Education Loan Task Force convener K Srinivasan said they hardly received any complaints about education loans. “Usually, complaints overflow after the admission season. The hesitancy on part of banks in processing loan applications from students joined in non-accredited colleges also reduced the number of applications.” (With inputs from A Ragu Raman)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/edu-loan-requests-dip-by-30-50-in-tn/articleshow/79803971.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC notice to govt over GETCO power lines||AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the state government and ordered a status quo on the Gujarat State Energy Transmission Corporation Ltd’s (GETCO) laying of power transmission line in a village in Sabarkantha district, said petitioners’ advocate Bhaumik Dholaryia. The farmers had approached the high court demanding that the district collector should hear them first before allotting their land for the electricity line to GETCO. The single-judge bench stayed GETCO’s work and permitted the farmers to approach the collector in the meanwhile. GETCO approached the division bench, which allowed its appeal and cleared a path for GETCO to lay down the power line in private land. The division bench cited its earlier order passed on November 6, in which it had observed that district collectors do not have any power to interfere with the alignment of power transmission lines as decided by transmission companies, whether on private or public land. According to advocate Dholariya, the farmers challenged the high court’s order before the apex court on the ground that the HC order has divested the public authority like district collector of all powers of interference in deciding on usage of public and private land for power transmission lines. If the district collector does not have any power, affected people would be left without a space to express their grievance for redressal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-notice-to-govt-over-getco-power-lines/articleshow/79803999.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court junks plea seeking a caste census in 2021||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday dismissed a PIL that sought a caste-wise census to be carried out in 2021. “When the endeavour is to move towards a casteless society, such petitions cannot be entertained,” a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam said. The issue pertains to a plea moved by advocate R Anandha Babu, who is also the treasurer of Chennai Vanniyakula Kshatriya Maha Sangam. According to the petitioner, more than 50% of India’s population is made of people from backward and most backward communities. But the reservations they receive, when compared, differ greatly, he said. “Therefore, it is essential that a caste-wise census be conducted, particularly in Tamil Nadu, where vanniyakula kshatriyas (vanniyars) form the single largest community,” he said. He wanted the census to be conducted particularly in the 18 districts in Tamil Nadu where vanniyars are found in large numbers. This has to be done in order to get preference in employment in government, judiciary, education, and administration on a pro-rata basis, he added. Refusing to concur, the bench said, “It is well settled by law that a mandamus cannot be granted for mere asking or on sympathy. It is obligatory on part of the petitioner to point out any infraction or non-compliance of any rules or statute.” This apart, the state government has appointed a commission headed by a retired judge of the court to collect caste-wise data to facilitate policy decisions, the bench said. Also, as per Article 38 of the Constitution in the directive principles of the state policy, a state should strive to minimise the inequalities in income and endeavour to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities, and opportunities, not only among individuals but also amongst groups of people, the court noted. Though such provisions are not enforceable by any court, the principles they exude are fundamental to governance and states must apply them in making laws, the court added. The court ruled that it cannot issue any positive direction to the authorities concerned in the matter and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-junks-plea-seeking-a-caste-census-in-2021/articleshow/79803993.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM sees vital Guj role in India’s $5 trillion push||Gandhinagar: Addressing industry representatives on Friday, chief minister Vijay Rupani said that Gujarat will have to make a major contribution to help India become a USD 5 trillion economy. Speaking at an event commemorating the foundation week of ASSOCHAM (Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India), Rupani invited industries to invest in the state. The CM said that Gujarat has got the “Best Performer” rank on the startups front. He said that despite the tough times brought about by Covid-19, Gujarat industries have emerged as the frontrunners. Manufacturing activity in Gujarat is back to its pre-Covid level and large investments are being made in the industrial sector of the state, the CM said. Rupani added that the recently released Gujarat Industrial Policy, 2020, has received encouraging feedback. He said that the policy has taken into consideration all representations made by the industry. M K Das, additional chief secretary (ACS) to the chief minister and of the industries and mines department, assured entrepreneurs of all support from the government with regard to their investments in the state. He said that the state has developed an online platform and all approvals are given online. The industry was represented by B K Goenka, chairman, centenary year celebration, ASSOCHAM, and chairman, Welspun Group; and Jaxay Shah, chairman, ASSOCHAM Gujarat Council, and MD, Savvy Infrastructure. Others included Vineet Agarwal, senior vice-president, ASSOCHAM, and managing director, Transport Corporation of India; and Sumant Sinha, vice-president, ASSOCHAM, and CMD, ReNew Power. “Gujarat is the only large economy with low dependence on services and technology. When automation, mechanization, and other technological factors kick in, its industry base alone cannot sustain economic growth,” Goenka said. “The Gujarat government should invest in technology and in high value-add areas to complement its vast industry base so that the economy is ready to harness technological trends when accelerated growth opportunities present themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-sees-vital-guj-role-in-indias-5-trillion-push/articleshow/79803979.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Covid vaccination is voluntary, says government||NEW DELHI: Even those who have recovered from Covid-19 are advised to receive the complete schedule of Covid vaccine irrespective of their past history of infection, the health ministry said and emphasised that this would help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. While the Centre is working with state governments to identify people under different categories who will receive the vaccine in the first phase, beneficiaries will have to mandatorily register themselves with a photo ID for the vaccination. Once registered, they will receive information about the session and site to visit on their registered mobile number. But those with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infection will be asked to defer vaccination for 14 days after symptoms resolution as they may increase the risk of spreading the disease to others at the vaccination site. Getting vaccinated for Covid-19 will be voluntary, the ministry said, adding the vaccine introduced in India will be as effective as any developed by other countries. "Vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary. However, it is advisable to receive the complete schedule of the vaccine for protecting oneself against this disease and also to limit the spread to close contacts including family members, friends, relatives and co-workers," the ministry said while listing out a series of frequently asked questions on Covid-19 vaccine. To complete the vaccination schedule, an individual will be required to take two doses of the vaccine 28 days apart. While the regulator is examining three applications for emergency use authorisation, the government said it is geared to launch a vaccine soon. Six vaccines are in different stages of clinical trials in India. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Serum Institute of India's Covishield and Pfizer's vaccine are under evaluation for emergency use. Bharat Biotech and SII are conducting human trials in India. Other companies that have candidates in advanced stages of human trials in the country are Ahmedabad's Cadila Healthcare and Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Labs which is doing studies with Russia's Sputnik V. On which vaccine is likely to be more effective, the health ministry said all the vaccines that receive licence will have comparable safety and efficacy. "However, it must be ensured that the entire schedule of vaccination is completed by only one type of vaccine as different Covid-19 vaccines are not interchangeable," the ministry said. The ministry said anyone taking medicines for illnesses like cancer, diabetes and hypertension must take the vaccine as people with one or more of these co-morbid conditions were considered high-risk category. As per the vaccine administration plan drawn by the government, around 30 crore priority population including healthcare and frontline workers and those above 50 years of age as well as younger people with co-morbidities will be inoculated in the first phase, which is likely to start by January-end once the regulatory approvals are in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccination-is-voluntary-says-government/articleshow/79806586.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC permits 540 PSIs to take promotion exam||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday permitted 540 police sub-inspectors (PSIs) to appear in an examination scheduled for Monday for promotion to the post of police inspectors. The petitioners before the high court were opposing the deletion of their names from the list of candidates who were permitted to take the written test on Monday. They contended that the fact they had been recruited as PSIs on fixed-pay scale cannot be a reason to deny them an opportunity to appear in the departmental exam for promotion, whereas those personnel who were earlier promoted from the post of assistant sub-inspectors (ASI) were cleared for the departmental exam. According to advocate Maulin Pandya, ten out of those whose names did not figure in the list approached the high court, which has permitted all 540 such candidates to appear in the exam. The court has issued notice to the government and posted further hearing next month. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-permits-540-psis-to-take-promotion-exam/articleshow/79804014.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 10% accident relief docked for jumping over road median||CHENNAI: A motor accident claims tribunal in Tiruvallur has directed an insurance firm to pay Rs 22.3 lakh to the family of a goldsmith who was run over by a rashly driven truck while crossing the road near Red Hills. The tribunal, however, held the goldsmith liable for crossing over dangerously by climbing over a median and deducted 10% (Rs 2.2 lakh) of the sum for contributory negligence. The family of Magendiran moved the tribunal seeking a compensation of Rs 50 lakh. According to the petition, Magendiran was crossing the Tiruvallur-Red Hills Road near a private engineering college when a rashly driven truck hit him. The accident happened on October 20, 2017 and he died on the spot. The truck was proceeding towards Tamaraipakkam from Red Hills. The truck’s insurer contended that the accident happened only due to the negligence of the pedestrian and argued that the compensation demanded by his family was excessive. After recording submissions from both sides, the tribunal noted that the FIR quoted a witness as saying, “The man attempted to cross the road by jumping over the median and got knocked over by a speeding truck.” Noting that there was no pedestrian crossing in the vicinity and that police records too showed that the victim jumped over the median, the tribunal held that 10% contributory negligence was to be fixed on the victim. Magendiran was 41 at the time of the accident. After calculations, the tribunal arrived at a compensation of Rs 22.3 lakh. After deducting Rs 2.2 lakh, the tribunal directed the insurance firm to pay Rs 20.1 lakh to the family within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-accident-relief-docked-for-jumping-over-road-median/articleshow/79804019.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||NIEPVD closes two regional chapters in Kolkata & Secunderabad||Dehradun: In a move to expand its services and cater to people with all kinds of disabilities as well as visually handicapped people, the National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Visual Disabilities (NIEPVD) has collaborated with national institutes for the disabled. As a consequence, the NIEPVD has decided to shut its regional chapters within the campus of the two other national institutes - National Institute for Locomotor Disabilities (NILD) in Kolkata and National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (NIEPID) in Secunderabad respectively. Now, like NILD and NIEPID, Dehradun-based NIEPVD will also have centres on their campus dedicated to other forms of disabilities and these will “serve the purpose of expansion and extension of services”, according to Himangshu Das, director of NIEPVD. “We have been ordered by the Union ministry for taking up first service in cross-disability mode meant for all persons with different kinds of disabilities. The NIEPVD will give technical services for visually handicapped people. The other institutes will assist in their areas of expertise,” said Das. “According to the Central government, the merger of the services will improve the monitoring and mitigate logistical issues. Earlier, there was no such thing as a collaboration between national institutes, which made our task difficult. We would have to turn people with other disabilities other than blindness away,” Das explained. “Irrespective of the kind of disability, all will be rendered in service in four main stages. The first stage is intervention, meant for children up to six years of age. The second is guidance and counselling. The third is distribution of kits and appliances and the last is imparting skills and vocational training,” he added. The institute also plans to rope in NGOs and the Red Cross Society for some specific tasks. “We will eventually start other initiatives as well but for now, we will focus on early intervention,” said Das, who became the director of NIEPVD earlier this year. Notably, NIEPVD comes under the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Government of India. The decision to shut the regional chapters in Kolkata and Secunderabad was taken at an executive council meeting last month and the order to shut the centres down in a phased manner was issued by NIEPVD earlier this week. The development has not gone down well with the workers posted at these centres. When queried about the discontentment of staffers, Das said, “The regular staffers who were deployed at the centres will be shifted to some other location. It is understandable that they have been working there for years and might not be willing to move to some other city. As far as the contractual staffers are concerned, we cannot speak for their future as the decision to shut the centre down was the union ministry’s. That said, the closing of these centres will not impact the beneficiaries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niepvd-closes-two-regional-chapters-in-kolkata-secunderabad/articleshow/79802809.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Nursing home to pay Rs 1 lakh to orphanage after foetus death||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has asked a nursing home in Howrah to deposit Rs 1 lakh in the account of an orphanage after a complainant refused to take the amount as an interim compensation awarded by the health panel. The amount will be utilized by the orphanage to look after the children living with the organization. The case pertains to Priyanka Chakraborty, an expecting mother, who went to Mahabir Nursing Home in Howrah’s Amta for delivery on October 14. According to the complaint lodged by husband Rakesh Chakraborty, Priyanka was under gynaecologist Deb Kumar Manna since the beginning. Manna, who also owns the nursing home, had asked the couple report to his facility for delivery. According to the complaint, not in any of the pre-natal check-ups did Manna say anything was wrong with the foetus. Even on October 14, when Priyanka had reached the nursing home, a nurse reportedly checked her and said everything was fine. The doctor was, however, not around and a staffer, who did not have the qualification, tried to assist with the delivery. The woman suffered heavy bleeding and she was taken to the OT, where a USG revealed the foetus was still. The woman, however, survived. “We awarded an interim compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the couple whom we also asked to approach the West Bengal Medical Council for the complaint on medical negligence,” said retired Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman WBCERC. But the Chakrabortys refused to accept the compensation amount from the nursing home, saying they wanted justice and not a compensation amount. “We have directed the nursing home to deposit the amount to an orphanage run by Ram Krishna Sangha in Howrah’s Kasundia,” Banerjee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nursing-home-to-pay-rs-1l-to-orphanage-after-foetus-death/articleshow/79805718.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC stays coercive action by BCI against law colleges||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court (HC) has stayed the Bar Council of India (BCI) from taking any coercive action against the colleges run or aided by the Gujarat government offering three-year degree course with regard to the BCI’s circular threatening derecognition, if they do not follow certain rules. The BCI rules framed in 2008 mandate that all 26 government run and aided law colleges in the state should have a minimum eight full-time professors and one principal. These colleges were first asked to fulfil these criteria and then file an affidavit in this regard in February 2020. The BCI issued another circular and asked the colleges to fulfil the formalities by February 2021. Against this circular, the students of Modasa Law College field a PIL in the HC through advocate Shivang Jani, who submitted before the court that the colleges would take long to fulfil these criteria because the colleges have requested the state authorities to fill the posts. It is not feasible for the government to appoint these many faculty members in such a short time. Moreover, it was also argued that due to such issue, the students feared about the legality of their degrees, if they obtained admission or passed through these aided colleges. The HC was urged for more time for compliance of the rules. The HC was requested to restrain the BCI from taking any coercive steps against the colleges. After hearing the case, the HC issued a notice to the BCI and the state government seeking the reply by January 12. The court has also said that the petition be treated as a writ petition and not as a PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-stays-coercive-action-by-bci-against-law-colleges/articleshow/79804043.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||SUV hits rickshaw, collision kills two kids in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Kiran Vasfodia, 26, a native of Bhavnagar, had just began his Thursday with his wife, Sonal, and children Hardik and Yuvraj, three and two, respectively, on his pedal rickshaw, the sole tool of his livelihood. He set out with his family, from his makeshift dwelling in the slums near Sindhu Bhavan, and went towards Ornet Park Crossroads in the morning, when they were hit by an SUV. He lost both his children, and Sonal and he suffered serious injuries. The SUV was being driven by Hardik Shah, 33, a resident of Shilaj, said an officer of M Division traffic police, where a case for causing death by negligence was registered. “Kiran was trying to go to the other side of the road from the cut in the divider near Ornet Park Society on Sindhu Bhavan Road. Another car approaching from behind the pedal rickshaw swerved to avoid hitting the family but Shah, driving just behind that car, hit the rickshaw,” said a police officer. The officer added, “As the car hit the rickshaw with great force, Kiran and Sonal were thrown from it. Yuvraj and Hardik fell on to the road and suffered head injuries.” Shah immediately stopped his car beside the road and took Kiran and Sonal to a private hospital on SG Road. Kiran’s relatives and other persons took the two children to the Sola Civil Hospital, where they died during treatment. In his statement to police, Kiran said he suffered injuries to his back and shoulder and Sonal suffered injuries to her right leg and minor injuries and bruises on other parts of her body. Apart from the medico-legal evidence, police roped in forensic experts to know how fast the car was going at the time of the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suv-hits-rickshaw-collision-kills-two-kids/articleshow/79804091.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP to connect with grassroots farmers in name of Charan Singh||Lucknow: Amid the ongoing protest by farmers against the new farm laws, the state government is set to invoke former Prime Minister and Lok Dal founder Chaudhary Charan Singh. The state will celebrate his birth anniversary as ‘Kisan Samman Diwas’ at the district and developmental block level on December 23. The grassroots farmer outreach in the name of Charan Singh by the UP government comes even as the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre faces the heat with Opposition upping the ante in favour of protesting farmers. The move also comes after the UP BJP leadership organised farmers’ conventions in different parts of the state and accused the Opposition of misguiding farmers to serve political interest. In a letter to all divisional commissioners and district magistrates, agriculture production commissioner (APC) Alok Sinha said that the Kisan Samman Diwas be organised not only at the state level but also at the district and the block level. The main programme is scheduled at Lok Bhavan and will be attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi and a host of other cabinet ministers. The state government would also organise a farmers’ workshop and an exhibition. Sinha said the state government would honour progressive farmers and hand over farm machinery to some. At the district and block level, workshops, fairs and exhibition are scheduled at Krishi Vigyan Kendra to be attended by ministers, MPs and MLAs of the area. The APC has directed that departments associated with agriculture such as cooperative, horticulture, animal husbandry, fisheries, dairy development, sericulture and cane development should play an active role in Kisan Samman Diwas. The government will also felicitate women farmers under Mission Shakti. In the wake of the pandemic, the agriculture department has sought application of Covid protocol during the events, including wearing of masks, use of hand sanitizers and maintaining social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-connect-with-grassroots-farmers-in-name-of-charan-singh/articleshow/79806277.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to set up two more rehab facilities for kids||CHENNAI: The department of social defence will set up two more deaddiction centres for children, particularly those in conflict with law, in Namakkal and Madurai, officials said. The facilities each will be able to admit 30 children at a time. Now, the state has only one paediatric deaddiction centre in Chengalpet district that can admit 15 children. The centre is run by the NGO Lifeline Centre for Prevention of Children from Alcoholism and Substance (Drug) Abuse. “Since therapy can sometimes go on for weeks, several children are put on wait list. We try to follow up on children over phone and video calls, but we are mostly tied up with new children admitted. Many of them are in conflict with law,” said NGO founder Chezhian Ramu The new centres will help rehabilitate more children. “Our admission capacity will increase to 45. We will soon have more centres in other districts as well,” said a senior official from the department of social defence. These two centres were scheduled to be opened in March but were delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic, he added. In the private sector, Chennai-based Voluntary Health Services (VHS) admits children between 12-18 years addicted to marijuana, alcohol, inhalants, and chewable tobacco. In the past decade, the hospital has seen a huge increase in patients addicted to flavoured tobacco. Statistics released by the Chennai Metropolitan Tumour Registry attached to Cancer Institute in Adyar show incidence of mouth cancer which was 0.6 per 1,00,000 males in the age group of 15-34 thirty years ago, went up to 2.3 in 2013. The incidence now is expected to have touched 2.5. Although numerically small, epidemiologists find it scary because it’s a four-fold increase in three decades. “To stop this, we have to pick children early. Many centres do not admit children because they lack specialised professionals to deal with them. We need better infrastructure and human resources to deal with such problems. There are very few child-focused mental health professionals in the state,” said senior psychiatrist Dr Lakshmi Vijayakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-to-set-up-two-more-rehab-facilities-for-kids/articleshow/79804060.cms||Aditi R
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Protest petition to be filed against police report exonerating Pranav Pandya of rape charges||Nainital: The counsel, who filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Uttarakhand high court in the matter of rape allegation against Pranav Pandya, head of Haridwar’s Shantikunj, and his wife, has now decided to file a protest petition before chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Haridwar against the police report exonerating Pandya and his wife of all charges. This comes two months after a special investigation team (SIT) filed the final report which found all allegations against the accused unsubstantiated. Speaking to TOI Vivek Shukla, the petitioner in HC, said that the HC heard his PIL on Friday and has permitted him to raise his objections to the final report before the CJM court. “We have some serious questions about the police's final report which exonerated Pandya and his wife despite there being evidence against them. I will now challenge it before the CJM court which will hear the case in February,” Shukla said. It is worth mentioning that the CJM Haridwar is hearing a case on whether the final report should be accepted or not. The CJM court is scheduled to hear the case on February 6. “The HC has further said that if I am adversely affected with the judgement in the case, I can again approach the HC again. The HC has said that it will hear the case in March after the winter vacations,” Shukla said. As reported by TOI earlier, a woman from Chhatisgarh had alleged that Pandya had raped her in 2010 while she was at Shantikunj. The woman was a minor at the time and said that she was threatened to not reveal the 'crime' to anyone. An FIR was registered against Pandya in May in Delhi and it was later transferred to Haridwar. However, the SIT had exoneration Pandya and his wife of the charges on basis of a recording of the woman where she is heard telling someone that Pandya did not rape her but she was convinced by others to frame him. Police had also asked the woman for her voice sample for forensics but she denied. According to police, she also attended meditation camps at Shantikunj even after quitting the organisation in 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protest-petition-to-be-filed-against-police-report-exonerating-pranav-pandya-of-rape-charges/articleshow/79802813.cms||Prashant Jha
December 19, 2020||Allahabad||Change of name forms part of right to expression: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that change of name is a part of right to expression guaranteed under Article Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India. Allowing a writ petition filed by one Kabir Jaiswal, Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “As the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, freedom of expression through the change of name cannot be denied to the petitioner in the present case and he is entitled to change his name.” The court also directed the CBSE to issue a fresh certificate recording the name of the petitioner as Kabir Jaiswal in place of Rishu Jaiswal within a period of two months. Accordig to the petitioner, he had appeared in the Secondary School Examination in the academic year 2011-13, i.e., Class-X, and Senior School Certificate Examination in the year 2015, i.e., Class-XII, conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi in the name of Rishu Jaiswal, son of Santosh Kumar Jaiswal and had passed the said examinations also. Later, the petitioner with an intent to change his name from Rishu Jaiswal to Kabir Jaiswal, got a notice published in the notification in the Gazette of India and moved an application for correction of the name from Rishu Jaiswal to Kabir Jaiwal. In the petition, the petitioner claims that the name was changed in the Aadhaar card and the PAN card also in pursuance to the Gazette Notification. However, when the petitioner moved an application through the school concerned for change of name in the certificates, granted by the CBSE, the school in question forwarded the request to the Board and the Board vide order dated May 27, 2020, rejected the application for change of name on the ground that the particulars of the school records do not show the change of name as sought by the petitioner. The said order was challenged in the present writ petition. The court delivered this decision on December 2 that came to light on December 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/change-of-name-forms-part-of-right-to-expression-hc/articleshow/79806279.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 19, 2020||Meerut||Wanted man on the run found dead; suicide suspected||Meerut: A man, who was on the run after he was accused of a murder that took place a few days ago, was found dead in his truck in Meerut’s Sardhana area on Thursday night. A countrymade weapon was lying near his body, police said. It is suspected that the deceased may have committed suicide and recorded it on his mobile. A probe is on, police said. Deepak Bhati, a constable at Sardhana police station, said, “Deepak (23), was found dead in his truck. We recovered a countrymade weapon from his possession and found him with earphones on and his mobile was kept in front of him. Either he recorded his suicide or was on a video call before he died. His phone is currently locked and we are trying to get it unlocked for further information in the case.” The deceased is a resident of Karnawal village in Saroorpur area of Meerut.Police said the deceased was accused of a murder that took place a few days ago. “All angles of the previous case are also being investigated to check whether his suicide was related to it,” said Bhati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wanted-man-on-the-run-found-dead-suicide-suspected/articleshow/79802815.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav hits out at BJP for injustice||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said the CBI charge sheet in Hathras case has come as a relief for the family of the victim. He lambasted the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the initial injustice meted out to the victim and her family. This was in apparent reference to the police theory during initial stages of investigations ruling out sexual assault in the case. Akhilesh said the CBI probe into the alleged rape and murder was initiated following mounting pressure from the people, opposition and the “real media”. He said under the present regime one has to fight for justice. Based on the last statement of the victim, a charge sheet has been filed against four accused, the former UP CM said, adding that those responsible for the injustice that was initially meted out to the victim, should apologise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-hits-out-at-bjp-for-injustice/articleshow/79806280.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP elections to be delayed as apex court stays Karnataka HC order||BENGALURU: The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the Karnataka high court order of December 4 stipulating BBMP polls for 198 wards and posted the next hearing on February 5. The high court had directed the state election commission to ensure completion of the delimitation process within a month, and to announce the poll schedule within six weeks thereafter. The SC move comes as a big relief for the BJP government which has sought deferment of the polls. Sources said the state on Friday orally sought eight months’ time to conduct the polls. In addition to citing the prevailing Covid pandemic, the state government and other petitioners contended that the high court could not ignore the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2020 passed by the state legislature, through which the number of BBMP wards was increased to 243. They said it was done to ensure wider representation to marginalised sections of society which live in the city. They also claimed that the state election commission has no locus stand to challenge the amendment legislation; instead, it is duty-bound to implement legislation passed by the state legislature. Delimitation panel yet to submit reportA three-member Supreme Court bench headed by chief justice SA Bobde and comprising jstices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian admitted the special leave petition filed by the Karnataka government challenging the order and issued notice to the SEC and the petitioners, including Abdul Wajid and M Shivaraj. The SE C said the Delimitation Commission is yet to submit its recommendation for dividing the corporation into 243 wards and the exercise would take considerable time to complete. BBMP’s term expired on September 10, not due to inaction of the state but in view of the prevalent pandemic, the petitioners claimed. “It is disappointing that civic polls are being delayed but we will continue our fight in the Supreme Court,” said Wajid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-elections-to-be-delayed-as-apex-court-stays-hc-order/articleshow/79806679.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Meerut||UP STF nabs interstate armssupplier & auto theft kingpin||Meerut: A team of UP Special Task Force (STF), in a major breakthrough, arrested an interstate arms dealer who was involved in one of the largest auto theft rackets in the region.The accused, identified as Raees Mullah, used to allegedly sell stolen vehicles to other states. His accomplice Mohamed Shamshad was also nabbed at Nai Sadak crossing in Meerut on Thursday evening after a tip-off.The STF sleuths found 17 tamanchas of 0.315 bore, three pistols and one revolver in his possession. However, no stolen vehicles could be recovered yet.Circle officer (CO), STF field unit, Brijesh Singh, said, "Mullah is an interstate dealer of arms supply. He was involved in the racket of stealing vehicles from western Uttar Pradesh and selling them off to states such as Bihar and Jharkhand. He had been earlier arrested in 2009 by the Delhi Special Cell in a case pertaining to transportation of 60 illegal pistols."During questioning the two admitted their involvement in the supply of arms, Singh said."They were actually going on a two-wheeler to a prospective buyer when they were caught. Mullah revealed that he used to sell a pistol for Rs 25,000 and a tamancha for somewhere between Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000," he added.Both have been booked under various provisions of the Arms Act and IPC section 411/414 (stolen property).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-stf-nabs-interstate-armssupplier-auto-theft-kingpin/articleshow/79802828.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 19, 2020||Pune||112-year-old says he is fit & fine after prostate surgery in Sangli||PUNE: Hazarat Ali Shah Kadri, a 112-year-old man from Dharwad in Karnataka, is feeling “ fit and fine” after undergoing surgery on November 7 for an enormous prostate weighing 150gm that was causing severe urine retention. He was back home after four days. The surgery was performed at Ushakal Hospital, a dedicated urology centre of excellence, in Sangli.  Urologist Makarand Khochikar, who performed the operation, said, “He is the oldest person to have undergone such a surgery through endoscopy in India, and perhaps the world.” Khochikar, who is trained in the UK, and has been in the field for 30 years, is the consulting editor for the British Journal of Urology International. The election commission has feted Kadri on being India’s oldest voter, and TOI verified the year of his birth as 1908 from his Aadhaar card. Kadri’s parents came to India from Baghdad in 1905, and he has served in the British and Indian armies. His family in Dharwad said Kadri was a Sufi saint there. Khochikar said he performed Kadri’s surgery without any incision, finished it in less than an hour and without any blood transfusion. “The patient's advanced age, and the sheer size and weight of the prostate was the challenge,” he added. According to Pune-based senior urologist Sanjay Kulkarni traditional teaching says open surgery may be required for glands bigger than 100gm if the patient is fit. Eminent urologists and academicians agreed it was a remarkable feat. India's senior-most urologist P Venugopal, professor emeritus at KMC Hospital in Mangaluru, said it was rare to find a person who has lived beyond 100 years, and even rarer to treat a patient who is 112 years old. “My experience in urology spans over 50 years. I have treated only one patient who reported that he was 103 years old. Hence, this case is a rarity,” he said. Another senior urologist Mahesh Desai of Muljibhai Patel Urology Hospital in Nadiad in Gujarat said, “The surgery would be one-of-its-kind in the world’s medical literature.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/112-year-old-says-he-is-fit-fine-after-prostate-surgery-in-sangli/articleshow/79804100.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Ganga, its 10 tributaries under strict surveillance||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) is keeping a close watch on the quality of water flowing down the Ganga. Ashish Tiwari, member secretary, UPPCB, said, “After successfully managing to provide clean river water for Kumbh 2019, we have improved our water quality monitoring system by bringing more area under observation round the clock.” He said, “Along the course of Ganga we have identified 16 very sensitive points which are responsible for excessive water pollution by discharging untreated water into river. These points basically have distilleries, paper mills, sugar cane processing factories, tanneries and others. These points are monitored every day, while 10 places are monitored twice a week and remaining eight once a week based.” “Similarly for 10 tributaries 21 points are monitored every day for the water quality, while three points are monitored twice a week. Apart from river, 214 drains are also being monitored weekly, including 128 drains of Ganga catchment area, 29 drains merging in Ramganga, 26 drains of Kali, 14 drains of Varuna, 11 drains of Yamuna and six drains of Pandu river are being monitored,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganga-its-10-tributaries-under-strict-surveillance/articleshow/79806284.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man evading arrest for 22 years in net||PUNE: The police on Thursday arrested a man wanted in a 22-year-old loan fraud case. Police said the suspect, Sandeep Sudhakar Dhaigude (53), was arrested from a bungalow at Madhavbaug society in Kothrud. Two others wanted in the case are still at large. In 1998, the Chatushrungi police had registered a fraud case against Dhaigude, then a Sadashiv Peth resident working for a private firm, and two others on the charge of submitting forged documents and availing loans totalling Rs13.5 lakh from two banks — a significant sum back in the day. The trio absconded and police have since been unable to trace them. Recently, constable Sachin Dhawale got a tip-off that a man wanted in a cheating case often visits his mother in the city. The police secured her call records and noticed frequent calls from one number. That caller was identified as Dhaigude. “Dhaigude’s name features in the list of wanted criminals. We conducted a technical investigation for more than a month and found that he was running a shares trading business in Thane and would often visit his ailing 85-year-old mother, who lives in a rented bungalow in Kothrud,” sub-inspector Shashikant Shinde, who led the team that arrested Dhaigude, said. Police monitored Dhaigude’s number and found that it was active in the Madhavbaug society area on Thursday. “We then obtained his photograph and took him into custody after confirming his identity,” Shinde said. During questioning, Dhaigude admitted to his involvement in the case and claimed that he was framed. “At the time, Dhaigude worked for an import and export firm in the city. He claimed that the owner of the firm — one of the two suspects at large — implicated him in the cheating case,” senior inspector Rajnish Nirmal of crime branch (unit IV) said. Dhaigude told police he first moved to Belagavi in Karnataka and recently, shifted to Thane. “He claimed that he had no contact with one of other two suspects [the owner of the firm], who he said was now living in Australia, and that he had no knowledge of the whereabouts of the other wanted man,” sub-inspector Shinde said. The crime branch has transferred Dhaigude’s custody to the Chatushrungi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-evading-arrest-for-22-yrs-in-net/articleshow/79804086.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 19, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh's Sambhal farmers told to submit Rs 50 lakh bonds||BAREILLY: To deter farmers from protests and inciting local residents against the recently passed farm laws, police in Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal have asked several of them to file Rs 50 lakh bonds. Farmers claimed similar notices of lesser amounts were sent out in other districts of western UP as well, including Moradabad. On Friday, BKU district president Rajpal Singh Yadav said, “The administrative officials are trying to convince us to give in writing that we will ensure peace and not campaign against the farm laws. But, we have refused.” According to him, the amount of Rs 50 lakh was deliberately mentioned by the administration to intimidate farmers. An official in Sambhal, however, said that it was a clerical error and the original bond amount dictated to the clerk was Rs 50,000. Those told to sign the bond will have to pay the amount if they continue to indulge in activities against which they have been warned in the notice. In case they don’t and are not able to pay, their properties will be confiscated. It has been issued under section 107/116 [magistrate order against any person who is likely to commit breach of peace] of the CrPC on basis of a report submitted by police. A notice under this section is a preventive measure to pre-empt breach of peace. Similar notices were issued during anti-CAA protests in UP last winter. The notices with an amount of Rs 50 lakh were served under section 107/116 CrPC to Rajpal Singh along with farmer leaders Jaiveer Singh, Satendra alias Gangafal, Brahmchari, Veer Singh and Rahdas. While similar notices with an amount of Rs 5 lakh were served to Sanjeev Gandhi, Arjun and Rajveer Singh. In the notice, the recipients were informed that the administration has got a report that they had misguided the farmers and brought them on road and blocked the traffic. They were asked to file a reply to the notice. Sub-divisional magistrate Deependra Yadav, however clarified, “The amounts of Rs 50 lakh and Rs 5 lakh were due to a clerical error. We had issued notices to ensure that these people don’t indulge in (any) non-democratic activity. Later, when this error came to our notice then we immediately ordered withdrawal of all the notices. Many farmers also contacted us and told us verbally not to issue any such notice and they promised to stay away from any activity that may disrupt peace. Now, we have asked the police to provide us another report with the past history of the farmers who were served notices. Anyone with a clean past will not be served the notice.” Rajpal Singh said, “We have not given anything in writing despite repeated efforts by local SHO and other senior cops. We have not committed any crime and fighting for our rights is always constitutional. However, we have told them that we will maintain peace as per law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/to-deter-them-from-protests-police-in-ups-sambhal-ask-farmers-to-submit-rs-50l-bonds/articleshow/79802855.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Covid surveillance teams cover over 65% population in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Nearly 65% of the state's population has been covered by the health teams in the house to house surveillance activity. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal on Friday said that health teams have reached out to over 15 crore people in the state. Considering UP's population of 23 crore for 2020, this is over 65%. “This is a record in its own way. Of these people, over 2.21 crore have been tested,” he said. Earlier, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed Covid-19 situation in the state. Briefing reporters about the unlock review, Sehgal said: “The CM stated that it was necessary to maintain full vigilance against Covid-19 and any carelessness can prove to be harmful. People should be constantly made aware about the prevention of corona infection and they should also be motivated and encouraged to maintain social distancing and compulsorily use masks.” The ACS added that the CM also said that the effective arrangements of treatment of Covid-19 should be maintained and testing should be conducted with full capacity. “Full attention should also be paid on contact tracing and surveillance. It should also be ensured that the Integrated Command and Control Centres should work with full capacity. District magistrates and the chief medical officers should regularly hold a review meeting in the morning at the Covid-19 hospital and in the evening at the Integrated Command and Control Centre,” an official statement citing the CM said. Meanwhile, 1440 new cases took the state's tally to 5.72 lakh on Friday. Of these, 5.46 lakh persons have recovered while 8,154 have died including 18 fresh entries. The number of persons in the active cases category stood at 17,955.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-surveillance-teams-cover-over-65-population-in-the-state/articleshow/79806288.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 19, 2020||Bhopal||Only 30% students attend schools on Day 1 in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: As expected, the presence of around 30% students was recorded on Day 1 of school campuses reopening after 10 months. Government schools organised parent teacher meetings, but the presence of parents was also very less. Several students reached for practical exams also being organised at the school level. Presence of students in government schools was more than in private institutions. Presence of the students in school was sporadic. In Kamla Nehru Govt Girl’s Higher Secondary, the presence of students was more than expected. “We were not expecting such a number of students on Day 1. It means that students were eager to attend classes,” said a school teacher, not wishing to be named. There were schools like Model Higher Secondary School where there were very less number of students. “We have been asking parents to send their children ever since the state government has announced to re-open classes. It is strange that a very small group of students have come today. We were hoping that more students will start coming to school,” said a Model School teacher. Presence of students was comparatively higher in government schools. “Several schools organised PTM as per the schedule, but the presence of parents was less,” said DEO Nitin Saxena. Schools currently allow students to study both online and offline. Additionally, parents can also participate in PTM online and offline. At Sarojini Naidu Girl’s Higher Secondary School, around 10 parents attended the PTM. At Subhash Excellence School and Naveen Higher Secondary School, children also attended the PTM and their opinion was also taken. Several private schools also invited parents to see the facilities on the campus. “Even private schools organised PTMs at their own level. The objective was to inform parents about the facilities being provided by the schools,” said Babu Thomas, secretary, Association of Private Un-aided Schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/only-30-students-attend-schools-on-day-1/articleshow/79802840.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 19, 2020||Pune||Card swap costs retired teacher Rs 20,000||PUNE: A retired schoolteacher (72) lost her debit card and Rs20,000 of pension money to a man’s swap trick at an ATM kiosk in a mall in Kondhwa on Wednesday. “The woman had inserted the card and keyed in the PIN. The man, standing behind her, noticed it,” a Kondhwa police officer said. As she was waiting for the dispenser to deliver the cash with a ‘transaction pending’ message on the screen, he told her she had not properly inserted the card and removed it. He diverted her attention, returned another card and left. The man then used her card to withdraw Rs20,000 from another ATM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/card-swap-costs-retired-teacher-rs-20k/articleshow/79804124.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Mayor demands Rs 9,000cr before merger of villages||Pune: Mayor Murulidhar Mohol on Friday demanded that the state government give Rs9,000 crore to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) before they issue a notification to merge 23 villages in the civic limits. He also said that the merger should be done in phases and all 23 villages should not be merged at the same time. “The civic administration needs to carry out development works in the 11 villages that were merged in the civic limits in 2017. At least Rs9,000 crore will be needed for the works. The state should make the funds available to PMC,” he said, while speaking to reporters after the general body meeting on Friday. Mohol added that merging new villages without any infrastructure will cause more problems rather than offer solutions. The 11 villages merged in 2017 are yet to get the infrastructure and basic amenities. Until they are provided basic amenities, new villages should not be merged in PMC limits, Mohol said. According to PMC officials, the proposal to merge 34 villages got a green signal in 2013-14 but full merger did not take place. A citizens’ group called Haveli Taluka Nagari Kriti Samiti had approached the Bombay High Court seeking speedy merger. After the court’s directives PMC merged 11 villages in its jurisdiction three years ago while nine villages were merged partly and two villages Uruli-Phursungi were merged completely. The population of PMC limits increased by 2 lakh after the merger. The election for these areas was held in 2018 and two corporators were added in PMC. The stage government recently approved the proposal to merge the remaining 23 villages. The population of PMC limits will now increase by six lakh. One lakh citizens will be represented by one corporator so PMC will add another six corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mayor-demands-rs-9000cr-before-merger-of-villages/articleshow/79804129.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Meerut||Cong, BJP ruined Uttarakhand, says Sisodia in M'nagar||Muzaffarnagar: Just a day after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that AAP will contest UP polls in 2022, deputy CM Manish Sisodia reached Muzaffarnagar and paid tribute to those who died in protests demanding a separate state in 2000. Sisodia paid respect at Rampur Tiraha Shaheed Smarak where the protesters were attacked by police. Before leaving for Utrakhand, Sisodia interacted with mediapersons and slammed BJP and Congress for the current situation in Uttrakhand. He said, "People in Uttarakhand had dreamt of a good state with good education, health and employment. Congress and BJP ruined Uttrakhand in the past 20 years." He also said that he will visit Lucknow on December 22. After Delhi CM claimed that AAP will introduce Delhi education model in Uttar Pradesh, many UP ministers have challenged him to have a debate on Delhi vs UP education model. "Therefore I will go to Lucknow on December 22 and discuss Delhi's education model."After meeting with AAP workers in Muzaffarnagar, Sisodia left for Uttrakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cong-bjp-ruined-uttarakhand-says-sisodia-in-mnagar/articleshow/79802844.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 19, 2020||Bhopal||Active Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh drop below 12,000 after 26 days||BHOPAL: It is after 26 days that the count of active Covid-19 cases in the state dropped below 12,000 on Friday. The tally of active cases dropped to 11,876 as 1,450 people recovered from Covid-19 while only 1,181 new cases were reported. Earlier, it was on November 22, that there were 11,765 active cases in the state. The number of active cases started increasing and reached 14,981 on November 28 and later started reducing. It has again come down below 12,000 on December 18. However, with 1,181 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state on Friday, the tally of Covid-19 cases in the state reached 2,29,130. Apart from the fresh cases, 11 casualties were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 reached 3,453 in the state. Districts where these casualties were reported includes Indore where 3 deaths were reported, Bhopal and Jabalpur where 2 deaths in each, were reported and one death each was reported from Gwalior, Dhar, Balaghat and Mandsaur districts. On Friday, fresh cases were reported from 50 of the total 52 districts of the state. Only Narsinghpur and Dindori districts did not report any new cases on Friday. New cases were reported in double figures from 23 districts. Maximum cases were reported from Indore where 431 new patients were found on Friday, followed by Bhopal where 214 new patients were found, then Jabalpur where 42 new patients were reported and Gwalior where 33 new patients were found. A total 29,880 samples were tested on Friday out of which 1,181 tested positive. Thus, the positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Friday stood at 3.9 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/active-cases-in-state-drop-below-12000-after-26-days/articleshow/79802848.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Child marriages in rural Karnataka drop 50% in 15 years||BENGALURU: Child marriages in rural Karnataka have seen a 50% drop in the past 15 years, according to data from the National Family Health Survey (NFHS). The 2005-06 NHFS report said 50.1% of the women, aged 20-24 years, were married before the age of 18 in the state’s rural areas and this was an indicator of the prevalence of child marriages. In the 2015-16 report, the number dropped to 24.8%. In the recently released 2019-20 report, the figure stood at 24.7%. However, the urban story is different. Women aged 20-24 years married before the age of 18 years in urban Karnataka made up 28.5% in 2005-06 and the data for 2019-20 shows it is 21.3%. Experts said the gamechanger was the introduction of Prohibition of Child Marriages Act, 2006, which empowered the government and activists to address gaps in earlier legislation. “The Act, campaigns, awareness activities, NGOs, complaint mechanism through children’s helplines, and appointment of child-marriage prohibition officers have cumulatively made a difference. For further prevention of child marriages, active participation of local gram panchayat members is required...,” says Vasudeva Sharma, executive director, Child Rights Trust, an NGO working on upholding children’s rights. Tougher to prevent child marriages in urban areas: OfficialChild rights should be included in the training for gram panchayat members,” says Sharma. According to him, the major challenge is to prevent the wedding that happens when a girl is 16-18 years of age. Sharma says child marriages are easier to prevent in rural parts than in urban areas. “An anganwadi worker in a rural area knows houses within her purview very well. Awareness-building activities must be increased in slums and localities where migrant workers live,” he adds. Prevalence of child marriages has not seen a drastic reduction in urban areas, and this poses challenges in terms of a young girl’s protection, health and education. ‘Awareness being created’RS Peddapaiah, director, women and child welfare department, agreed that prevention of child marriages is tougher in urban areas as most of such marriages happen outside the city limits. “More secrecy is maintained in urban areas when a child marriage is conducted. Awareness activities have been going on in schools and colleges detailing the effect of child marriage on various aspects of life, including woman’s health,” says Peddapaiah. “Prevalence of child marriage is more in tribal settlements like Chamarajnagar, Mysuru, Kolar, Raichur and Koppal districts,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tougher-to-prevent-child-marriages-in-urban-areas-official/articleshow/79806713.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||REET exam to be held on April 25||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has announced the date for Rajasthan Eligibility Examination Test (REET) exam on April 25 which will pave the way for the recruitment 31,000 teaching jobs to mark the second anniversary of his government on Friday. The exam is going to held after a gap of two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/reet-exam-to-be-held-on-april-25/articleshow/79804146.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Boy, eight, kidnapped for Rs 10 crore bitcoin ransom from Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada police on Friday launched a search for an eight-year-old boy, grandson of an industrialist, a day after he was kidnapped from Ujire, Belthangady, with abductors making a ransom demand for Rs 10 crore worth of bitcoins. Police said this could be the first case of kidnapping for crypto-currency ransom from the district. It is suspected that abductors are known to the industrialist’s family and bitcoin business going awry could be the trigger behind the incident. Police officers privy to investigations said that the abductors placed a demand for 100 bitcoins before downscaling it to 60. District superintendent of police BM Laxmi Prasad told TOI the family has been doing cement and hardware business, and the boy’s father is part of a marketing network and was trading in bitcoins until recently. Kidnappers in touch with kin on WhatsAppPolice said the boy was playing outside his house around 6.30pm when four persons picked him up and sped away in a car even as his grandfather saw the incident from a distance. His mother received a call from unidentified persons, reportedly from Hassan district, demanding 100 bitcoins as ransom. The abductors are said to be in touch with the boy’s family through WhatsApp. Police sources claimed they insisted on digital payment of ransom and added that one person, who is constantly on the move, is said to be behind the incident. The SP said four teams have been fanned out. “It appears the abductors are travelling constantly on highways,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kidnappers-in-touch-with-kin-on-whatsapp/articleshow/79806715.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka labour department finds violations at Wistron||BENGALURU: Not maintaining proper appointment and employment details to workers asked to do 12-hour shifts were among the violations found by the Karnataka labour department, which compiled reports after inspecting Wistron’s Narasapura plant that also assembles Apple iPhones. It also found that the firm has not maintained up-to-date salary and attendance records as mandated by law and a software glitch is being blamed for improper attendance records, a key complaint of labour unions speaking for workers after last Saturday’s violence. There is no recognised union of Wistron employees. TOI reported earlier this week that the labour department had issued notices to Wistron’s vendors, but officials could not immediately confirm if the firms had submitted all documents and other details it had sought. The government has deferred acting on reports by the department until another team led by IT minister CN Ashwath Narayan and labour minister Shivaram Hebbar visit the plant. Hebbar said the government has taken cognisance of reports. Wistron may resume operations next weekHe told TOI: “Karnataka IT minister Ashwath Narayan and I will visit the company to resolve the issues. Any action will be decided thereafter.” The visit, initially scheduled for Saturday, has been postponed. “We may consider going early next week. The government is aware of reports and concerns of labourers. We’ll try to resolve them at the earliest,” Narayan said. A government official said the sudden scaling up, which meant Wistron had to accommodate around 8,500 contract labourers at the site, caused the software malfunction. “This needs to be probed,” he said. Another official said the government is waiting for Wistron to restart operations, which is expected in another week, to see if modifications have been introduced and whether the firm is complying with laws. “The company is expected to begin working partially next week. It may take a while for full-scale operations to resume,” he added. The government had promised to provide security and safety of the project, employees and property. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade had advised the government to “complete the inquiry at the earliest, identify the culprits, look into the wages and labour related matters and ensure investor sentiment is not affected due to such one-off incident”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wistron-may-resume-operations-next-week/articleshow/79806719.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hubballi||DK Shivakumar atones for 2018 flight with silver toy copter gift in Ballari||BALLARI/GADAG: Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar made a peace offering of a silver toy helicopter at the Mailarlingeshwar temple in Huvinahaadagali taluk of Ballari on Friday for flying overhead in a chopper two years ago. Temple authorities, devotees and Shivakumar himself believe that the flying visit, as opposed to the traditional padayatra made by worshippers, brought upon several setbacks, including raids and inquiries by central agencies. Shivakumar took a holy bath (Rudra Muni Snana) in the water used to perform ‘Rudrabhishek’ to the deity at the temple premises. He also offered ‘Dirgha Danda Namaskar’. Temple sources said the Congress leader had committed sacrilege by flying over the temple in 2018 when lakhs of devotees come on foot during the annual Karnika (prophecy). ‘I visited temple to seek forgiveness’Dharmakarta of the temple Venkappayya said Shivakumar offered prayers and sought forgivance from the deity for the mistake committed in ignorance. “Unknowingly, I visited the holy place in a chopper. Later, I came to know that I had committed a mistake by doing so. Our party workers and leaders have already performed puja to the deity seeking blessings and a resolution. As per the wishes of party workers, I again visited the temple and offered prayers and asked Lord Mailarlingeshwara to forgive me. One of my party workers has donated a silver helicopter model,” Shivakumar said. Congress workers have offered special puja at the temple on DKS’ behalf, in the belief that inquiries by the CBI and Enforcement Directorate are all part of the misfortune consequent to the copter visit. MLA PT Parameshwar Naik had offered puja to Mailaralingeshwara when the ED probe began. After visiting the temple on Friday, Shivakumar also visited Dingaleshwar Math in Laxmeshwar taluk of Gadag district. He met Dingaleshwar Mahaswamiji, who led the campaign for separate religion status for Veerashaiva-Lingayats. Swamiji said it was a courtesy call. After the 2018 assembly polls, Shivakumar apologised at a programme held in Laxmeshwar for the Siddaramaiah government’s intervention in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/i-visited-temple-to-seek-forgiveness/articleshow/79806721.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 15 deaths in a day, highest spike in a month||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 15 Covid-19 deaths on Friday – the highest deaths in a single day in a month. The death toll is now 1,399. Dehradun, which continues to report the highest number of infections with 156 new cases on Friday, also had the maximum of 11 deaths. Two deaths were reported from Haldwani and one each from US Nagar and Haridwar. With 580 new cases of Covid 19, Uttarakhand’s coronavirus tally crossed 85,000 on Friday (it is now 85,269). “A total of 127 people tested positive in Nainital, followed by 19 in Bageshwar, 17 in Almora, 20 each in Champawat, Pauri and Uttarkashi, 52 in Haridwar, 73 in Pithoragarh, nine in Rudraprayag, 13 Tehri Garhwal and 32 in Udham Singh Nagar,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. Also, 547 patients recovered from the infection on Friday, with which recovery tally in the state reached 76770. The infection rate now stands at 5.37% and the recovery rate at 90.03%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-15-deaths-in-a-day-highest-spike-in-a-month/articleshow/79802865.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Biting cold to give double the shivers this weekend||LUCKNOW: As the cold conditions intensified in the city, both the maximum and minimum temperatures dropped further, making Friday the coldest day of the winter so far. No respite is likely till Sunday-Monday. Thereafter, temperatures will rise by a couple of degrees till Thursday (December 24) before plunging again on the Christmas day. Despite bright sunshine, the mercury in the city could rise maximum to 19.5 degrees Celsius, 4.7 units below normal on Friday. It felt like 16-17 degrees Celsius because of the wind chill effect created by the relentless icy winds lashing the city for the past four days. The minimum temperature recorded in the wee hours was 5.5 degrees Celsius, 3.2 notches below normal. Both the temperatures were the lowest of the winter so far. Like Lucknow, most cities in the rest of the state also witnessed lowest temperatures of this season so far on Friday. While maximum minimum temperatures dropped 3-11 degrees below normal, minimum temperatures declined by 1-6 degrees below normal Saturday would be tougher with the state Met department issuing a warning of “Cold Day” as well as “Cold Wave” conditions in many parts of UP, including Lucknow. “The intense cold is because of the wind chill effect created by the icy northwesterly winds coming from the Himachal Pradesh which recently witnessed heavy snowfall,” said state Met director JP Gupta. Rae Bareli was the coldest in UP with minimum temperature 3 degrees Celsius, while Mirzapur and Muzaffarnagar recorded 3.6 degrees Celsius each, Banda 4.4, Farrukhabad 4.5, Meerut 4.6, Agra 4.8 and Jhansi 5.1. Bareilly and Bijnor were extremely cold both during the day and night. Maximum temperature in Bareilly was 11.6 degrees Celsius, 11 units below normal, and minimum temperature 3.4 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees below normal. Maximum and minimum temperatures in Bijnor were 13.6 and 5.2 degrees Celsius respectively. Maximum temperatures in Gorakhpur and Bahraich dropped to 13.4 and 14.2 degrees Celsius respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biting-cold-to-give-double-the-shivers-this-weekend/articleshow/79806326.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seaplane sent for ‘maintenance’ flying in Maldives||AHMEDABAD: The aircraft used in India’s first seaplane service from Ahmedabad to Kevadia, which was sent to Maldives for maintenance, is in fact, operating as a regular flight there. Seaplane services here have been suspended since November 28, citing that a wet and dry dock which is required for major maintenance of the aircraft is unavailable in India, due to which it was sent to Maldives. Officials of SpiceJet, the airline operating the service, confirmed that the aircraft has been operating a flight in Maldives for the time being. Explaining this, a SpiceJet official, said, “Besides its weekly maintenance, the seaplane requires thorough maintenance every four to six months, for which a wet-and-dry dock is needed. Such a dock is still under construction at the Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad, near the seaplane jetty and therefore, the aircraft was sent to Maldives in November-end.” “It is not viable to bring the aircraft from Maldives and send it back once again for maintenance. Therefore, it is currently operating as a local flight in Maldives,” the official further added. The service will resume from Ahmedabad to Kevadia from December 27. “Spice Shuttle, the fully-owned subsidiary of SpiceJet, will resume its seaplane operations between Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati Riverfront and Kevadia’s Statue of Unity from December 27, with two daily flights on the route. Bookings of the seaplane service for the passengers will open from December 20,” reads a statement issued by the airline. Earlier, the airline, in a statement had however, said that the service will resume on December 15. Soon after beginning operations, the seaplane service was suspended two days for maintenance which was done at Ahmedabad itself. Weekly maintenance will be carried out on the day when the Statue of Unity is closed for visitors. Airline officials confirmed that the wet dock at Sabarmati Riverfront will be ready in the next three weeks, followed by the dry dock. “When the operations begin from December 27 and next cycle is due for maintenance, the facility will be ready in Ahmedabad,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seaplane-sent-for-maintenance-flying-in-maldives/articleshow/79804180.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||RU launches social media accounts||Rajasthan University has created its official accounts on social media — @UniRajOfficial on Twitter and ‘University of Rajasthan - UoR, Jaipur’ page on Facebook, aiming to disseminate information and communicate with its stakeholders — students, teachers, parents, researchers, administration and government, on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-launches-social-media-accounts/articleshow/79804174.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Gas victims suffering from Covid struggle to get ‘best’ treatment||BHOPAL: Despite the fact that at least the first 20 persons, who died of Covid-19 infection in Bhopal, were all gas victims, the gas relief department or the district administration did precious little to ensure that gas victims in the high-risk group (since most of them have serious co-morbidities) are identified and protected from the deadly infection and those, who contract the infection, are ensured the best treatment. In fact, there came a situation in September when eight gas victims suffering from coronavirus died in the isolation ward of Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) largely due to lack of treatment. After refusing initially, the hospital management later admitted to eight deaths, but claimed that everything was done to save them, but they died because they had serious co-morbidities. The gas victims suffering from coronavirus were dying at BMHRC because the dedicated Covid-19 hospitals didn’t have space to admit them or at least they claimed so. How are they being ‘treated’ now? “Most of the gas victims are still referred to Hamidia Hospital or AIIMS. Very few are admitted to Chirayu hospital or other Covid care hospital despite the fact that the director, gas relief, Basant Kurre, had issued an order in August itself that gas victims will be admitted at Chirayu hospital on priority,” said Rasheeda Bee, a gas victim, who also runs Chingari Trust for specially-abled children of gas victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gas-victims-suffering-from-covid-struggle-to-get-best-treatment/articleshow/79802874.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Star performers aspire to be teachers, wish to gift more doctors to society||LUCKNOW: Meritorious students of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) aspire to serve the society by conducting path-breaking research and taking up teaching to produce more doctors. “At KGMU, I found that teachers never stop learning and continue to conduct research, which in turn benefits the society. I want to share with others what I learnt here. By teaching, I will continue learning in future as well,” says Dr Akanksha, winner of seven gold medals. Daughter of a chemist and a homemaker, Akanksha belongs to Muzaffarnagar and got inspired by her paediatrician uncle to pursue medicine. Her younger sister is a fashion designer. “Focussed study for 3-4 hours is enough,” says the young medico whose favourite pastime is listening to music and watching cricket. Dr Anjali Mall, who topped BDS with six gold medals and three certificates of honours, wants to pursue MDS in prosthodontics before joining academics. Daughter of Anurag Mall, a block pramukh in Gorakhpur, she is the eldest among three siblings and loves to dance and write poetry. “A doctor helps many patients, but a teacher creates many doctors,” says Anjali, while giving credit of her success to her family and four hours of regular study. Anjali Singhal bagged six awards, including three gold medals, for being the best student in the first part of the MBBS. Daughter of an Agra-based doctor, Anjali loves playing football. “Sports and extra-curricular activities help in concentrating in studies,” she says. After MBBS, she wants to study post-graduation in radiology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/star-performers-aspire-to-be-teachers-wish-to-gift-more-doctors-to-society/articleshow/79806365.cms||Yusra Husain
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||No isolation zone on aircraft operating int’l flights under 4 hours||Times News Network Mumbai: As air travel gets increasingly safer with norms like mandatory testing for Covid, airlines have begun seeking relaxation of certain norms. Following a request from Air India, the ministry of civil aviation has now removed the requirement of an isolation zone inside aircraft for flights under four hours. Under the ministry’s standard operating procedures (SOP), when Air India restarted international flights in May, the last row had to be reserved as quarantine area and so the seats had to be left vacant. However in the recent months, with Covid testing emerging as a mandatory requirement for international passengers, the probability of a passenger developing and showing symptoms on board the flight has reduced. In the last week of November, the Air India chairman and managing director sought the relaxation of that norm for all international flights. In an office memorandum issued on December 16, the ministry amended the said norm to allow flights with duration of four hours or less to be operated without such a quarantine area. Airlines operating international flights, like Mumbai-Dubai, for instance, don’t need to block the last row three seats from now. “Airline shall carry sufficient number of PPE kits to be provided to passengers who develop symptoms while in flight,” the ministry order said. For flights of over four hour duration, the last row on the right-side aisle (in case of twin aisle aircraft, right-side of the right aisle) of the aircraft should be reserved as a quarantine area for handling possible in-flight emergencies, the order, signed by Usha Padhee, joint secretary, MoCA, said. The medical emergency protocols issued by the ministry earlier in August said that “in case of ill passenger or a passenger showing Covid-I9 symptoms like fatigue or cough, high fever etc, the passenger should be isolated from the other passengers’’. Such a passenger or passengers were to be guided to the quarantine zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-isolation-zone-on-aircraft-operating-intl-flights-under-4-hours/articleshow/79806301.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||City sees rallies in favour of and against new farm laws||Coimbatore: The BJP took out a ‘tractor’ rally to create awareness on the three new farm laws, while the Congress conducted a ‘plough’ rally against the laws that were brought in by the Union government.BJP national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan kickstarted the party’s rally. “We have organized a series of events to spread awareness on the farm laws. One of it is ‘Farmers’ friend Modi’ programme. As part of the efforts, we are holding the tractor rally.” She said the opposition parties were playing politics at the cost of farmers’ lives and livelihood. Pointing out that the opposition parties had argued for the same benefits extended by the three farm laws in their election manifestoes in past, she said they were opposing the laws when the laws were introduced by the BJP. “These laws provide exactly what farmers require to sell their produce profitably.”Meanwhile, the Congress cadres took out a procession led by TNCC working president Mayura Jayakumar in the city, condemning the laws. “The Congress brought the green revolution in the country. But the BJP has betrayed the farmers by bringing these anti-farmer laws,” he said and demanded the Centre to withdraw them immediately. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-sees-rallies-in-favour-of-and-against-new-farm-laws/articleshow/79804205.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Integrated emergency response system now becomes a reality||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday launched the first phase of integrated Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) that seeks to merge all the existing emergency toll-free numbers with 112. Now, all the existing emergency toll-free numbers including – 100 (police), 101 (fire), 108 (ambulances), 1098 (child helpline), 1090 (women helpline) and others – will be integrated into 112. People can dial one number for all emergency services. The integrated ERSS system has been launched at the division level (seven divisions) in a decentralised manner. In the first phase, it will be launched in all the seven police range headquarters, two police commissionerate, Alwar, Bhiwadi and Bharatpur. The CM also launched five new Abhay command control centres in five districts - Sawai Madhopur, Jhalawar, Churu, Chittorgarh and Rajsamand. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday launched ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign under MGNREGA, which seeks to motivate and mobilise MGNREGA workers to complete work assigned to them so that they can get full wages. It will be ensured by improving worksite management. The campaign will continue in the state for two months, which started on the field on December 16. Apart from this, 8 panchayat samiti bhawans in 6 districts were also launched on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/integrated-emergency-response-system-now-becomes-a-reality/articleshow/79804190.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Online redress system for taxpayers to come in a week’||AHMEDABAD: An online system where taxpayers can submit their grievances will be made operational in a week, announced Amit Jain, the principal chief commissioner of Income Tax of Gujarat, on Friday. Jain was speaking at an event on the theme of ‘Vivad se Vishwas Scheme’ organized by Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). The announcement came in response of a request by Jainik Vakil, who is the chairman of the Direct Tax Committee of the GCCI. Vakil had requested the Income Tax (I-T) department to appoint a nodal officer who could act as a bridge between the department and taxpayers to resolve their queries. Jain mentioned in his speech that they have planned an online system to serve the function. “The taxpayers can submit their queries with relevant documents. It will be monitored thoroughly by the officers,” said Jain, adding that the link would be operational within a week. Earlier, GCCI president Natu Patel had said that before the scheme launched by the I-T department, about four lakh cases of direct taxes were pending in the commissioner (appeals), ITAT, Gujarat high court and the Supreme Court. Patel said the scheme, which was originally up to March 31, has been extended to December 31. “We request the I-T department to allow the payment in four to five instalments. It’s in the light of the fact that the MSMEs are suffering badly due to the liquidity crisis,” said Patel. Jain, in his response, said that he would make a representation for the same before the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/online-redress-system-for-taxpayers-to-come-in-a-week/articleshow/79804193.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||3 killed in 2 road mishaps in Dausa||In two separate road accidents, three persons were killed in Dausa on Thursday night. While in one accident, a tractor driver was killed after collision with a bus, while in the second, a truck driver and his helper were killed after colliding with another heavy vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-killed-in-2-road-mishaps-in-dausa/articleshow/79804186.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||3 from Aundh firm drown in sea at Anjarle beach||PUNE: A weekend picnic turned tragic for 14 employees of an Aundh-based private company on Friday afternoon when three of them drowned in the sea at Anjarle beach near Dapoli, about 198km from the city. The Dapoli police identified the deceased as Akshay Rakhelkar (37) of Sambhajinagar in Pimpri Chinchwad, Vikas Shrivastav (25) of Karvenagar and Manoj Gavande (24) of Vishalnagar in Pimpri Chinchwad. The residents of the area rescued their three colleagues Nihal Chavan, Ubais Khan and Rohit Palande. They are being treated in a hospital in Dapoli. Trushant Bhatkar, the owner of a resort at Anjarle, told TOI, “Being a working day, there were hardly any people on the beach. Around 12.30pm, a boy alerted us about the drowning of some people. Two among us ran towards the beach, while three others and I rushed there with a fibre boat.” Bhatkar and his team members brought out all the six from the sea. “Two of them had died. We tried to remove water gulped by the third person after reaching the shore, but he also lost his breath,” he said. Inspector Rajendra Patail of the Dapoli police said, “The team of 14 employees of the Aundh-based firm had reached Dapoli on Friday from Pune in a minibus. They had checked in to a resort in Murdi village near Anjarle.” Patil said all of them went to the beach after breakfast. Six entered the water. “They failed to gauge the depth of water and started drowning. Their colleagues at the shore raised an alarm, following which local residents rescued three of them,” he said. He said the bodies had been sent for post-mortem. “We have registered a case of accidental death,” Patil said. Bhatkar said the resort owners along the beach had put up boards at the beach to alert visitors. “We always tell our customers that they should avoid going into the deep water,” he said. Atharva Kalamshere, one of the colleagues of the victims, was busy taking care of the remaining team members. When TOI contacted him on his cellphone, he said he would talk later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-from-aundh-firm-drown-in-sea-at-anjarle/articleshow/79804192.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow-Kanpur expressway is now National E-way 6||LUCKNOW: The under-construction expressway between Lucknow and Kanpur, already declared a National Highway, has been notified as NE6 in The Gazette of India released on December 15. Giving this information to TOI here, Diwaker Tripathi, constituency representative of defence minister Rajnath Singh who is also the city MP, said that the NHAI on Friday officially gazetted the Lucknow-Kanpur Expressway as national expressway six. He said that there were only five national expressways in the country. “Lucknow-Kanpur e-way is the UP’s first national e-way and credit for this unique distinction goes to Rajnath Singh who had been in touch with the Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari for implementation of infrastructure projects in his constituency. The work on Lucknow-Kanpur Expressway, which would be elevated on pillars, may start from March, he said and added that the project cost is likely to be Rs 4,700 crore, including the expenses to be incurred on the land acquisition. In the past six years of his term as MP in the NDA government, Rajnath Singh has dedicated several developmental projects to the tune of Rs 29,000 crore. With the construction of the Lucknow-Kanpur Expressway, Unnao district which had been neglected for decades after being sandwiched between Lucknow and Kanpur, would also get developmental projects and manufacturing units of the defence industrial corridor would get adequate land in this tiny district, Tripathi added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-kanpur-expressway-is-now-national-e-way-6/articleshow/79806361.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bhopal||3.84 lakh health workers to be vaccinated first in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With preparations for Covid-19 vaccination process underway on a war footing, a senior health official on Friday said, “For now, there is no option of getting paid vaccination.” In the first phase of the drive, health workers, those aged above 50 years and those suffering from cancer, hypertension, diabetes, will be vaccinate. “As many as 3.84 lakh health workers have been identified, their data has been collected and validated in our software. These include both the health workers working in government as well as private sector. Process of identifying those above 50 years and also the high-risk people suffering from diabetes, hypertension or cancer is going on,” said a source. “In the second phase there would be frontline workers like cops, media persons, among others,” added the source. Elaborating how the vaccination would be done, the official said, at each and every immunisation booth, only 100 persons will be vaccinated every day as several Covid-19 protocols have to be followed. “Various rooms at vaccination booths will be set up — one would be waiting room, the second would be vaccination room and third would be observation room. People who would be vaccinated, will be observed for 30 minutes before they are allowed to leave the vaccination centre,” added the officer. “And unlike other vaccination programmes where schools or other such available buildings were transformed into vaccination centres, physical verification of the vaccination booths will have to be done for identification of the place that meets all the criteria. People would be called in batches, they would receive messages on their phones clearly mentioning date and time slot of the vaccination, so that there is no crowd at the centre”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-84l-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-first/articleshow/79802886.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two facilities fined, two asked to refund treatment fees||KOLKATA: Three private hospitals in the city came under the scanner of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC), which on Monday asked one to pay a penalty and two others to refund a part of treatment fees. Another hospital was also fined Rs 50,000 for anomaly in investigation reports of a 59-year-old patient. Health Point Nursing Home has been fined Rs 25,000 after complainant Nandini Dutta told the panel that her father, Tapas Kumar Bir, was found with dark bruises on his body after being discharged from the facility. The 85-year-old Palm Avenue resident was admitted to the ICU on October 31 with Covid pneumonia. As Dutta lives abroad, Bir was being looked after by hired professionals. After Bir returned home on November 16, his caregiver and help spotted the bruises and suspecting he had been beaten up at the nursing home, a complaint was lodged at the local police station. But the commission pointed out the bruises could be from blood clots and IV injections. The nursing home did not mention the bruises in Bir’s discharge summary. “We have cautioned the nursing home to have proper documentations in future so that such complaints do not arise,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, WBCERC chairman. Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical Centre on Park Lane has been asked to refund a patient Rs 50,000 for Covid treatment. A 58-year-old Baruipur resident was admitted to the clinic for two days in July after testing Covid-positive. The family complained that Soumik Dutta from the hospital had asked for a deposit of Rs 50,000 and that they had to shift the patient elsewhere owing to lack of proper treatment. The facility’s owner, Jamal Ahmed, said he had not attended work during that period, but the panel said as the owner, he could not escape the responsibility. Daffodil Hospital was asked to refund a patient’s son Rs 50,000 after the facility was found to have overbilled them for seven-day Covid treatment. In another case, CMRI Hospital was told to pay Rs 50,000 complainant Abhijit Pal pointed out anomaly in his mother’s report. Rinarani Pal was hospitalized with fever, breathing difficulty and kidney issues on October 31. An USG report from the hospital said her gallbladder was normal though the organ had been removed in 1993. The haemoglobin report also showed a wide variation within hours. “We have asked the hospital to deposit the compensation amount to the commission’s account,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-facilities-fined-2-asked-to-refund-treatment-fees/articleshow/79805764.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 19, 2020||Pune||Half of December over, but morning chill still missing||PUNE: The minimum temperature recorded in different parts of the city dipped by a degree or two on Friday but still remained above-normal in the second-half of the winter month December. The mercury dipped to 13.8°C in Shivajinagar on Friday morning from Thursday’s 15.8°C, in Lohegaon it was 15.8°C against Thursday’s 16.7°C and Pashan recorded a minimum temperature of 14.4°C on Friday in comparison to Thursday’s 16°C. Yet, the Friday’s minimum temperature in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon was 2.9 degrees and 3.8 degrees above normal, respectively. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI, “There are chances that the minimum temperature in Pune will be below 15°C till December 21, but it may start rising thereafter under the influence of southerly/south-easterly wind regime over parts of the state. Minimums fell marginally on Friday after the passage of a western disturbance over north India.” Kashyapi said though cold northerly winds were currently penetrating to north-central parts of Madhya Maharashtra, including Pune, its flow had not been direct because of the presence of an anticyclone over Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “After 48 hours, this wind flow will be replaced by southerly/south-easterly winds, which will cause nominal moisture incursion, causing a marginal reduction in the chill,” he said. Minimum temperatures have been above normal in almost all stations in Maharashtra on Friday, in sharp contrast to the night temperatures being recorded in north India. On Friday, severe cold wave conditions were observed at isolated places over east Rajasthan and cold wave conditions persisted at a few places in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, and at isolated places in the Jammu division, Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Kutch, east Uttar Pradesh and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/half-of-december-over-but-morning-chill-still-missing/articleshow/79804188.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: First round of phase-3 Covaxin trials over||BHOPAL: First round of Covid-19 phase III human trials of Covaxin is over; more than 1000 people were provided trial doses till December 14. Now trial on next 500 volunteers has started, a dedicated call centre has been set up to track the health of all the subjects. Human trials of the Covaxin, the Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for protection against Coronavirus, are going on at People’s Hospital in the city. Trials also had to begin at Gandhi Medical College, however, they have not started till now. Sources said, “Out of 2000 volunteers on which human trials were to be done in the city, initially trial on 1000 was to be done at People’s Medical College. It was completed on December 14. Now trial is being done on 500 more, and if things go as per plan, it will be completed by Saturday, December 19.” “Due to appropriate counselling provided at the trial site by experts, there has been increase in number of volunteers. Apart from it, a dedicated call centre has been set up through which volunteers, who have been administered doses, are being tracked. So far, no adverse event has been reported”, added sources. “A large number of volunteers are from the army, then there are educationists who are not only participating but are also informing others”, said sources from the hospital. These phase III trials are being conducted on 28500 subjects across 10 states of the country; they had started in the city on November 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1st-round-of-phase-3-covaxin-trials-over/articleshow/79802902.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||2 booked for ruckus at restaurant||PUNE: The Alankar police on Thursday registered an offence against two persons for creating ruckus at a Kothrud restaurant on Wednesday night after they were refused liquor on the ground that it was already closing time. The suspects hit a waiter on the head with a jar and broke a few glasses. The duo also hit the security guard of a neighbouring restaurant. Sub-inspector Dheeraj Gupta said the duo were regulars at the restaurant. On Wednesday, they went to the restaurant around 11.40pm and asked for liquor. “When the waiter told them liquor will not be served as they were closing the restaurant, the duo, all of a sudden, attacked him with a water jar and broke some glasses,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-booked-for-ruckus-at-restaurant/articleshow/79804199.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Students push for online exams at GTU||AHMEDABAD: As preparations are under way at GTU (Gujarat Technological University) to conduct college exams in January in the offline format, there is a growing demand from student unions to organize online exams instead. The unions say the online format is preferable given the prevailing Covid-19 situation. GTU has announced offline exams from January 1 for PG pharmacy students. The varsity has also decided to conduct exams for all undergraduate courses from next month. Student bodies have made their representations to the registrar to conduct the exams in the online format. Earlier this year GTU held its annual online exams successfully. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-push-for-online-exams-at-gtu/articleshow/79804203.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Amritsar||Farmers irked with Narendra Singh Tomar, PM Modi for linking stir to opposition||BATHINDA: All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) —the farm front which is spearheading the agitations on Delhi borders — on Friday stated that Prime Minster Narendra Modi had launched an “open attack” on farmers by claiming that they were linked to opposition parties. In place of addressing the issue of repealing the three recent laws which are detrimental to farmers’ and people’s interests, and pro-corporate, Modi has reduced himself to a party leader undermining his role as a responsible executive head of the country, expected to solve problems, said a press release issued by the farm front It said the Centre had allocated Rs 1 lakh crore to help corporate investment in agriculture infrastructure, while it should directly spend this money or give help to farmers through the cooperative sector. “PM should know paddy is selling at Rs 900 per quintal, though MSP is Rs 1,868 per quintal,” it said. Attacking Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s open letter to farmers, AIKSCC said the letter was full of references to the Congress, AAP, Shiromani Akali Dal and his understanding of history were not the issues which farmers were protesting against. AIKSCC said it would issue an open reply to the minister’s letter on Saturday. It asked the government not to spread falsehood about the protest, repeal the three laws and withdraw the Electricity Bill 2020 too. It said farmers were determined to continue agitating and were preparing to counter all false propaganda of the BJP. It claimed that the participation at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders was gathering pace, while preparations were on for strengthening other sites. In the meanwhile, AIKSCC criticised the UP government for imposing a bond on six farmer leaders for speaking the truth and inspiring the farmers to struggle. It has threatened a country-wide campaign against the move. “While the PM refuses to listen to farmers, UP CM Yogi Adityanath is imposing a bond of Rs 50 lakh on farmers,” it said. AIKSCC units are preparing for the Shraddhanjali Diwas on December 20, which will be observed in more than 1 lakh villages, said said the farm front. Dharnas, hunger strikes, torch marches and panchayat sabhas will be held under it. A massive rally in Mumbai is scheduled at Ambani and Adani’s office in Kurla Bandra Complex on December 22, said the farm front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-irked-with-tomar-pm-for-linking-stir-to-oppnmodi-undermining-role-as-pm-by-linking-stir-politically-farm-front/articleshow/79805768.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||It’s time to pull edu out of mediocrity||It won’t be an exaggeration to say that Goa’s efforts are incomparable in the country when it comes to taking education, especially school level, to the remotest corners of the state, said former chairperson of the state board, Jose Remedios Rebello. Now, the state should chase quality education with equal ferocity for the next 60 years, he said. “More focus is needed on vocational and technical education at a higher level, with research orientation,” Rebello told TOI. He is not alone in thinking that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 has just the right framework to guide Goa towards this goal. “The government has to take a serious note of NEP implementation. Attention needs to be given to prepare children to face the new world order rather than sticking to traditional methodology. Skill development should be introduced at an early stage, because this early exposure makes it easier to identify a child’s aptitude,” researcher and former registrar of Goa University, Vijayendra Kamat, said. These goals can become achievable only if Goa’s budgetary allocation to education is gradually increased to match the provisions of the NEP, he said. “We have had so many policies earlier too, but the seriousness in implementation was not there. Education is an investment in our future generation. We cannot just put things on paper and pretend that it is there,” Kamat said. Louis Vernal, who has served as dean of Goa University’s faculty of education as well as a member of the national council for teacher education, said that use of more technology and promoting self-learning will be key for the coming 60 years. “Goa has achieved a lot in terms of infrastructure and good teacher salaries. But we need to get out of mediocrity and we need to change the way learning takes place. One of the side-effects of Covid-19 was that it moved technology from partial use to the main mode of education delivery. It teaches us that we need to change the passive way of learning from teacher dependence to self-learning,” Vernal said. The new-age learner cannot be dependent on the teacher and textbooks for learning, if the outcome has to improve, he said. “We have to build creators of knowledge and innovators, who have mastery over skills. It has to be ensured that teachers acquire new skills to promote self-learning in students, which will last them a lifetime. In the long-term this will help Goa’s society,” Vernal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/its-time-to-pull-edu-out-of-mediocrity/articleshow/79805777.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||Foreign journal editor flags off similarities in newer IIM papers||Mumbai: A ranked international journal’s editor has flagged off concerns over alleged similarities in papers submitted by a few of the newer IIMs, bringing the focus back on the plagiarism debate in the country’s leading institutes. In a letter addressed to some of the IIM directors, Justin Paul, editor-in-chief of the International Journal of Consumer Studies, has requested IIMs to create awareness among students and faculty members about the need to be ethical in academic writing. He even mentioned that IIM brand’s reputation internationally will be at stake as western editors will not be able to tell the difference between newer and older institutes. The journal, which had received 600 submissions in 2019, got around 1,400 papers this year. In the letter, Paul mentioned they receive several plagiarised submissions from India and China. Of the total submissions, around 15% are plagiarised, he alleged. “However, this average ratio for India is high—approximately 20-25%,” he said, naming two newer IIMs and one other, which had submissions with 30-40% similarities. The 45-year-old journal is ranked A in the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC) List. An IIM director, though, said the similarity in the reports pointed out are only based on submissions and not published content. “The problem cannot be generalized as there are stray cases everywhere. But there is a need for every institute to put checks and balances in place. The IIMs do have a system in place to detect plagiarism. But we will discuss the matter in our pan-IIM meeting, in order to create awareness. It is an internal matter,” said the director. A professor from an IIM mentioned that dilution is a natural fallout when brands are expanded. There is tremendous pressure on the newer IIMs to perform as good as the established ones, he added. An IIT professor, though, said overall 20% similarities are allowed by various journals. “While there are fewer cases from these premier institutes, plagiarism is higher in the Indian university system. But sometimes, the software also detects phrases and sentences that are in common usage,” said the professor. He said the Indian system is yet to have a well-defined system in place to flag off plagiarism. The definition of plagiarism itself is vague, he added. While speaking to TOI, Paul said overall 20% similarities are allowed. “If the similarities are not from a single source, then some journals allow up to 25% as well. However, if single source similarity is 3-5%, the papers are flagged by the representative of publishing houses to the academic editor. Single-source similarity should not exceed 1%,” he said, adding papers are also rejected by journals when they are underdeveloped. In his letter to the IIMs, he wrote, “To create better brand equity and brand India image, IIMs can take the initiative and create awareness of the issue among PhD students and faculty members in IIMs as well as other business schools in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/foreign-journal-editor-flags-off-similarities-in-newer-iim-papers/articleshow/79805781.cms||Yogita Rao
December 19, 2020||Goa||Need for a sustainable plan||Goa has cemented its position as an international tourist destination despite lacunae in the industry and its goal for the next few decades is being counted among the top in this sector. The road ahead is bumpy as different ideas of development have unravelled in bits and pieces. In the next few decades, Goa’s tourism industry will mostly be driven by domestic tourists, stakeholders said. “Sooner or later Goa will turn out to be a high-end destination and domestic tourists are bound to call the shots. Even now, due to the pandemic, domestic tourism has been driving the business. This will not change in the immediate future or in the long run,” general manager, the Zuri White Sands Goa Resort and Casinos, Rajendran Menon, said. “Considering our present position, it will be difficult to change the strategy. Goa will have no choice but to contend with the domestic and MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions) markets in the next few decades,” former Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) president Savio Messias said. Of the 80-90 lakh footfalls, foreign arrivals account for 8-9 lakh, and the industry has pinned its hope on the fact that Goa has the potential to be in the league of destinations that attract visitors from across the world. For this, however, stakeholders said the state will have to protect its USP — its scenic beauty and unique culture — which was what first set it on the tourism map. “We have to consider the size of the state before taking up any development for the next 60 years. Projects have to be given preference vis-a-vis the size of Goa and population,” hotelier Ralf de Souza said. The state, Menon said, will also need to figure out how it will close the gap in infrastructure requirements, especially the need for better transportation, roads and power supply as the tourism sector grows. TTAG president Nilesh Shah said since the government has consented to form a tourism board with a 25-year vision document. “It will be one of the top world class destinations, I have no doubt about it,” Shah said. Messias and Souza stressed on the need for handing over the reins of the tourism sector to a Tourism Development Board (TDB) without delay to protect Goa’s USP as a destination. “Whatever, development we have seen in the tourism sector in the past few decades has been unplanned. We are moving with the flow. But it won’t work in the future as there are better destinations and the competition is stiff,” he said. Hotelier and past president of TTAG, Francis de Braganca, said that though it is difficult to figure out where the tourism industry will stand in the next 60 years, “better vision and administrative control is needed to see a better future. It all depends on the vision of the government”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-for-a-sustainable-plan/articleshow/79805774.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Karnal: Thousands turn up to bid adieu to Sikh priest||KARNAL: The mortal remains of Sikh priest Sant Baba Ram Singh (68), who reportedly shot himself at the Delhi-Sonipat border on Wednesday evening to express support for farmers, was consigned to flames at Nanaksar Gurdwara in Karnal’s Singhra village on Friday. The gurdwara management had made ‘angitha sahiba’ in the gurdwara premises, where the last rites were conducted. Thousands of his followers from Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, and other states reached at gurdwara to pay their tributes. Several religious gurus, politicians, and farmer leaders, including former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur, were also among those who attended the last rites. Jagir Kaur accused the Modi government of its insensitivity, saying when the farmers do not want this new legislations, it (government) was imposing it on them. “Baba ji made a big sacrifice... the government should not be adamant and withdraw these laws immediately,” she said. Hooda, who was accompanied by his son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, said the government should learn a lesson from the sacrifice of Sant Ram Singh and accept the demands of farmers who have been protesting against the new central agri-marketing laws. “I urge the PM to intervene and accept farmer’s demands without any delay. There is no place for stubbornness in a democracy. The government should not test the patience of farmers,” Deepender said. BKU (Tikait) state president Rattan Mann also slammed the government, saying, “His sacrifice will not go in vain. We continue the agitation till the government withdraws these anti-farmer laws. The government should resolve the issue without any delay so that such incidents are not repeated in the days to come.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/thousands-turn-up-to-bid-adieu-to-sikh-priest/articleshow/79805775.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: St Paul’s to hold midnight mass, with safety riders||KOLKATA: St Paul’s Cathedral is going ahead with midnight mass on Christmas eve and New Year’s eve, but with a slew of restrictions. While the archdiocese of Kolkata of the Roman Catholic Church had earlier announced the cancellation of midnight mass during the pandemic, the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India has decided to go ahead with both. The restrictions that will be followed not only by St Paul’s Cathedral but by a few other parishes under CNI were announced by Bishop Paritosh Canning on Friday. To minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus, only members of the church will be allowed into St Paul’s Cathedral during the mass, which will be physically attended by only 200 members. The mass will be live-streamed on Doordarshan and social media for public dissemination. Seats will be marked so that social distancing is maintained by worshippers. The mass will start at 11pm and will end shortly after midnight.  “The Christmas eve midnight mass is iconic and is part of the heritage of the city. It brings up images of people from all communities participating. But this year is different. Though we have decided not to cancel the two services, we have to be careful,” Bishop Canning said. However, the general public will be allowed into the campus after the mass is over at midnight. “This has to be in a phased manner and police will ensure there is no crowding. Entry and exit will be regulated,” said Father Abir Adhikari, presbyter of the cathedral, who is ensuring sanitisation. Masking and hand sanitisation at entry will be a must. The cathedral has always been a big attraction on Christmas Day, especially for children, for the Nativity scenes that are recreated on the campus. This year, there will be controlled entry and strict vigil will be maintained on the lawns. The morning Christmas service will be held for members at 7.15am, a Sung Eucharist will be held from 8:30am and a Bengali service at 11am. The New Year eve midnight mass has been scheduled at 11pm and this one, too, will be a Sung Eucharist (praising the Lord) by candlelight, according to the final schedule. The New Year service on January 1 will be held at 8am with the Covenant Worship service at 10.30am and a Bengali worship service. Two other prominent CNI churches to hold midnight mass are St James’ Church on AJC Bose Road and St Thomas’ Church on Free School Street. The Archdiocese of Kolkata of the Roman Catholic Church will hold an evening mass at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary on Brabourne Roadand will wind up the service by 9 pm. All member parishes have been instructed accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/st-pauls-to-hold-midnight-mass-with-safety-riders/articleshow/79805772.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||Midas touch: Lucknow boy tops KGMU, bags 17 medals||LUCKNOW: When 23-year-old KGMU topper Nitin Bharti will walk up the steps to the university’s convocation stage on Monday, the Lucknow resident will receive the award his idol Vandana received in 2013, becoming the first scheduled caste (SC) student in KGMU’s 100-year-old history to bag the most coveted Hewett Gold Medal. Nitin, also an SC, is only the third student from the community to receive the award in the past century. Previously Kumari Vandana had created history in 2013 with the feat, followed by Avinash D Gautam in 2016. All three are recipients of both Hewett Gold Medal and Chancellor’s Medal. In all, Nitin will be getting 17 honours on the day. “The feeling that all my hardwork, all the late nights have finally paid off is out of the world,” said an ecstatic Nitin. “When studying, my ultimate goal was helping people, but I was also strongly driven by the feat of my idol Vandana ma’am. She was my senior in school too. Knowing that she was the recipient of coveted titles filled me with much more vigour,” he added. The son of a retired government official at the Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Nitin was posted in Queen Mary’s Hospital when the lockdown was imposed. “That was a very hectic time but treating patients was the priority. Our own safety was also very important,” said Nitin. The young doctor, who takes to painting and talking to his friends and family as a stress buster, told TOI that his ultimate aim is to work in a government medical college, where he can treat poor patients and also harvest his attraction towards teaching. “I want to work in oncology but as of now, I have not decided what to study for my postgraduation. I have narrowed it down to dermatology, medicine and radiodiagnosis as of now,” he said. “I did not personally know Vandana ma’am, but I once met her at Queen Mary’s Hospital and was starry eyed. The hostel room allotted to me in the fourth year was the one Avinash boss stayed in. I am also inspired by last year’s Hewett medalist Sana Mohsin and Chancellor’s medalist Aakarshi Gupta,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/midas-touch-lucknow-boy-tops-kgmu-bags-17-medals/articleshow/79806370.cms||Yusra Husain
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Persistent defies Covid blues, buys 13.5 acres in Mihan||Nagpur: At a time when IT companies are sticking with work from home model, Persistent Systems Ltd has taken up land for a new campus at Mihan-SEZ. The company, which is presently at the IT Park near VNIT, was on Thursday allotted 13.5 acres in the Mihan-SEZ being developed by Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC), a state government agency. MADC will be charging Rs70 lakh per acre for the land. This is the first allotment at Mihan-SEZ after the Covid outbreak. However, Persistent Systems is late for availing the income tax benefit available to an SEZ unit. The benefit was withdrawn in March 2020 and only units operational before that will get it. The company will continue to get exemption on customs and GST, apart from other services at lower rates including power. A new foreign trade policy is under process and it is hoped some benefit may be introduced in place of income tax. Issuing allotment letter is the first step towards leasing land in SEZ area. Sources said Persistent had paid the initial cost towards the land. MADC, which held its board meeting on Thursday night, approved the allotment. Persistent has 1,500 techies at its current centre and plans to at least triple the number when the Mihan campus becomes fully operational. Sameer Bendre, the chief people’s officer of Persistent at Nagpur, said the decision on acquiring the land in Mihan was taken before the pandemic but was delayed due to the outbreak. “The company was always upbeat about developing the Nagpur centre for which a bigger campus was planned. The present capacity is already full and the company will be needing space to house more techies,” said Bendre. He said it may take at least two years for the new building to be ready. By that time they may begin with 3,000 techies. The final projections are to take the number to 4,500. All its centres clubbed, Persistent is a 12,000 strong company, he said. Bendre said in the coming days IT companies are expected to work on a hybrid model that involves working from both campus and from home depending on the need. Moreover, the pandemic may be over in next six to eight month and the scene may change. Persistent vice-chairman-cum-managing director Deepak Kapoor also tweeted about the development. A majority of the industries in Mihan are from the IT sector. Sources said at present work from home continues largely and only a couple of small units have restarted their offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/persistent-defies-covid-blues-buys-13-5-acres-in-mihan/articleshow/79802905.cms||Shishir Arya
December 19, 2020||Agra||Alert RPF constable saves passenger’s life at Mathura station||AGRA: It was a split second decision by an alert constable of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) that saved a passenger from losing his life at Mathura junction on Thursday evening. The Delhi-bound Jhelum Express was just pulling out of platform two, when a passenger tried to run and board the moving train. Instead, he slipped and fell in the gap between the platform and the train. Before, he could completely disappear and be crushed under the moving wheels of the train, constable Satish Kumar grabbed him and tried to drag him up. To horror-stricken onlookers, it looked like an impossible task as Kumar seemed to be unable to pull up the man to safety. But, Kumar did not give up and finally, dragged the passenger out. Except minor injuries, the passenger was safe. He boarded the train that was stopped and left. The entire life-and-death drama was over in minutes. It was captured on CCTV camera at the platform. A video of the entire incident went viral on social media on Friday. Kumar said. “I did my duty. I am happy that the passenger didn’t suffer any injury. People should be careful while boarding the train. Attempt to board a moving train can prove to be fatal.” Hailing Kumar for his exemplary alertness and saving a passenger’s life, divisional commercial manager, railways, SK Srivastava said, “We applaud Satish Kumar for the heroic act. He will be rewarded by the divisional railway manager.” Senior commandant, RPF, Prakash Kumar Panda said, “Constable Satish Kumar has made the entire force proud. He will be rewarded by inspector-general, RPF.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/alert-rpf-constable-saves-passengers-life-at-mathura-station/articleshow/79802889.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Khaps pitch tents at Tikri, say will stay put||TIKRI BORDER: Haryana’s khaps, which have already come out in support of farmers, are now camping at Tikri border to join the protest against the three agricultural laws. Members of khaps and a number of village panchayats have pitched tents at the protest sites. Earlier, 40 khaps of Haryana announced the launch of a campaign against the Haryana government to exert pressure on JJP and BJP leaders, especially former union minister Birender Singh. Members of Sangwan, Rathi, Satrol, Saat Baas Jadiya and Baarah khaps are among those camping at Tikri. They have deputed members to ferry goods from their native places to the border on rotation. Khaps have also called for boycott of leaders who do not support farmers. Elderly khap representatives are backed by youngsters, who can be seen reading books by Bhagat Singh and other freedom fighters. Khaps have staged their chaupal in the middle of the road, where they play cards, smoke hookah and discuss farm laws. Surja Ram, an elderly member of Saat Baas khap said, “BJP and RSS have jointly damaged the country with their decisions. Both outfits stood against martyrs Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev. Now, they are standing with industrialists to kill the voice of farmers. If farmers are not happy in fields and soldiers at the border, what will the nation’s future be? We will not go back from this place until our demands are met.” Ramchandar Singh, a resident of Jind said, “We have been staging a dharna here since December 5. We are here to show the strength of khaps, farmers of both states and the fraternity between us. We will die but not go back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khaps-pitch-tents-at-tikri-say-will-stay-put/articleshow/79805791.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Former Union minister on dharna, but won’t quit BJP||Rohtak: Throwing his weight behind protesting farmers, former Union minister Birender Singh on Friday sat on a dharna in front of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram statue here on Friday and staged a symbolic one-day hunger strike with his supporters under the banner of ‘Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch’. He said they woud be supporting farm protest in districts bordering Delhi from Saturday. However, senior BJP leader Birender remained non-committal on his son, BJP from Hisar Brijendra Singh’s support to the farmers’ agitation and said he would not resign from the party.“I will fight for the rights of farmers, but only Brijender can answer this question (of supporting the protest). Though he is my son and I helped him in becoming the parliamentarian from Hisar, I can’t answer on his behalf,” he said. The former Union minister said he felt compelled to stand in support of farmers, especially when they were battling for their rights against three farm laws. Whether he was planning to quit BJP, he said giving support to farmers could not be seen as an anti-party activity. “BJP is the largest party today and I don’t see any issue in standing with farmers today,” he added. Asked about deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s announcement to withdraw JJP’s support to BJP in Haryana if MSP was revoked, Birender said pressure was mounting on elected representatives, but this was a matter between the public and representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-union-minister-on-dharna-but-wont-quit-bjp/articleshow/79805779.cms||Sat Singh
December 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gold worth Rs1.10 cr missing since 2016, customs dept lodges FIR now||Rajkot: Gold worth Rs 1.10 crore, which was seized during smugglers’ heydays in the eighties, is missing from the custody of Jamnagar customs department.What’s even more surprising is though the precious metal was confirmed missing four years ago, an official complaint was lodged with the Jamnagar police only on Friday as the internal probe could not trace the culprits.According to the FIR lodged by Ramsingh Yadav, an inspector with Jamnagar customs department, the samples of smuggled gold and silver seized during various raids by Bhuj custom division during 1971 to 1996 were kept at the latter’s office. However, the office building got damaged in the 2001 devastating earthquake and nearly 3149.398 gram gold along with silver was transferred to Jamnagar custom office. The suitcase containing the gold was sealed by the responsible officials of Jamnagar and Bhuj division. The suitcase had the seal of the customs department depicting the year 2001 and signatures of gold depositor and receiver.The department says some government officials are involved in this gold siphoning.“The suitcase containing the samples was handed over to the officials of Bhuj custom division on October 18, 2016 when they came to Jamnagar to take custody of this gold. The suitcase had the same seal. Thereafter, the seal was opened in the presence of Jamnagar and Bhuj custom divisions officers and jewellers were called as witnesses after completing the inquest. The suitcase keys were missing so the lock was broken. It was then found that the 2,156.722 gram from the five samples seized between 1982 to 1986 was missing,” the FIR states.The current market value of this missing gold shown in the FIR is Rs 1.10 crore.Officials have cited “departmental procedure” for lodging the complaint four years after the theft, said KL Gadhe, inspector, B-division police station.According to sources, after getting to know about the missing gold, officials started internal communication and informed the chief commissioner of Gujarat. The chief commissioner on December 11 asked Jamnagar division to register a formal police FIR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gold-worth-rs1-10-cr-missing-since-2016-customs-dept-lodges-fir-now/articleshow/79802919.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan farmers attend cremation of Haryana Sikh spiritual leader||JAIPUR: Rajasthan Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Ram Pal Jat, along with other farmers from the state, on Friday attended the cremation of Sikh spiritual leader Sant Baba Ram Singh, who had committed suicide by shooting himself dead near farmers’ protest site at Singhu border on Wednesday, in Singhera village of Haryana’s Karnal district. In a suicide note in Gurmukhi, Baba Ram Singh wrote he was unable to bear the pain of the farmers fighting for their rights on the roads in harsh winter conditions. “The farmers of the country will not let the sacrifice of Sant Baba Ram Dev Singh go in vain,” said Ram Pal Jat after attending the cremation. Meanwhile, the Jaipur-Delhi national highway (NH-8) continued to remain sealed at Shahajahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border for the sixth day owing to farmers’ agitation. The vehicles travelling to Delhi are being diverted through the Behror-Tatarpur-Khairtal route. The farmers have blocked the highway as they were not allowed to march towards Delhi in protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre. Following the Supreme Court’s suggestion to the centre to consider deferring the implementation of the three farm laws, the state’s farmer’s organizations are in touch with the farmers’ coordination committee in Delhi to chalk out future course of action. All India Kishan Sabha (AIKS) leader Amra Ram said, “We are ready to have a dialogue with the centre, but they should first repeal the three farm laws. Now, the government should take a decision on this.” “We respect the decision of the Supreme Court. But, there is no positive reply from the central government yet. The Centre is not even willing to listen to the apex court. Presently, we are discussing the future course of action,” said Ram Pal Jat. The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-farmers-attend-cremation-of-hry-sikh-spiritual-leader/articleshow/79804207.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||50 more seats for integrated MSc/MA-MEd at IITE||Ahmedabad: The Indian Institute for Teacher Education (IITE) on Friday announced the addition of 50 more seats for the integrated MSc/MA-MEd course. The National Council for Teachers Education has approved another 50 seats for the next academic year 2021-22, taking the total tally of seats to 100. The integrated course for the MSc/MA-MEd is offered only here in the entire country, said a statement issued by the IITE. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50-more-seats-for-integrated-msc/ma-med-at-iite/articleshow/79804225.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||Goan revolt 300 years before 1857 uprising||KERI: In the country’s conscience, the 1857 uprising against the Britishers emerges as the first revolt against colonial rule. But Goa, or at least groups here, rose against Western colonisers around 300 years prior to the 1857 uprising. As Goa enters its 60th year of liberation from 450 years of Portuguese rule, it is worth recollecting the continuous resistance the colonisers met in their efforts to bring Goans under their control. As early as 1555, Goans opposed the imposition and collection of an exorbitant land revenue. In July, 1583, finding their religion in danger, Cuncolim locals resorted to the murdering the priests and their companions at work in their village. In response, the Portuguese invited the village leaders ‘for discussions’ at the Assolna fort. Here, 15 of the village leaders were treacherously butchered. In 1654, a Goan Vicar Apostolic, Mathews Castro of Divar, plotted against the Portuguese. In 1787, the native Christian missionaries of Goa revolted against the white missionaries under Father Pinto, but it was foiled. “Though all the revolts from 1583 to 1912 by Goans did not aim to eliminate the alien rule and achieve a sovereign status for Goa, they displayed the extraordinary courage and persistent efforts of the mutineers to protect their age-old traditions, culture and privileges. Adventures of Deepaji Rane and other leaders are indeed inspiring,” said Jayu Kolekar, history teacher at Panchakroshi Higher Secondary School, Arambol. Rane’s revolt of 1852 that began with the conquest of Nanuz fort on January 26, shook the Portuguese. This revolt led to restoration of the concessions and rights to the Ranes for a brief period. In 1869, Kustoba Rane revolted to avenge the injustice done to him. For three years, he gave the Portuguese sleepless nights, until his assassination. In 1912, under Shambhu More of Sonal, the last revolt of Rane took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-revolt-300-yrs-before-1857-uprising/articleshow/79805785.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||A tranquil place for you to unwind||Overlooking the spectacular Ooty Lake, the Gothic-styled St Thomas Church that is situated on a small hillock, away from the hustle and bustle of the hill town, has enough charm to make one fall in love with the place. While the corrugated iron roof would leave a good impression at the first glance itself, it’s the 153-year-old wooden flooring that would grab your eyes first while entering the church. The colonial-era furniture, including a brass candle holder, and the stained-glass window that decorates the altar at the western-end of the church add to the beauty of its interiors. The church also houses a graveyard, which has already found its way into the silver screen. The tombstone of William Patrick Adam, who was the governor of the Presidency of Fort Saint George, is another attraction that you can’t miss here. Crowned by a cross, the structure is taller than the church. The church that is located on the Ooty-Nanjanadu road wouldn’t have come into existence had there been a possibility to expand the St Stephen’s Church. In the late 1850s, when there was an increase in the population of protestants in Ootacamund, there was a proposal to expand the St Stephen’s Church. The proposal was vehemently opposed and the idea of building a new church budded. After many communications, the court in July 1857 expressed its willingness to erect a new church at an estimated cost of Rs20,000. Further deliberations between the church committee and the government, however, delayed work on the new church. Fredrick Price says in his book ‘Ootacamund: A History’ that at a public meeting held in June 1860 to consider the addition of a new church a committee with bishop Thomas Dealtry as chairman was formed. “The site proposed, which had been selected after much consideration, was the Cranley Hall property, for the purchase of which Rs12, 000 was sanctioned.” On May 1, 1867, lieutenant general Dowker laid the foundation stone for the church after the government passed an order in 1865, adopting the recommendation to build a new church. There were then suggestions to build the entire building with iron. However, officials in England opposed the move, citing unfavourable climate conditions and the cost involved in the project. The construction took nearly three years and the church was ready on October 20, 1870. Initially it only had a capacity to seat 148 people. In another two decades, the seating capacity was increased to 300. The church was opened for worship on April 13, 1871. There was a special service by Rev Dr Pope on the occasion. However, a year after that or so, services came to a halt for a period up to April 1873. While the brass candle holder was donated by a church member in 1894, the wooden flooring was laid in 1895, after removing the cement one. The church still maintains the original furniture and other fittings that were initially donated to it. The church got the first organ in 1900 and that was brought from Chicago. “It is still played by the church choir,” says Isaac Nathaliel, a member of the church committee. The stained-glass window was a contribution of Rev Thomas Dealtry’s wife in his memory. He was the third bishop of Madras. The bell was, meanwhile, allotted by the government in 1878. “The bell could be heard for a distance of at least 3km. It is rung half an hour before the service as in the past,” says Isaac. Interestingly, the church is designed so acoustically that no mic is required. People who are seated on the last bench could hear the priest clearly from the altar. The three-layer door at the entrance, besides its aesthetic appeal, is strong enough to withstand heavy wind. There are two lightning arresters also in the form of crosses atop the building. Surrounded by the cemetery on three sides, the aerial view of the church resembles that of a cross. The cemetery houses nearly 900 tombs, including that of six soldiers of the Commonwealth and several unsung heroes of World War I. The cemetery was consecrated on October 2, 1877. While the church is managed by the CSI, the graveyard is maintained by a separate board. “Wall plastering was done in the 90s when some renovation was carried out. We still maintain the heritage value of the church without adding any modern elements to it,” says Isaac.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-tranquil-place-for-you-to-unwind/articleshow/79804252.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||Seven policemen to be awarded CM’s medals||Panaji: Seven police officers have been selected for the chief minister’s police (gold) medals on the occasion of Goa Liberation Day. The awardees are Bicholim DySP Gurudas Gawade; Colva traffic cell PI Vijaynath Kavlekar; Margao PSI Surendra Komarpant, Konkan Railway ASI Subhash Naik, Panaji ASI Wilson D’Souza, Calangute PSI Abina Noronha and Ponda traffic cell ASI Dilip Sinari. In addition to this, three police stations have been declared as the best police stations during police Raising Day 2020. These are Curchorem, Mapusa and Vasco that have come first, second and third, respectively. Curchorem police station is being awarded Rs 30,000, while Mapusa and Vasco police stations get Rs 20,000 and Rs 10,000 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/seven-policemen-to-be-awarded-cms-medals/articleshow/79805790.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Winter chill finally hits Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city’s wait for winter chill seemed to have ended on Friday, when northwesterly winds started blowing in, dragging the mercury down. The wind system is predicted to intensify and push the temperature down by three to four degrees below the normal mark by Saturday. The cold condition would remain for now, said the Met office. “As predicted, the northwesterly winds have started blowing into the city. It will lower the mercury and we expect the minimum temperature to slide significantly below the normal mark to around 13 degrees Celsius from Saturday,” said G K Das, director (weather), at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata. At 16.3 degrees Celsius, Friday’s minimum temperature was a notch above normal. J&K and parts of north India, from where the chilly and dry northwesterly winds come in, are under extreme cold condition. The Met office said there was no system to block the winds’ path, clearing the decks for the arrival of winter to the city. “Along with the minimum temperature, the day temperature will also see a slight dip,” added Das. The maximum temperature on Friday was 24.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal. It could slide down by another degree by Saturday. Though the minimum temperature on December 19 last year was 15.3 degrees, it plunged to 11.7 degrees the next day and remained around that for a few days. “This time, too, the cold conditions in the city will continue. The temperature may slightly rise from Tuesday but that will not be much,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/winter-chill-finally-hits-city/articleshow/79805783.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 19, 2020||Pune||KCB fines 29 shops without trade permit||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board (KCB) has collected fines of Rs1,500 per year from 29 shopkeepers, found operating their establishments in the Range Hills and the Khadki bazaar areas without a trade licence over the last three years. As per the Cantonment Act, 2006, shopkeepers were expected to apply for trade licences every year. Pramod Kumar Singh, the CEO of KCB, said, “In the past, we had sent notices to shopkeepers. From now, we will act against them as per the rules. We are authorized to penalize them Rs500 per day until an individual takes licence from us.” Singh claimed that the shopkeepers were selling grocery, sweets, milk among other items for the last few years. The KCB recently issued a circular to Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) and Station Headquarter Khadki of the Army urging them to submit a list of shops in their limits to the board. “The objective is to verify whether these shops have trade licence or not,” Singh said. Meanwhile, shopkeepers in the Range Hills area claimed they don’t get no objection certificate from the AFK authorities. Kiran Taware, who runs a milk booth and is the president of Range Hills Shopkeepers Association, said, “As we don’t get no objection certificate from the factory, we can’t get trade licence. We have taken this up with the factory authorities and also informed the board to help us in resolving the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcb-fines-29-shops-without-trade-permit/articleshow/79804206.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 19, 2020||Pune||Murder suspect ends life in Panvel lodge||PUNE: Ravikumar Pote (50), who was on the run after stabbing his wife to death on December 10, ended his life by slitting his wrist at a lodge in Panvel. Pote was taken to a hospital on Thursday and he succumbed to his injuries on Friday. On December 10, Pote and his wife, Kirti (43), had a quarrel. Kirti subsequently left the house and went to her workplace — a hospital on Karve Road. Pote followed her there and stabbed Kirti in the chest. Kirti was first treated at the same hospital and then shifted to another one, where she was pronounced dead. Sub-inspector Dheeraj Gupta of the Alankar police told TOI that Pote fled after assaulting his wife. “We searched for him but to no avail,” Gupta said. The Alankar police on Thursday got information from the Panvel police that Pote had slit his wrist at the lodge, where he had been putting up for a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/murder-suspect-ends-life-in-panvel-lodge/articleshow/79804215.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Ram Nath Kovind to attend event virtually||LUCKNOW: Amid Covid times, King George’s Medical University (KGMU) will celebrate its 16th convocation day on December 21, awarding 44 exemplary students of MBBS, postgraduate and super-specialty with medals and honours. President Ram Nath Kovind will attend the event virtually as chief guest. This is the first time that KGMU’s convocation will be held both online and offline, following Covid protocol. The university released names of its achievers on Friday. “The President has consented to be the chief guest for the occasion and will join the university directly from Rashtrapati Bhavan. He will address the students online,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Governor Anandiben Patel and medical education minister Suresh Khanna will also be part of the event. Of the 44 medalists this year, 19 are female students including the bachelor of dental sciences topper. Two awards for lifetime achievement will be given to eminent faculty members: Dr RC Ahuja for 2019 and Dr RK Saran for 2020. To maintain social distancing, seating arrangement will be made in three different areas with the medalists seated in the main hall, the graduating students in another and faculty members in another but connected to each other with technology. The university’s convocation day will be followed by its foundation day on December 22 when defence minister Rajnath Singh will be the chief guest .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kovind-to-attend-event-virtually/articleshow/79806376.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Use Ayush docs for clinical work and you could lose accreditation: NABH to hospitals||The National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH) has warned allopathic hospitals accredited with it that they could face withdrawal of accreditation if they were found employing Ayush doctors for performing clinical duties in ICUs and other patient care areas in place of MBBS resident medical officers (RMOs) and emergency doctors. A “cautionary notice” the board issued on Thursday said, “This is a blatant violation of NABH standards for healthcare accreditation and very much against patient safety norms and compromise quality of modern medicine clinical care outcomes.” TOI had, in October, reported on the use of Ayush doctors in ICUs for night duty being a fairly common practice in many private hospitals, particularly in Maharashtra and Gujarat. Thursday’s notice stated that the NABH has taken a serious note of the matter and reiterated that deploying of Ayush doctors in allopathic hospitals for writing independent orders and clinical work without the supervision of allopathic doctors is not permitted. In case the allopathic hospitals are employing such doctors to work as clinical assistants, under applicable state laws, they should not be involved in direct patient care and should strictly follow job responsibilities as defined by hospital management, it added. Ayush doctors working in allopathic hospitals will not be considered by the NABH as RMOs during the process of assessment and for the purpose of grant of accreditation, stated the notice, adding that any violation may invite adverse decision by NABH, including withdrawal of accreditation. However, even as the NABH has been carrying out surprise inspections in hospitals in this matter, it is yet to have a definite list of states that allow Ayush doctors to be employed in allopathic hospitals to either prescribe a pre-defined set of allopathic medicines or to do clinical procedures after completing a bridge course. NABH officials clarified that the board’s legal team was in the process of determining the status of the law in different states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/use-ayush-docs-for-clinical-work-and-you-could-lose-accreditation-nabh-to-hospitals/articleshow/79806788.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||UPPCB shuts 8 dyeing plants for polluting river in Uttar Pradesh's Bhadohi||LUCKNOW: Tightening noose around industrial units dumping untreated waste in rivers ahead of Magh Mela, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Friday ordered closure of eight dyeing and spinning units in Bhadohi district. According to UPPCB officials, the units were found discharging chemicals into Morva river, a tributary of the Ganga. “Our team found that the water of Morva river had turned red and traced the origin of pollution at eight dyeing and spinning units of woollen yarns. The units were ordered to shut operations with the immediate effect,” said Ashish Tiwari, member secretary of UPPCB. UPPCB is keeping a close watch on the quality of water in rivers, especially the Ganga and its tributaries, ahead of Magh Mela. On a daily basis, experts are collecting samples from 34 points along the course of Ganga and 28 locations of its 10 tributaries to check water quality. Apart from rivers, 214 drains are also being monitored on a regular basis.  UPPCB is also monitoring 98 sewage treatment plants and seven common effluent treatment plants. The Board is using 200 CCTV cameras to keep tabs on industrial waste flowing into the river. There are 1,200 industrial units along the rivers which share their live water quality data with UPPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uppcb-shuts-8-dyeing-plants-for-polluting-river-in-bhadohi/articleshow/79806382.cms||Arvind Chauhan
December 19, 2020||Pune||Police probe bullock death||PUNE: The Manchar police are investigating the death of a farmer’s bullock, allegedly caused by strangulation as per the tiller’s FIR. The incident came to light early on Thursday in Kurvandi village near Manchar. Farmer Sandip Totre (28) stated in his complaint that he had tied the bullock in the shed along with the other cattle on Wednesday night but found it strangulated to death the next morning, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-probe-bullock-death/articleshow/79804226.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Experts stress on reducing failure rate of startups||PUNE: Experts at a webinar on specialised technology and startup incubators said that proper mentoring, better access to resources, and an active interface with universities and engineering colleges could help more startups to succeed. “The rate of failure among startups in India is quite substantial, at about 90%. The startup ecosystem is not able to work to its capacity. We have to find ways to reduce the failure rate,” said Vishwas Mahajan, chairman, incubation and startup committee, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture (MCCIA), which organised the webinar on Friday. The attendees included functionaries of startup mentorship and incubation wings of academic institutions, industry collectives, among others. Several of them pointed out that having an active interface with educational institutions was necessary for hand-holding and mentoring students from the ideas stage. “Our institute is situated on the campus of the College of Engineering Pune (COEP), and the students and startup company owners have access to laboratories and faculty at COEP. We are training not just students who have ideas regarding setting up of startups, but also mid-career startups, especially in fields like cyber-security and artificial intelligence, as they need some amount of experience to back them up,” said Vijay Talele, of BHAU Institute, an academic incubator, which currently support around 75 startups. “We find that there are good ideas in students about e-vehicles, surveillance technologies, waste-management, and others. We have recently signed an MoU with Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), which will bring students to our incubation centre,” said Kiran Vaidya, managing director, Auto Cluster Research and Development Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-stress-on-reducing-failure-rate-of-startups/articleshow/79804247.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 19, 2020||Pune||PCNTDA land not in use to boost infra project corpus||PUNE: The PMRDA is set to develop a land bank by absorbing the Pimpri Chinchwad New Town Development Authority’s (PCNTDA) unused plots and generate nearly Rs6,000 crore in the next three years to fund various infrastructure projects. The entire process will be based on the lines of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) model of land monetization for infrastructure development. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (PMRDA) plan is to utilize the corpus generated from land utilization on projects such as the proposed airport in Purandar, ring road, townships and also the extension of the Pune Metro third line. A senior government official said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s instruction on Thursday to scrap the PCNTDA as a body and merge its assets with the PMRDA would help the latter utilize the unused land worth nearly Rs1,500 crore. “We plan to develop the land bank for monetization for our infrastructure projects, as it is done in MMRDA,” PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase said. Another official said the land bank would help the authority either monetize, seek loans or sell bonds to fund the infrastructure projects. “A government resolution dated September 13, 2019, gives the PCMC the right to allow PCNTDA construct new houses in areas under the latter’s jurisdiction. The unused land owned by the PCNTDA will now be handed to the PMRDA,” the official said. The PCNTDA is an autonomous institution in the PCMC limits and was established in 1972 for the construction of residential colonies and infrastructure projects in Nigdi-Pradhikaran, Wakad, Thergaon, Bijlinagar, Moshi and Kalewadi. “One part of the work was done last year. The second part, which involves handing over of assets and the PCNTDA’s merger with the PMRDA will be soon done Deputy CM Ajit Pawar has directed the authorities to speed up the process and complete handing over the land within a month,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcntda-land-not-in-use-to-boost-infra-project-corpus/articleshow/79804241.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Another 30,000 BKU farmers to join protest’||PATIALA/FATEHGARH SAHIB: In a bid to further strengthen the agitation of the farmers at the Delhi borders, another 30,000 farmers owing allegiance to farmer union BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) will join the protest. These farmers will move from interstate borders at Khanauri and Dabwali in Punjab and Haryana, respectively, on December 26 and 27. Farmer leaders claimed that around 15,000 farmers would move towards Delhi from Khanauri border on December 26, while an equal number of farmers would leave from Dabwali border the next day. “Over 60,000 farmers, including 10,000 women, under the aegis of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) are protesting at Tikri border and some at Singhu border, while 30,000 more are to join the agitation. Arrangements for the protesting women farmers are being made. The farmers and residents of Haryana are extending a lot of support and cooperation to the farmers protesting at the Delhi borders. Private hoteliers have also extended help by giving two halls especially for the women. A number of tractor-trolleys have been covered with plastic sheets and turned into temporary sheds. Besides, some NGOs are also helping by providing tents for sleeping. The farmers have also constructed temporary toilets on the footpaths and covered them with sheets,” said Sukhdev Singh Kokari, a BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state leader. Businessman provides buses A Fatehgarh Sahib businessman is providing daily bus service free of cost to the farmers from Fatehgarh Sahib to reach Delhi borders. Real estate businessman Shahbaz Singh said, “To support the farmers, I have been providing them free bus service since December 11. Every morning one bus packed with farmers moves towards the agitation site in Delhi from Fatehgarh Sahib. If the number of farmers increases, I will increase the number of buses. Besides, we are also providing them some flags carrying messages of farmer-labourer unity. So far, around 700 flags have been distributed among the farmers moving towards Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/another-30000-bku-farmers-to-join-protest/articleshow/79805799.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Focus on resolving stand-off with farmers: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to Centre||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday charged the Centre that the list for raids by the CBI, ED and income tax department is being made by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and the government treats the opposition leaders as enemies. Gehlot said this has never happened in the past where political opponents were deliberately targeted. “The fight of Congress with BJP is ideological and not personal. The arrogance of BJP leaders is so evident that they openly claim on the longevity of the opposition ruled governments.” Gehlot was addressing virtually on the state-level function to mark the second anniversary of the Congress government on Friday. He advised the Modi government to leave all other work and focus only on resolving its standoff with the farmers. He said, “If we withdraw a decision, it is not weakness, but will display large-heartedness. This is democracy, not monarchy.” Gehlot pointed out that three bills passed by the Rajasthan assembly to counter the Centre’s farm laws were still pending with the governor. “We care for farmers and have passed three bills in the assembly which are still pending with the governor. I do not know what his compulsions are that he is not forwarding the bills to the president,” Gehlot added. The chief minister said the situation in the country has come to such a pass that the Congress chief ministers request for a meeting with the President on farmers’ issue was no allowed. Highlighting the achievements of his government in the last two years, the chief minister said almost 50% of promises made in the election manifesto have been fulfilled despite the unprecedented challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic.  Meanwhile, Governor Kalraj Mishra congratulated chief minister Ashok Gehlot on the completion of two years of the state government on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/focus-on-resolving-standoff-with-farmers-cm-to-centre/articleshow/79804250.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Stay on conversion of collector’s land to freehold to continue||PUNE: Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday told TOI that the stay on conversion of occupancy class-II land to freehold land would continue till it was reviewed. The minister said that in the last one year, only about 250 applications were received for conversion of occupancy class II lands to freehold land and this was put before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray yesterday who directed the revenue department to “review” the order. Occupancy class-II lands are commonly known as collector’s land as these are revenue lands that require prior permission from the collector for transfer. The stay was issued last week temporarily because there were complaints that the order for conversion was being misused. The order for conversion was issued by the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis government last year. “We have not received much demand for the proposal with just about 28 applications to the Pune collectorate, around 75 applications from one society from Nashik and just about 7 from Nagpur and remaining from Mumbai. The response is not as desired and there was also a threat of some of it being misused,” said officials. Nearly 22,000 housing societies in the state are on such lands, with around 3,000 societies in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stay-on-conversion-of-collectors-land-to-freehold-to-continue/articleshow/79804253.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 19, 2020||Pune||Hardikar watchful, says need clarity on undeveloped areas||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The jurisdiction of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is expected to increase by at least 5-6 sqkm once developed land from the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) is added to it. The PCMC currently has jurisdiction over 172 sqkm land. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said that they will need more clarity on the undeveloped areas falling in the jurisdiction of the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA), which is going to be merged with the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). Hardikar said, “Once we receive the orders, then only can we comment on the overall prospects. Exactly how the distribution is going to happen cannot be said at this point. Some land will definitely go to PMRDA for development as land bank, but whether they are going to take over all the undeveloped acquired land or some of it has to be seen.” Santosh Patil, the outgoing additional commissioner, who has been transferred to the divisional commissioner’s office as deputy commissioner, said that permission for construction of new houses in the PCNTDA limits was given to Pimpri Chinchwad civic body last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hardikar-watchful-says-need-clarity-on-undeveloped-areas/articleshow/79804249.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Those in hostels must vacate: OU||Hyderabad: Osmania University has warned people staying in hostels to vacate immediately failing which the university will initiate police and legal action for trespassing. The university had shut all hostels in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in March and as per government instructions disconnected water and power supply. Academic activity on campus was stopped since lockdown. “Recently, the university noticed few persons in the guise of students are staying in the hostel rooms unauthorisedly even though there is no water and power supply. Because of this, there is a law and order problem in the university,” read a OU press release. The university has taken a note of illegal stay in the hostels which is in violation of the government orders. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/those-in-hostels-must-vacate-ou/articleshow/79805821.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||ED arrests Amrapali Group CFO from Delhi||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow branch of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested chief financial officer of Amarpali Group Chandra Wadhwa from Delhi late on Friday night. The ED is probing multi-crore financial fraud committed by the Amarpali Group. The charges include diversion of 42,000 homebuyer’s money in UP and National Capital Region (NCR). The ED had registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, against the firm in July, 2019. Two directors of the firm, Anil Sharma and Shiv Priya, have already been arrested by the ED in connection with the financial fraud in January this year, and are now languishing in jail. An ED official said that probes into various projects of Amarpali in UP at NCR began as early as 2010. The agency is also probing how the officers in the then governments gave permission to the firm for carrying forward one project after another despite multiple complaints of non-completion of projects lodged against it. “Our role is not only to find out where exactly the diversion of customer’s money took place but also probe the channel through which the money was transferred,” an ED source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-arrests-amrapali-group-cfo-from-delhi/articleshow/79806388.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Cops seize drugs worth Rs 2.8 lakh, arrest two||Madurai: The Tuticorin police seized Rs 2.8 lakh-worth contraband drugs including gutka and tobacco weighing 280 kg at Peyanvilai village near Tiruchendur. Acting on a tip-off, the Arumuganeri police raided a godown on Peyanvilai North Street and found the contraband items. On investigation, it was found that the godown belonged to Sakthi Vijayan, 40, an industrial worker. Police found that he was buying the drugs from another man Jacob, 50, from Vaithilingapuram and was selling it to shops in Arumuganeri. Both men were later arrested and police seized the contraband drugs and an omni van. Further investigation is underway. TuticorinsSuperintendent of police S Jayakumar said that 124 people were arrested under the goondas Act and that 10 among them had sold ganja, tobacco, gutka and other drugs. The SP said that strict action will be taken against anyone found selling drugs and praised the efforts of Arumuganeri police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-seize-drugs-worth-rs-2-8-lakh-arrest-two/articleshow/79805815.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Cyclist, biker die in 2 accidents across Kolkata||KOLKATA: Two accidents claimed the lives of a cyclist and a biker in the city since Thursday night even as the Lalbazar top brass — alarmed at the sudden spurt in fatal accidents — asked all traffic guards and local police to take drastic steps on the roads and think “out of the box” to stop such accidents. At the crime conference on Friday, Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma called for greater night nakas — especially to check drink driving and ensure rogue bikers do not try to dominate the roads and flyovers. In the first accident, reported from Siemens crossing on the Ruby-EM Bypass connector, a cyclist, Satyam Naskar, 35, died after being hit by an auto, which is yet to be identified. The victim, a resident of Nilkantha Abasan, was returning home towards Ruby on the road parallel to the Siemens factory and had reached the Rahbehari crossing when he was hit by the auto plying on the Rashbehari Connector. Cops said according to the preliminary investigation, it appears both were at fault. “The cyclist did not bother to wait and the auto driver did not slow down at the crossing. The incident took place at 9.30pm on Thursday,” said an officer. The victim was taken to Ruby General Hospital for primary treatment and thereafter shifted to to SSKM Hospital by his family members. He was, however, declared dead upon arrival around 2.30am on Friday. The fatal squad is investigating the case. In the other fatal accident, a 75-year-old biker from Behala’s Paritosh Bhattacharjee Road was found dead on Strand Road near Prinsep Ghat. Cops said the biker — who still had his helmet on — might have skidded and died around 9.55am on Friday. Cops are ascertaining if any vehicle had hit his two-wheeler. Meanwhile, with the police top brass asking for more training for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders, the Jorabagan traffic guard — led by DCP (traffic) Rupesh Kumar — taught two-wheeler riders the importance of blind spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyclist-biker-die-in-2-accidents-across-city/articleshow/79805818.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 19, 2020||India||SC stops West Bengal police from arresting Trinamool deserters||NEW DELHI: At a time when the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress is facing desertions, the Supreme Court on Friday stopped the West Bengal government from letting loose the police against the deserters and other political rivals by stopping arrest of BJP MPs Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy, Arjun Singh and others, against whom it has lodged dozens of FIRs. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy heard senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Mahesh Jethmalani for the petitioners, who claimed that ever since some leaders quit TMC and joined BJP, the West Bengal police had registered dozens of frivolous cases against them even when TMC activists were the ones who caused violence against them and their supporters. The bench issued notice to the Centre, the Bengal government, state DGP and TMC and said no coercive action would be taken against the petitioners by the police till further orders. This means the police cannot arrest any of the petitioners on the basis of the FIRs so far lodged against them. "A police state has been created in the state by the TMC government. It is letting loose the police after every person who has left TMC and joined BJP and even against political rivals. The police are registering false cases at the behest of political bosses," the petitioners said. The petitioners included Vijayvargiya, an MP from Madhya Pradesh; BJP secretary and in-charge of West Bengal Arjun Singh who is a four-time TMC MLA from Bhatpara and now BJP MP from Barrackpore; Singh's nephew Sourav Singh who too left TMC to join BJP; sitting BJP MLA Pawan Kumar Singh; and Bengal BJP spokesperson Kabir Shankar Ghosh. Arjun Singh, also vice-president of BJP’s Bengal unit, alleged that since he left TMC, the police had lodged 64 cases against him, majority of which was at the behest of TMC leaders on vague allegations, without even carrying out a preliminary inquiry to find out whether any crime was prima facie committed. "There are several cases in relation to the same cause of action," he said. Singh, who won from Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency in 2019, said the police had even tried to arrest him before the counting day. This had forced him to approach the SC, which had protected him from any coercive action from police. Singh said, "My house was attacked with bombs and my car was damaged by a TMC worker who threw stones, bombs and bricks. My son's car was also vandalised. Even after the Lok Sabha elections, the violence against me has not stopped. My residence was attacked in which seven rounds were fired and two bombs were hurled at my residence and office." Vijayvargiya too alleged that just because he was a leader of a party standing up to the violence unleashed by the TMC and protesting against the Banerjee government, the state police had lodged numerous frivolous FIRs against him at the behest of ruling party leaders to wreak political vengeance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-stops-west-bengal-police-from-arresting-trinamool-deserters/articleshow/79806790.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Twitter handle of Rajasthan police help desk launched||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot launched the Twitter handle of Rajasthan police help desk on social media and also initiated a WhatsApp helpline number on his which complainant can send their grievances. The Twitter handle is @RajPoliceHelp while the Whatsapp number is +91-1412922272 on which the complainants can get in touch with police for redressal of their complaints. According to the tweet by official account of Rajasthan police, the initiative was taken to better the law and order situation in the state. Officials claimed that police were trying to be more approachable to the people in order to ensure that there is no lawlessness and aggrieved people can get police help at the earliest. “In this day and age of social media, people find it easier to interact rather than physically go to police stations and at least we get to be more about the preliminary complaint at the earliest. This is the reason that we are on Twitter as well as Whatsapp as majority of the persons are on social media platforms,” said an official.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/twitter-handle-of-police-help-desk-launched/articleshow/79804257.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Six held , 2 booked for attacking cop at Manjari||PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Thursday arrested six people, including two women, and booked two others on the charge of attacking a policeman for intervening in their dispute at Manjari on Wednesday night. Police beat marshal Mahesh Madane (30) rushed to Gopalpatti near Manjari railway gate after receiving a call that two families were fighting with each other over monetary dispute. Senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam from Hadapsar police said on Thursday, “Madane intervened in the dispute and appealed to the families to maintain peace and resolve their dispute amicably, but they were in no mood to listen.” Kadam, “Madane tried to pacify them but the suspects in a fit of anger attacked him, tore his uniform pocket and pulled out the buttons.” “They hit him on his face with two slab pieces,”Kadam added. “After Madane alerted the police station that more manpower was needed for handling law and order problems created by the suspects, a police team rushed to the spot and took six people into custody, but two others fled from the spot”, he added. An FIR relating to rioting and obstructing policemen from discharging duty was registered under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-held-2-booked-for-attacking-cop-at-manjari/articleshow/79804263.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Hinjewadi hotel sealed after raid||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday sealed a hotel in Hinjewadi for six months after recently raiding the establishment and rescuing four women forced into flesh trade. As the order to seal such an establishment is required to be passed by an officer of the rank of additional director general of police, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash had sent the proposal to Pune police chief Amitabh Gupta, who holds the rank. Gupta cleared the proposal. Pimpri Chinchwad police had raided the hotel in September and arrested its manager. Police investigations revealed that the suspects used the hotel to run the sex racket. Senior inspector Balkrishna Sawant of the Hinjewadi police station had prepared a report to seal the hotel and sent it for approval. Sawant said that the hotel has been sealed for six months. He has also appealed people to share information about illegal activities in Hinjewadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hinjewadi-hotel-sealed-after-raid/articleshow/79804258.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Covid curve flattening, but deaths in Vid still a concern||Nagpur: With 903 new cases and 773 recoveries of Covid-19 patients in a day on Friday, Vidarbha has reported no significant change in Covid-19 trend. More or less similar number of cases and recoveries are being reported in the region in the last 10 days. This is a strong indicator that Covid-19 curve has flattened in Vidarbha. However, with 18 deaths reported on Friday, the Covid casualties are still a cause for concern. Total 6,373 deaths have been reported in the region due to Covid-19 so far, which hints at 2.62% case fatality rate. This is higher than state and national average. Out of 18 deaths reported on Friday, Nagpur alone accounted for 7 deaths (2 each from city and rural and 3 from other state/outstation patients), Chandrapur 4, Bhandara 2, Yavatmal 2, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Buldhana 1 each. Day’s 903 cases came from Nagpur 444, Chandrapur 97, Amravati 51, Buldhana 51, Gondia 47, Yavatmal 47, Bhandara 46, Wardha 46, Akola 37, Gadchiroli 31, Washim 6, which took total caseload to 2,43,009. Except Nagpur, all 10 districts in Vidarbha reported less than 100 cases and Washim reported new cases in single digit on Friday. Recoveries were less than new cases on December 18. Total 773 patients recovered in the day — Nagpur 358, Chandrapur 112, Bhandara 52, Gadchiroli 49, Amravati 47, Gondia 35, Wardha 33, Yavatmal 32, Buldhana 21, Washim 20, and Akola 14, taking the total recoveries to 2,26,402. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 93.2%, still less than state’s 94.1% and national average of 95.4%. Chandrapur: The district witnessed 97 new Covid cases and discharge of 112 patients on Friday. The Covid caseload has now climbed to 21,718, while total 20,626 patients have recovered. Also, four Covid deaths were reported during the day taking the toll to 345. There are now 747 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded two Covid deaths on Friday — a 63-year-old man from Wani and a 55-year-old woman from Darwha — which took Yavatmal’s Covid toll to 390. Moreover, 47 new patients were detected after testing 395 samples in the day, while 32 were discharged after recovery. Amravati: A spike of 51 cases took the district’s Covid caseload to 18,855 on Friday. Though no death was reported in the last 24 hours, 47 patients staged recovery that took the number of recovered patients to 18,062, for a recovery rate of 95.79%. This left 401 patients under treatment. Wardha: Forty-six persons tested positive for Coronavirus infection on Friday, taking the district’s caseload to 8,592, while 33 patients were discharged. As on date, 8,055 recoveries have been registered in the district. The new Covid patients detected on Friday include Wardha 30, Hinganghat and Deoli 7 each, Selu and Karanja 1 each. No Covid casualty was reported on Friday. There are now 259 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 2 deaths of Covid-19 patients on Friday which took the toll to 280. With 46 new patients detected, total number of cases reached 11,827. The day also saw 52 recoveries. With this, the total number of recovered patients has reached 10,971. The district’s recovery rate is 92.76%, while 576 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported death of a 66-year-old patient on Friday taking the total number of Covid-19 deaths to 175. With 47 new patients, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 13,289 in Gondia. Total 35 patients recovered in the day, which took the total number of recoveries to 12,818. Gondia’s recovery rate is 95.24%. Total 296 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district has reported death of a 42-year-old Covid-19 patient on Friday taking the casualty figure to 96. With 31 new patients and 49 recoveries, total number of Covid-19 cases in the district reached 8,736 with 8,277 of them recovered till date. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 94.75%. Total 363 patients are under treatment. Akola: From more than 600 Covid-19 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, the district reported 37 new cases. This took total Covid-19 case count to 10,079. With 14 patients recovering on Friday, total number of recovered patients has reached 9,036. No death was reported on Friday. Total 737 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: A 50-year-old man from Malkapur died in Buldhana on Friday taking the Covid toll to 145. Out of 600-plus reports received in the day, 51 were positive taking the total case count past 12,000-mark to 12,038. Total 21 patients recovered on Friday. This took the number of recovered patients to 11,593. This means recovery rate is more than 96%. Total 300 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. Washim: The district has reported six new patients and 20 recoveries on Friday. No death due to Covid-19 has been reported in Washim from December 3. The district now has 6,492 total cases, 6,095 recoveries, and 148 deaths. As on Friday, 249 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-curve-flattening-but-deaths-in-vid-still-a-concern/articleshow/79804271.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal a fraud, AAP & SAD hypocrites, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||MOHALI: Even as he ridiculed Arvind Kejriwal as a “big fraud”, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday said both Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) were a bunch of “hypocrites” whose “double standards on farm laws had exposed their lack of commitment to farmers”. “AAP and SAD MLAs never say what they mean, and vice-versa,” said the CM in an interaction with media after the launch of the second phase of Punjab Smart Connect Scheme. When the state government passed bills in the y to negate the Centre’s farm laws, AAP and SAD MLAs extended support, but they changed later to suit political interests, said Amarinder. “Now, they have made a U-turn on the issue and are projecting themselves as messiahs of the farmers, whose interests both parties had been instrumental in pawning off to the BJP,” he said. Amarinder said while SAD was party to introduction of farm ordinances in the first place, AAP government in Delhi was quick to implement one of the draconian laws. Taking a dig at Kejriwal’s “theatrics” in the Delhi Assembly, Amarinder said the AAP leader was now indulging in petty politics by tearing copies of the laws. “This shows Kejriwal and AAP have a different face for people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kejriwal-a-fraud-aap-sad-hypocrites-says-amarinder/articleshow/79805827.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Tribal girl alleges rape in Jhalawar district||KOTA: A 19-year-old youth allegedly raped a 21-year-old tribal girl in Jhalawar district on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. The survivor, accompanied by her mother, reached Ghatoli police station of Jhalawar district on Friday evening and lodged a case of rape against the accused, following which the police sent the survivor for medical examination and initiated efforts to nab the accused. On the report, the police lodged a case of rape and house trespass under Sections 376 and 450 of IPC against Chaganlal Bheel of the same village and initiated investigation, said SHO at Ghatoli police station, Ajit Singh. The survivor alleged that the accused trespassed her house on late Thursday night and stuffing her mouth with a cloth, he took her to the backyard from the room where she was asleep with her mother, he said, adding she further alleged that the accused raped her there and let her go only when her mother came out searching for her on finding her missing by her side. The accused is yet to be nabbed, he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tribal-girl-alleges-rape-in-jhalawar-dist/articleshow/79804259.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Tech colleges can deduct Rs 1,000 must return rest||PUNE: The state Common Entrance Test Cell has instructed all technical institutes to retain only Rs 1,000 as processing fee and return the full submitted fees within two days if students cancel their admissions in the prescribed time limit. The CET cell has also told colleges not to withhold original documents submitted by the student or demand fees for the remaining years if the student cancels his/her admission at a later stage. Students must apply online for cancellation of admission, self-attest the print of this form and submit it to the respective college. The online application for cancellation of admission will be considered final. This seat would then be included for the next round of admission. If a student cancels his or her admission after 5pm on the last date of admission round, then his fees will not be reimbursed except for the caution deposit that the student pays at the time of his or her admission. “If the student cancels the admission in the first year, then the college cannot ask the student to pay the fees for the remaining years stating that their seat is falling vacant. Students facing any difficulties can contact the respective regional directorate of technical education,” Dilip Nandanwar, joint director of technical education, Pune, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tech-colleges-can-deduct-rs-1k-must-return-rest/articleshow/79804256.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 19, 2020||Pune||Man-eater leopard gunned down by forest officials||Pune: A fully-grown male man-eater leopard that had spread terror in neighbouring Solapur, Beed and Aurangabad districts was shot dead in Bitergaon village of Karmala taluka in Solapur district around 6.15pm on Friday. The leopard, aged around 6 or 7, had mauled 12 people. It was killed by a team of sharpshooters of the forest department. Dhairyashil Patil, divisional conservator of forests, Solapur, told TOI on Friday, “Villagers had spotted the animal on Thursday evening in the village. Based on the inputs, our 15 quick response team (QRT) members studied its pug marks. On Friday evening, our dog squad gave us the specific direction of the animal. He was in a banana field. We first secured the field and tried to tranquillize the animal, but that was not possible. We had to shoot the animal. A total of three bullets were fired.” As per procedure, the post-mortem of the animal will be conducted at Solapur district’s animal husbandry hospital. Patil said, “The post-mortem will help us know how many bullets actually hit the leopard. We will videograph the post-mortem in the presence of two witnesses. An examination of the leopard is crucial to ascertain whether it was suffering from any deformity.” The forest officials had noticed a specific pattern in the way the animal struck, said Patil. “After killing a person, the animal would first severe the head and abandon the body after consuming 2-3 kg of flesh. A leopard needs at least 5 kg flesh to satisfy its hunger. We will have to find out why the animal had such a habit,” he said. It was a mammoth task for the Solapur forest department to track down the animal as it had given the slip to the teams in Beed and Aurangabad districts, Patil said. The Solapur forest department had roped in QRTs, teams of sniffer dogs, drones, 42 trap cameras and 21 cages to track the leopard’s movement ever since it was first sighted in Karmala tehsil on December 3. Additional principal chief conservator of forest Sunil Limaye said, “Past cases have revealed that the animal becomes a man-eater usually it fails to catch prey due to physical deformity. If the animal loses its pointed canine teeth or cannot chase prey due to injury, it hunts for easy prey like like small animals or humans. However, we will be able to ascertain the actual reason for this animal’s behaviour once the post-mortem and scientific study of each attack is done.” (With inputs from Suryakant Asbe in Solapur )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-eater-leopard-gunned-down-by-forest-officials/articleshow/79804260.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Women from Jind send bangles to PM Modi||JIND: Women from Haryana’s Jind district have sent bangles through courier to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a mark of protest against the three contentious farm laws. Women of Bhonsla village sent several packets of bangles to the PM’s Delhi address. They said they voted for Narendra Modi so that he may take fruitful decisions but he is trying to damage the nation by introducing the three laws. They said farmers have been camping in the severe cold weather on the Delhi borders and he is not bothered about their deaths. “We have collected bangles from the village and held a protest march by banging bangles and dancing to Haryanvi songs. We are staying at home in heated rooms but farmers are forced to camp under the open sky and the PM is silent. We have decided to go to the Delhi borders to join the protest,” one of the protesters, Bimla Devi said. Another protester, Manit Bhonsla, said, “The PM is sleeping in a bungalow and farmers are sleeping without a roof. The PM should repeal the three laws without second thoughts or resign from his post which he got due to the votes of common men and farmers of the country. The Prime minister should wear bangles or take a stern decision to revoke the laws promptly. I will go along with women at a protest site in Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-from-jind-send-bangles-to-modi/articleshow/79805823.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||One-Stop Shop facility rolled out to fast-track industrialisation in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot launched One-Stop Shop (OSS) facility on Friday on the occasion of the government’s second anniversary. “OSS improves upon the existing single window clearance system and will bring relief to investors who would not be required to knock the doors of various departments for clearances and approvals,” Gehlot said. Located under the Bureau of Investment Promotion (BIP) at Udyog Bhawan, the facility will host officers from 14 departments. Nearly 90 types of clearances and services required by investors from these departments will be made available through the OSS. An online interface of the services will also be available through Raj Nivesh portal which was also launched by the chief minister. Gehlot said while there is a tradition of celebrating anniversaries of government, he personally felt it was a good occasion to revisit the works the government has done during its tenure. After inaugurating several infrastructure works, Gehlot said his government has made it a priority to facilitating industry and investment in state. Reacting to the new OSS, Digvijay Dhabriya, chairman of industry body PHDCCI, said, “The mechanism will certainly improve ease of doing business in the state and ultimately result in enhancing the state’s competitiveness compared to others. But to reap the benefits, the OSS has to be implemented in right spirit and letter.” Earlier this year, the government had amended the Rajasthan Enterprises Single Window Enabling and Clearance Act to make a provision for the establishment of OSS. Its rules were notified on November 26, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-stop-shop-facility-rolled-out-to-fast-track-industrialisation-in-raj/articleshow/79804267.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||5km IRR being built every yr, project deadline passed 39 months ago||Nagpur: The state Public Works Department (PWD) is concretizing the Inner Ring Road (IRR) at the pace of 5km per year. Despite the deadline passing 39 months ago, phase-I of IRR Widening and Concretization Project is yet to be completed, leading to loss of public money and causing serious inconvenience to the people. TOI has been highlighting inferior quality works and inordinate delay in phase-I for last four years. The project is shrouded in fresh controversy following excavation of 500 meter cement concrete road to lay a new layer on a stretch of IRR at Dabha a day ago. Asked about the status of the project, one of the PWD officials told TOI, “Concretization of 23km on both sides, and widening and concretization of one side of 3km has been completed under phase-I. Other works like completion of road-divider, footpath, plantation etc are going on. One bridge is yet to be constructed due to technical problems.” City MP and Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had sanctioned Rs400 crore for the project in 2015. IRR stretching 45km was supposed to be concretized in one package. Also, 9km of this 45km was to be widened before concretization. Some works were excluded from 9km stretch for various reasons. Deadline to complete the project covering 36km was two years, which meant a target of 18km per year. Gadkari had claimed National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which falls under his ministry, had achieved target of construction of highways at the pace of 30km per day and new target was set at 60km per day. PWD had divided IRR project into two phases for reasons best known to it. PWD had on September 24, 2015, issued work order of phase-I to Mumbai-based RPS Infraprojects Private Limited with a deadline of two years. Approved cost was Rs260.77 crore but RPS bagged the contract quoting 21.51% below at Rs204.68 crore. Till now, phase-I is incomplete. Also, phase-I is hit by shoddy quality of works. Cracks and scaling of surface layer is common on any stretch. Even potholes have appeared in some places. PWD officials said, “There are various reasons behind the delay, including contractor’s slow pace of work, non-clearance of road for works, shifting of water, power infrastructure etc. We are levying fine of Rs5,000 per day on the contractor for last few months for delay.” Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari said the project has turned out to be a nightmare for the people instead of relief. “People are facing inconvenience due to blocks for last five years. Two-way traffic had to move on one side for five years. Some people died due to lack of safety measures while executing works. Now, accidents are occurring due to cracks and scaling of surface layer. Also, tyres of vehicles are getting damaged. I had lodged series of complaints in last four years but nothing happened,” he said. The PWD had issued work order of phase-II to a joint venture of two companies — Saket Infraprojects and Shah & Parikh — on March 10, 2019. As against estimated price of Rs163.45 crore, the companies had obtained the work quoting 21.52% below at Rs128.28 crore. The project covers remaining parts of IRR and was supposed to be completed within two years. As per PWD officials, around 40% works have been completed in 21 months. The deadline will come up in three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5km-irr-being-built-every-yr-project-deadline-passed-39-months-ago/articleshow/79802993.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Police complaint against salesmen of ration shops||Coimbatore: The civil supplies department has filed a complaint with police against salesmen of two ration shops at Anaikatti for shutting the shop on Thursday and absconding with the point of sale (POS) device without informing officials. The officials had to break open the lock of the shop on Thursday evening. Meanwhile, a few tribal residents of Anaikatti complained to collector K Rajamani about civil supply officials forcefully taking over running of the ration shops. They say they find tribal women from cooperatives operating the shops more convenient. In November, Rajamani had passed an order converting the two ration shops at Anaikatti—in Jambukandi and Alamara Medu—to mobile ration shops. “This was to help villagers from places like Doomanur, Sembukarai, Panapalli who have to walk six to seven km from inside the forest to access these ration shops. There are no buses from these villages either, forcing them to trek or spend on taking an auto to Jambukandi or Alamara Medu to access rations,” Anaikatti taluk supply officer Sumathi said. “The collector cancelled the two ration shops allotted to the tribal women’s cooperative and converted them into mobile ration shops, which will carry all supplies and visit all small villages like Panapalli, Thoovaipathi, Doomanur among others once or twice a month and distribute rations to them, saving people the trouble of trekking 7 km or spending on autorickshaws,” she said. However, since November 28, the residents of Jambukandi, 24 Veerapandi and Anaikatti began complaining to the collector stating that ration shops allotted to the two tribal women societies-- Chinna Jambukandi Pengal Sangam and Dakshana Pengal Sangam - should not be cancelled. “The women operate the shop from 8am to 8pm and would allow us to buy any produce from it. Sometimes when large families run out of their rice, they would give them some more rice from the quota of a smaller family with their permission and knowledge,” Murugavelu said. “It also gave the women in the cooperative an income. They would make around Rs 9,000 a month from selling the rice gunny bags and commission, which would help give a salary to the women working,” he added. The residents also claim that the collector orally agreed to let the women’s cooperative continue running the shops. However, with no written communication cancelling the earlier order, civil supplies department officials on December 9, ordered the cooperatives to hand over the shops to 22 Nanjundapuram Cooperative society until the collector orders otherwise. “When we went to take over the shops on Thursday, it was locked. A load vehicle with supplies was also waiting outside till evening. We were forced to break open the locks after five hours and stock the supplies inside. The POS device which is a government property is missing in both shops,” said Sumathi. “So, we have filed a police complaint against the salesmen,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-complaint-against-salesmen-of-ration-shops/articleshow/79804269.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||300 mobile vansfor testing: T to HC||Hyderabad: The state government has informed the high court that it has set up 300 mobile testing vans to conduct Covid-19 tests in all the 33 districts in the state. Public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao said this in an affidavit filed before the court. “We are conducting 50,000 tests per day. This was in tune with the direction given by the high court,” he said. “The state has crossed 1.63 lakh tests per million population,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/300-mobile-vansfor-testing-t-to-hc/articleshow/79805833.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Teenager shot dead in Dholpur||JAIPUR: A teenager was shot dead in Dholpur on Friday after two groups got into an altercation. Following the incident, locals protested demanding arrest of the accused and calmed down only after assurance by cops about prompt action. Cops are yet to arrest the accused. The victim was identified as 17-year-old Aman Meena and the incident happened in Dholpur’s Sarmathura around 11am on Friday. Dholpur SP Kesar Singh Shekhawat told TOI, “The deceased and the accused belong to same community. Over a small issue, the accused fired at the boy and he got seriously injured due to which he died while undergoing treatment. Parents and villagers protested for some time and came on road, but after the assurance of early arrest of accused they cleared the road as well as agreed for post-mortem.” His body was handed over to the family after autopsy. Meanwhile, police teams are raiding the probable hideouts of the accused and an FIR has been registered against four persons in the matter though no one has been arrested yet. Just over a month back, a teenager was killed during a firing over family rivalry in Sawai Madhopur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teenager-shot-dead-in-dholpur/articleshow/79804273.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Humiliated by loan app financiers, engineer commits suicide in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A software engineer who took instant loans using different mobile phone apps killed himself in Hyderabad after the private financiers allegedly defamed and humiliated him publicly. It was the second such suicide under similar circumstances this week. Rajendranagar police said that P Sunil (28), who lost his job during the lockdown, took loans through different apps, which police said were all illegal operations, to clear older existing loans. As he failed to get a job and repay the loans, the app-based financiers started to send messages and made telephone calls to everyone in his telephone call list, which they easily got hold of after he downloaded their apps. Humiliated, Sunil hanged himself in his Kismatpur flat on Wednesday, but police changed the case from suspicious death to abetment of suicide and other charges , including under the Information Technology Act, against the financiers. A press communique from the DGP’s office said there are at least 60 such loan apps available in the Google Play Store. “These apps run by certain names that are not registered or recognised by the RBI as an NBFC; therefore, their operations are completely unlawful,” said a note. A police investigation found that Sunil had downloaded 35 apps. It is learnt that he had taken loans ranging Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000, amounting to Rs 2 lakh. The DGP’s office said three cases of suicides due to harassment caused by money lending apps has been reported in the last one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/humiliated-on-illegal-loan-apps-hyderabad-techie-kills-self/articleshow/79806791.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 19, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks response on tapping atomic minerals in Thamirabarani||Madurai: The Madras high court has sought a response from the central and state governments on the possibility of tapping atomic minerals found deposited in the Thamirabarani river in Tuticorin district.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K Balakrishnan, who sought for a direction to prevent illegal sand mining from Thamirabarani river at Agaramkudiyiruppu in the district.Pursuant to the earlier direction of this court, an advocate commissioner, who after an inspection submitted a report stating that his survey revealed the presence of substantial percentage of heavy minerals like garnet, ilmenite, rutile, zircon, leucoxene, sillimanite, kyanite and monazite, in the river. He has also stated that since the above minerals come under the category of atomic minerals, it can be regulated only by the central government.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the presence of atomic/ heavy minerals were found even during the British regime, as early as in 1942-43. But, the government introduced the relevant provision under Section 11-B of the Mines and Minerals (Development & Regulation) Act, 1957, only in 2015, and enacted the Atomic Minerals Concession Rules in 2016, thereby, allowing the erosion of such valuable minerals for the past 75 years.Taking into account the report of the advocate commissioner, who is also a geologist, the judges suo motu impleaded the secretary to atomic energy department, secretary of atomic minerals directorate for exploration and research, secretary to industries and PWD department of the state.The judges directed the representatives from the atomic energy department to visit the area, access the Thamirabarani river with regard to the percentage of minerals available. The judges sought a report on the possibility of tapping the minerals by the government. The judges also made it clear that any mineral or sand or whatever excavated from the river, even for construction purpose, shall be preserved till the inspection.“We are unable to understand as to how the sand / minerals in the river was allowed to be excavated and that apart the quantum of sand excavated, which is said to be 109077.17 cubic metre, is also quite alarming,” they said.The judges also noted that the petitioner was facing threat for having filed this petition. Though the court directed to grant police protection to the petitioner, the same was granted only after the court summoned the Tuticorin superintendent of police. Hence, the judges suo motu impleaded the director general of police in order to ensure the safety of the petitioner as well as the advocate commissioner by granting police protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-tapping-atomic-minerals-in-thamirabarani/articleshow/79805845.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||ATM breakers’ gang busted in inter-state joint operation||Nagpur: In a joint operation by police teams from Nagpur city, rural, Hyderabad and Madhya Pradesh, three members of an ATM breakers’ gang from Rajasthan were intercepted at Patansawangi while they were trying to flee in a container. One of their accomplice, however, managed to flee. It’s learnt the gang had stolen a police jeep from Hyderabad and left the state. After realizing their mistake, the gang abandoned the vehicle and convinced a container driver to take them to some destination. The gang had stolen Rs16 lakh from an ATM in Madhya Pradesh on December 3. The gang had gone to Hyderabad for targeting ATMs, but on their way back they had stolen the police vehicle. With the help of cyber and mobile phone technology, the gang was nabbed from a container.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/atm-breakers-gang-busted-in-inter-state-joint-operation/articleshow/79804320.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Court ‘appointments’ are as precious as doctor’s , says HC||Madurai: Observing that courts are “doctors of bleeding rights”, Madras high court has told members of the Bar and litigants that the appointment given by the court is as precious as one given by a physician to his patient. It is time they ensured that such appointments granted are honoured and made use of. Justice N Seshasayee observed whether it was inadequate professionalism of the Bar, plain irresponsibility of the litigants, or still, unmindful generosity of the courts that they themselves choose not to take the appointments that they have given the litigants seriously? The pathology of delay in disposal of cases lies somewhere in this malady. “The courts may not be solely responsible for this, but it cannot seek an exemption either. However, it is passed for, and derided as judicial delay. The same stakeholders who do not spare an opportunity to abuse and/or waste their appointments with the courts, and at times even with a design, blame them. With pain it has to be stated that, for the sin of a section of the Bar and the litigants, the courts are forced to carry the cross all alone, struggling to explain the delay for the disposal of cases to the citizens of this country all the time,” observed the judge. The court made the observations while dismissing a civil revision petition filed by a woman challenging the order of the Madurai principal district munsif court in a civil suit, on the ground that the petitioner has made it a habit to abuse munsif court appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-appointments-are-as-precious-as-doctors-says-hc/articleshow/79805842.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Kuniyamuthur, Podanur stations to get more cops||Coimbatore: Ten police personnel each from the city armed reserve police would be deputed to Podanur and Kuniyamuthur police stations to prevent crimes such as chain snatching and burglaries. Police had recently allotted 10 cops each to Singanallur, Peelamedu and Saravanampatti police stations coming under the east sub-division. Night patrolling was intensified subsequently which brought down the crime rate in three police station limits. With chain snatchers and burglars on the prowl in Podanur and Kuniyamuthur areas, now the police have decided to deploy cops in those areas. Ramanathapuram (D1), Selvapuram (D2), Podanur (D3) and Kuniyamuthur (D4) police stations come under south sub-division of the city police. Ramanathapuram and Selvapuram police stations mostly cover the urban areas. But Podanur and Kuniyamuthur police station cover vast areas in the city. The two police stations have many newly developed areas, where chain snatching and burglaries were reported in the past two weeks. “We are going to depute 10 cops each from the city armed reserve police to Podanur and Kuniyamuthur police station limits. They will work along with police officers in the two police stations and will conduct vehicle checks. The cops will go to the newly developed areas during the evening and night patrolling to reduce crimes,” city deputy commissioner of police (crime-in charge) G Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kuniyamuthur-podanur-stations-to-get-more-cops/articleshow/79804302.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Sukhbir Badal looks to President Ram Nath Kovind for parliament session||CHANDIGARH: SAD president Sukhbir Badal has sought President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention to immediately convene winter session of Parliament. In a letter written to the President on Friday, Sukhbir said it was ridiculous to give Covid-19 as excuse to justify the cancellation of Parliament’s winter session. “How do you convince the people that Parliament could meet to pass the three controversial bills at a time when the pandemic was at its peak, which required the Prime Minister to start the nation’s fight against it with a long, countrywide lockdown. Now, by the government’s own admission, the intensity of the pandemic no longer requires a lockdown,” the Ferozpur MP wrote in the letter. What was right then, cannot be wrong now, he added. In his letter, copies of which have been marked to the Lok Sabha speaker, and the Vice-President in his capacity as the chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Sukhbir stated: “It is absurd and ironical that the ruling party sees no danger to public health during gatherings of thousands of people in its election rallies in Bihar and now in West Bengal but wants the countrymen to believe that even a limited meeting of MPs under strict SOPs would result in a pandemic flare up.” It would be insensitivity of the most shocking nature if the government just looks the other way while nearly two dozen innocent farmers, many in the prime of their youth, have already sacrificed their lives while protesting against the new agri-marketing laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-looks-to-prez-for-parl-session/articleshow/79805843.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Arvind Kejriwal’s message to PM Modi in tearing copies’||CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, on Friday, said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had sent a strong message to the “dictatorial” Modi government by tearing copies of the controversial laws. Mann said the resolution adopted by the Kejriwal government against the farm laws in the Assembly has come as a severe blow to the Modi government. “By tearing copies of the laws, Kejriwal had given a clear message to the Modi government that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will not cow down under pressure from those bent on ruining farmers,” he said. Reiterating the party’s support for the farmers’ movement, he said, “AAP has been raising the issue of the farm laws from day one on the streets and in Parliament. AAP will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with them in their fight against the draconian government.” Mann also stated that when the ordinances were introduced in Parliament, AAP was the first political party to hold a press conference in Chandigarh in June 2020 on the instructions of party chief Arvind Kejriwal and flag the “anti-farmer” legislations. “Kejriwal was the first chief minister of the country to challenge the Modi government on the agricultural laws at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, standing rock solid in support of the farmers,” said Mann. On the remarks made by Punjab Congress minister Vijay Inder Singla against the Kejriwal government, Bhagwant Mann asked Singla to explain why chief minister Amarinder Singh couldn’t do anything to stop the passage of the laws despite being on the panel of the high-power committee constituted by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kejris-message-to-pm-in-tearing-copies/articleshow/79805846.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Move to draw water from Bhavani draws flak||Coimbatore: Members of the Mettupalayam drinking water protection committee and DMK youth wing staged a protest at Jadayampalayam Pirivu on Friday against the state government’s move to draw water for the Tirupur’s fourth drinking water scheme from Bhavani River. “We had urged the government not to draw water from the river in Mettupalayam for the Tirupur scheme and Coimbatore corporation’s Pillur III drinking water scheme as water is drawn for 17 drinking water schemes from the locality. If they continue to draw more water, then we might face scarcity in future,” said T R Rangasamy, a senior member of the committee.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/move-to-draw-water-from-bhavani-draws-flak/articleshow/79804350.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Former education officer held for cheating||AURANGABAD: The Vedannagar police on Thursday night arrested former education officer P B Chavan in a cheating case for allegedly issuing fake personal sanction letter to a woman teacher on the basis of appointment letter issued by the president and headmaster of an education institute. He has been remanded in the police custody till December 20. According to police, a forged personal sanction order was prepared about a decade back. When the secretary of the institute Manoj Mule came to know about it, he lodged a police complaint. Based on the complaint, police arrested president of Bharatmata Vidyalay Padmakar Ingle last week while Chavan continued to remain at large until Thurdsay night when he was nabbed, said senior inspector Rameshwar Rodge. Police said that Ingle and headmaster Yogesh Shrikrishna Sambre, along with the then education officer P B Chavan, had issued appointment orders to Savita Nandavne as teacher on the basis of false and bogus resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/former-edu-officer-held-for-cheating/articleshow/79802133.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Signature drive to mobilize support for Ajni trees||Nagpur: Environment activists are now taking efforts to gather public support to save ‘Ajni Van’ — a lush green land in Ajni which is facing threat from a proposed inter modal station and other commercial projects. On Sunday, a signature drive is being launched near the Central Railway Land at Ajni, which is the proposed site for the station. A huge cloth will be put up on a wall and citizens will be encouraged to sign and pledge for saving thousands of age-old trees that are proposed to be chopped off for the project. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is the implementing agency of the project. Earlier, an online signature campaign was also initiated by a group of activists. “Many people are still not fully aware about the details of the project, density of the green area and tree species that we will lose. During the campaign, we will try to explain them the project details and also the environmental and heritage value of the proposed site,” said Kunal Mourya, an environment activist. The activists are trying to mobilize youngsters, students, families and different organizations through social media. “We will also invite the residents of railway quarters in Ajni,” added Mourya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/signature-drive-to-mobilize-support-for-ajni-trees/articleshow/79803018.cms||Manka Behl
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC restrains sale of unpackaged edible oil||MADURAI: Restraining the sale of edible oils in loose on the ground that they are mostly adulterated and would have serious consequences on the consumers’ health, the Madras high court on Friday observed that the state government should bring an amendment to book people who are involved in adulteration of food products under the Goondas Act. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi granted the interim injunction while hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Arunnithy, an advocate from Madurai who sought a direction to the authorities to ensure that edible oils sold in the market are in accordance with FSSAI standards and norms, and to take action against the adulterators. Senior counsel for the petitioner submitted that by mixing a portion of cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL) in palmolein, it can be made equivalent to gingelly oil and the colour and odour will also match the same. He further submitted that CNSL is used in manufacturing resin, paint and varnish, and the long term effect of consuming it would lead to several health hazards. He further submitted that there are 50 units involved in extracting CNSL in Virudhunagar district. He also noted that by mixing peanut essence with olein oil, a colourless and odourless oil, it can be made to look similar to that of groundnut oil. Designated officer for food safety Dr M Somasundaram who was present before court admitted that he himself has noted down the presence of 60 to 200 cans of CNSL in various units of oil traders. He stated that there is also the possibility of adulteration of palmolein by mixing CNSL and the possibility of mixing peanut essence with olein oil. Taking cognizance of the submissions, the judges observed: “Data placed before the court is shocking that if an essential commodity like edible oil can be adulterated to this extent, we are afraid of the consequences on the health conditions of a common citizen. Adulteration results in serious health hazards up to death. Unless very stringent measures are taken, it is very difficult to prevent such adulteration.” The judges observed that right to life is a fundamental right, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and the right to have healthy food is also one of the fundamental rights. It is the duty of the government to ensure that people are getting healthy food without any adulteration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-halts-sale-of-unpackaged-edible-oil-citing-adulteration/articleshow/79805851.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 19, 2020||Kozhikode||CPM to take action against branch committee||KOZHIKODE: CPM will take action against the branch committee at Chundappuram in Koduvally following the humiliating defeat of LDF’s candidate who failed to secure even a single vote in the local body elections where independent candidate Karat Faisal won. CPM district committee, which met on Friday, reviewed the election result and found serious lapses on the part of Chundappuram branch committee. CPM district secretary P Mohanan said, "As of now we have not taken a decision. We will examine the matter and take stern action, if needed, after following organizational procedures." According to party sources, CPM has five party members in Chundappuram and party was expecting to get 38 votes from supporters in the area. Faisal secured 568 votes to wrest the seat from UDF whose candidate KKA Khader got 495 votes and BJP’s candidate Sadanandan secured 50. While even a namesake candidate of Faisal secured 7 votes, LDF candidate Abdul Rasheed, who is an INL leader, draw a complete blank. This became a huge embarrassment. LDF had, during the run up to the division, decided to field Faisal in the ward and local LDF leaders had announced his candidature. But Faisal was then questioned by customs in the gold smuggling case and it led to a controversy. To prevent it from casting a shadow over LDF, CPM leadership intervened and Abdul Rasheed was declared as the official candidate in the ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-to-take-action-against-branch-committee/articleshow/79803046.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed: Man killed, 2 seriously hurt in chemical barrel blast||AURANGABAD: A man was killed on the spot while two others sustained serious injuries after a barrel containing chemicals in a plywood godown went off in Beed district at 11.30 am on Friday. Sound of the explosion resulted in panic and rumours for several hours before the police came on record and cleared the air. Superintendent of police R Raja told TOI, “We are trying to ascertain the exact cause of the blast. Samples of the chemicals have been collected and will be sent to forensic lab for testing.” The officer said that police are checking if the trader had permission and license to run the unit. Police suspect that the container might be over a year old and, it was kept packed due to lockdown, thus generating fumes within. Beed city police, citing the preliminary report, maintained that the explosion took place at the godown of Champavati hardware and plywood shop situated in Masarat Nagar of Mondha road in Beed city. The deceased has been identified Anirudh Panchal (32) of Selu in Gevrai taluka and worked at the hardware shop. The injured people have been identified as Pandurang Mune (40) and Sudhir Jagtap (35). Both of them are being treated at Beed civil hospital. Citing the statement issued by the survivors, police said that soon after Panchal opened a container, a major explosion took place, resulting in him getting blown several feet away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-man-killed-2-seriously-hurt-in-chemical-barrel-blast/articleshow/79802117.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||‘RSS may try to infiltrate agitation’||CHANDIGARH: SAD (democratic) chief spokesperson Bir Devinder Singh on Friday described Prime Minister Narinder Modi’s attitude on the three recent farm bills as “obstinate”. He said PM’s consistent backing of the laws, which was contrary to the perception of farming community, showed that the ongoing agitation could be a much more long struggle. “Farmers’ organisations must understand the critical nuance of the narrative that is being portrayed by the BJP,” he said. He added reliable information revealed that RSS was planning a counter-offensive operation through its trained cadre to outmaneuver the strength of the farmers dharna, both at Singhu and Tikri Border, with the covert help of paramilitary forces. “There are reports doing the rounds that RSS is collecting uniforms of various paramilitary forces and other kinds of trapping kits to camouflage their real identity to infiltrate and destabilise the farmers’ movement,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rss-may-try-to-infiltrate-agitation/articleshow/79805853.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Rs100cr excess fee charged by 15 pvt schools, says school edu minister Bacchu Kadu||Nagpur: Minister of state for school education Bacchu Kadu said around Rs100 crore excess fee has been charged over the last couple of years by 15 private schools in Nagpur, and a notice demanding refund of that amount will be sent within a month. Kadu was addressing a press conference in the city following education department notice to Narayana Vidyalayam School (NVS) to refund over Rs7 crore excess fee to parents. Without naming the other schools, Kadu said the report by education department is ready and in a phased manner all of them will face action. “Similar action has been taken in other districts as well. We are acting on complaints by parents, and it’s not as if the education department is hauling up schools according to its whims and fancies,” said Kadu. He added that at the core of this fee tussle issue being seen everywhere is the commercialization aspect. “Education is a very sacred sector, but some people have turned it into a profit making unit. Government is standing behind parents during this tough time,” said Kadu. Education department officials told TOI that these schools are well known names affiliated to CBSE. The last time Nagpur education department issued such a fee recovery order, things did not go their way. In November, the same office had sought refund of over Rs4 crore from Bhavan’s Girdhardas Mohta Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (Hinganghat), following which the school approached the court. The school contested that no logic was presented by the department for calculating the amount, nor were they given a chance to put their side forward. The court’s interim order clearly mentioned that no coercive action can be taken against the school. Kadu claims to be aware of the legal problems and urged parents to come forward. “When we go to court we must be able to present a strong case. For this, parents need to come and file complaints, else on what basis will we prepare the documents. Parents need to give us proof too like fee receipts etc so that the case can withstand legal scrutiny. Such crucial documents can only be produced by parents,” said Kadu. When questioned what if the amount could not be recovered from schools, Kadu said he is prepared to take ‘strict’ action. “If need be school closure notice will be given. Action will happen against schools who do not comply with the law,” said Kadu. Most of the 15 schools which are under the education department’s scanner are part of the association which had approached the high court alleging harassment by education department. There is an interim relief granted to the over 40 petitioner schools and education department was directed not to take ‘coercive action against schools for recovery of fee’. A lawyer, who is aware of the details, said that education department can still issue such recovery orders. “They can send the recovery letters but schools too have the right to approach the court. Whether or not the education department has the jurisdiction to enforce such orders, is what the legal debate will be about,” said the lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs100cr-excess-fee-charged-by-15-pvt-schools-says-school-edu-minister-bacchu-kadu/articleshow/79804398.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||38% adults in Vid take BP pills, 20% on drugs for sugar control||Nagpur: More than 38% of adult population of Vidarbha is taking medicines for high blood pressure while 20%-plus people are taking insulin or medicines to control blood sugar, reveals latest figures of the National Family Health Survey 5. This means more than 75 lakh people in Vidarbha take BP pills and about 40 lakh control their blood sugar with the help of medicines. Referred to as lifestyle diseases and silent killers, both diabetes and hypertension have reached almost every household. Realizing their impact, NFHS for the first time included the blood sugar level and blood pressure as vital parameters in its questionnaire. According to this survey, 49.5% people in Maharashtra were having elevated blood pressure (Systolic ≥140mm of Hg and/or Diastolic ≥90mm of Hg) and/or are taking medicine to control it. At the same time 29.9% population of the state has blood sugar level high or very high (≥ 140 mg/dl) and/or are taking medicines to control blood sugar level. Thus prevalence of these non-communicable diseases is less in Vidarbha. National figures of these diseases are yet to be announced. Further analysis of Vidarbha figures has many surprises. Washim, which is dominated by rural population has highest 43% population taking medicines for BP control. It is followed by Chandrapur, Bhandara and Gondia, all above 40%. Wardha (31%) is lowest in Vidarbha. As far as medication for sugar control is concerned, Nagpur leads Vidarbha with 23.5% population taking insulin tablets/injections or other drugs. Washim, at 17.2%, has least prevalence of diabetes. “Earlier, we used to worry about 50-60 years age group. But for Indians, 35-40 years is the new watch age for hypertension which is 15 years younger than western population,” said cardiologist Dr Amar Amale. “Even if you are in your 30s or in 50s, warning signs should not be ignored,” he said. Commenting on Vidarbha having fewer patients on sugar control medication compared to Maharashtra, diabetologist Dr Sunil Gupta said many people here were still unaware of their sugar status. “Our surveys in and around Nagpur show many more people have high to very high blood sugar levels but they don’t know it,” he said. Dr Gupta said apart from taking medicines to control sugar, diabetes teaches people to follow ideal routine, diet control and disciplined lifestyle. BLOOD PRESSURE District % of adults taking medicine to control blood pressure Women Men Total Nagpur 21.3 18.3 39.6 Akola 19.4 19.1 38.5 Amravati 19.8 18.7 38.5 Bhandara 21.8 19.3 41.1 Chandrapur 20.7 20.6 41.3 Gadchiroli 17 17.2 34.2 Gondia 21.8 18.9 40.7 Wardha 17.1 14 31.1 Washim 21.9 21 42.9 Yavatmal 17.2 18.2 35.4 Buldhana NA NA NA Vidarbha total 19.8 18.53 38.33 MAHARASHTRA 23.8 25.7 49.5 THOSE WHO TAKE MEDICINE FOR SUGAR CONTROL District % of adults taking medicine to control blood sugar level Women Men Total Nagpur 10.7 12.8 23.5 Akola 9.6 9.8 19.4 Amravati 10.3 13.1 23.4 Bhandara 10.5 10.1 20.6 Chandrapur 8.8 11.3 20.1 Gadchiroli 7.3 10.3 17.6 Gondia 7.9 10.2 18.1 Wardha 9 10.4 19.4 Washim 8.1 9.1 17.2 Yavatmal 10.6 10.7 21.3 Buldhana NA NA NA Vidarbha total 9.28 10.78 20.6 MAHARASHTRA 14.6 15.3 29.9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/38-adults-in-vid-take-bp-pills-20-on-drugs-for-sugar-control/articleshow/79803467.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Engineering units to directly buy materials from SAIL, Vizag Steel||Coimbatore: Associations of engineering industries have decided to form a consortium to purchase raw materials directly from manufacturers like SAIL and Vizag Steel to minimize the impact of price rice and meet the growing demand. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting that industrial associations held with government officials and representatives of SAIL and Vizag Steel on Thursday. M V Ramesh Babu, president, Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said, “Usually, the price of raw materials remains stable without much fluctuations for two to three months. So, we could afford to manufacture and handover the products for the quoted price. But now the raw materials’ price changes every few hours. With the fluctuation, it is difficult to manufacture a product for the quoted price, because by the time we fix an order and purchase raw materials, the price would increase.” To become less dependent on traders, he said they would form a consortium to procure raw materials from SAIL to be distributed among the member industries. “We will place orders after obtaining requirement details from the member industries. SAIL wants us to make a minimum purchase of 400 tonnes, which is huge.” Babu said they would also request the government to suspend import and anti-dumping duties on raw materials, and stall export for at least three months, so that availability of raw materials in the country would increase and price would drop automatically. “If the issue is not sorted out within 15 to 20 days, it will become unmanageable. Some foundries have already stopped production and it has started to affect engineering industries.” R Soundar Kumar, president, Coimbatore Wet Grinders and Accessories Manufacturers’ Association, said the production of raw materials has dropped by 60% because of the rise in prices and the lockdown. “Hundreds of end-product makers and spare parts manufacturing companies have either stopped production or shut down their business. About 6,000 to 7,000 workers have been affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/engineering-units-to-directly-buy-materials-from-sail-vizag-steel/articleshow/79804386.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Locals protest as water flow from Harsul pond causes flooding||AURANGABAD: The continuous flow of water from Harsul dam is keeping the low-lying areas flooded and is affecting the streets leading to over 2,000 houses in over a dozen colonies, including the illegal ones that have cropped up on the downstream side of the pond. The stagnant water in some areas is also posing a threat of waterborne diseases to local residents. Local residents are blaming the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC ) for turning a blind eye to the continuous flow of water from the historical Harsul pond. A resident Sanjay Pawar said, “There are leakages in the walls of the dam.” The locals fear that failing to repair the leakages will not only drain the pond of water, but will eventually deprive them of regular water supply. However, the civic body authorities have refuted the claims about leakages in Harsul dam. City engineer Sakharam Panzade told TOI, “The houses that have come up illegally in these areas are facing problem.” Echoing him, water supplies engineer Hemant Kolhe said, “The water that is entering the residential colonies and areas is combination of seepage drain of Harsul dam and there is an illegal sand washing set up.” Citing one of the recent surveys carried out by the civic body, Kolhe said that majority of the water that is entering in these colonies, of which some of them have come up on the nullah meant for overflowing dam water, is from the illegal sand washing set up. Civic body officials have said that work for laying a pipeline to drain out the flowing water has already been sanctioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/locals-protest-as-water-flow-from-harsul-pond-causes-flooding/articleshow/79802147.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Stockbroker duped of over Rs 14 lakh||AURANGABAD: An unidentified suspect duped a city-based stockbroker of Rs 14.17 lakh on the pretext of getting him a hefty loan. The victim, Rahul Kabra (29), transferred this amount to the suspects through 143 transactions, which he made on different mobile-based valets and depositing in the given bank account numbers. Police said Kabra was expecting to make extra money by purchasing shares that were taking a nosedive. As per the complaint, in May, he was looking for a private moneylender online, who would lend him a considerable amount. He contacted one person, following which, the suspect called him on May 13. The suspect, who identified himself as Rocky Khanna, collected a series of documents from Kabra including income tax returns. Then the suspects kept asking him to deposit money to get the loan. Ghanshyam Sonawne, the assistant inspector of Pundalik Nagar, said, “When Kabra refused to deposit money, the suspect would tell him that the earlier deposited money will not be refunded for aborting the loan process.” AS suspect stopped answering his phone, Kabra realized he was duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stockbroker-duped-of-over-rs-14l/articleshow/79802175.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 19, 2020||Surat||Shortage spikes nylon yarn prices||SURAT: With the central government imposing anti-dumping duty on caprolactum — a raw material used in manufacture of nylon yarn — prices of nylon filament yarn have gone up by Rs 50 per kilo in the local market, giving powerloom weavers a tough time. Industry sources said that the Gujarat State Fertiliser Corporation (GSFC) is the sole producer of caprolatum and supplies it to many domestic spinners producing nylon textile grade chips. These manufacturers, in turn, produce nylon textile yarn. Surat is a major consumer of nylon filament yarn for producing various garments and other applications. It’s textile sector consumes 10,000 metric tonnes every month, which accounts for about 70% of the total consumption in the country. Vinay Agarwal, nylon yarn manufacturer told TOI, “There are many nylon spinners located near Surat who either buy caprolactum from the GSFC to produce nylon chips or import these chips from China and Taiwan. Recently, due to shortage of caprolactum and importing chips from Taiwan too is hampered they announced a major shutdown of a month’s time.” Agarwal further said that even the GSFC informed their capro buyers of cutting supplies by 25%. Another factor adding to price rise is the skyrocketing of container shipping charges which has risen almost by eight times due to shortage of vessels and containers, he added. Surces stated that nylon fabric manufacturers are struggling to increase fabric prices owing to poor demand in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/shortage-spikes-nylon-yarn-prices/articleshow/79802619.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||58% seats still vacant after Std XI CAP round 3||Nagpur: Even after three rounds of Std XI admissions, 58% of the seats in the city are still vacant. The next phase, known as ‘special round’, is scheduled from December 20. This opens up a possibility of seats in almost half of city colleges remaining vacant this year. Ravindra Fadnavis, who represents Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM), an association of trusts that operate one or more education institutes, says this is a result of coaching industry taking over the admission process. “Seats are remaining vacant because of two things introduced by the coaching classes. First is the en-masse admissions that would happen in Nagpur when online admission process was not implemented here fully. Students were herded into specific colleges with whom the coaching classes have a tie-up. Following this, number of seats kept on increasing in colleges even though admissions were not going up at that level,” said Fadnavis. Nagpur adopted the ‘fully online’ CAP system in 2017-18 session. “Now, because rural colleges are not part of CAP, most of the admissions are being done there. These colleges are located just outside city limits and are thus not under CAP’s jurisdiction. It’s easier for coaching classes to get students admitted there,” said Fadnavis. MRSSM is one of the petitioners before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court where they have prayed for rural colleges to also be included in CAP. In their petition before the court, MRSSM had provided statistics of vacant seats in Nagpur city colleges for the last three years. “Around 18,000 seats on average find no takers in the city,” said Fadnavis. As of now, just over 34,000 seats are vacant. An education official said these numbers could be covered up to “a great extent” during the special round. “Lot of admissions do happen then as colleges surrender their quota seats to the general pool. This results in seats in top colleges being once again available and admission figures go up,” said the official. NUMBER GAME Seats available | 57,190 Admissions done | 24,598||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/58-seats-still-vacant-after-std-xi-cap-round-3/articleshow/79803451.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||Rally champion only crowned if half WRC season completedtttttt||Paris, Dec 17, 2020 (AFP) - After a World Rally Championship shrivelled by the coronavirus pandemic, the World Motorsport Council said on Thursday that in future at least half the season would have to be completed for a title to be awarded. At a meeting hosted from Geneva on Wednesday by Jean Todt, the president of the International Automobile Federation (FIA), the council also decided to award points from the closing power stage to teams as well as drivers "to add an additional dimension to the manufacturers' battle." The original 2020 WRC calendar contained 14 rallies. The first three were raced, although Sweden was curtailed by a lack of snow. Chile was dropped because of political unrest and nine of the remaining 11 were cancelled because of the pandemic as was an added race in Belgium. Hastily organised rallies in Estonia and at Monza took the total to seven. "To ensure the value of the WRC championship, at least half of the events scheduled on the initial calendar will have to be held for titles to be awarded," said the statement. Of the 12 events scheduled for 2021, the Rally of Sweden in February has already been cancelled due to the pandemic. But the WRC has said that it has several rallies not currently on the calendar as potential backups: Turkey, Latvia, Belgium, Argentina, Greece and Monza. The WRC has regularly awarded bonus points for the closing stage of rallies since 2011, with five for the winner down to one for the fifth place car. While points for the overall race position, from 25 for the winner down to one for the 10th place car, are the same for drivers and manufactures only drivers have collected championship points in the power stage. That will change in 2021 with manufacturers' potentially awarded the same points as their drivers, but teams will have to nominate which two of their drivers can collect points. pel/pb/nr||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rally-champion-only-crowned-if-half-wrc-season-completedtttttt/articleshow/79778561.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Dumper bins on vacant plots turn Madurai neighbourhoods untidy||Madurai: Madurai Corporation’s move to place garbage bins on vacant plots in the city is backfiring as people have been turning these plots into dumping ground by mindlessly throwing garbage there. Nakshathira Nagar in ward 3 is one such example that has been struggling with this menace for nearly eight months now. Dr M Shanmugavel, a resident of Nakshathira Nagar, said that their residential area comprising just four streets was clean till the corporation decided to install a garbage bin on the vacant plot in fourth street, behind the SBI building. “This is a classic example of how a clean area can be made dirty by the corporation themselves. Once the bin was placed some textile units and a clinic in the area decided to use it as a common dumpyard, he said.The residents had requested the corporation to lift the bin in August as the residents got used to using it as a dumpyard and it was filled with trash within hours. When it rains the menace becomes worse as stray animals rummage through it apart from attracting flies and mosquitoes.“We are ready to maintain the area clean if the corporation comes forward to remove the bin. It is not just garbage from our area but many other places including sanitary workers dump waste collected here because they have very small vehicles for garbage collection,” said S Thenmozhi, a resident.The residents said that they filed a complaint with the grievance redressal cell and within a few hours they receive an SMS saying the problem has been rectified, when in reality it is not. Corporation sources said that action is initiated to clean such places whenever it is brought to their notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dumper-bins-on-vacant-plots-turn-madurai-neighbourhoods-untidy/articleshow/79805861.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||Ram Nath Kovind to arrive in Goa for first-ever presidential Liberation-Day visit||PANAJI: President Ram Nath Kovind will arrive in Goa on Saturday for a two-day visit and attend a cultural event to celebrate the commencements of the 60th year of the state’s Liberation. Kovind will arrive at INS Hansa at 1:05pm, and will be received by chief minister Pramod Sawant, protocol minister Mauvin Godinho and governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Sawant said that the arrival of the president is a matter of honour and no well-meaning, patriotic citizen would ask him not to come. “Kovind was invited to be here for Liberation day celebrations, and he agreed to come,” said Sawant. From INS Hansa, Kovind will be flown by helicopter to the temporary helipad at Goa University. He will then move to Raj Bhavan, Dona Paula. At 5:40pm, will arrive at Azad Maidan to lay a wreath at the martyrs’ memorial along with Sawant, Ayush minister Shripad Naik and Koshyari. He will then leave for the state-organised cultural function at Dayanand Bandodkar ground next to Kala Academy at 6pm. Around 400 people have been invited for the programme. The welcome song will be performed by ‘Bangrale Goem’, a local institution. Later, a Konkani-Marathi song will be showcased and a 10-minute documentary will be screened. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, no formal state dinner will be held. On December 20, the president has a few personal visits and is scheduled to leave from INS Hansa around 5:30pm. Meanwhile, Sawant on Thursday appealed to freedom fighters in Goa to attend the celebrations. He said that commemorating six decades of Goa’s Liberation is a significant event, and that we are tasting the fruits of freedom due to the supreme sacrifices of our freedom fighters and martyrs. Following criticism from the opposition that freedom fighters had not received invites from the government, a government statement said that it, through the department of information and publicity, sent invitation cards to freedom fighters. However, those who have not received them can use their freedom fighters photo identity card to gain entry at both Azad Maidan and the Dayanand Bandodkar ground. The chief minister has appealed to freedom fighters to reach at the venue before 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kovind-to-arrive-in-goa-for-first-ever-presidential-l-day-visit/articleshow/79805864.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Many aided schools closed against GR on contractual workers||Nagpur: Many aided school across the state on Friday unanimously decided to stop online classes, effectively shutting schools for the day, in protest against a government resolution (GR) which says Class IV employees can only be taken on a contractual basis and not on officials rolls. All major organizations and unions representing teachers, principals and trustees backed the closure. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) general secretary Ashok Gavhankar said, “This GR is a step towards privatization of education by eliminating all government posts. We demand that this GR must be immediately cancelled.” School Headmasters Charitable Association’s secretary Dilip Bose said, “Schools cannot function without Class IV employees. And bringing all new hirings on contract is unwarranted and not conducive to productivity.” Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal Sarkaryavah Ravindra Fadnavis said, “We have strongly opposed the GR issued by the government which effectively finishes off the posts of peons etc. If hired on contract, their pay will be very less that we won’t get good candidates.” Shikshak Bharti secretary Sapan Nehrotra said the state government has to change its decision else a strong campaign will be launched across the state. A school peon’s post is one of a multi-tasker. He is expected to clean rooms, ring the bell, open and lock the campus, manage filing system, coordinate with education department and board office as well with pay unit for salary bills. Gavhankar said, “This means the person handling this job needs to well versed in government rules, educated enough to understand the GRs, circulars etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-aided-schools-closed-against-gr-on-contractual-workers/articleshow/79803039.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 19, 2020||Goa||When the Navy’s Operation Chutney evicted Portugal from Anjadiv||PANAJI: While the Indian Army played a major role in Operation Vijay, which culminated in Goa’s Liberation on December 19, 1961, the two days of action were the first taste of combat for the Indian Navy post-independence. About to come into its own, the Navy decided to dish out some strong lessons to the Portuguese. It started with Operation Chutney, which began as a surveillance patrol off Goa’s coast, but also helped prepare naval forces for an all-out attack on Anjadiv Island. The attack on the Portuguese garrison on the island, which is located off the coast of Canacona, was necessitated after Portuguese soldiers resorted to unprovoked firing on Indian fishing vessels and a steamship, Sabarmati. “The Navy’s role in Goa’s Liberation saw the force receiving its first Kirti Chakra,” said Commodore Srikant Kesnur in an article for a naval journal. Rear Admiral Arun Auditto and Commander Noel Kelman earned gallantry awards for their role in evicting the Portuguese from Anjadiv, but Kelman’s heroics helped flush out the Portuguese from their fortified positions. But more of this later. On December 1, as India finalised its ground assault plan, the Navy began a surveillance and patrolling exercise deploying two frigates, INS Betwa and INS Beas, to patrol 13km off Goa’s coast. Operation Chutney was on. Based on intelligence gathered by the INS Betwa and INS Beas, the armed forces fine tuned Operation Vijay. The Indian Army would launch a ground attack while the naval task force was given the mission to capture Anjadiv, providing fire support and blockading the entire Goan coast. The capture of Anjadiv was considered the primary task, says Rear Admiral Satyindra Singh in the book Blueprint to Bluewater. The operation to capture Anjadiv was carried out by sending landing parties from INS Trishul and INS Mysore. Rear Admiral Arun Auditto was the officer-in-charge of the naval landing party as a young lieutenant. “I took charge of the first wave of the assault party from Trishul, and we went peacefully towards the beach, and I began to believe that ‘surrender business’ was indeed true,” recounts Auditto, now 86. “We landed at the beach, took position around the beach and the boats were sent back to bring the second wave.” Fifteen minutes into the assault, around 7.45am, as the second wave of the landing party was approaching Anjadiv, a Portuguese gun-post opened fire. “Suddenly, all hell broke loose as sprays of machine-gun bullets opened up on the boat. Kelman, with great presence of mind, continued towards the beach, zigzagging the boat to counter the accuracy of the machine-gun fire. A few minutes later, by the time the boat beached, it had been riddled with bullets, three of his sailors were killed and he himself took two bullets, in both his legs,” said Auditto, who resides in Mumbai with his family. For his heroics, Kelman was awarded the Ashoka Chakra, second class, now called the Kirti Chakra. “He was the first naval officer to win a gallantry award in post-Independence India,” said Kesnur. After the parties from Trishul and Mysore had withdrawn to the beach, the Navy bombarded the island, forcing the Portuguese to surrender. Auditto’s landing party was instructed to take the prisoners of war and bring them on board the Mysore in boats. The Indian Navy’s role saw the Indian tricolour was hoisted on top of a flagstaff on the island on December 18 afternoon, a day before Portuguese governor general Manuel Antonio Vassalo e Silva signed the instrument of surrender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/when-the-navys-op-chutney-evicted-portugal-from-anjadiv/articleshow/79805877.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 14 booked for holding bull taming event||MADURAI: A case has been registered against 14 members of a committee in Alanganallur that conducted a bull taming event without prior permission and violation of Covid-19 protocol. Vadamadu manjavirattu, a version of the bull taming where the bulls are unleashed into an open space and the youth try to tame the animals was organised by the committee on Thursday. It was organised as part of a festival at the Kaliyugamai Ayyanar temple in Pothumbu village. The event was inaugurated by Sholavandan MLA K Manickam and thousands of people gathered in the area to witness the game.  As the lockdown is still in effect and large gatherings are banned, the Alaganallur police registered a case against 14 members of the game’s organising committee. They were charged with violating the ban order and also not wearing masks as per Covid-19 norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-booked-for-holding-bull-taming-event/articleshow/79805867.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Daily recoveries exceed cases again, 16 more dead in Pune||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 recoveries climbed above new cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region again on Friday, after a day’s slip. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated though new infections continued to remain on the higher side in the municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the rural areas’ discharges helped the overall tally stay above the new infections. The PMC limits reported 298 cases and 276 discharges in the last 24 hours, while the PCMC areas added 122 new patients and 98 recoveries. In the rural areas, 228 patients were declared cured on Friday as against 130 testing positive for Covid-19. The overall recoveries in PMR stood at 602 on Friday as against 550 new infections. With this, the total recoveries in PMR climbed above 3.37 lakh, while total caseload jumped above 3.55 lakh. This kept the recovery rate almost on par with the national average at 95%. The region recorded 16 deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, which included seven fatalities from the PCMC area, five from the PMC and four from the rural areas. This took the region’s death toll to 8,683. Of these, 54.4% casualties have been recorded in the PMC limits. The region continued to conduct over 8,000 tests even on Friday. A total of 8,203 samples were tested in the last 24 hours in the region, which included 3,658 samples from the PMC limits and 2,510 from the PCMC limits. The rural areas conducted 2,035 tests. PMR’s active cases tally reached 8,872 on Friday evening. As many as 6,408 patients were in home isolation in the region and 2,464 admitted in various hospitals. The PMC areas had 4,908 patients in home quarantine, highest in the region, followed by the PCMC limits (911). The rural areas had lowest number of patients in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-recoveries-exceed-cases-again-16-more-dead/articleshow/79804453.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Case against in-laws for not giving promised assets to woman||Madurai: The Karupayurani police have registered a case against the in-laws of a woman whose husband, affected by AIDS, died by suicide. The 25-year-old woman in her complaint had accused her late husband’s parents and siblings of going back on their promise and refusing to give her their property.According to the FIR registered on Thursday, the in-laws had hidden the fact that their son was affected by HIV and got her married to him in September, 2016. The woman, who came to know about it at a later stage questioned her husband and his parents for hiding it from her. They apologised to her and also promised to give her a share of their property.Since she was pregnant she had gone to her parent’s place. Meanwhile, on March 10, 2017, her husband committed suicide by self-immolation. The woman claimed that her in-laws did not inform her about her husband’s death and even after three years they had not kept the promise of giving her their property.Based on the directions of the additional mahila court, the in-laws who are residents of Varichur were booked under sections 498(a) (husband or his relative subjecting woman to cruelty), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 417 (punishment for cheating) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/case-against-in-laws-for-not-giving-promised-assets-to-woman/articleshow/79805880.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Branch manager among 5 arrested for robbery at gold finance company||WARDHA: Within six hours police cracked the Muthoot Fincorp robbery case and nabbed five persons, including the company’s branch manager, in less than 14 hours after the incident, said superintendent of police (SP) Prashant Holkar. Police have also recovered 2.5kg gold out of stolen 9kg, and seized six mobile phones, a pistol and a car, total worth Rs4.75 crore, and cash Rs3.10 lakh. All the five persons were put under arrest on Friday. According to Holkar, the robbery was plotted by branch manager Mahesh Shrirang along with his four friends. “All the five accused hail from Yavatmal district,” he said. Preliminary investigation revealed that the crime was committed to repay a debt owed by one of the accused. The robbery took place on Thursday morning. One of the accused posing as a courier boy entered the company’s office at Bade Square here and snatched gold and cash at gunpoint. Police immediately started a round of interrogation and the needle of suspicion pointed towards the branch manager. “During questioning, Shrirang gave vague answers and confessed to the crime as soon as the police did some tough talking,” said the SP. The SP further said Shrirang was present at the spot at the time of robbery “so that there would be no difficulty in carrying out the crime”. Shrirang was rounded-up after questioning. It is learnt, Shrirang and other accused, identified as Kushal Agashe, Manish Gholave, Jeevan Giradkar and Kunal Shendre, are childhood friends. According to the SP, Agashe was losing money in his medical business and was in a debt. “The accused have told police that they planned the robbery due to debt owing to loss in business,” he said. “Agashe was nabbed in Wardha while the remaining three accused were held while they were trying to escape to Yavatmal,” said the SP. The robbery plan was hatched over two weeks. “We are finding out if more persons are involved in the crime,” said the SP who announced a reward of Rs35,000 for the investigating team. The reward was presented to the team in the evening by state cabinet minister Prajakt Tanpure who was in Wardha on Friday. “The stolen gold was unaudited. So, there is a strong possibility of irregularities in the administrative work,” said Holkar while assuring the depositors that their valuables will be recovered. A source said Shrirang was earlier working in Shriram Finance in Yavatmal where he was accused in a cheating case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/branch-manager-among-5-arrested-for-robbery-at-gold-finance-company/articleshow/79804454.cms||Balwant Dhage
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Youngest winner in contention for panchayat prez post||Kottayam: Reshma Mariam Roy, the youngest candidate to win local body polls in the state, is on the verge of creating history again as the 21-year-old is in contention for the post of panchayat president. The CPM is expected to take a final decision on the president of Aruvappulam grama panchayat in Pathanamthitta district on Saturday. The LDF candidate representing the CPM had turned 21 on November 18, a day before the deadline for filing nominations on November 19. CPM had fielded Reshma in ward 11 aiming to wrest the seat from the Congress. Reshma accomplished the mission with a comfortable margin of 70 votes. The LDF has got nine members in the 15-member panchayat council. The post of the president is reserved for women and there are five CPM women members, including Reshma. The council is a women-dominated one as there are a total of nine women in the 15-member council. Meanwhile, Reshma refused to comment on her chances of becoming the president and thereby becoming one of the youngest heads of a local body in the country. “It will be the party (CPM) that will choose the president. I have nothing to say about it,” she said. The panchayat comes under Konni area committee of the CPM. The committee will have to choose the president from the five women members. However, the name will have to be cleared by the district committee of the CPM. Reshma was an active SFI member while doing BBA in VNS College of Arts and Science in Konni. She is the district secretariat member of the SFI and district committee member of the DYFI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/youngest-winner-in-contention-for-panchayat-prez-post/articleshow/79803071.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Soil fertility, quality going downhill in district, says expert||Coimbatore: With organic carbon content lesser than the ideal percentage, along with disproportionate ratio of nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium (NPK), fertility and quality of soil continue to degrade in the district. While soil quality has eroded in Sulur, Sultanpet, Annur and SS Kulam, it was found good in Anaimalai and Pollachi, said S Arun, agriculture officer at the soil testing laboratory. “More the organic carbon in soil, better the productivity and fertility. Ideally, organic carbon content should be more than 0.5%, but the district’s average is 0.35%. At several places, it is as low as 0.2% and in certain places like Anaimalai and foothills, it is found to be above 1%,” he said. “The district’s average organic carbon content in the 70s was above 1.” “Similarly, the ideal ratio of NPK macronutrients in soil for plants to grow healthy is 4:2:1. But, due to excess use of urea, the content of nitrogen is high. In 2019-20, NPK ratio in soil was 221ppm, 14.66ppm and 700ppm respectively. As much as 70% farmers use just urea, which leaches into underground water. Also, soil at most of the places is deficient of micronutrients like zinc, copper and iron,” Arun said. Some of the important factors leading to degradation of soil quality include rapid urbanization, biomass burning and unscientific usage of fertilizers. “It is high-time we take measures to prevent further degradation. One of the important things that needs to be followed is site, crop and yield-specific nutrients management. Based on the level of nutrients in soil and the requirement of crops, nutrients should be added externally in right proportion.” Awareness among farmers has increased in the last few years, thanks to the programmes conducted by the agriculture department. “Farmers are testing soil to know the nutrients level and get suggestions from experts. The number of such farmers has increased by 25% this year. As many as 506 farmers tested soil this year,” Arun said. “On an average, 15,000 soil samples are tested in the laboratory a year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/soil-fertility-quality-going-downhill-in-district-says-expert/articleshow/79804459.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Tourism sector saw up to Rs 7,200 crore loss due to Covid||PANAJI: The state’s tourism industry is roughly estimated to have suffered losses to the tune of Rs 2,000-Rs 7,200 crore due to the pandemic, and job losses in the range of 35-58%, according to a survey conducted by the government. The industry’s direct contribution is estimated at 16.43% of the state GDP, and about 35% of the population is directly employed in the sector, the survey states. The report covered the period from April 10 to May 25 and included upscale starred hotels to guesthouses, shacks to taxi drivers, independent guides and informal trades. Titled ‘Coping with Covid-19: Survival and revival of Goa’s tourism industry’, it was prepared by Goa tourism, GTDC, and KPMG, and released by chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday. The tourism sector slowly started reopening from September and has gained some momentum in the past two months after a surge in domestic arrivals. Most starred hotels are back on their feet, but in the absence of charter tourists, many smaller hotels are likely to remain shut for the entire season. The findings are expected to help the government understand the challenges posed by the pandemic. The survey, the government said, has helped it to streamline unregulated hotels/accommodations to commence activities. Also, Covid-19-specific standard operating procedures (SOPs) were developed as part of the report and implemented by the tourism department, enabling the sector to recommence activities in a safe manner. Since all protocols were followed in a strict manner, it also helped do away with mandatory testing and quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-sector-saw-up-to-rs-7-2k-cr-loss-due-to-covid/articleshow/79805879.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra's no-cost treatment scheme extended till January 31||PUNE: The Maharashtra government has extended its free treatment scheme for a host of ailments, including Covid-19, by three months to January 31. Health activists have, however, urged the state authorities to let it apply for the whole of next year in the wake of the pandemic and resultant lockdowns. The scheme comes under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and people can avail its benefit irrespective of their financial status. The activists said the financial losses incurred due to lockdowns have necessitated the need for free treatment for all kinds of diseases, including Covid-19, for at least a year more for every citizen living in the state, irrespective of financial riders. “We want the state government to extend free treatment benefit to all citizens of Maharashtra till December 31, 2021,” health activist Abhijit More said. Despite offering free treatment, the scheme garnered a poor response from people in the Pune Metropolitan Region. In October, the Pune district administration had issued show-cause notices to 52 empanelled hospitals for ‘not doing enough to extend the scheme benefit to Covid-19 patients under the scheme’. The administration also recommended de-empanelment of six private hospitals in the PMR over public grievances. Besides, many big private hospitals opted out of the scheme for ‘ridiculously low rates’ offered by the government. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has also expressed his displeasure over the low execution of the health scheme at the 78 empanelled private hospitals in the PMR. To tide over the crisis, the district administration had also roped in office-bearers of Indian Medical Association (IMA) to streamline the execution of the state scheme in the PMR. “We were asked to look into the issues. But there has been no further communication from the district officials,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA Hospital Board of India, Pune branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/states-no-cost-treatment-scheme-extended-till-jan-31/articleshow/79804436.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 19, 2020||Pune||Lack of data clouds vax use on pregnant women||PUNE: Experts from various apex institutes across the country stressed that pregnant women might have to wait longer for the Covid-19 vaccine shots because of lack of clarity on the safety aspect while using them on this group. Epidemiologist Dr Samiran Panda from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) told TOI that pregnant women cannot be risked by giving the vaccine as the trials conducted did not include this group. “The pregnant women were not part of any trials conducted by any of the vaccine manufacturers. So, this group obviously cannot be included for vaccination from the medical perspective as one would be putting the child in the womb at risk. Unless there is enough data, this vulnerable group cannot be given the vaccine,” he said. A study published by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists recommended that Covid-19 vaccines should not be withheld from pregnant women meeting the criteria for vaccination based on the recommended priority groups, but there was clear acceptance that safety data on the use of the vaccines during pregnancy were unavailable currently. Vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang said pregnant and lactating women were usually left out of trials because no one wants to risk any damage to mother or baby. She said usually inactivated and subunit vaccines were considered safe for pregnant women, but one would not know about new vaccine platforms like nucleic acid vaccines and viral vectored vaccines unless tested in pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lack-of-data-clouds-vax-use-on-pregnant-women/articleshow/79804462.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Dilapidated buildings pose risk to TNHB unit residents||Coimbatore: The dilapidated condition of buildings has become a cause for concern for residents of 960 apartments of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB), Singanllur unit. A month ago, the portico of a house collapsed. Fortunately, no one was hurt. As a result, residents fear that the TNHB could demolish the 30-year-old building.They also fear that TNHB may increase the height of the four-storeyed apartments to 10-storeyed andsell off the remaining open space for a profit or build more apartments in the open space. This move will reduce the residents’ ownership of the land and make the place more congested, they said.The apartment units were built in an area of over 17.55 acres in ward 64. “The buildings are dilapidated, walls have cracks and a month back a portico also collapsed,” Tamilmani Pichimuthu, a resident, said. “Last year, deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam inspected it and ordered that the buildings have to be renovated or repaired. However, TNHB seems to be using this opportunity to make a profit out of it by cheating us over our share of space,” he added.V Manoharan, another resident, said they heard that TNHB has plans to build 10 storey apartments spread over 4 acres, and move all the 960 existing apartment owners there. “They plan to sell off the remaining 11 acres or so for a profit or build larger higher income group apartments in the remaining land. We are against being crammed into 10-storeyed apartments because it reduces our ownership of the land, reduces the open space we have around for all our happy and sad occasions and we are scared that when a three storey apartment can crumble in 30 years, how they plan to maintain a 10-storeyed apartment,” he asked.The residents demand that TNHB immediately renovate or rebuild their apartments, before people get injured, but in the same positions. “If they want to make a profit or get back the costs of renovating our apartments, let them increase the height of our buildings and sell off the upper storeys for a profit or to new allottees. But we will not agree to be moved into higher floors or storeys than where we are now,” Manoharan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dilapidated-buildings-pose-risk-to-tnhb-unit-residents/articleshow/79804470.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala local body elections: BJP claims to have made most ground||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even as political leaders and self-styled analysts continue to work overtime to deconstruct the local-body election results, BJP claimed that it was the only party that made considerable gains in the democratic exercise. BJP state president K Surendran, who raised allegations against both CPM and Congress for engaging in widespread cross-voting to hamstring his party, justified the assertion by citing NDA’s improved tally. “We increased our grama panchayat seats to 1,182 from 933 and block panchayat wards to 37 from seven. The number of seats in corporations increased from 236 to 320. There was big surge in favour of NDA in Kochi and Kollam corporations. BJP finished second in Kollam by winning 15 seats. If UDF and LDF had not engaged in cross-voting and engineered communal polarization BJP’s performance would have been much more spectacular,” he said. According to BJP sources, the strands of information from the local level being stitched together indicate the BJP-NDA finished second in at least 2,500 wards. The party now puts the number of seats won by candidates who fought the election on the party symbol at 1,600. The figures would be higher once details of victorious BJP-backed independents emerge. BDJS, too, won a number of seats, though its final figures are yet to get reflected in details published by the state election commission. BJP leaders claim the party, though it won just a fraction of the close to 22,000 seats to which elections were held, has emerged as a decisive political force in at least one-third of local bodies. NDA has a mandate to rule two municipal corporations, 23 panchayats and is the main opposition in Thiruvananthapuram corporation. Moreover, it would be a crucial factor in at least 150 local bodies, including 14 municipalities where neither UDF nor LDF has a clear majority. BJP’s vote share was 13.98% in the 2015 local-body election. This time, the party believes it would cross 17%, at least by adding votes polled by party-backed independents. However, a clearer picture on vote share would be available only after the election commission officially announces the same.90||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bjp-claims-to-have-made-most-ground/articleshow/79803090.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Madurai||South TN sees 154 cases, central 100||Madurai/Trichy: After remaining below 150 over the last five days, fresh Covid-19 cases rose to 154 in the southern districts on Friday, but no deaths were reported in the region. The number of active cases continued to climb to 1,232, the highest in more than a week. The central region comprising eight districts registered 100 cases according to the day’s health bulletin taking the regional tally to 72,604. Two deaths were reported after the toll remained nil for several days, adding up to a total of 909 so far. With the region discharging 70,993 patients already, it has 702 active cases . Madurai with 39 fresh cases recorded the highest in the south, followed by Kanyakumari (25) and Tirunelveli (20). The other districts recorded less than 20 cases each, of which four recorded less than 10 each. The recent increase in cases in Madurai reflected in its total active cases going up to 314. All other districts in the region have less than 200 active cases each. Among the central districts, Trichy recorded the highest number of fresh cases of 27 taking its tally to 13,857. It had the highest active cases of 156. Thanjavur had the second highest daily cases of 23 while Perambalur recorded no fresh cases. Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai registered fresh cases in single digit. A 60-year-old woman from Thanjavur who was admitted to a private hospital on December 14 with complaints of fever and cough for seven days and difficulty in breathing for four days died on Friday. The other death was of a 65-year-old woman from Tiruvarur at government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur on December 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-sees-154-cases-central-100/articleshow/79805881.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Pharmacies trim N95 mask stock after government price cap||PUNE: The price cap on N95 masks in Maharashtra has prompted chemist shops to reduce the stock of these face covers, citing unviability. The move is, however, not expected to cause any shortage or inconvenience to consumers. The Maharashtra government had earlier this year fixed the maximum retail price for N95 and double and triple layer masks. The N95 masks are now being sold at Rs 12.60 a piece. A senior Food and Drug Administration (FDA) official said, “After FDA crackdown on medical stores selling N95 masks at higher prices, some stores stopped selling them on the premise that there were no profits in selling them. When the prices of these masks were high, they purchased stocks at those prices. Later, when the price cap was implemented, they couldn’t sell these masks at a good price margin, leading to a loss for medical stores.” The official said N95 mask manufacturers began selling limited stocks of these masks within Maharashtra and found it more viable to sell them in other states, which do not have a mask price cap rule. Though FDA is cracking down on medical shops selling surgical and N95 masks at a price higher than the cap, there is no mechanism to check other establishments like grocery stores and stationary shops selling these masks at a higher price. The FDA recently wrote to the legal metrology department to take action against such shops. Anil Belkar, secretary of the Chemists Association of Pune district, said, “The government should announce that people buy N95 masks only from pharmacies. Even cloth masks being sold at various places should have a price cap.”  A medical store representative in Koregaon Park said, “Selling an N95 mask at Rs 13 is unviable. We have had customers doubting the quality of the mask after we started selling it as per the price cap. With a margin of 50 paise on one mask, retailers just do not want to take all the trouble to buy them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pharmacies-trim-n95-mask-stock-after-govt-price-cap/articleshow/79804468.cms||Neha Madaan
December 19, 2020||Pune||Running now, test of patience in metamorphosed shopping malls||The “rush-to-be-first” has gone into hiding. Masked visitors and establishment owners appear extremely patient. From entry points to washrooms and from escalators to food courts, hygiene takes the front seat. Malls reopened in August after remaining shut for over four months because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. Traditional Test cricket appears to be in play at the city malls since then. Batting legend Sachin Tendulkar had prescribed the Test cricket approach towards battling the Covid-19 earlier this year. Till Diwali, malls were extra cautious like batsmen in the first hour of the opening day of a Test match. Setu app was mandatory for visitors. UGC vice-chairperson Bhushan Patwardhan visited the Pavilion mall on Senapati Bapat Road before Diwali during his visit to the city. “I was impressed when the guard at the entry point insisted on checking my health status on the Setu app.”’ Before Christmas, the second hour of the pre-lunch session of the first day of a Test match seems to be in play at malls. “From extra cautious, they are now cautious. Thermal checking and other health scanning measures are intact. But the insistence on checking the Setu app has considerably reduced,” says Sebastian Lopes at the basement of Kumar Pacific Mall on Shankarsheth Road. As Lopes proceeds towards the upper floor with his wife and son after getting their shopping bags disinfected in the UV technology-enabled box, the five-year-old presses the pedal of the sanitizer beside the escalator. “The kid also knows this,” quips the middle-aged guard carrying a hand-held metal detector and thermometer. The boy sporting a colourful mask misses the thrill of sitting in the battery-operated bus on level-1 though. It is still under cover. So is the children’s play zone, as also in other malls. The ball rolling on the turf in the playing arenas for adults in most of the malls hints at “kids’ day out” there in the second session of the “Test”. Hand sanitizers complemented packaged drinking water bottles on almost every occupied table in the malls TOI visited over the week. The missing melee at food counters came as a pleasant surprise at the Royal Heritage mall in Undri. During his visit to Westend Mall in Aundh last Sunday, corporate director of several companies Pradeep Bhargava found people to be extremely cautious at food courts. “Visitors themselves chose to sit at alternate tables to maintain social distance,” says Bhargava. “Most people were wearing masks and came to the mall purposefully. Not many were there for window shopping or loitering around,” he says. The cautious approach is palpable in washrooms of malls too. Only alternate washbasins are available for visitors. “The hygiene-conscious mall visitors are a healthy sign for society. After the pandemic, we have become a more disciplined and patient nation. It reflected in the Pune mall,” recalls Patwardhan. Assured of hygiene after a conversation with TOI, Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) said he would visit a mall with his wife this weekend. “We thought senior citizens are still not allowed, and we did not want to face refusal,” Gokhale says. The storeowners are playing the waiting game too with business hard to come by. A popular bookstore at the Kumar Pacific Mall has put up dolls on display to woo patrons. “Changing times,” says the youth manning its counter wearing an N95 mask, stressing on reviewing the situation session by session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/running-now-test-of-patience-in-metamorphosed-shopping-malls/articleshow/79804506.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
December 19, 2020||Pune||Auditoriums to get 75% rebate on rent||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body has decided to offer 75% discount in rent of auditoriums it runs. The decision was taken in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC)’s recent standing committee meeting. At 75% discount, the rent will reduce to Rs2,537 for production companies. Auditoriums in the civic body limits were allowed to reopen from November 5 at 50% seating capacity. Chandrakant Indalkar, deputy commissioner of PCMC said, “Many artists and producers had demanded that the rent be reduced due to the restrictions on audience numbers. So we have lowered the rent from Rs10,000 to Rs2,537.” Indalkar said there are four auditoriums run by the civic body but most plays are staged at Ramkrishna More Sabhagruha in Chinchwad as it can seat 1,200 people. “The staging of plays has started but the response is limited. It will take time before people turn out in large numbers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auditoriums-to-get-75-rebate-on-rent/articleshow/79804474.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest range officer suspended||Coimbatore: The forest department placed Boluvampatti forest range officer S Arokiasamy under suspension on Friday after 382kg sandalwood was seized from his wife’s agricultural land at Venkateswarapuram in Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar. Arokiasamy has served more than a year at the Boluvampatti range, an official said. “Sandalwood trees were cultivated in the agricultural land owned by Arokiasamy’s wife Kalaivani. Her relative, who was taking care of the land, had cut some of the trees and kept the logs in a room. After the relative passed away a few months ago, some farm workers were laid off. The workers informed forest department officials in Srivilliputhur about the illegal sandalwood storage. We seized 382kg sandalwood on Thursday and registered a case against Kalaivani under the Tamil Nadu Forest Act, 1882,” he said. Arokiasamy was placed under suspension to ensure that the investigation is fair, the official said. “He will be paid subsistence and dearness allowance. He should not leave his headquarters in Coimbatore without obtaining prior permission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-range-officer-suspended/articleshow/79804488.cms||A Subburaj
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||NABH hosps cannot appoint Ayush doctors to perform clinical duties||Nagpur: The National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH) has issued cautionary notice to allopathic hospitals across the country not to appoint Ayush doctors (mostly ayurveda practitioners) as Resident Medical Officers (RMOs). The letter signed by NABH CEO Dr Atul Kochar states that Ayush doctors should not be allowed to write independent orders, and perform clinical duties. They should not be involved in direct patient care. “Any violation of this may invite adverse decision including withdrawal of accreditation,” reads the notice. NABH accreditation is considered a prestigious acknowledgement of the health care quality in India. More than 1,500 hospitals in country have entry-level NABH certification, while 700-plus hospitals have accreditation. This number is 80-odd in Maharashtra. As far as Nagpur is concerned, eight hospitals have NABH accreditation while 15 have NABS certification (entry-level). As per state laws, non-MBBS doctors (ayurveda or Ayush) can be appointed in hospitals. So, most of the hospitals in Maharashtra have ayurveda doctors appointed as RMOs. But, NABH considers this as ‘very much against patient safety norms’ and ‘compromise quality of modern medicine clinical care’. “NABH has taken serious note of this matter and it is reiterated that deploying of Ayush doctors in allopathic hospitals for writing independent orders and clinical work without supervision of allopathic doctors is not permitted. Further, in case allopathic hospitals are employing Ayush doctors to work as clinical assistants, as per the applicable state laws, they should not be involved in direct patient care and should strictly follow job responsibilities as defined by hospital management. Ayush doctors working in NABH applicant allopathy hospitals will not be considered as RMOs during the process of assessment and for the purpose of grant of accreditation,” reads the notice. While NABH authorities said that the notice was issued post a nationwide survey conducted by the agency in November; it’s quite clear that it has the background of ongoing tussle between doctors of modern medicine and ayurveda. It’s a reality that ICUs are presently manned by BAMS doctors in most big private hospitals. Now, they have to at least redesignate them as ‘clinical assistants’ from RMOs. “It was a much needed decision and it will ultimately improve quality and safety of services,” said Dr Ravi Wankhedkar, treasurer of World Medical Association. Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC), said that the NABH rules are getting stricter for small hospitals now. “It’s a welcome move technically, but difficult to follow practically for smaller clinics. Many of them will lose opportunity of getting NABH certification,” said Dr Rughwani. BETWEEN THE LINES NABH accreditation is highest benchmark standard for hospital quality in India Insurance companies, TPAs insist for NABH accreditation to get hospitals on their panel At present 721 hospitals in India, 78 in Maharashtra, and 8 in Nagpur have NABH accreditation Most private hospitals in Maharashtra appoint ayurveda degree holders as RMOs as state law permits it NABH considers this ‘very much against patient safety norms’ and ‘compromise quality of modern medicine clinical care’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nabh-hosps-cannot-appoint-ayush-doctors-to-perform-clinical-duties/articleshow/79804508.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Land for AIIMS handed over to Centre, state tells HC||Madurai: The state government on Friday informed Madras high court that it had handed over the land for construction of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai to the central government which in turn confirmed it in the court. The court was hearing a public interest litigation seeking speeding up of the work to establish the premier medical institution in the wake of replies to an RTI petition claiming that the land was yet to be transferred to the Centre. The matter had sparked accusations and counter accusations between the government and opposition parties. On Friday, additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the construction of AIIMS in Madurai, the central government had sought enter upon permission on June 7, 2019. The next month, proposals were sent to the commissioner of land administration to transfer the land. He further stated that on September 9, 2019, the collector passed an order according permission to enter upon the 200 acres of land. The ministry of health sent a communication seeking an additional 22.49 acres of land and the same was identified and permission granted to enter upon. He stated that after the central government sought to hand over the land in August this year, handing over certificate was prepared and sent to the central government for signing and returning the same on November 3. The letter for handing over the land was sent to the central government on November 6, said the AAG. Assistant Solicitor General L Victoria Gowri confirmed that the state government had handed over the land for construction of AIIMS. A meeting was conducted in this regard with a fact finding mission of the funding agency, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) from November 24 to 26. She said that the next stage would be signing of a loan agreement before March 31, 2021, after which the project would be commissioned. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi orally asked as to why there was such a delay in this project. They also asked the central government to show more interest in the project. The judges further asked the AAG to take action against the official who had furnished false RTI information stating that the land for AIIMS was not handed over by the state government based on which several news reports were published.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/land-for-aiims-handed-over-to-centre-state-tells-hc/articleshow/79805889.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||1,173 apply for 25 breeding checkers posts in NMC||Nagpur: Praful Kude, a post graduate in science, was at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Friday morning to submit his credentials before a team of officials who were looking to recruit breeding checkers. The job involves visit to every house and other establishments to check mosquito breeding spots. Though employed in a private firm, Jude said he was looking for a government job and hence he had applied for the post. Rajshree Meshram, MSW, too was one of the applicants. The minimum qualification is SSC pass and the position is temporary. They were among the 1,173 youths, mostly graduates and above, to have applied for the 25 posts of ‘breeding checkers’ in the NMC’s malaria and filaria department, a senior official said on Friday. “We have received applications from 1,173 candidates for the 25 posts. They include even post graduates,” said a senior official from the department. Though the department was supposed to start receiving the applications from 10am, unemployed youths have started thronging the NMC since 7 in the morning. TOI spotted NMC’s nuisance detection squad managing the rush outside the new administrative building. Speaking to TOI, the senior official said there was no full time posts for breeding checkers in the NMC’s establishment. Currently, the job is being done through class-IV employees and sprayers. But recently, among 12 other municipal corporations across the state, the government had given its nod for 25 temporary breeding checkers. The recruitment drive is being under the National Urban Health Mission, the officer added. Despite having limited manpower, the department has succeeded in bringing down cases of dengue and other vector-borne diseases in the city. The applicants, however, said they are aware of the five months for a fixed remuneration but at the same time also expressed confidence of someday government will not only give extension to the post and may also confirm them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1173-apply-for-25-breeding-checkers-posts-in-nmc/articleshow/79803093.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||EVMs to reach city on Monday||Coimbatore: As many as 6,940 electronic voting machines, 5,670 control units and 6,330 voter verifiable paper audit trail machines are on the way to the city from Maharashtra ahead of the state assembly election. They will reach Coimbatore city on Monday and will be kept in strong-rooms, an Election Commission of India source said. A team of officials of the Coimbatore district administration, accompanied by armed police personnel, had visited Kolhapur district and Satara district in Maharashtra a few days ago to bring the units. Engineers from the Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) will check the units once they arrive, the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/evms-to-reach-city-on-monday/articleshow/79804509.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Ensure safety measures in commercial buildings: PIL||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday sought a response from the state government on a plea which sought to ensure that fire safety measures are implemented at all commercial buildings in the state.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muthukumar, an advocate from Madurai district.The petitioner stated that during Diwali this year, two young firefighters died while they were dousing the fire which broke out in a textile shop at Madurai: Following this incident, it was found out that several buildings in the city did not possess fire safety licences.He stated that the town and country planning authorities who are giving building plan approvals also give the work completion certificates without verifying the actual construction of the buildings. Based on these certificates, the fire and rescue services department issues no objection certificates (NOC). If proper completion certificates are issued, then it would help prevent illegalities. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. He also sought action against the authorities who had issued work completion certificates without physical verification and to take action against the fire and rescue services department which had issued NOCs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ensure-safety-measures-in-commercial-buildings-pil/articleshow/79805894.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Curb wasteful spending, carry out urgent civic works: Pande tells civic chief||Nagpur: Independent corporator Abha Pande on Friday urged the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B to curb wasteful expenditure to carry out urgent civic works. In a memorandum to the civic chief, Pande suggested nine measures whereby wasteful expenditure can be reduced. Pande met the civic chief to press for sanction of urgent works like repair of damaged sewerage networks, replacement of chambers etc in her prabhag in central Nagpur. Recently, a delegation of Congress corporators had also met the civic chief who refused to provide funds citing severe financial crunch. According to Pande, the NMC is paying Rs 29.16 lakh every month to hire 80 four-wheelers for both officials and elected representatives. If this expenditure is curtailed, the NMC could save Rs3.50 crore per year, she suggested. According to her, despite entrusting Orange City Private Limited for 24X7 water supply, the NMC has spent Rs10.17 crore from April 2020 to December 2020 for providing water in network and non-network area through tankers. The administration has not taken any step to reduce this expenditure, she said. The NMC budget had provision of Rs112.37 crore for civic schools. As schools are yet to open, this amount should be reduced, she pointed out. Likewise, the senior corporator has suggested many more sources of revenue which NMC has been overlooking for years. Citing examples, she said the NMC is ignoring lease renewals of its lands, rents are not being collected from many allottees of platforms and shops. It is also ignoring auction of shops whose owners have defaulted on rents and lease amounts since years, she said. According to Pande, the NMC’s advertisement department has not revised the offset value of hoardings since last 19 years, whereas private advertisement firms are earing profits from the hoardings. Pande further alleged that in the last financial year the NMC did wasteful expenditure on woks including Rs189 crore for constructing cement roads, Rs110 crore for operation of Aapli Bus etc. If these leakages of funds are plugged, NMC’s financial condition can be improved, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/curb-wasteful-spending-carry-out-urgent-civic-works-pande-tells-civic-chief/articleshow/79803123.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Dams in south dists fill up due to widespread rain||Madurai: Widespread rain in the southern districts resulted in water level in the dams going up and Papanasam dam in Tirunelveli district overflowing due to heavy inflow. Papanasam dam, the second largest in Tirunelveli district with a capacity of 5,500 MCFT and a key irrigation and drinking water source in the region reached its maximum storage level of 143ft on Friday morning. Subsequently 4,680 cusecs were discharged into the Thamirabarani from Papanasam and its connected Servalar dams from the morning. Though there is no need to panic, the district administration has warned the public not to step into the river as a precautionary measure. It drizzled throughout the day in many of the districts since morning. Madurai recorded an average rainfall of 6.44mm with Thaniamangalam recording the highest rainfall of 15mm. Ramanathapuram district received an average rainfall of 29.03mm and Paramakudi recorded the highest of 72mm in the last 24 hours, ending 8an on Friday. Dindigul received an average rainfall of 11.6mm. Sivaganga (29.46mm) and Ilayankudi (63.6mm). While the level in the two major dams - Vaigai with 57.81ft against its maximum level of 71ft and Periyar dam at 123.35ft against its maximum level of 142 - was comparatively low, other dams had filled up in the region. Sothuparai dam in Theni district was overflowing at 126.31ft (126.28 feet) and Manjalaru dam’s water level touched 54.10ft (57ft). Shanmuganathi was also slowing rising at 51.60ft (52.55ft).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dams-in-south-dists-fill-up-due-to-widespread-rain/articleshow/79805896.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: I take full responsibility for defeat, says Mullappally Ramachandran||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Owning up to the defeat of the UDF in the local-body election KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said, “Success has many fathers, failure is an orphan.” In 2019, when UDF won 19 of the 20 Lok Sabha seats no one handed me bouquets. But I am at the receiving end for our poor showing in the recently concluded election. “My detractors have me cornered. I take the entire responsibility for the defeat,’’ he told reporters, here, on Friday. General political issues did not emerge as topics of debate in the election. “Lapses have occurred and we will rectify them. We will bounce back in the assembly election. There has been a healthy discussion in the political affairs committee meeting, which also witnessed constructive criticism. There was no demand for leadership change in the party,” he added. “I am not ready to divulge details of the political affairs committee meeting. It is an internal matter of the party. I accept that there has been constructive criticism. Our effort now is on undoing our mistakes,’’ Ramachandran said. There has been erosion in our vote bank in the central districts, the KPCC president said. “This cannot be solely attributed to the Jose K Mani factor. But we have seen our traditional vote share shrink, and we will win it back,’’ he said. The Congress will analyze the results in a two-day sitting of party leaders, including all MPs, party office-bearers and political affairs committee members. The session will be held on January 6 and 7. The coming days will be devoted to thrashing out the issues, for which party committees will meet at various levels. KPCC secretaries in charge of respective districts have been asked to submit a detailed report on reasons for the defeat, which will be discussed in the two-day meeting of party leaders. On the open criticism from senior leaders, the KPCC president said, “This is not the time for mudslinging. We should stand united, discuss and rectify lapses that have occurred. All leaders should refrain from making such comments,” Ramachandran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/i-take-full-responsibility-for-defeat-says-mullappally/articleshow/79803119.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Madurai||586 have testified so far before panel probing Tuticorin firing||Tuticorin: A total of 42 witnesses testified during the 23rd sitting of the one-member retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan commission probing the riots and police firing on the 100th day of the anti-Sterlite protest that claimed 13 lives on May 22 and 23, 2018. This takes the total number of witnesses who have testified before the commission to 586 and a total of 775 documents have been marked so far.The five-day sitting, which got over on Friday, was held at its camp office. The commission’s counsel Arul Vadivel said that 49 people, primarily fire and rescue services and police personnel and their kin at the police quarters at the 3rd Mile and on the Beach Road, were summoned.“Seven persons could not appear as they got transferred to other districts. They have sought time to appear before the commission,” he said.The date for the next sitting to be held in January is yet to be finalised but it will be after Pongal holidays. Vadivel said that doctors and those who treated those injured in the incident will be summoned for the 24th sitting. The counsel added that the then district collector, superintendent of police, police officers and personnel directly involved in the incident will be asked to appear only in the last phase. He said that the commission will send a reminder to the government to provide jobs on compassionate grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/586-have-testified-so-far-before-panel-probing-tuticorin-firing/articleshow/79805897.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Bor remains closed, 2 held in attack case||NAGPUR: On Friday, tourists visiting Bor Tiger Reserve were disappointed as the staff and guides boycotted tourism activity, as the culprits involved in an attack on a range forest officer (RFO) and forest guard were yet to be arrested. However, tourism activity is likely to resume from Saturday as two accused — Swapnil Talwekar and Mangesh Ramteke — both from Selu, were arrested on Friday evening by Selu police. Police inspector Prashant Kale said, “We had received information that the accused were hiding in Nagpur. We were tracking them and the team was successful in nabbing both. Hunt for the main accused Thakur and others is still going on.” On Wednesday afternoon, Mahesh Thakur, a history-sheeter and MCOCA accused from Wardha, along with five others, had attacked RFO Nilesh Gawande and forest guard Premdas Bhakre after they refused them entry inside the park in private vehicles. Selu police had registered offences against the miscreants but even 48 hours later the accused were absconding. Protesting the incident, over 40 forest staff and 30 guides boycotted tourism activity and warned that there will be no tourism till the culprits are arrested. The forest staff and guides staged a peaceful dharna in front of the Bor office on Friday. “The attack on foresters was without any provocation and sudden. Tomorrow, we may also be the target, and the safety of staff is important. At least 10 vehicles were returned on Friday,” said Kailash Bhavre, president, Maharashtra State Sanctuary Guides Union, Bor unit. “Most of the tourists visit Bor on Saturdays and Sundays but we have told those aspiring to come not to visit the park as it will remain closed,” said a section of guides. On Friday, the Forest Rangers Association Maharashtra has submitted a memorandum to principal secretary (forests) Milind Mhaiskar demanding protection to forest staff. “Even as the matter is being fought in the Supreme Court, there is no let-up in attacks on foresters,” said KV Bolke, president of the association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bor-remains-closed-2-held-in-attack-case/articleshow/79803150.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 19, 2020||Patna||‘Psycho killer’ with 22 murder cases nabbed in Vaishali||PATNA: A 40-year-old software professional, Avinash Kumar Srivastava, a self-described “psycho killer” who has 22 murder cases against him, was arrested from Vaishali on Friday. Avinash, who reportedly used to work in Delhi for a Bangalore-based IT giant, landed in the police dragnet for allegedly plotting the killing of two people in the district and possession of drugs. A special team of the district intelligence unit arrested him from the Mahnar police station area. Vaishali SP Manish confirmed the arrest. “Avinash, a professional hitman and an accomplice, were apprehended in a case related to the NDPS Act. But no illegal weapon was recovered,” he said. “Both arrested criminals were produced in a local court, which remanded them to 14-day judicial custody,” the SP told this newspaper over the phone. Avinash, a resident of Kankarbagh in Patna, is facing 22 murder cases in Vaishali, Patna adjoining districts, according to SDPO Mehnar Surendra Kumar Panjiyar. “We have unearthed a plot of killing two people in the district following Avinas’s arrest,” the SDPO said. A Masters in Computer Applications (MCA) from a Delhi-based institute, Avinash entered the world of crime following the killing of his father, Lallan Srivastava, in Patna in 2003. Lallan Srivastava, a former RJD MLC, was gunned down by Pappu Khan, a contract killer, in Patna in 2003 following a dispute. Avinash quit his lucrative job as an IT professional after that and settled in Patna to avenge the killing of his father. He reportedly pumped 32 bullets into Khan’s body. A member of the Vaishali police’s DIU said, “When we started his interrogation and asked him about his past criminal cases, he asked us to do a Google search.” “Just type Avinash, psychopathic killer, and you will get every detail about me on Google. I think there is no need to ask more questions,” an investigating officer quoted him as saying. Avinash also claimed to have written a book on the infamous Jehanabad jailbreak of 2005. The interrogators were taken aback when he responded to a few questions in English. “He speaks fluent English. At first glance, he doesn’t look like a contract killer,” another interrogator said. According to sources, Avinash was earlier arrested in Vaishali in a bank robbery case in Mahua and the murder of a teacher at Bidupur in Vaishali district in 2016 but soon got out on bail. Avinash told interrogators that his life as an IT professional was going well until his father’s murder in Patna. “Crime and life go side by side,” he told his interrogators, adding, he was inspired by the blockbuster movie ‘Gangs of Wassepur’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/psycho-killer-with-22-murder-cases-nabbed-in-vaishali/articleshow/79803146.cms||Ramashankar
December 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Buoyed LDF shifts to assembly poll mode||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Buoyed by the victory in local body poll, LDF leadership has decided to start its work on the manifesto for assembly polls. CPM state secretariat and LDF state committee that met on Friday decided to utilize the next four months to ensure continuance of LDF government by carrying forward the welfare and development initiatives launched by the incumbent government. The 2016 manifesto containing 600 promises will be implemented before the model code of conduct for assembly poll will come into force. CM Pinarayi Vijayan will visit all districts and interact with representatives of various sections before preparing the manifesto. His state tour will begin on Dec 22 when he will be in Kollam and Pathanamthitta, interacting with invited representatives of the public. He will be at Kottayam on Dec 23 and the capital on Dec 24. He will be in Kannur and Kasaragod on Dec 26; Kozhikode and Wayanad on Dec 27; Malappuram and Palakkad on Dec 28; Thrissur on Dec 29. On Dec 30, he will interact with invited guests in Ernakulam and Alappuzha. "During these interactions, CM will listen to suggestions of resource utilization and on the development perspective to be followed," said LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan. ‘Kerala Yatra’ – which Vijayan had undertaken on a large scale on multiple occasions – will be confined to a series of closed-door meetings considering Covid situation. CPM state secretariat cleared CM’s Kerala Yatra and LDF state committee approved the proposal later in the day. LDF directed the government to ensure that the people of Kerala are not left starved till Covid crisis ends. Assessing that the scheme to provide, monthly, free grocery kit for all ration card holders in the past months had helped the front to win votes, LDF said the government should devise similar schemes till May, when assembly polls are expected. Social welfare pensions will go up by Rs 100 from January as announced earlier. The last budget of the outgoing government, likely to be presented on Jan 15, will have announcements that will expand welfare initiatives and proposals to add strength to the ongoing big-ticket infra development projects. Vijayaraghavan said the impressive win in local body poll is a clear indicator that LDF government will put up a good show in assembly poll. "Such a wave, in favour of incumbent government, was visible for the first time after 1990. People also rejected UDF’s strategy of allying with fundamental organisations", he said. Vijayaraghavan added that LDF will rule 42 of the 86 municipalities. "There was some confusion on this statistic on day one. Election commission has now clarified this," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-shifts-to-assembly-poll-mode/articleshow/79803156.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||Beyond 60: Together, let’s build a self-sufficient Goa, says CM Pramod Sawant||I happen to be the first chief minister of Goa who was born post-liberation and it’s been a privilege and matter of pride to serve the people of Goa. As we enter the 60th year of our liberation, it is an opportune moment for all of us to reflect upon what we have achieved so far and where we want to go from here. Stage is set: At the cultural function to be held at Dayanand Bandodkar ground, a 10-minute documentary on Goa’s Liberation will be screened — Rajtilak NaikThe vision for the future should be one that inspires us and also challenges us to a certain extent, so that we all come together and work in unison to achieve it. While maintaining the pristine richness of the state, we should remember that the people of the state also yearn for material development. It is very much in consonance with the basic tenets of India as enshrined in Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha. As we celebrate our 60th year of Liberation the contribution of our Freedom Fighters can not be forgotten. #MyGoa60… https://t.co/FU7NhNToHt— Dr. Pramod Sawant (@DrPramodPSawant) 1608309922000Post-1961, for the first time, Goa had the rule of the common people who embraced democracy, as an integral part of India. For several centuries, Goa has been a melting pot of cultures. We have assimilated so many diverse influences along the way. Going forward, we should retain and add to this multicultural, multi-ethnic, pluralistic, global outlook, while at the same time safeguard the rich local culture and traditions. The Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown brought about a realisation that we are heavily dependent on neighbouring states for foodgrains, vegetables, fruits, meat, fish, poultry—all of which we used to produce here in Goa not very long ago. Hence, in line with the Atmanirbhar Bharat call given by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I have envisioned the ‘Swayampurna Goa’ programme, which aims to make Goa self-sufficient. In short, that is my vision for Goa. My vision of ‘Swayampurna Goa’ has multiple dimensions in it which would cater to the dynamic demand for making Goa a leader in the global competitive arena. I intend to set up Goa Institution for Future Transformation (GIFT) with a view to achieving prosperity for posterity of Goa. With this vision, the government will have a holistic approach to develop Goa by incorporating suggestions from the public and domain experts. I envision building Goa as the land of unlimited opportunities. A place where the human spirit soars to the heights of excellence. I envision to take Goa from being the best state in India to being among the best at global level. Antyodaya or upliftment of the most downtrodden is my guiding principle. Goans have always been a content lot and often that leads to a sense of complacency and contentment with far too little. However, this does not augur well for the not so good days. My endeavour is to make Goa future shock-proof thus developing resilience to economic downturns, climate change, health pandemics and natural disasters. I am proud to say, we are blessed with the most beautiful people in the world—simple, genuine who love Goa beyond limits. I am working towards a Goa where my people excel and achieve their highest potential. The niz goenkar does not feel the need to migrate for employment or career opportunities. My vision is of a Goa where every child is nourished and educated, every woman is safe, every youth is employed and involved, every divyang is encouraged and every senior citizen is taken care of. To strengthen the industry sector, I intend to diversify and attract new age industries like information technology, electronic and medical devices, food processing, ship building, aviation and defence so that we make our economy resilient and avoid over dependence only on a few sectors. I would also like Goa to become the start-up hub of not just India but the world. Work from home emerged as a trend post-Covid pandemic. I want to promote ‘Work from Goa’ as a concept so that my people and people from all over the world can enjoy a holiday as well as work from Goa. For this, we plan to build the best infrastructure and mobile and broadband connectivity. I intend to make Goa a place where relevant skills are identified, and youth are trained for jobs that provide employment for life-long happiness. I would like the local youth to become employment generators and not just job-seekers by venturing into high-tech modern agriculture, pisciculture, horticulture, floriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries so that we can produce more by judicious utilisation of natural resources and promote vocal for local. I intend to make Goa a fully organic farming state that produces the best of spices, vegetables, fruits, medicinal herbs and plants. Retaining and enhancing our biodiversity, forest cover and man-made wonders like the khazans, sluice gates, bunds, fields, orchards and freshwater lakes, springs, waterfalls and rivers will always remain our priority. Goa is flanked by the Western Ghat forests on the east and the Arabian Sea on the west. Tourism has been our forte since decades. However, we need to add more dimensions to it. Our monuments, heritage houses need to be maintained and green buildings and eco-friendly architecture be encouraged. Through our tourism policy and initiatives, I intend to promote heritage trails and hinterland tourism that gives sustainable income to locals without exploiting the natural resources. I aim to promote tourism, enabled by technology and the finest standards of hospitality. Adventure sports linked to the water like surfing, kayaking, cruises, and to the forest like rafting, rock climbing, jungle treks thrive. Our authentic produce such as rice, coconuts, cashew, mangoes, jackfruits, kokum, chillies and products such as wine, feni, jaggery, vinegar are abundantly made and marketed all over. Our crafts such as Kunbi weaving, coir, bamboo, pottery, brass work, crochet, wood work, tile making are restored to their past glory. We are able to locally make an array of souvenir items that the tourists love to pick up as they go. We need to also support the local performing arts that we are so good at such as theatre, classical music both Indian and western, tiatrs etc. Power consumption in Goa is increasing at a rapid rate. I want to slowly shift from importing energy to harnessing local, green, renewable energy like solar, wind and tidal. We are also contemplating statutory and infrastructure requirements for shifting towards electronic transport and mobility. I envision a Goa that ranks the best in the world in human development index, sustainable development goals, healthcare and education. A place where yoga, ayurveda and spiritual knowledge co-exist with the most high-tech robotics surgeries, medical and dental tourism. We are building a state-of-the-art super speciality healthcare services including a cancer research and treatment centre, which will make Goa a regional hub for advanced cancer treatment. I intend to make Goa an education hub attracting world class universities through the private university bill and host some of the finest education institutions like the IIMs, IITs, design, law, architecture, film, animation schools etc. Goa has been declared as the permanent venue for IFFI. I would like to leverage this to set up a world class film studio and allied facilities which caters to movies, web series and all post-production work such as animation, editing, graphics, audio-visual content creation etc. To meet the challenges of the future, we have to pursue innovation for which I intend to make the Goa State Innovation Council, fully empowered to create a path of innovation for progress by patenting innovations and supporting innovators till the commercialisation of their ideas. I call upon my Goan brothers and sisters to join me in the mission of ‘Swayampurna Goa’. Our state has all the ingredients required to make a role model for others to emulate. ‘Think Globally—Act Locally and Respond Personally’ is the mantra for our success. Together, we can make a difference to the prospects of our Goa. Once again, I extend my greetings to Goans world over on this auspicious day. Jai Hind. (The writer is the chief minister of Goa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/beyond-60-together-lets-build-a-self-sufficient-goa/articleshow/79805899.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Erode||Cop-turned-emu farm owner, two others get 10-year imprisonment||COIMBATORE: A constable attached to the Perundurai police station in Erode district and her husband, who had set up an emu farm to cheat 73 people of Rs 3.42 crore, were on Friday sentenced to 10 years in jail. Gayathri Sree Karthik and Karthik Shankar had launched Key Gee Bright Live Stock India Pvt Ltd at Gobichettipalayam in Erode in May 2010. While the couple was the directors of the farm, S Sabin Khanna of Gobichettipalayam was the manager. Several Erode residents invested in the farm, which failed to give monthly returns and bonus as promised. S N Venkatesan of Chinnapuliyur near Bhavani, an investor, lodged a complaint with the district crime branch on July 28, 2012. Police registered a case against the directors and the manager. The case was later transferred to the economic offences wing (EOW), which registered a case against the trio under sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and section 5 of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1997. Gayathri was subsequently placed under suspension. EOW filed preliminary chargesheet on December 1, 2012 and the supplementary chargesheet was filed on February 8, 2012 before the special court for TNPID cases in Coimbatore. Judge A S Ravi also sentenced the manager to 10 years in jail and slapped a fine of Rs 2.15 crore on the trio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cop-turned-emu-farm-owner-2-others-get-10-yr-imprisonment/articleshow/79804543.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Madurai||80K smart boards for 7.5K schools soon: Min||Dindigul: A total of 80,000 smart boards will be set up as part of the smart classes to be established in 7,500 government schools across the state by January 15, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said of Friday. Speaking after distributing certificates of renewal of accreditation to 360 private nursery and primary schools from various districts at an event held in Dindigul on Friday, Sengottaiyan said that plans are afoot to provide smart tabs to three lakh middle school students studying in government schools. Sengottaiyan said that the accreditation for schools is renewed every three years by the district chief educational officers and that the state government is taking steps to ensure private schools fulfil their necessities without any hassle. “The quality of Tamil Nadu state board textbooks for Class XI and XII is such that it matches the standards of competitive exams. Efforts are being taken to ensure even children from poor backgrounds without access to smart gadgets are learning from home through Kalvi Tholaikatchi programmes,” said the minister. Minister for forests, Dindigul C Srinivasan, who also took part in the event, highlighted how thousands of students in Dindigul benefited from various welfare schemes introduced by the state government through distribution of free books, bicycles, uniform, laptops etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/80k-smart-boards-for-7-5k-schools-soon-min/articleshow/79805903.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Women learn to repair farming machinery||Madurai: A training programme on repair and maintenance of farm machinery was given to women by Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University in Madurai from December 7 to 11. The programme was inaugurated by Madurai joint director of agriculture T Vivekananthan and conducted by KVK programme coordinator Selvi Ramesh. The participants included five women from Sembukudipatti near Thanitchayam in Madurai along with 50 men. They were taught on how to repair heavy machines used in farming like tractors, power tillers, weeders, reapers and drill machines. Participants were also taught how they could turn into entrepreneurs using their newly acquired skill. J Muthulakshmi, one of the participants, said that she had completed her engineering course and taken up agriculture during the lockdown period. “A tractor is an important part of agriculture and we were taught how to maintain it by removing the soil from wheels and inner parts and testing the water level in the radiator and also to carry out minor repairs. With a little more training, I could service farming equipment for the entire village,” she said. The participants, especially women, opined that the training program rekindled their interest in agriculture and inspired them to take it up in a big way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/women-learn-to-repair-farming-machinery/articleshow/79805898.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Siblings ensure a happy ending for a dogged search for ‘Bruzzo’||Nagpur: A 23-year-old aspiring dentist and her brother took on the role of amateur sleuths as they searched city streets relentlessly for their missing pet dog earlier this week. After five days of investigations befitting a professional cop, they managed to recover the stolen canine. Vishakha Sahu and her brother Vishal, both residents of Katol Road bypass, won the hearts of animal lovers with their feat of tracing their stolen male Doberman ‘Bruzzo’ with strenuous legwork at different localities and confronting suspects. Animal activist Smita Mire lauded their efforts. What’s more, they did this the second time for Bruzzo, whom they consider part of the family. The relentless brother and sister had brought him back earlier too after confronting the thieves and even risking their life. The brother-sister team once again hit the street when Bruzzo went missing on December 12. They went to Athwa mile, Wadi, Seminary Hills, Hingna, Jaripatka, Gittikhadan, Gandhi Nagar, Sadar and other places looking for clues, asking strangers, passers-by and local residents, showing them Bruzzo’s photo. Though Gittikhadan police had registered FIR of theft following the intervention of Zonal DCP Vinita S, the siblings went to work as they sensed the cops were not doing much to trace the canine. They approached as many families having CCTV cameras at their home between Bhiwsenkhori and Hazaripahad requesting to view the footage. From that, Vishakha and Vishal found out two scooter-borne persons had taken their pet towards Bhiwsenkhori slum. They headed to the slum and waited for hours to nab the suspect. The daredevil duo not only found their man but also handed him over to Gittikhadan police. The man admitted to having stolen the dog, but claimed to have abandoned it near Chintamani Nagar between Bhiwsenkhori and Hazaripahad. The cops let him go the next day. The trail would have gone cold here but for a response to the ‘missing’ advertisement they had placed in newspapers seeking information on Bruzzo. A caller from New Colony claimed to have seen the dog at a house. “We immediately rushed to the place but the houseowners denied having any dog with them,” said Vishakha. Dejected, they restarted their two-wheeler to return. “Then, there was a barking from inside the house. We knew it was Bruzzo as he would always bark at the sound of our two-wheeler,” Vishakha said. “We had to argue much with the houseowner before he agreed to return the dog. He claimed to have purchased it from the thief for Rs1,500 and was demanding compensation for it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/siblings-ensure-a-happy-ending-for-a-dogged-search-for-bruzzo/articleshow/79803174.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 19, 2020||Madurai||Post-Covid OPDs witness steady stream of patients||Madurai: Even as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases are seeing a decline across the state, including Madurai, recovered patients are turning up in numbers at the post Covid-19 wellness centres in both government and private hospitals. While fatigue is the most common condition reported by patients post recovery, some patients have had more serious lung and cardiac-related issues. According to doctors, around 5-10% of recovered patients show symptoms or develop conditions. At the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), doctors are following up with patients over phone, encouraging them to come for check-up. “We call up around 100-150 patients in a day, usually a week after they are discharged and follow up in case of symptoms. Around 50% of recovered patients are coming in.” “Patients who had 80% of lung involvement often develop lung fibrosis or scarring. Low oxygen saturation levels and vascular issues are also reported,” said a senior doctor at GRH. In a few cases, patients have suffered severe conditions like stroke or heart attack as well. “The elderly and those with co-morbid conditions must come for follow-ups post recovery. Patients who remain oxygen-dependent even after recovery must also come for reviews. Anti-coagulants are also given to some patients post recovery and they may be at risk of vascular issues if they suddenly stop the medicines or avoid follow-ups,” the doctor added. “Fatigue is the most common condition reported. This fatigue is chronic and can affect patients from going about their regular work. Chronic cough and breathing difficulties are also common,” said Dr Padma Prakash Gandhiraj, chief intensivist and clinical administrator for critical care unit, Apollo Hospitals, Madurai. The doctor further said that some patients are also suffering brain-related issues like short term memory loss, loss of concentration, and decline in cognitive abilities. “Scarring of lung tissue and decline in cardiac functions is being seen in both elderly as well as younger patients. We are now seeing some patients who were in home isolation, turning to the post Covid-19 wellness clinic,” he added.  “We had some cases of even viral infection and cardiac issues initially. As cases have come down, now fewer people are turning up for post are. We are trying to encourage and educate patients to come for follow-ups,” said Dr B Kannan, medical administrator, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/post-covid-opds-witness-steady-stream-of-patients/articleshow/79805905.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 19, 2020||India||No breakthrough but India & China agree to continue talks||NEW DELHI: Despite no breakthrough in the ongoing talks for LAC disengagement, India and China on Friday expressed optimism on the efforts to end the eight-month old military standoff in eastern Ladakh as they held another round of diplomatic talks on the issue. India again emphasised on complete and early disengagement at “all friction points” in the meeting that saw the two sides agreeing to have another round of military talks soon. The Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) meeting, which was last held on September 30, saw India and China repose confidence in the dialogue between the military commanders to end the LAC impasse. While China said both sides “spoke highly” about the last or the eighth round of meeting between senior commanders, India said the meeting had helped ensure stability on the ground. India’s statement was more specific and forthcoming as it said the two sides had agreed to work towards ensuring complete disengagement at all friction points along the LAC in the western sector “at the earliest”. According to Beijing, India and China also agreed to take “concrete measures” to deal with the issues on the ground to further de-escalate the border situation. While both sides continue to blame each other for the LAC situation, India has repeatedly emphasised that the core issue is the need for China and India to adhere to all bilateral agreements, including those signed in 1993 and 1996, to restore and maintain border peace. India believes Chinese forces created the conditions for a border flareup in April-May in eastern Ladakh with their efforts to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC. In the meeting on Friday, the two sides reviewed the developments along the LAC since the last round of the WMCC held on September 30. “The two sides agreed that based on the guidance provided by senior leaders and the agreements reached between the two foreign ministers and special representatives, they would continue to work towards ensuring complete disengagement in all friction points along the LAC in the western sector at the earliest,” said the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-breakthrough-but-india-china-agree-to-continue-talks/articleshow/79806797.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala’s first MP with communist support remembered||Kochi: Thirty years after his death, friends and relatives of V P Nair have come together to commemorate the figure, considered to be the first ever MP elected to the Lok Sabha with Communist Party support from Kerala. V Parameswaran Nair, son of T K Velu Pillai, author of Travancore State Manual, came to limelight after he defeated Paravur T K Narayana Pillai, chief minister of Travancore-Cochin, in the general elections held in 1952. The Communist Party of India had tried every strategy to enhance their electoral success and their zeroing in on V P Nair, a lawyer and popular figure, known for taking up cases of the poor on pro bono basis was part of it. The gambit paid off and Nair became known as a giant killer after he defeated Narayana Pillai in Chirayinkeezhu. In 1957, he stunned Kerala politics again by defeating N Sreekantan Nair, founder of Kerala Socialist Party, by over 1.69 lakh votes in Mavelikkara. V P Nair’s son Viswanathan V P Nair said they have instituted two endowments for financially backward students of Devaswom Board College, Sasthamcotta, to mark the occasion. “Though the death anniversary is on December 19, we have organized the function in the college on December 23,” said Viswanathan, who runs Thilak Paints, a company that manufactures paint from cashew oil, started in 1985 by his father, who died five years later in 1990. V P Nair, born in 1918, stayed in political limelight for around 12 years after his election in 1952 but chose to stay away after the split of the undivided communist party. In 1963, he founded Kerala Shabdam weekly, a publication known for political writings. His brother V Madhavan Nair, known as Mali, was a famous literary figure in Malayalam. “In the Lok Sabha, he was considered a favourite MP of the opposition by Jawaharlal Nehru because of his oratory skills,” Viswanathan said. A humanist and fine parliamentarian Nair’s speech was dipped in satire and peppered with quotes of literary stalwarts like Shakespeare, Keats and Byron. “Towards the end of his life he translated Travancore State Manual into Malayalam but it could not be published because the culture department lost the manuscript,” he added. Caption: (extreme right wearing coat) in company of Jawaharlal Nehru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keralas-first-mp-with-communist-support-remembered/articleshow/79803182.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Lokka case: CB-CID letter sent to MEA||Coimbatore: A letter from the crime branch CID (CB-CID), seeking help to get forensic evidence from the Sri Lankan government to investigate the death of Sri Lankan don Angoda Lokka, has been forwarded to the ministry of external affairs (MEA). CB-CID had sent the letter to the ministry of home affairs (MHA) in August to get blood samples from the relatives of Lokka and his fingerprints from Sri Lankan in August. It was forwarded to MEA on December 7. “We have to establish before the court that the deceased was Lokka. Viscera samples were sent to the forensic science laboratory in Chennai to extract DNA. We want blood samples of Lokka’s parents to match the DNA. We sent a letter to MHA in August, seeking help to get the samples from the Sri Lankan government. It was delayed due to the pandemic. The letter has been forwarded to MEA and we expect it to reach the Sri Lankan government through diplomatic channels soon,” a senior police officer said. An officer of the rank of under secretary in the Tamil Nadu home department is monitoring the correspondence, the officer added. Lokka had died of a sudden cardiac arrest at Balaji Nagar at Cheran Maa Nagar in the city on July 3. He was wanted in more than eight murder cases and drug smuggling cases in Colombo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lokka-case-cb-cid-letter-sent-to-mea/articleshow/79804565.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Faced sexual harassment at Kochi mall: Actor||KOCHI: Hours after an actor took to social media to share her harrowing experience of sexual harassment at a mall’s hypermarket, Kochi police registered a case on the basis of her post. She wrote on Instagram on Thursday night that she cannot let this pass. “Two men walked past me at LuLu hypermarket which barely had crowds and one of them grazed his hand on my back while walking past me. Because it caught me off guard I couldn’t react immediately. I wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt, but you know when something is just not right, you feel it. My sister saw this clearly as she was standing near me. She came and asked if I was okay. I was clearly not,” she wrote in her post. Police later approached her family and received a complaint from her mother. “CCTV footage at the mall was examined and her allegations were true. A case is being registered invoking IPC Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty),” said a senior officer with Kalamassery police station. Police said footage was collected from the mall and a probe is on to identify the accused. The actor further said in her post that the men had approached her again and even tried to talk to her sister also, while trying to get close. “As I type this I can think of a thousand things I could have told them and a hundred things I could have done. But I didn’t. I just couldn’t. I wanted to let this out here so I could get some relief. To feel that I have done something about it knowing fully that they walked away without guilt or trouble. Knowing that they might do it again. It angers me,” she wrote. She said men who indulge in such disgusting behaviour are the ‘lowest form of life’ and deserve ‘hell’. “Being a woman has been very tiring, to be on guard every minute as you step out of your house. To watch my clothes when I bend and turn. To cross my arms around my chest in a crowd. The list goes on. And on the days I’m home, I worry about my mother, my sister and my friends who have to do the same. It is all because of these sick men. You take away our safety. You take away our comfort and the joy of womanhood. I despise you,” she wrote. Women’s commission registered a suo motu case and chairperson MC Josephine said it will collect evidence from her on Saturday. A suo motu case was registered by state youth commission which sought a report from the police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/faced-sexual-harassment-at-mall-actor/articleshow/79803218.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nashik||650 teams formed for vaccine drive in Nashik dist||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who reviewed the Covid-19 situation and the preparation for the vaccination programme on Saturday, said the administration has formed 650 five-person teams. Each team will vaccinate 100 people per day.Bhujbal was speaking to reporters after the review meeting with district collector Suraj Mandhare, civic chief Kailas Jadhav, police commissioner Deepak Pandey, Nashik zilla parishad CEO Leena Bansod, superintendent of police Sachin Patil and the health officials of the civic body and the ZP. Nashik district has a population of roughly 60 lakh. There is a double dose for most vaccines, with an interval ranging from 21 days to over 28 days depending on the vaccine type and manufacturer. Some vaccines even require three doses.“We will ask the government to ensure that a particular district is given vaccine from a particular manufacturer only, so that time for the next “shot” is common,” Bhujbal said.Once the vaccine is administered, the recipient will be kept on the premises for half-an-hour to check if there are any side-effects.Mandhare said the network of cardiac ambulances would provide quick attention to anybody who requires it during vaccination.Only people who have been registered will be given the shot — by appointment.“The priority for vaccination is being decided by the Centre. Those qualifying for the vaccine would be receiving the intimation. Nobody should rush to the vaccination centres as the number of doses will be limited and unregistered people will not be entertained,” the minister said.The collector added that the routine immunisation programme for children and pregnant women will continue as normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/650-teams-formed-for-vaccine-drive-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/79819795.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Amma mini clinics evoke good response||Coimbatore: Amma mini clinics saw a huge footfall on the second day of their opening on Friday. The one at Sivanandha Colony, close to the directorate of town planning office, had almost eight patients waiting outside at 4pm. Patients came with mild fever, cold, stomach pain and leg pain. Some had brought their children too after hearing about the new free clinic, which they wanted to try out. Local administration minister S P Velumani, who had inaugurated two clinics at Sivanandha Colony and Singanallur in the city corporation limits on Thursday, opened two more - at Masakalipalayam in the city and Vedapatti in rural limits - on Friday. Dr Raja, city health officer, said, “The clinics, which would handle only outpatients, saw some crowd in the morning itself and the trend continued in the evening too.” Four more Amma mini clinics are expected to be opened within the city corporation limits and another 20 in rural areas soon. Residents of Sivanandha Colony were relieved to see the new clinic. “Until now, we had to go to private clinics in the vicinity or the government hospital, which is away. This one is located at a walking distance,” said a resident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/amma-mini-clinics-evoke-good-response/articleshow/79804599.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Madurai||AIIMS land handed over, says TN in Madras HC; Centre accepts it||MADURAI: Putting an end to the political wrangling over handing over of land earmarked for construction of AIIMS in Madurai to the Union government, the state on Friday told the Madurai bench of the Madras high court that it had handed over the land to the Centre. Assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri, central counsel, confirmed the same in the court. Recording the submissions, a bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi asked additional advocate general K Chellapandian, appearing for the state, to take action against the official who had furnished wrong RTI information stating that the land was yet to be handed over by the state government. The court was hearing a PIL that latched onto the RTI reply to seek speeding up of work to establish the premier institution. K Chellapandian told the court that after the PM laid the foundation stone for the construction of AIIMS, the Centre had sought enter-upon permission on June 7, 2019. Show more interest in AIIMS project, court tells CentreThe next month, proposals were sent to the commissioner of land administration to transfer the land. He further stated that on September 9, 2019, the collector passed an order according permission to enter upon the 200 acres of land. The ministry of health sent a communication seeking an additional 22.49 acres of land and the same was identified and permission granted to enter upon. He stated that after the central government sought to hand over the land in August this year, handing over certificate was prepared and sent to the central government for signing and returning the same on November 3. The letter for handing over the land was sent to the central government on November 6, said the AAG. Assistant Solicitor General L Victoria Gowri confirmed that the state government had handed over the land for construction of AIIMS. A meeting was conducted in this regard with a fact finding mission of the funding agency, Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) from November 24 to 26. She said that the next stage would be signing of a loan agreement before March 31, 2021, after which the project would be commissioned. Taking cognizance of the submissions, the bench asked the central government to show more interest in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiims-land-handed-over-says-tn-in-madras-hc-centre-accepts-it/articleshow/79804563.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Case registered over display of banner atop municipality building||Palakkad: Town South police have registered cases against some local BJP activists for unfurling a ‘Jai Sri Ram’ banner from the top of the Palakkad municipality building on Wednesday as part of celebrations marking the party’s majority victory in elections to the civic body. The CPM local committee secretary and former MLA, T K Naushad, filed a complaint with police alleging that BJP and Sangh Parivar workers climbed atop the office building and hung the banner and shouted slogans. Naushad alleged that BJP workers were attempting to create communal tension by violating rules on entering a government building and hanging banners. To protest against the action, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) took out a march to the municipal building and installed a national flag on Friday. BJP mandalam secretary K Smithesh responded with a police complaint of his own for encroaching on the municipal office building and displaying the tricolour, which he claimed violated the National Flag Act of 1950. The Youth Congress also took out a march to the municipal office to protest the BJP action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/case-registered-over-display-of-banner-atop-municipality-building/articleshow/79803277.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Old town hall all but forgotten as row over new one continues||NEW DELHI: Inauguration plaques bearing the names of Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel, a message from Mahatma Gandhi, oil portraits of national figures, even a symbolic key to the capital once ritually handed over to the new mayor — these artefacts make Town Hall a time-capsule capturing the story of Delhi’s development into a megapolis. But sadly, time seems to have stopped in Chandni Chowk for the pale yellow Victorian building with arched windows and Ionic pillars. Around a decade ago, it ceased to be functional, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation deserting it for the swanky SP Mukherjee Civic Centre on the Minto Road. And while the occupancy of the new building is at the centre of the ongoing rent controversy, the 150-year-old Town Hall remains unoccupied. In the last decade, there were several proposals from the north corporation, which inherited the complex after the trifurcation of the unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi in 2012, to redevelop the emblematic complex variously into a museum, craft bazar, light-and-sound show site, boutique hotel, food court, library, even a hotel. But it continues to wallow in disuse. And it is slowly crumbling, its windows and doors hanging loose on the hinges, the old furniture under termite attack and its roofs leaking. Is the building going to get a new lease of life? A north corporation official announced that the structure’s redevelopment has been cleared by the civic body’s councillors. It will then be leased for a minimum reserve price of Rs 23.1 crore per year to suitable bidders. The civic body’s annual budget for 2020-21 recently said that the draft auction document to lease the Town Hall complex on license basis was in the final stage. The area at the historic complex that is open for redevelopment is 13,735 sq metres. “Broadly, this can be divided into three sections: main building, courtyard and press building,” the official informed. “Since the building was erected using construction material from the mid-colonial era, like stones, lime plaster, burnt bricks and timber, it requires structural strengthening and refurbishing.” The place where the complex stands today was once a garden and a sarai, the former created by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan’s daughter, Jahanara, and the latter, a guest house for important visitors and wealthy Persian traders. The construction of the present building started in 1860 and was completed three years later. Initially, the Lawrence Institute housing the Delhi College of Higher Studies, it was bought by the then municipality in 1866 for Rs 135,457.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/old-town-hall-all-but-forgotten-as-row-over-new-one-continues/articleshow/79804837.cms||Paras Singh
December 19, 2020||Nashik||Pvt English-medium schools to seek parents’ consent||Nashik: Private English-medium schools in the city will seek the consent of parents of students of classes IX-X before reopening the institutions on January 4, Association of Nashik Schools chairperson Himgauri Adke said on Saturday. “The district administration has allowed us to reopen schools, but we are not in a hurry, as the syllabus has been completed. We will wait for the feedback from citizens after schools reopen in the city and take a decision to ensure complete safety of students,” said Adke. “Prelims are to be conducted for class X students. We will, however, have to give the class IX students some writing practice. This is possible online as well as off-line. If parents are ready, we will conduct the same off-line,” he said. There are 37 such schools across the city and they have already sent consent letters to parents for their signatures. The letter states that sending their ward to school for off-line classes is their own decision. “The school cannot be held responsible if the child catches the infection from any source.” The schools made it clear that they will not be providing transport facility for students. “Considering the fact that the vaccine is still not near, parents are very protective when about the health of their children. The portion is over and the education so far is going on smoothly. We don’t think parents will be ready to send their children to school as of now,” said a member of the association. The member said that in case parents want the physical exams to be conducted, question papers would be sent to them and they will have to monitor the children while they write the answers. The parents will then have to send photos of the answer sheets to the teachers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-english-medium-schools-to-seek-parents-consent/articleshow/79819797.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Trichy||SH moots overhaul of Cauvery bridge||Trichy: The state highways department has initiated a proposal to replace the bearings used in the Cauvery bridge that connects Srirangam with Trichy.Almost 80% of the incoming and outgoing vehicles from Srirangam and Thiruvanaikoil localities depend on the Cauvery bridge to reach the rest of Trichy city. Due to this, craters appear in the 44-year-old bridge periodically. Strip seal expansion joints that fill the gaps between the successive decks often come off the surface due to wear and tear. The gaps that appear during rainy days and peak summer result in a bumpy ride. Officials said that bearings used in the bridge decks were not replaced ever since it was commissioned. As a solution, the state highways department has submitted a proposal to replace the old bearings. Although four renovation works were carried out in the bridge since 2015, the bearings were not replaced. “Facilitating new bearings will eliminate the gaps from recurring. The proposed rehabilitation work will focus on the bottom portions of the bridge too,” a source with the highways department said. The proposal has been submitted to the state government for permissions to commence the civil work. Since the work involves replacing the bearings from the surface, officials hinted at a complete suspension of vehicular movement in Cauvery bridge for a while. “Its high time officials realise the need for a new bridge across Cauvery. A suitable location for the new bridge should be identified soon for addressing the future needs of the city,” P Aiyarappan, road safety activist added. Highways department officials said that a proposal for the new bridge is also making progress simultaneously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sh-moots-overhaul-of-cauvery-bridge/articleshow/79804680.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 19, 2020||Trichy||6 held, 3 booked for cutting b’day cake on flyover with machete||Trichy: Six people were arrested and three more booked on Thursday for celebrating the birthday of one of them by cutting a cake using a machete on the newly-constructed flyover in Trichy.Cantonment police booked M Gopinath, 20, S Pasupathi, 22, K Kabil, 22, M Rengaraj, 19, K Santhoshkumar, O Krishnamoorthy, Mohan, Rajesh and Raja on charges of rioting, disobedience to curfew order over Covid-19 under the sections of IPC and for using a weapon under the arms Act. Investigating officer R Balaji said the group gathered on the Dingidul arm of the bridge late on December 5 to celebrate Gopinath’s birthday. They placed a cake on a bike while another youth took out a machete and gave it to Gopinath, who then cut the cake with it. A video of the celebration which was circulated on WhatsApp came to the notice of city police commissioner J Loganathan a few days ago. Acting on his order, SI Balaji identified the location as well as those on the video. While six of them were caught, three others absconded. Most of them were employed.SI Balaji said the men bought the machete measuring 1.5 feet through e-commerce platform. The person who bought the machete online was also implicated in the case though he was not present at the scene of crime. The arrested people were produced in court and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-held-3-booked-for-cutting-bday-cake-on-flyover-with-machete/articleshow/79804676.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Hi-tech number plates: Slots unavailable till March||NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s transport department on Friday said that it would continue its ‘limited’ enforcement drive against cars that don’t have high security registration plates (HSRP) and colour-coded fuel stickers. Since Tuesday, nine enforcement teams have issued more than 900 challans of Rs 5,500 each and the surge in car owners booking slots for getting HSRP and fuel stickers affixed has resulted in people getting appointments as delayed as March 2021. KK Dahiya, Special Commissioner (Transport), told TOI that enforcement teams have been instructed not to penalise those car owners who have booked slots for affixing HSRP and fuel stickers. Car owners can produce any evidence of booking, such as SMS or any other receipt, and they wouldn’t have to pay the challan, he said. Dahiya said the existing nine teams would continue the drive. “The transport department is not expanding the drive and only a limited awareness campaign-cum-limited action drive will continue,” he said, adding that the department is continuing with a ‘limited pre-enforcement drive’ for encouraging the fitment of colour stickers and HSRP in selected areas of Delhi. “The objective is to sensitise vehicle owners to get colour-coded stickers at the earliest and the campaign is targeted for four-wheeled vehicles only,” he said. “The teams are educating people at major intersections about affixation of colour stickers and HSRP and not issuing challans in the majority of cases,” he added. HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited said that it was expanding its order booking facilities as well as door affixation capacities as the demand was rising on a day-to-day basis. Some car owners have been complaining about being unable to book a slot as the website is showing a message asking them to update details from the Vehicle Registration Certificate. “The reason for this is that there are a number of older vehicles whose data has not been ported on to the latest NIC database Vahan 4 as yet. This data has to be updated on the Vahan website,” a spokesperson of the company said. “In this case, the vehicle owner needs to go to the Vahan website and get their data updated on Vahan 4, post which they shall be able to make the application for the HSRP online,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hi-tech-plates-slots-unavailable-till-march/articleshow/79804756.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Trichy||2 women held for running brothels in Trichy||Trichy: The anti-vice squad of the Trichy city police busted a prostitution rackets operating from two places in Trichy city in back-to-back crackdowns in the last few days. Two women running the brothels were arrested.On Thursday, the AVS and the Palakkarai police searched a lodge in Vaikkal Mettu street in the congested Palakkarai area and found three women subjected to prostitution. The action was taken based on a complaint from R Muruganadham of Nagapattinam district. Police booked the pimp R Radha, 50 of Ukkandanpalli near Hosur in Krishnagiri district, under the Immoral Traffic Prevention (ITP) Act. Police rescued two 31-year-old women and a 25-year-old woman who were subjected to the sex trade. Earlier, on December 15, the AVS and the Woraiyur police raided a house in Ramalinga Nagar based on a complaint from P Ilaiyaraja, 40, of Manapparai that a prostitution racket is being operated there. R Ranjitha, 26, of Alangudi in Tiruvarur district, who was running the brothel for some months in the rented house was booked under the ITP Act. Police also rescued three women who were forced into prostitution by Ranjitha. Both Radha and Ranjitha were arrested, while the rescued women were sent to the government protective home for rehabilitation. Police have cautioned house owners to check the background of unknown people before renting out their premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-women-held-for-running-brothels-in-trichy/articleshow/79804675.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Chargesheet against 3 priests in forgery case||Kochi: A tussle between official faction of Syro-Malabar church and some priests of Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese took another turn as police have submitted a chargesheet naming four people, including three priests of the archdiocese, as accused in a case for allegedly forging documents to defame Cardinal George Alencherry. Fr Paul Thelekatt, chief editor of church-run weekly, Light of Truth; Fr Benny Maramparambil, who headed an enquiry commission that probed irregularities in land deals of the archdiocese and filed report against the cardinal; Fr Antony Kallookaran and Adithya Z Valavi, a layperson, were named accused. Except for Adithya, who is presently out on bail, none of the accused has been arrested in the case. Fr Thelekatt and Fr Kallookaran had received anticipatory bail. Offences invoking sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471(fraudulently use as genuine a forged document), 469 (forgery for the purpose of harming reputation), 417 (cheating) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) read with 34 (common intention) of the IPC were charged against the accused. According to excerpts of the chargesheet accessed by TOI, first accused Fr Kallookaran, who had taken a stand against Cardinal Alencherry in the allegations against him that he committed illegal dealings in the sale of land of the archdiocese, and fourth accused Adithya had a friendship since 2015. “With the intention of strengthening the allegations against the Cardinal and to put him under pressure by defaming him so that he would step down from his position on his own, the first and fourth accused, conspired and forged documents to falsely show that the Cardinal had illicit money dealings, investments and that he was corrupt,” the chargesheet says. The chargesheet says the document having the header, ‘The unethical shares and mergers of Mar George Alencherry’, was forged by fourth accused on July 31, 2018, and it was sent to the email id of Fr Kallookaran. The chargesheet further states that the four accused met at the office of Fr Thelekkat on August 8, 2018, and shared the documents among each other and decided to further forge documents, the chargesheet says. Spokesperson of the priests’ body of the archdiocese, Fr Jose Vailikodath in a statement said they are sure that the truth will come out in the court and that the innocent would be acquitted. Meanwhile, Catholic Forum, a laity group supporting the Cardinal, said the chargesheet was still incomplete. Forum president Binu Chacko alleged that an auxiliary bishop and five more priests were part of the conspiracy. However, Archdiocesan Movement for Transparency, a laity group, which was on the forefront in the land deal row agitations, said in a statement that the chargesheet was just a last minute attempt to save the face of a man who has been an accused in over 16 cases. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chargesheet-against-3-priests-in-forgery-case/articleshow/79803287.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: House adopts resolution for CBI probe||NEW DELHI: The assembly on Friday passed a resolution for a CBI probe into the alleged misappropriation of Rs 2,500 crore involving the north and south corporations. AAP recently alleged that North Delhi Municipal Corporation had waived off Rs 2,457-crore rent dues of the south corporation, prompting BJP, which runs both corporations, to claim that this was just a budget proposal that won’t be accepted. Delhi BJP had also demanded a CBI probe to clear the cloud. AAP legislator Saurabh Bharadwaj, who moved the resolution, said after the session that the BJP MLAs had opposed the motion, which “exposed” their lies. “Till now, the BJP mayors, MPs and functionaries were claiming there was no scam; therefore, a CBI probe must take place so that it becomes clear that there is no corruption,” Bharadwaj said. However, he continued, “the BJP MLAs did not vote in support of the motion but opposed it, which means they opposed the CBI probe”. Calling the scam allegation baseless, Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said he would resign if the charges were proved true. “If the allegation proves to be false, apology must come from the people making these unwarranted allegations,” Bidhuri said during the discussion. There is no scam because there is no transaction, he claimed. Bidhuri said the chief minister should rise above political differences in the interest of Delhi and talk to the mayors who are sitting on an indefinite hunger strike outside his house and release Rs 13,000-crore dues so that all civic employees could be paid. Bharadwaj said the mayors were having a picnic outside the CM’s residence and now they claimed to be on a hunger strike. “But I am telling you that they are getting food from big hotels. To save themselves from the embarrassment, they have broken the CCTV cameras outside the CM’s residence,” he alleged. Delhi BJP functionary Naveen Kumar said Bharadwaj had talked about a picnic because Kejriwal and other AAP functionaries had been doing it, but “our protest is pure”. He claimed the government was installing a CCTV camera where the protesting councillors slept and changed clothes. “Instead of paying the dues, AAP is using diversionary tactics,” Kumar alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-adopts-resolution-for-cbi-probe/articleshow/79804673.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 19, 2020||India||No de-escalation, troops hold on to positions in freezing conditions at LAC||NEW DELHI: There are no signs as yet on the ground that China is willing to adhere to the proposed disengagement and de-escalation roadmap in eastern Ladakh, with the rival troops continuing to hold their entrenched positions in freezing temperatures and oxygen deprivation in the high-altitude region. But the resumption of formal diplomatic and military talks after a hiatus is being seen as “some forward movement” towards eventually defusing the confrontation, which erupted after Chinese troops intruded into Indian territory at multiple points in a well-coordinated manner in early-May. For India, restoration of the status quo as it existed in April remains the bottom-line. “Challenges at our (northern and western) borders at this time also present a challenge to our resources. But I can assure on behalf of our government that lack of resources will never come in the way of our success at the border. The PM has said that, and I can say it with confidence,” said defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. The ninth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China will take place “within a week or so”, after the two sides held diplomatic talks on Friday, said officials. The eighth military round on November 6 had raised hopes of a de-escalation, with India and China broadly agreeing to a mutual pullback of troops, tanks and howitzers from the `friction points’ in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area. But the exact modalities and sequencing of steps, along with a joint verification mechanism, have not been finalized since then, as was reported by TOI earlier. There are also concerns at the way the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has continued to upgrade its infrastructure and military positions in “depth areas” all along the 3,488-km Line of Actual Control, stretching from Ladakh to Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. In eastern Ladakh, where about 50,000 troops each from the two sides remain dug in, it’s “a question of basic survival” now. The harsh winter is exacting a toll, forcing the two armies to regularly rotate troops and even “thin down forces in a few unmanageable areas”. “Temperatures have dipped to almost minus 30 degree Celsius at some of the hilltops, hugely reducing the operational efficiency of soldiers. Both sides are battling cold injuries, pulmonary odema, hypothermia, hypoxia and the like,” said a senior official. As reported by TOI earlier, China wants the proposed disengagement to begin from the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area, where Indian troops are in tactically-advantageous positions on the ridge line stretching from Thakung to Gurung Hill, Spanggur Gap, Magar Hill, Mukhpari, Rezang La and Reqin La (Rechin mountain pass) since August 29-30. India, in turn, wants it to kick-off from the north bank of Pangong Tso, where the PLA has occupied the 8-km stretch from `Finger 4 to 8’ (mountainous spurs) since early-May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-de-escalation-troops-hold-on-to-positions-in-freezing-conditions-at-lac/articleshow/79806800.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 19, 2020||Trichy||Woraiyur health centre performs maiden male vasectomy||Trichy: Trichy corporation’s Woraiyur community health centre performed its maiden male vasectomy surgery on Friday. This is the first time that a community health centre in the corporation has performed the surgery.A total of 23 men underwent the non-scalpel vasectomy (NSV) procedure at the community health centre. The health authorities had earlier conducted awareness drives through a public announcement system inviting men interested to undergo the surgery. The men who underwent the surgery were aged between 25 to 60 years. They can continue their routine work as there will not be any complications after the surgery, health officials said.“The participants have 2 to 3 children each and do not plan to have any more babies. An incentive of Rs 1,100 was provided to each of them,” Dr G Priyadarshini, deputy director, family welfare said. Motivators who encouraged the participants to undergo the population control measure were also given Rs 200 each. Health officials said that NSV is a safe, simple and quick mode of sterilisation surgery compared to the surgery conducted for women. The drive is planned to be taken up periodically at Woraiyur centre, officials said. The community health centre in Woraiyur was upgraded last year at a cost of Rs 5 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woraiyur-health-centre-performs-maiden-male-vasectomy/articleshow/79804699.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Trichy||Couple’s subsidized idli a boon for disabled people, students||Trichy: A Trichy-based couple has launched a roadside tiffin stall in the city selling idli for a rupee to disabled people and for two rupees to students. The stall offers it free of cost to destitute people. With colleges recently opening for final year classes, the subsidized breakfast has been finding many takers among students.The couple, R Chandrasekar and Pushpa Rani, said their low-cost idli was intended to help people get over the economic impact caused by Covid19. A significant number of college students including those from Periyar EVR college have been thronging the food stall set up near government law college on Racecourse road for a week now. The couple prepare the food at their house situated in Mudhaliyar Chathiram and they are supported by family members including their son C Sam Nath. Claiming that the food stall neither fetches profit nor balances the expenses incurred, Chandrasekar, a welder by profession, said he manages to run it with earnings from his welding shop. “My wife, son and relatives take care of the sales while I engage myself in the welding workshop. I allocate Rs 500 from the earnings every day to continue the sales of low-cost food,” he said. While shops in the rest of the city sell idli for Rs 5 to Rs 8 apiece, the maximum price of idli in the couple’s shop is Rs 3. The idli comes with five varieties of chutney and sambar and is sold out between 8 am and 10 am. It sells around 700 idlis a day, 70% of it being consumed by students. As final year classes have resumed, students arriving from nearby villages and towns have been making the most of the simple, healthy and subsidised breakfast. “We initially planned to help students but workers and autorickshaw drivers are also visiting us to save money. We will continue it even after the pandemic,” Pushpa Rani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/couples-subsidized-idli-a-boon-for-disabled-people-students/articleshow/79804691.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Active Covid cases at 961 with 104 new infections||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 death count rose to 719 on Friday after two deaths were reported. The state also recorded 104 fresh cases and 116 recoveries, bringing down the tally of active cases to 961. An 85-year-old woman from Ponda and a 75-year-old man from Chapora, having comorbidities succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College. As many as 30 patients had to be hospitalised and 127 opted to be home isolated. With 1,474 swabs tested, the state’s positivity rate remained at 7%. Margao urban health centre is the only centre in South Goa which has consistently seen a rise in infections everyday. Ponda primary health centre, which witnessed a high rate of positivity over the last two months, is seeing a dip. With three new cases reported during the day, the tally of Panaji rose to 62 and that of Porvorim to 68.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-cases-at-961-with-104-new-infections/articleshow/79805983.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Man, 34, gets 10-year jail term for raping minor||TRICHY: A 34-year-old man was on Friday sentenced to 10 years imprisonment by a mahila court in Pudukottai district for raping a minor girl in 2011. He was fined of Rs 20,000 while the state government was directed to give Rs 3 lakh as compensation to the victim who is now 22-years-old and has an 8-year-old child. The convict, S Bakiyaraj, was 26-years-old when he raped his neighbour, who was only 14-years-old at the time, on several occasions in 2011. The victim’s family came to know about the rape after she became pregnant. “When the family members took the issue to village heads, Bakiyaraj who was already married, chose to marry her in front of the village heads to prevent the victim’s family members from lodging a police complaint,” said special public prospector T Angavi. But Bakiyaraj disowned the victim in a few months and went to Mumbai for work. The victim’s family then lodged a complaint with Keeranur all-woman police station in 2012. Bakiyaraj was booked under section 376(2) (sexual assault), 417 (punishment for cheating), 493 (Cohabitation caused by a man deceitfully inducing a belief of lawful marriage) and 496 (marriage ceremony was fraudulently gone through without lawful marriage). He was subsequently arrested by the police. He was proven guilty of rape after his DNA matched with the child. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-34-gets-10-yrs-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79804706.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Cong tries to woo rebel councillor-elect with a ‘blank cheque’||Thrissur: Congress has initiated efforts to bring back rebel councillor-elect M K Varghese, even though he had publicly stated that his first preference would be LDF. Congress leaders, including DCC president M P Vincent, T N Prathapan, MP and I P Paul, met Varghese at his residence on Friday. The DCC president said discussions were cordial. “We have given him a blank cheque, we are ready to accept his demands,” Vincent said. However, when contacted Varghese said his first preference would still be LDF, as he had already committed. “Congress leaders have spoken to me. But I would wait for a final response from LDF before taking any decision,” he said. LDF sources indicated that they are also continuing discussions with Varghese, and are optimistic. The demand of Varghese that he should be made mayor for the entire five years’ period has made LDF uncomfortable. However, they indicated that they would explore all options to retain the LDF rule in the corporation. Varghese contested from Nettissery division as an independent candidate after being denied ticket by Congress and won by 38 votes. His stance had become crucial as LDF had won 24 seats and UDF 23 seats in the corporation. If Varghese shifts to LDF they will have a comfortable lead. However, if he returns to UDF, their tally will become 24, which would mean there would be a tie, and the new mayor will have to be elected through a draw of lots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cong-tries-to-woo-rebel-councillor-elect-with-a-blank-cheque/articleshow/79803311.cms||T Ramavarman
December 19, 2020||Trichy||Tiruchirapalli: Students battle rain to take answer scripts to college||TRICHY: With online semester examination in colleges affiliated to Bharathidasan University (BDU) starting on Monday, the ongoing rain has been putting students to hardship in submitting answer scripts in their respective colleges. While the question paper is sent to students through mail, they have to write the exam at home on plain paper and submit the answer scripts in colleges within three hours. Since incessant rain has been lashing the region in the last two days, students have been finding it difficult to reach their colleges on time with the answer scripts. They have urged the university to accept soft copies of the answer scripts through mail which will help them save time and money. S Sharmila, a UG student of Lalgudi on the outskirts of Trichy, came all the way to her relative’s place in the city to appear for the online semester examination. Since her college is in the city, it may not be possible for her to submit the answer scripts on time if she took the exam at her home. On Thursday, she had to hire a taxi from her relative’s place to reach the college to submit the answer script due to the rain. “Some of the outstation students are forced to rent a house near the college to appear for the exam. When the colleges have already collected fee for examination including stationery charges, students are made to spend extra money by coming to college. Most students hail from poor families and are finding it tough to meet the expenses,” said S Subramanian, a parent. BDU registrar G Gopinath said online submission of answer scripts was a failure during the end semester examination as students were found uploading the wrong files. Therefore, they chose to keep it offline. Since some students are facing issues, the university administration will look into them and find alternatives, he said. Autonomous colleges have instructed students to send the soft copies of the answer scripts through mail. But the affiliated colleges of the university have asked students to submit them in person after completing them. P Jerold, a first year student of MSc Psychology in an autonomous college in Trichy, said they appeared for the online examination from their homes, but didn’t have to go to colleges to submit the answer scripts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-battle-rain-to-take-answer-scripts-to-college/articleshow/79804710.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 19, 2020||Trichy||Govt middle school students to get free tablet PCs: Min||Trichy: Tablet computers will be given to three lakh government school students from classes VI to VIII to enhance their learning experience, said school education minister K A Sengottaiyan during an event organised to distribute recognition letters to private nursery and primary schools in Trichy on Friday. An announcement in this regard is expected by January 20, he added.The state government has also decided to create the post of trainers in 7,042 Atal tinkering labs which is equipped with 3D printer and computers and were created across schools under a central scheme to make children future innovators, he said.He said that an aspirant with 152 NEET score cannot secure a medical seat in any state other than Tamil Nadu because of the 7.5% reservation introduced by state government to uphold the principles of social justice.On reopening of schools, Sengottaiyan said that saving lives of children is the priority for the government and a decision will be taken after consultation with stakeholders.Addressing members of private schools, he said the state government understands the issues faced by the self-financing schools due to Covid-19. Therefore, the government has released Rs 370 crore in advance to private schools for the seats filled under right to education (RTE) Act. “The state government is committed towards giving permanent recognition to private schools for smooth functioning,” he said. The minister said that the revised state board curriculum has set an example for other states to follow as even civil services aspirants in north India are referring to Tamil Nadu text books for preparation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-middle-school-students-to-get-free-tablet-pcs-min/articleshow/79804703.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Printing, packaging units in shock over rising raw material cost||LUDHIANA: In a big setback for the printing and packaging industry, the rates of raw material have increased manifold, causing huge problems to the manufacturers here. According to the businessmen, a major dampener for them right now is the rising rates of kraft paper—a key component for this industry—and if the government does not take measures at the earliest to rein in its prices, the results will be disastrous for Ludhiana's printing and packaging units. A statement from the leading body of printers and packaging businessmen, Offset Printers’ Association (OPA), reads, "Apart from the Covid-related challenges, the printing industry is now facing the twin blows of four price hikes in kraft paper in a short span of two months and substantial increases in the cost of other input … the unprecedented escalation of price of kraft paper by the paper mills is (proving to be) a major hurdle, while the consuming industries are not willing to pass on the cost and make their business unviable." OPA president Parveen Aggarwal said, "The corrugated paper box industry is facing a crisis, as the prices of raw material have shot up by 30-35%, threatening to turn the business unviable. In addition to the increase in kraft paper prices, all other input costs such as manpower, starch, freight and other overheads have also witnessed a huge increase of 60-70% over the last few years." Speaking on similar lines, OPA’s Amarjot Arora said, “The survival of the industry would be at stake unless the box users, including large FMCGs, partially absorb the rise in costs. It may not be practical for us to supply the material without an increase of at least 20%. On one hand, the printers are dying a slow death due to Covid, as it is not possible to run in full capacity, and on the other, this increase in raw material prices will ruin the industry if no attention is paid by the government immediately." OPA has demanded intervention of the government in this matter and requested that the rates of kraft paper be brought down at the earliest, failing which the manufacturers of corrugated boxes and allied factories would be forced to shut down their units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/printing-packaging-units-in-shock-over-rising-raw-material-cost/articleshow/79804709.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Pay Rs 7 lakh to bizman for harassment: HC to top cop, PSI||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has directed the state government, the Aurangabad police commissioner “at the relevant time” and a police sub-inspector (PSI) to pay Rs7 lakh as compensation to a businessman for harassment and illegally taking from him some legal documents on the basis of which he was entitled to recover money that he had loaned to a contractor friend in January 2015. A division bench of Justice T V Nalawade and Justice M G Sewlikar said in a judgment on December 8, “… instances of present nature are increasing day by day. It is none of the business of police to take such steps against the persons who can take legal recourse for enforcement of their right in civil court.” "Such things are being done at the instance of higher ups or some influential persons. The persons, who have no influence, become helpless when the officers of the rank of police commissioner does such thing. To make police realise that they will not be spared when they indulge in such activities, this court is directing the police to pay the compensation of Rs7 lakh," the bench said. "The state has to deposit the compensation amount within 45 days from the date of order. It is open to the state to proceed against respondents no. 2 (police chief at the relevant time) and no. 4 (the PSI) and fasten the responsibility on them in respect of the amount which the state is required to pay in the proceeding," the bench added. V D Sapkal, senior counsel for the petitioner Ram Waregaonkar, said his client’s problems with the police started from August 12, 2016. He said Waregaonkar made two written representations to the then Aurangabad police chief on May 22, 2017 and August 11, 2017 and could not get back his documents even after he filed the petition in the HC. Amitesh Kumar, the present Nagpur police commissioner, was heading the Aurangabad police from April 27, 2015 to April 28, 2017 and Yashasvi Yadav, the present joint commissioner of traffic in Mumbai, had succeeded Kumar in Aurangabad from April 28, 2017 to March 15, 2018. Kumar told TOI, “The complainant had threatened to commit suicide. As an SOP, all such memorandums, complaints and warnings to commit suicide or self-immolation are referred to the special branch (SB). This too was sent to the SB. The other developments appear to be after my tenure as Aurangabad CP was over.” Yadav told TOI, “I cannot comment on the issue.” PSI Gorakh Chavan, who is currently with Aurangabad SB, said, “I do not wish to offer any comment on the matter.” (The Case) Aurangabad businessman Ram Waregaonkar gave Rs6.5 lakh hand loan to his Zilla Parishad (ZP) civil contractor friend, Sanjay Ambhure, on January 7, 2015 against a notarized agreement the latter had executed in his favour. Waregaonkar claimed to have loaned another Rs8 lakh to Ambhure, but no document was created for this transaction. Ambhure promised to return the money on completion of the contract work and clearance of his bills, but that did not happen. Waregaonkar then started pursuing him for money. On May 25, 2016, Ambhure issued him a cheque of Rs6.5 lakh with a request to deposit it later when there would be funds in his account. In his petition, Waregaonkar said that on August 12, 2016, he got a call from PSI Chavan summoning him to the Aurangabad police commissioner’s office. When Waregaonkar went there, Ambhure and his wife were present. Chavan told Waregaonkar that he would be booked in a criminal case if he did not hand over to him the notarized agreement and the cheque “to facilitate an inquiry.” Chavan collected the notarized document and cheque from Waregaonkar, gave it to Ambhure and took an undertaking from Waregaonkar that the matter between him and Ambhure stood resolved as Ambhure had “orally” assured to return the entire money. When this did not happen, Waregaonkar started asking the police to return his documents. Waregaonkar gave two complaint applications to the then Aurangabad police chief on May 22, 2017 and August 11, 2017, but his grievance remained unresolved and he did not get back the documents which would have enabled him to initiate legal action against Ambhure under the Negotiable Instruments Act. Finally, he approached the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pay-rs-7l-to-bizman-for-harassment-hc-to-top-cop-psi/articleshow/79802397.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||‘Seva kits’, ‘Daan Veer’ initiatives bring Khushroo Poacha national recognition||Nagpur: A hero in more ways than one, Nagpur’s ‘soulpreneur’ Khushroo Poacha was one of 12 Covid warriors awarded on Friday by the national commission for minorities for exemplary public service during the pandemic. The Covid warriors were felicitated by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. They included two posthumous awardees and the first woman to fly a Vande Bharat rescue mission flight. Poacha was the only one from Maharashtra to receive it. The TOI Nagpur Heroes awardee said, “It feels good to be recognized at the national level. That we were able to make such an impact despite not having the external support big NGOs do, makes it all the more special.” Now in his 20th year of social activism, railway employee Poacha’s ‘Seva kits’ and ‘Daan Veer’ initiative helped countless many to tide over the Covid-19 crisis. The 53-year-old and his network of volunteers continue to serve those in distress — including widows of farmers in Pandharkawda, Yavatmal, who died by suicide, and coolies at Nagpur railway station. Poacha said compassion, integrity and inclusivity were the driving forces behind the consistent success of his endeavours, which had now taken the shape of a movement. “People know we don’t accept any money; we only accept in kind. This means we have no bank accounts or operational expenses either,” he said. During the pandemic, stranded migrant workers called Poacha from across the country for help, and he was there for them. “I had no clue of their geography. All I did was share their WhatsApp location on my Facebook timeline, and somehow, all requests were taken care of.” Poacha’s first-ever endeavour indianblooddonors.com (a nationwide repository for those seeking blood donors) was on the back burner for some time because of ‘Seva Kitchen’, but in the coming year he intends to leverage social media for a paradigm shift in blood donation. “As of today, when blood is required, patients go searching for donors. Now, donors should go searching for patients.” His family is an inseparable part of everything he does. His wife Fermin and 7-year-old daughter Tunisha, who collected 2,500 sweaters for children in Melghat this year, are always closely involved with the initiatives. Recognitions like the one earned on Friday (on the occasion of National Minorities Rights Day) serve as the fuel for their engine. “Twenty years back, the CEO of an organization had told me, ‘Mr Poacha, good work cannot be done without money’. Today, I can happily say I proved this gentleman wrong.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seva-kits-daan-veer-initiatives-bring-khushroo-poacha-national-recognition/articleshow/79803316.cms||Bhuvan Gupta
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||11,660 Class XII students of Ludhiana govt schools get smartphones||LUDHIANA: Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday, launched the second phase of “Punjab Smart Connect Scheme” in Ludhiana, in which smartphones were given to Class XII students of various government schools in the district. The minister “distributed” virtually the smartphones to students simultaneously with chief minister Amarinder Singh, who launched the scheme in SAS Nagar. Ashu said 11,660 students of Class XII, studying in government senior secondary schools in the district will be benefited under the second phase of the scheme. He said the smartphones will provide global connectivity and empower the poor youth who could not afford them. He said in the present pandemic situation, these phones had assumed a bigger importance, as they had become a necessity for education continuity. Ashu also said he wanted Punjab students to be abreast with the latest technology, which they can use effectively for their education. “The government schools had seen a major transformation over the last couple of years and needed to be supported with technological initiatives by the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/11660-class-xii-students-of-ludh-govt-schools-get-smartphones/articleshow/79804734.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Forum seeks education regulatory commision for Punjab||LUDHIANA: Punjab Educationists’ Forum (PEF) has demanded formation of a higher education regulatory commission in Punjab like in Himachal Pradesh, to ensure appropriate standards of admission, teaching, examinations, research and protection of the interests of students. The forum members also claimed that the present higher education policies of Punjab were promoting commercialisation and privatisation of higher education, leading to mushrooming of private universities in the state. A deputation of Punjab Educationists’ Forum, led by president Tarsem Bahia earlier met principal secretary of higher education S Rahul Bhandari and special secretary/DPI Colleges S Paramjit Singh and discussed various issues pertaining to higher education in Punjab, including the fall outs of new national education policy. The issue regarding the establishment of autonomous colleges without affiliation to any university was also discussed and authorities assured to maintain the status quo of already existing institutions. The issue regarding the existence of single faculty colleges like BEd colleges was also discussed where authorities assured to resolve it by constituting high powered committee in near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/forum-seeks-edu-regulatory-commision-for-pb/articleshow/79804740.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CM slams ‘meddling’ in West Bengal’s affairs by Centre||NEW DELHI: Amid intensifying Centre versus West Bengal government tussle, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has stood behind the state government and condemned the Centre’s “blatant interference” in the West Bengal administration. Kejriwal, who has had multiple fights on various administrative issues with the central government, described the central government’s order of central deputation for three serving IPS officers of West Bengal despite the state’s objection “encroaching on the rights of states and an assault on federalism.” Taking to Twitter to express his opinion on the matter, Kejriwal stated: “I condemn the Centre’s blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to Centre just before elections, is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilise.” His tweet came in reaction to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s tweets in which she described the central government’s order as “a colourable exercise of power and blatant misuse of emergency provision of IPS Cadre Rule 1954 and a deliberate attempt to encroach upon state’s jurisdiction and demoralize the serving officers in Bengal.” She also called it “unconstitutional and completely unacceptable!” In June 2018, Kejriwal with his cabinet ministers had sat on a dharna inside LG house to protest his “interference in the work of the elected Delhi government”. Banerjee had then extended her support to Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-slams-meddling-in-bengals-affairs-by-centre/articleshow/79804846.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Thursday records Ludhiana’s coldest night temp in last two years||LUDHIANA: The district witnessed coldest night in December in the last two years, as night temperature dipped to 3.2 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, met department predicts cold wave to continue on Saturday as well even as it forecasts dry condition in Ludhiana within the next few days. According to the met department, the minimum (night) temperature on Friday was recorded at 3.2 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees less than normal. The data of met department suggests that lowest night temperature in December last year was 3.8 degrees Celsius, which was recorded on 11 December but in 2018, the lowest night temperature was 1.4 degrees that was recorded on December 22. The night temperature, on the other hand, has been continuously witnessing a fall in the last few days and had dropped to season’s lowest at 5.5 degrees on Thursday before falling to present value. Meanwhile, Ludhiana enjoyed a sunny day for most part. As a result, the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana was recorded at –degrees Celsius, which was –degrees –than normal. On Thursday, the day temperature was recorded at 14.7 degrees, which was six degrees less than normal. A met department official at Chandigarh said cold wave is expected to persist on Saturday as well and things may improve on weather front after Sunday. He added that day temperature may improve, but night temperatures are expected to remain below normal for the next two days. Met department official said there are chances of fog/mist in the morning during the last two days. Met department website predicts night temperature to remain at 3 degrees Celsius till Saturday after which it is expected to rise to 6 degrees till Monday. It indicates that day temperature is expected to rise to 20 degrees by Monday. The cold wave had residents grappling with chill. “Even as day weather was slightly better, as sun did come out and stayed for almost the whole day, but night was too cold. beyond tolerance levels. It was so cold that we didn’t even think of switching off the heating system for even a minute during the night. In the morning, we didn’t feel like getting up from bed,” said Ashok Kumar, a trader of Chandigarh road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/thursday-records-ludhs-coldest-night-temp-in-last-2-yrs/articleshow/79804773.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Goa||‘Anjuna club illegal, violates coastal norms’||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has asked the deputy collector concerned to seal a two-storey structure named ‘Sunburn’ at Anjuna. GCZMA officials said the structure has been prima facie found to be illegal and a show cause notice has been slapped on the owner. The construction was being utilised for commercial use as a club, it is believed. “Acting on reports, GCZMA asked an expert member to inspect the site. The expert member found that the construction was within the no-development zone of the coastal regulation zone (CRZ). It was a two-storey structure and of permanent nature. GCZMA has no records of any permissions having been issued for construction of such a structure in this survey number,” said an official. The authority has asked the owner of the construction to stop any ongoing work at the site immediately. “Prima facie the structure is illegal. But, in keeping with the principles of natural justice, a hearing has been fixed in the first week of January, where the owner has been asked to produce any documents available with him, which led him to go ahead with constructing such a structure in the no-development zone of CRZ,” the official said. If the owner fails to produce valid documents, GCZMA can order demolition of the structure and also impose a penalty to recover the costs of restoration of the area to its natural state. The locals in the area began raising objections to the violation after some said they found the structure being advertised online as a club. The expert member found that the construction was within the no-development zone of CRZ. GCZMA has no records of any permissions having been issued for the construction, an official said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anjuna-club-illegal-violates-coastal-norms/articleshow/79805994.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Cluster Ghungrali Rajputtan shines at educational competitions||LUDHIANA: Online educational competitions dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur was organised by the education department of Punjab. The students of the cluster Ghungrali Rajputtan had bagged positions at both block and district levels. In Shabad Gayan competition, Khushi Majri and Sukhmanpreet Kaur has bagged both first and second positions at the block level. In Geet competition, Khushi Majri stood first at the block level. In Punjabi declamation, Sukhmandeep Kaur Majri stood second at the block level. In painting competition, Sukhpreet Kaur Majri has bagged the first position at block and fourth position at the district level. In the same competition, Sarabjeet Singh stood second at the block level. In slogan writing competition, Chahatpreet Kaur Majri stood first at block and second at the district level. In calligraphy, Sukhmandeep Kaur Majri stood first at block and third at the district level. In PPT presentation, Parveen, Kaur Bija bagged the first position at the block level. In Dastaarbandi competition, both first and second positions at block level are bagged by Manvir Singh Majri and Sukhdeep Singh Majri. The students were guided by Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (DEO) Ludhiana, Kuldeep Singh, deputy DEO Ludhiana and Mela Singh, BPEO Khanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cluster-ghungrali-rajputtan-shines-at-educational-competitions/articleshow/79804766.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC upholds govt order, says RBSE schools can charge 60% of tuition fees||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Friday upheld the government order issued on October 28 allowing private schools, affiliated to Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE), to charge 60% of tuition fees from students and 70% from those studying in CBSE-affiliated schools. But CBSE-affiliated schools can only charge 10% of the fees after schools reopen physically. The court also gave the schools the option to either accept the government order or decide the fees as per the conditions prescribed in the Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2016. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma gave the order on a petition challenging the interim order given by the single bench allowing private schools to charge 70% of tuition fees in three instalments for the 2020-21 academic year. The court held that the state government had powers to issue directions to schools on fees and the same did not violate any Supreme Court order. The court also directed all private schools to form necessary bodies required for special determination of fees within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-hc-upholds-govt-order-says-rbse-schools-can-charge-60-of-tuition-fees/articleshow/79806022.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan HC upholds govt order, says RBSE schools can charge 60% of tuition fees||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Friday upheld the government order issued on October 28 allowing private schools, affiliated to Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE), to charge 60% of tuition fees from students and 70% from those studying in CBSE-affiliated schools. But CBSE-affiliated schools can only charge 10% of the fees after schools reopen physically. The court also gave the schools the option to either accept the government order or decide the fees as per the conditions prescribed in the Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2016. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma gave the order on a petition challenging the interim order given by the single bench allowing private schools to charge 70% of tuition fees in three instalments for the 2020-21 academic year. The court held that the state government had powers to issue directions to schools on fees and the same did not violate any Supreme Court order. The court also directed all private schools to form necessary bodies required for special determination of fees within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-hc-upholds-govt-order-says-rbse-schools-can-charge-60-of-tuition-fees/articleshow/79808107.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Mission Clean Buddha Nullah: 30 traffic marshals, 60 sanitation staff deployed||LUDHIANA: The civic officials carried out an awareness March alongside Buddha Nullah for convincing the residents not to throw garbage inside the drain on Friday. The civic body has already tied up with traffic marshals to create awareness among the masses and now sanitation staff has also been deputed for the task. The officials claimed that the idea is to stop public from throwing garbage into the drain and, if required, they will issue challans or recommend FIR against the repeated offenders. Municipal corporation (MC) Ludhiana has deputed 36 traffic marshals and 60 sanitation employees at the banks of drain. The 14-km stretch of Buddha Nullah falls in the city limits and the awareness drive will continue at this stretch as the garbage is mostly thrown in near bridges. The officials claimed that they carried out a rally on Friday while awareness drive will be launched officially by municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal next week. The nodal officer of Swachh Bharat Mission Ashwani Sahota said, “We have put up banners at 25 bridges falling in zones A, B and D at Buddha Nullah. Initially, we will stop people from throwing solid waste into the drain, as it is illegal and bad for water body and if people continue doing the same, time and again, then we will issue challan against the offenders.” If the problem still persists, FIRs will be recommended against repeat offenders. Already, the MC officials had issued challans to 12 hosiery units, located on a stretch from Shivpuri to Bajwa Nagar bridge, which had been dumping waste in the drain despite repeated warnings Notably, the MC house had cleared a resolution for imposing Rs 5,000 penalty on people who throw solid waste into the drain, but it could not be implemented in the absence of proper drive. MC plans to involve college students in creating awareness around Buddha Nullah Meanwhile, another plan is to involve the college students and, towards this end, regular meetings are being conducted by the civic officials with college authorities. The Swachh Bharat Mission project director Puran Singh met seven college authorities in this regard. The civic officials claimed that they got positive response from the colleges, but college authorities have sought time to take permission from parents. Moreover, due to Covid-19, 70% students are not coming to colleges. Once volunteers from colleges are ready to contribute time, a team will come from Chandigarh for capacity building of these students and then they will be taken to the field for creating awareness among the masses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mission-clean-buddha-nullah-30-traffic-marshals-60-sanitation-staff-deployed/articleshow/79804811.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan HC upholds govt order, says RBSE schools can charge 60% of tuition fees||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Friday upheld the government order issued on October 28 allowing private schools, affiliated to Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE), to charge 60% of tuition fees from students and 70% from those studying in CBSE-affiliated schools. But CBSE-affiliated schools can only charge 10% of the fees after schools reopen physically. The court also gave the schools the option to either accept the government order or decide the fees as per the conditions prescribed in the Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2016. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma gave the order on a petition challenging the interim order given by the single bench allowing private schools to charge 70% of tuition fees in three instalments for the 2020-21 academic year. The court held that the state government had powers to issue directions to schools on fees and the same did not violate any Supreme Court order. The court also directed all private schools to form necessary bodies required for special determination of fees within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-hc-upholds-govt-order-says-rbse-schools-can-charge-60-of-tuition-fees/articleshow/79808108.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan HC upholds govt order, says RBSE schools can charge 60% of tuition fees||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Friday upheld the government order issued on October 28 allowing private schools, affiliated to Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE), to charge 60% of tuition fees from students and 70% from those studying in CBSE-affiliated schools. But CBSE-affiliated schools can only charge 10% of the fees after schools reopen physically. The court also gave the schools the option to either accept the government order or decide the fees as per the conditions prescribed in the Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2016. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma gave the order on a petition challenging the interim order given by the single bench allowing private schools to charge 70% of tuition fees in three instalments for the 2020-21 academic year. The court held that the state government had powers to issue directions to schools on fees and the same did not violate any Supreme Court order. The court also directed all private schools to form necessary bodies required for special determination of fees within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-hc-upholds-govt-order-says-rbse-schools-can-charge-60-of-tuition-fees/articleshow/79808106.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: MC commissioner meets stakeholders to discuss progress||LUDHIANA: In order to make Buddha Nullah pollution free, the civic officials have started activities and to finalise the scheme, the MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with officials from Punjab water supply and sewerage board, Punjab Pollution Control Board and consultant company. Recently in the meeting regarding Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project, industrialists had asked how on the total discharge was measured by the officials and it was decided to conduct the survey once again. Now, the survey has been started again because after correct measurement of discharge upgradation of sewerage treatment plants could be started. If there will not be any difference in measurement, then work will start according to the proposed scheme otherwise they will have to change design to carry discharge to Tajpur Road STP. In order to stop people from throwing garbage inside the drain, chain link fencing project is also going to start for which a company has already been finalised. But before starting these works, commissioner has asked the officials of building branch to remove the encroachments around Buddha Nullah in next few days. There are chances that anti encroachment drive will also start in next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-commissioner-meets-stakeholders-to-discuss-progress/articleshow/79804838.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Schools for classes IX-XII set to reopen from January 4 in Bihar||PATNA: The state government has decided to reopen schools (for classes IX to XII), colleges and coaching institutes from January 4, 2021, for regular classes under strict Covid-19 safety protocols. The decision of reopening of education institutes was taken at the meeting of the crisis management committee chaired by the chief secretary, Deepak Kumar, here on Friday in consultation with the departments concerned. बिहार के स्कूलो को खोले जाने के फ़ैसले के लिए माननीय मुख्यमंत्री .@NitishKumar और शिक्षा मंत्री @AshokChoudhaary जी… https://t.co/b1YzLs9yaC— Jitan Ram Manjhi (@jitanrmanjhi) 1608293664000The education department will chalk out the rules and regulations that the educational institutes will have to follow for the safety of students and staff because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Education minister Ashok Choudhary told this newspaper on Friday that the schools will be reopened for regular teaching of classes IX to XII in a graded manner for which instructions would be issued. “The decision of reopening schools, colleges and coaching institutes has been taken after analysing the Covid situation in Bihar. The notification for the reopening of education institutes will be issued within the next 24 hours,” Choudhary said. He added, “Schools will follow the guidelines and the standard operating procedures (SoPs) issued by the Centre for Covid safety. Hence, the schools shall make requisite arrangements for classes for the safety of children and staff.” So far, students of classes IX to XII were being called to the school only for a few hours for guidance sessions under the Unlock 5.0. Sanjay Kumar, principal secretary of the education department, said the education institutes from Class IX onwards and coaching institutes to reopen from January 4 with conditions to be finalised by the education department in consultation with SoPs of the ministry of home affairs. “Similarly, hostels attached to schools, colleges and coaching centres will also reopen from January 4,” he added. The principal secretary told this newspaper that after reopening of the educational institutes, the department would monitor the situation for the next two-weeks and depending on the outcome, a decision will be taken to reopen Classes I to VIII in a phased manner. “The department will frame the rules and regulation to be held on alternate days for a batch of students or in shifts to ensure social distancing. Students will be allowed to attend regular classes only if they get consent letters from their parents. Besides, the department would hold online consultation programmes with private schools regarding the same,” Sanjay said. Various school associations, including the Association for Independent Schools- Bihar, Bihar Private Schools and Children Welfare Association and Bihar Private Schools and Children Welfare Association, welcomed the state government’s decision and assured that the schools would follow the safety guidelines for Covid- 19. Former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi thanked CM Nitish Kumar and education minister Ashok Choudhary for the decision to open Bihar schools, in one of his tweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/schools-for-classes-ix-xii-set-to-reopen-from-jan-4-in-state/articleshow/79803191.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 19, 2020||Amritsar||Mansa cyclists’ group sends geysers, washing machines to Delhi border||BATHINDA: To ease harsh conditions faced by farmers at the Delhi borders, members of Mansa Cyclists Group sent 50 hot water geysers, five washing machines and two truckloads of wood to Tikri border on Friday. The group of volunteers left Mansa in the morning under the leadership of Balwinder Singh Kaka, former president of Mansa municipal council. “We left for Tikri border from Mansa in the morning with 50 geysers, five washing machines and 200 quintals of wood, but we met a lot of farmers on the way before reaching Tikri and provided 10 geysers to them. We have ordered 50 more electric geysers, which will reach Tikri by Saturday evening. We want to provide more assistance,” said Balwinder Kaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/mansa-cyclists-group-sends-geysers-washing-machines-to-delhi-border/articleshow/79804860.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Amritsar||In 4th week, farmers’ protest gets its very own newspaper||BATHINDA: As the farm groups’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws hits the fourth week, it has got its own newspaper. A team of half-a-dozen youngsters has come out with a four-page publication to keep every farmer putting up in trolleys or tents on Delhi borders abreast of the happenings pertaining to the protest and the sights and sounds at the stir sites spanning many kilometres. The tabloid-sized newspaper, Trolley Times, covers the myriad moods of the agitation at the Delhi borders — the second home of the protesters for the last 23 days. The newspaper will be available as hard copy as well as on digital platforms. The first edition of the paper, in Punjabi and Hindi, was distributed among farmers on Friday, amid much curiousity and discussion. The newspaper is a collaborative effort by siblings Ajaypal Natt and Navkiran Natt from Mansa, writer Surmeet Mavi, Gurdeep Singh Dhaliwal, Narinder Bhinder and songwriter Jassi Sangha. Now, they are finding ways to get donations to meet the Rs 10,000 per edition cost, including designing and printing of the paper from Delhi. Before this, other youngsters have helmed digital platforms like "Kisan Ekta Morcha" and "Tractor 2 Twitter" to focus on everyday developments at the borders, including viewpoints of farm leaders and a wide section of protesters. Speaking to TOI, Ajaypal Natt explained how Trolley Times came into being. "After farmers were dubbed anti-national and other controversies, we decided to come out with our own publication where every mood at both Singhu and Tikri borders, including happenings, art and poetry could be covered. As many of the protesters have reached the Delhi borders in trolleys and are spending nights in the trolleys, we thought Trolley Times was an apt name for the publication. He said their team included writers and artists who wanted to showcase the different colours of the agitation as per the likes of the farmers and they had got lot of encouragement after the inaugural edition, which was widely liked by farmers. "We have incorporated a lot of suggestions to further refine the paper," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-protest-gets-own-newspaper/articleshow/79804850.cms||Neel Kamal
December 19, 2020||Delhi||‘Setting a new bar’: Unesco awards for Sunder Nursery||NEW DELHI: Sunder Nursery, the sprawling park set amid historical structures at Nizamuddin, has become Delhi’s first heritage complex to receive two Unesco Asia-Pacific awards for Cultural Heritage Conversation, bagging the Award of Excellence and the newly announced Special Recognition for Sustainable Development. The jury said the park “sets a new bar for heritage conservation”. Unesco’s international panel of Jury members identified seven projects for this year’s award after reviewing 48 entries from nine Asia-Pacific countries. The 90-acre Sunder Nursery, with its 20 heritage monuments and landscaped environs, including a 30-acre biodiversity zone, was awarded the inaugural Special Recognition for Sustainable Development for its “transformative impact in turning a barren site into an urban oasis in the heart of New Delhi”. The citation stated, “The historic ensemble of Mughal garden tombs and their associated sacred landscape was restored with native plantings and an extensive rainwater harvesting system.” Praising the effort, Unesco said the project “pays equal attention to ecological restoration, thus underscoring the message that heritage conservation is beyond monuments and is only truly sustainable when essential linkages between nature and culture are profoundly understood and nurtured.” The citation for the Award of Excellence upholds the “comprehensive renewal of the Sunder Nursery ensemble that sets a new bar for heritage restoration and serves as a catalytic model for public-private partnerships in India”. The world body commended “the path-breaking cooperation” between the Archaeological Survey of India and Aga Khan Trust for Culture that created a popular urban green area while also improving the quality of life for the Nizamuddin Basti community. “The (restoration) team has restored the integrity of the complex, which had been previously broken up by unsympathetic roads and congestion in recent decades. The vitality of the nursery, which is partly included in the World Heritage Site of Humayun’s Tomb, is a testament to the project team’s multi-faceted approach to heritage conservation and establishes a paradigm for connecting physical fabric to ecology and societal well-being,” Unesco said. Ratish Nanda, CEO, Aga Khan Trust for Culture, responded that the recognition of the decade-long inter-disciplinary effort at Sunder Nursery was a “ratification for the conservation approach in which ruins received a new lease of life as well as the need, in the Indian context, to be concerned about associated natural heritage and needy communities”. Among other Indian sites, the Koothambalam at Guruvayoor Temple in Thrissur received the Award of Distinction, while Amar Singh College, Srinagar, and Malabari Hall Building, Seva Sadan Society, Mumbai, got the Award of Merit. Since 2000, the Unesco Asia-Pacific Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation Programme have been lauding the efforts of private individuals and organisations in successfully restoring, conserving and transforming structures and buildings of heritage value in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/setting-a-new-bar-unesco-awards-for-sunder-nursery/articleshow/79804921.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Call centre duping credit card users busted in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A call centre, which was allegedly duping people by posing as representatives of the credit card division of their bank, has been busted in the city. Three people, including a woman, have been arrested. The accused asked the victims to register on their portal by paying Rs 10 using their credit card and promised 25% discount on all future purchases. While the user filled in details to pay Rs 10, the crooks could see that information from the admin portal. They transferred Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 to their merchant account and went underground. They also asked people to fill in their card details to increase their credit limit. The arrested have been identified as Rajan Kumar Bairwa (28) from Rajasthan and Rajesh alias Dr Aman (35) and Babita (22) from Faridabad. DCP (Shahdara) Sanjay Sain said that they had received a complaint from a victim on October 7 and started a probe. “The complainant stated that he had received a call wherein the caller claimed to be the executive of credit card department. He offered him to register on their website i.e. rewardpointcard.in with nominal payment of Rs 10 and he would get 20-30% discount on shopping,” the DCP said. After registration, the victim realised that instead of a deduction of Rs 10, an amount of Rs 10,000 had been deducted from his account without even sharing any one- time password (OTP). An FIR was registered at Gandhi Nagar police station and a team led by inspector Heera Lal from Cyber Cell was formed to crack the case. The cops later received a tip-off about the woman and apprehended her. She led the cops to others. Police have recovered 15 mobile phones, SIM cards, about Rs 9,500 cash and seized two of their accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-centre-duping-credit-card-users-busted-in-city/articleshow/79804865.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tests positive for Covid-19||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tested positive for novel coronavirus on Friday after which he put himself under home isolation. The development came two days before the start of winter assembly session. Sharing the information on Twitter, CM Rawat urged everyone who came in his contact in the past three-four days to get themselves tested for the virus. The chief minister shared the information about his Covid-19 report soon after he attended a review meeting on the tackling of the virus on Friday afternoon. “Today I underwent the coronavirus test and its report came out positive. My health is fine and I do not have any symptoms. Therefore, on the advice of doctors, I will be in home isolation. I request everyone, whoever has come in contact with me in the last few days, to themselves isolated and tested,” said the chief minister in his tweet. Talking to TOI, Darshan Rawat, media coordinator to the chief minister said that the CM got himself tested after his cook tested positive for the virus three days ago. “He got everyone in the staff tested after his cook was found infected. While reports of other staffers are awaited, CM tested positive on Friday,” added Darshan Rawat. According to the Chief Minister Office, he will participate in the assembly session via video conferencing. The state’s winter assembly is scheduled to start from December 21 (Monday). Notably, the CM has isolated himself multiple times in the past six months after ministers, MLAs, and senior bureaucrats, with whom he had meetings, tested Covid-19 positive. He went into self isolation after tourism minister Satpal Maharaj tested positive and then got himself tested again when his security persons were tested positive for the virus. Last week, Rekha Arya, minister of state, also tested positive for Covid-19. Also, secretary (health) Amit Negi and director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti tested positive for the virus recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-tests-positive-for-covid-19-to-participate-in-assembly-via-video-link/articleshow/79802437.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 19, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Farmers’ movement manifestation of collective resentment in Punjab’||JALANDHAR: As people from diverse professions gathered here under the banner of Punjab Civil Society and spoke for farmers protesting at the Delhi borders, the common refrain was that the farmers’ movement was a manifestation of collective resentment prevailing in the state. They said people in urban areas are wholeheartedly supporting farmers and were as concerned about the protesters as their families in villages. In the first gathering of its kind in Punjab, people from all walks of life, doctors, industrialists, businessmen, academics, charted accountants and former army officers, among others gathered to deliberate and speak up for farmers instead of merely listening to experts or celebrities. “We wanted that urbanites should not remain passive onlookers as Punjab farmers protest at Delhi border, so we organised them to deliberate on the issue and speak up,” said Rakesh Shantidoot, one of the main organisers of the event. Former diplomat Ramesh Chander said it was heartening that civil society in Punjab had also started organising itself to speak up on farmers’ issues. Dr Swaran Singh and Dr Mukesh Gupta, who represented the medical fraternity, said the protesters face health risks because of the cold weather. They said it was not just a protest but a movement in which other sections of society were also stakeholders. “Punjab has always been facing discrimination. While farmers are there on the borders of Delhi, back home, we as part of the civil society, will have to ensure that no machinations to divide people succeed,” said Dr Gupta. Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women principal Navjot Kaur described the participation of women in the movement as historic. Sports industrialist and Khel Udyog Sangh leader Ravinder Dhir said there was no urban rural divide in Punjab on the issue and people from all backgrounds were backing the movement. Local businessman Raman Kumar said the farmers’ movement had shaken civil society and urban residents also feel strongly about their issues. PTU vice chancellor’s former advisor Dr Nachhatar Singh said Punjab needed to be careful about the divisive narratives being created to weaken the farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-movement-manifestation-of-collective-resentment-in-punjab/articleshow/79804851.cms||IP Singh
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Partial relief: Lane towards Noida at Chilla now open||NEW DELHI: Delhi traffic police on Friday said that the Delhi-Noida carriageway on Chilla border will be open for traffic, but the other side will remain closed due to the protests by farmers who have been camping at the borders for 23 days straight now. Other border points connecting the national capital with neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, such as Tikri and Dhansa remained closed. Jhatikara border is open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians, traffic police said in a Tweet. A few of New Delhi’s border points with Haryana were also shut as the farmers’ agitation entered its 23rd day. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Sabholi and Mangesh border points are closed. Please take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Singhu toll tax borders,” traffic police tweeted, adding that traffic had been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters were advised to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH-44. Border points open between Delhi and Haryana are Jharoda, Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera. Only one side of the Jharoda border is open. The traffic police further added that Ghazipur border was closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi. “Ghazipur border is closed for traffic coming from Ghaziabad to Delhi due to farmers protests. People are advised to take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara and Bhopra borders,” the traffic police tweeted. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana are protesting near Delhi’s borders against the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the Centre in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/partial-relief-lane-towards-noida-at-chilla-now-open/articleshow/79804982.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh’s literacy rate goes up but gender divide a concern||VISAKHAPATNAM: The National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 has found improving literacy rates in Andhra Pradesh. According to the survey, the literacy rate among males (aged 15-49) stood at about 80%, while it is some 69% among the female population. About 48% of men and 40% of women have at least 10 years of schooling. About 66% of girls aged six years and above have ever attended school. This was only 62% in the last instalment of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4) conducted during 2015-16. As per the 2011 Census, the literacy rate among males was 74.8% and 60% among females in Andhra Pradesh. But again, all these numbers reflect the gender disparity and inequality in attaining female literacy. The NFHS-5 has also revealed low internet penetration in the state. Only 21% of females reported to ever having used the internet, against the significantly higher 49% of male internet users. Narava Prakasa Rao, convener, RTE Forum-Andhra Pradesh, said the state has made steady improvement over the years as educational attainment is being considered a prerequisite for development at the individual as well as at community level. “However, the state has a long way to go to achieve 100% literacy rate. The literacy rate among women has not reached the optimum levels despite some momentum on this front with a series of welfare initiatives. The governments should focus more on women education to make them the key stakeholders in propelling the development of the state,” said Prakasa Rao. Literacy level is a crucial development indicator as it improves awareness levels and quality of life, and produces a skilled workforce. It also promotes gender equality, health awareness and community well-being, apart from offering a wide spectrum of social and economic benefits. Adequate literacy skills can open the doors to the world of employment and further educational opportunities. Several studies in the past have also found several associated benefits with improved literacy rates, particularly in developing countries, as people can better understand information available and make informed decisions on various fronts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/states-literacy-rate-goes-up-but-gender-divide-a-concern/articleshow/79809871.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Two children die as house catches fire in southwest Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two children aged five and six died due to asphyxia after a house caught fire in southwest Delhi’s Sagarpur on Friday afternoon. The other occupants of the house were rescued, officials said. The fire department received the call around 3.10pm and the blaze was brought under control by 3.35pm, Delhi fire chief Atul Garg said. The room where the fire broke out had shoemaking material, which aggravated the blaze. A short circuit is suspected to have triggered the fire and an inquiry is being conducted in this regard. After the locals spotted the fire, local police were informed and a few of the occupants were rescued from the upper floor by them but the two kids got trapped in the room at the ground floor where rubber and other inflammable objects belonging to their father, a shoemaker, were kept. Both children were taken to nearby Shakuntala Hospital and later they were shifted to DDU where they were declared brought dead. The deceased have been identified as Ayush (5) and Shriansh (6). The family had shifted to the rented accommodation on December 1. Officials denied that there was an illegal factory functioning there. Police have filed an FIR and are investigating the negligence angle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-children-die-as-house-catches-fire-in-sw-delhi/articleshow/79804904.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Shimla||Cold, dry spell to continue in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Cold gripped most parts of Haryana and Punjab on Friday, with Hisar recording aminimum temperature of 1°C, the lowest in December so far. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold to severe cold in the next five days. Dense fog has been predicted at several places on December 21and 22 at nights and early mornings. In Himachal Pradesh, predictably, the cold wave was more pronounced. Manali’s Chenab has frozen at many places and the mercury has dipped below -10°C. Even maximum day temperature of the valley is below freezing point. With night temperature in most parts of Himachal dipping below 4°C and a number of places recording sub-zero temperature, the state is reeling under intense cold wave. Spiti and Chenab have frozen on the surface. Drinking water is becoming a problem in Lahaul-Spiti as water sources have frozen over. Temperature at Spiti headquarter Kaza has plunged below -15°C. Lowest minimum temperature at Lahaul-Spiti district headquarter Keylong was recorded at -10°C. Temperature in Miyar, Koksar and upper reaches of valley is even lower. Maximum day temperature of Keylong on Friday was recorded at minus 3.6°C. Small nullahs and water streams in the district have frozen completely. Icicles are hanging from the mountains where water was seeping down the mountain face. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police, Manav Verma issued a travel advisory for vehicular traffic. “With extreme cold gripping Lahaul valley, black ice has formed on highway at many places. This transparent ice is almost invisible and causes road accidents. We have marked major spots through google maps which are available for guidance of the public. We have already asked people to avoid driving at night,” he said. As the mercury dips, the homeless face an uphill task in finding a warm place to sleep, especially if the authorities failed to make arrangements. In Patiala, for instance, authorities are yet to come up with the promised three more temporary shelters for the homeless. A number of homeless persons can be seen sleeping on the roadsides at night. Ironically, some of the permanent shelter homes in Patiala are also lying vacant, as homeless people are unable to use them for want of documents of identification while a few others are allegedly refused entry if they are drunk. Mayor Sanjeev Sharma agreed that it got delayed this time to organise temporary shelter homes, but said Covid-19 guidelines are being followed diligently. Meanwhile, Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that sufficient arrangements have been made to protect the homeless from cold. “We have a capacity of over 150 people each at three shelters, with arrangements for bedding, food, tea and bathing,” he said. In Bathinda, NGOs pitch in to help the poor. Sahara Jansewa, Naujawan Welfare Society and Shri Hanuman Sewa Samiti, for example, have started distributing blankets to the homeless people. The homeless in Jind district are provided hot water, blankets, rooms, food and other items of necessity in shelter homes, said district administration officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cold-dry-spell-to-continue-for-5-days/articleshow/79809147.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Cold, dry spell to continue in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Cold gripped most parts of Haryana and Punjab on Friday, with Hisar recording aminimum temperature of 1°C, the lowest in December so far. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold to severe cold in the next five days. Dense fog has been predicted at several places on December 21and 22 at nights and early mornings. In Himachal Pradesh, predictably, the cold wave was more pronounced. Manali’s Chenab has frozen at many places and the mercury has dipped below -10°C. Even maximum day temperature of the valley is below freezing point. With night temperature in most parts of Himachal dipping below 4°C and a number of places recording sub-zero temperature, the state is reeling under intense cold wave. Spiti and Chenab have frozen on the surface. Drinking water is becoming a problem in Lahaul-Spiti as water sources have frozen over. Temperature at Spiti headquarter Kaza has plunged below -15°C. Lowest minimum temperature at Lahaul-Spiti district headquarter Keylong was recorded at -10°C. Temperature in Miyar, Koksar and upper reaches of valley is even lower. Maximum day temperature of Keylong on Friday was recorded at minus 3.6°C. Small nullahs and water streams in the district have frozen completely. Icicles are hanging from the mountains where water was seeping down the mountain face. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police, Manav Verma issued a travel advisory for vehicular traffic. “With extreme cold gripping Lahaul valley, black ice has formed on highway at many places. This transparent ice is almost invisible and causes road accidents. We have marked major spots through google maps which are available for guidance of the public. We have already asked people to avoid driving at night,” he said. As the mercury dips, the homeless face an uphill task in finding a warm place to sleep, especially if the authorities failed to make arrangements. In Patiala, for instance, authorities are yet to come up with the promised three more temporary shelters for the homeless. A number of homeless persons can be seen sleeping on the roadsides at night. Ironically, some of the permanent shelter homes in Patiala are also lying vacant, as homeless people are unable to use them for want of documents of identification while a few others are allegedly refused entry if they are drunk. Mayor Sanjeev Sharma agreed that it got delayed this time to organise temporary shelter homes, but said Covid-19 guidelines are being followed diligently. Meanwhile, Amritsar mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu claimed that sufficient arrangements have been made to protect the homeless from cold. “We have a capacity of over 150 people each at three shelters, with arrangements for bedding, food, tea and bathing,” he said. In Bathinda, NGOs pitch in to help the poor. Sahara Jansewa, Naujawan Welfare Society and Shri Hanuman Sewa Samiti, for example, have started distributing blankets to the homeless people. The homeless in Jind district are provided hot water, blankets, rooms, food and other items of necessity in shelter homes, said district administration officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cold-dry-spell-to-continue-for-5-days/articleshow/79804889.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh’s literacy rate goes up but gender divide a concern||VISAKHAPATNAM: The National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-5 has found improving literacy rates in Andhra Pradesh. According to the survey, the literacy rate among males (aged 15-49) stood at about 80%, while it is some 69% among the female population. About 48% of men and 40% of women have at least 10 years of schooling. About 66% of girls aged six years and above have ever attended school. This was only 62% in the last instalment of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4) conducted during 2015-16. As per the 2011 Census, the literacy rate among males was 74.8% and 60% among females in Andhra Pradesh. But again, all these numbers reflect the gender disparity and inequality in attaining female literacy. The NFHS-5 has also revealed low internet penetration in the state. Only 21% of females reported to ever having used the internet, against the significantly higher 49% of male internet users. Narava Prakasa Rao, convener, RTE Forum-Andhra Pradesh, said the state has made steady improvement over the years as educational attainment is being considered a prerequisite for development at the individual as well as at community level. “However, the state has a long way to go to achieve 100% literacy rate. The literacy rate among women has not reached the optimum levels despite some momentum on this front with a series of welfare initiatives. The governments should focus more on women education to make them the key stakeholders in propelling the development of the state,” said Prakasa Rao. Literacy level is a crucial development indicator as it improves awareness levels and quality of life, and produces a skilled workforce. It also promotes gender equality, health awareness and community well-being, apart from offering a wide spectrum of social and economic benefits. Adequate literacy skills can open the doors to the world of employment and further educational opportunities. Several studies in the past have also found several associated benefits with improved literacy rates, particularly in developing countries, as people can better understand information available and make informed decisions on various fronts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/states-literacy-rate-goes-up-but-gender-divide-a-concern/articleshow/79802446.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana increases sugarcane rate by Rs 10 a quintal||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has decided to increase the rate of sugarcane by Rs 10 per quintal to Rs 350 per quintal for the 2020-21 crushing season, which was highest in the country. An official said a proposal in this regard had already been made. The state government has also approved the proposal for providing subsidy to sugarcane farmers for the current crushing season 2020-21 on the pattern of 2018-19 and 2019-20 crushing seasons. The offcial said an amount of over Rs 81.37 crore for crushing season 2018-19 and over Rs 124.14 crore for crushing season 2019-20 upto May 2020 was provided as subsidy to sugar mills in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-increases-sugarcane-rate-by-rs-10-a-quintal/articleshow/79804923.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||As govt strengthens PHCs, docs eager for rural posting||Amaravati: Deputy chief minister (health) Alla Nani has said the government will convert all public health centres (PHCs) into 24x7 healthcare centres by appointing at least two doctors and three nurses in each centre. About 1,145 PHCs in the state will shortly start functioning 24x7. While the two doctors will be on duty from 8 am to 8 pm in two shifts, they will also attend duties on call during emergencies during the night. “It is good that the government had finally set its focus on strengthening the health sector through various measures. We are expecting more posts to be filled up shortly,” said Dr Jayadheer, president of the Government Doctors’ Association. The government has recently filled nearly 9,000 posts including doctors, nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians in all hospitals right from PHCs, Community Health Centres, Area Hospitals and teaching hospitals. The government is also planning to fill more posts in government hospitals. “We have received nearly 4,500 applications when we issued notification to fill 750 doctor posts in PHCs in the first spell. This means that six candidates competed for each post and it was a big task for us to screen the meritorious among the applicants,” said a senior official in the health department. A young graduate of medicine, K Hemanth, who joined the service recently, said they are elated to serve in rural areas. Many of his batchmates are also eager to join the service on their first opportunity. “It is not true that young doctors are confined to urban areas,” said M Lavanya, another doctor who took up an assignment at a PHC in Kurnool district. There was massive demand even when the government filled up several assistant professor posts in government medical colleges. It had also created new wings of superspecialties in some medical colleges for postgraduate seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/as-govt-strengthens-phcs-docs-eager-for-rural-posting/articleshow/79802466.cms||Samdani MN
December 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Six killed in collision between truck, three-wheeler in Ambala||AMBALA: Six persons were killed in a head-on collision between a three-wheeler and a truck in Ambala district on Friday, said police. The accident too place near Jeoli turn on Dehar-Ambli road in Naraingarh block. The decceased include three men and women each — Sunil, 23, of Kanjala village who was driving the three-wheeler; Gafoor Din, 60, of Okhal village; Mehar Singh, 82, of Andheri village; Salamati, 60, of Fatehpur village; and sisters Komal, 22, and Priyanka, 21, of Harbon village. Police have arrested accused truck driver who would be produced in the Naraingarh court on Saturday. “About 12pm, when Sunil was about to take a turn towards Jeoli, the truck collided with the three-wheeler, police said. An eyewitness, Prakash, said he saw the truck driver running away from the spot after the accident. “I went to look at the occupants of three-wheeler and all of them were lying unconscious,” he said. Sunil, Gafoor, Salamati, Mehar and Priyanka died on the spot,while Komal — who was referred from Naraingarh civil hospital to Ambala civil hospital and then Chandigarh died on the way. SHO Gurmail said, “We have arrested accused truck driver Ombir of Mandebar village in Yamunanagar district, after registering a case against him under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Naraingarh police station on Friday. Accused would be produced in court on Saturday.” The SHO said bodies of all six deceased had been handed over to their families and cremations were done at their villages, after postmortems at civil hospital in Naraingarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/6-killed-in-collision-between-truck-3-wheeler-in-ambala/articleshow/79804912.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Covid vaccination to be done in hospital and nearby areas; CM directs officials to identify vaccination centres||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday reviewed the Covid-19 scenario in the state and inspected the preparations for the vaccination process. CM Rawat told authorities that vaccination centres need to be set up in hospitals and their nearby areas. He also directed the district magistrates to ensure that the staff and facilities required for the vaccination process are available. “All preparations regarding vaccination, be it identification of vaccination process, required manpower and storage facilities, should be completed well within time, so that no issues come up during the process,” he said. The officials were also told to provide the details of tests being done in private and government laboratories along with their testing capacities. He also said that test reports should be made available within 24 hours for urban areas and within 48 hours for rural areas. Rawat called for special efforts to bring down the Covid-19 death rate and said that if a patient has to be shifted to a higher centre, there should be no delay in the process. The CM also instructed the district magistrates to increase the testing rate in their respective districts. For people under home isolation, Rawat said that the health department teams needed to visit their residence after a few days of their testing positive to check whether they were following the guidelines or not. For effective vaccination, the DMs were told to prepare a detailed plan and submit the report at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-vaccination-to-be-done-in-hospital-and-nearby-areas-cm-directs-officials-to-identify-vaccination-centres/articleshow/79802455.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana agriculture minister inspects land for flower market||CHANDIGARH: Haryana agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister J P Dalal inspected land identified for a flower market in Sector 52A, Gurgaon. The flower market will be made on about eight acres. The agriculture minister said the plan is to develop the flower market on public-private partnership (PPP) basis. The minister also inspected the Khandsa Vegetable and Fruit Market and Farmers’ Rest House in Gurgaon. He said the vegetable market should be cleaned every day and a composting plant should be set up for waste management. He also issued instructions for improvement of Khandsa Mandi. Dalal visited the Tissue Culture Centre of Sheel Biotech Private Limited at Saharawan village near Manesar in Gurgaon and sought information about the techniques used to develop new and improved varieties of plants there. Interacting with mediapersons, the minister said the old agricultural laws did not benefit farmers. Had the laws been any good, farmers would have been rich and prosperous, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-agri-minister-inspects-land-for-flower-market/articleshow/79804939.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Shimla||975 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh recorded 749 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, while 21 more fatalities pushed the death toll further up. Haryana’s case tally rose to 2,56,477 with 749 new cases, while the casualty count was 2,803 with 21 deaths. Meanwhile, 1,164 patients recovered during the day, pushing the recovery rate to 96.34%. count to 2,47,097 recoveries. The latest fatalities include four each from Hisar and Rewari districts, two each from Gurugram, Panchkula, Yamunanangar and Jhajjar and one each from Faridabad, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak, and Bhiwani. Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases are Gurugram (152) and Faridabad (130). As many as 444 fresh cases surfaced in Punjab, while 20 died of the virus. Mohali continues to contribute the high number of cases to state’s tally, as 94 people tested positive in the district. Other fresh cases were reported from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot, Pathankot, Moga, Sangrur, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ropar, Tarn Taran, Barnala, Mansa and Nawanshahr districts. Himachal reported nine deaths and 482 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/975-new-cases-50-deaths-in-region/articleshow/79809215.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 1 death, lowest in 6 months||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 458 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,77,806. The toll increased to 7,070 as one more patient succumbed to the novel coronavirus. This is the lowest single-day fatality total in the last six months after the state recorded two deaths on June 13. As many as 534 patients were declared cured on Friday. There are currently 4,377 active cases in the state, with 8,66,359 cumulative recoveries and 7,070 deaths. Chittoor recorded 98 new infections on Friday, followed by Krishna (78) and East Godavari (54). The remaining 10 districts reported less than 50 cases with Prakasam posting as few as six new cases. Active cases are less than 500 in 10 districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 69,062 Covid-19 samples and detected 458 new cases on Friday, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.7%. Of the 69,062 tests conducted on Friday, 53,283 people were screened through the RT-PCR method. The state has so far conducted 1.11 crore Covid-19 tests, continuing its lead among all states in terms of per capita testing. The overall case positivity rate of the state has come down to 7.9%, against the national average of 6.3%. The mortality rate in the state has remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-1-death-lowest-in-6-months/articleshow/79802481.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Patna||Replicate polio drive for Covid vaccination: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday instructed officials to roll out the Covid-19 vaccination on the lines of the polio drive and directed DMs to monitor it daily. He said healthcare workers, frontline workers, the age groups of concern, public representatives, government servants, contract workers, shopkeepers, traders, and those who are vulnerable will get the vaccine on priority. He also asked health officials to deploy available human resources for vaccination in such a way that other health services are not affected. During the meeting, Nitish said largescale testing made it possible to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state and advised to continue with it till the vaccination is complete. Stressing the need for paediatric cardiac care, he asked health officials to arrange for free treatment of children born with a hole in the heart under the Bal Hridaya Yojana. Nitish said, "Heart treatment at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology, and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, should be further improved and necessary resources should be made available at these places." He further told the officials to speed up health department work related to Saat Nishchay Part-2 and stressed the need for improvement and expansion of the facilities at the primary health centres (PHCs) and community health centres (CHCs), divisional and district hospitals and also improve ambulance services. Nitish said several steps taken in the healthcare sector, and because of the availability of basic facilities at the PHCs, a large number of people can avail treatment every day. “People are being given free medicines. All necessary work to provide health facilities at the village level is being done,” Nitish said. He added that telemedicine facilities at PHCs, CHCs, divisional hospitals and district hospitals will facilitate consultation services and help people with problems such as diabetes, blood pressure and cataract. He directed officials to incorporate all government and private medical colleges under the Bihar University of Health Sciences. During the review meeting, health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit presented a report on Saat Nishchay part-2 under Aatma Nirbhar Bihar. He also briefed on the Covid-19 situation and the work being done to control it along with the supply chain system, which will be used once the vaccine is available. Health minister Mangal Pandey, chief secretary Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to CM Chanchal Kumar, secretary to CM Manish Verma and Anupam Kumar, OSD to CM Gopal Singh, Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation managing director Pradeep Kumar Jha and the State Health Society Executive director Manoj Kumar were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/replicate-polio-drive-for-covid-vax-nitish/articleshow/79803289.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||975 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh||CHANDIGARH/SHIMLA: Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh recorded 749 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, while 21 more fatalities pushed the death toll further up. Haryana’s case tally rose to 2,56,477 with 749 new cases, while the casualty count was 2,803 with 21 deaths. Meanwhile, 1,164 patients recovered during the day, pushing the recovery rate to 96.34%. count to 2,47,097 recoveries. The latest fatalities include four each from Hisar and Rewari districts, two each from Gurugram, Panchkula, Yamunanangar and Jhajjar and one each from Faridabad, Karnal, Panipat, Rohtak, and Bhiwani. Among the districts which reported a big spike in cases are Gurugram (152) and Faridabad (130). As many as 444 fresh cases surfaced in Punjab, while 20 died of the virus. Mohali continues to contribute the high number of cases to state’s tally, as 94 people tested positive in the district. Other fresh cases were reported from Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Bathinda, Fatehgarh Sahib, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Faridkot, Pathankot, Moga, Sangrur, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ropar, Tarn Taran, Barnala, Mansa and Nawanshahr districts. Himachal reported nine deaths and 482 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/975-new-cases-50-deaths-in-region/articleshow/79804949.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Govt resumes measures to implement GIFT City project||KOCHI: The state government has resumed measures to implement the Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) City project at Ayyampuzha near Angamaly. To give a push to the project, the authorities held a high-level stakeholders’ meeting in Kochi on Thursday. Initial work on the project had been put on the back burner due to opposition from residents and the ongoing election process. At the stakeholders’ meeting, the authorities sought suggestions and views of the representatives of various bodies like Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Kochi. Various stakeholders provided suggestions and inputs for preparing the master plan of the global campus where various industries are to set their feet. “The industries and trade bodies have given suggestions for starting an eco-friendly and non-polluting development project. They appreciated the plans as the project will create huge investment and employment opportunities. The focus of the stakeholders’ meeting was to identify the specific service, trade and knowledge components of the project,” said additional chief secretary Alkesh Kumar Sharma, who heads Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (KBIC) in the state. The agency, selected for preparing the master plan, is expected to complete the plan by March 2021. The agency has been instructed to modify the project plan giving more thrust on the finance and hospitality sector. . Sharma said that measures to conduct a social impact assessment study (SIA) are being made. Revenue department is going ahead with the process to acquire 220 hectares for the project. Authorities said that the project is expected to provide an integrated ecosystem for development of globally competitive high-tech services and financial hubs. It is a sustainable and eco-friendly project which can fetch up to 1.20 lakh of direct employment within 10 years. No manufacturing units will come up there, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-resumes-measures-to-implement-gift-city-project/articleshow/79802484.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali school named after 1971 war hero||MOHALI: The government school of Behlolpur village will be named after 1971 war martyr and Vir Chakra winner Captain Ami Singh, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said it on Friday. The CM also promised Rs 25 lakh and senior secondary status to Sohana's government school for girls while launching the second phase of Punjab Smart Connect Scheme, under which 80,000 Class-XII students received smartphones after 50,000 in the first round. The scheme worth Rs 87.84 crore will help 88,000 boys and 87,000 girls. The CM said 877 computer tablets worth Rs 1 crore had reached 22 senior secondary schools after 372 primary schools had got 2,625 devices worth about Rs 3 crore. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla counted 845 locations. Amarinder said: "When the Punjab Congress promised these smartphones in its manifesto, no one knew these would be so vital for students in the Covid pandemic." Amarinder tweeted that of the promised 1.75 lakh devices, 1.30 lakh were delivered. In Patiala, close to 7,000 students from 42 schools got smartphones after 3,100 profited in the first round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-school-named-after-71-hero/articleshow/79804957.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||India junks Pak claim it targeted UN vehicle at LoC||NEW DELHI: India denied reports in Pakistani media on Friday that its troops had fired on UN vehicles in POK. Official sources said these reports emerging from the Pakistani side regarding attack on UN vehicles are “completely false and factually incorrect”. “Since movements of UN vehicles are known in advance, the question does not arise of any such firing. The allegations are baseless,” said a source. The Indian army also denied the allegations separately. Pakistan’s Dawn newspaper had reported that Indian troops “specifically targeted” a United Nations vehicle from across the LoC, in what the Pakistan foreign office termed a “new low” in their conduct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-junks-pak-claim-it-targeted-un-vehicle-at-loc/articleshow/79806805.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Homeless APJ Abdul Kalam fan found dead, one arrested||KOCHI: A man was arrested for the alleged murder of Sivadasan, a homeless person who was in the news for regularly keeping flowers at the bust of APJ Abdul Kalam at Marine Drive. Police arrested Rajesh alias Sudheer alias Vadi (40) son of Govindan, Kaithapillipparambil house, Paravur, on Friday in connection with the case. Police said that the duo were friends and used to spent time together at the walkway. The duo had an argument on Wednesday and a brawl followed. In the clash, Rajesh pushed him and he fell onto a pit. He was found dead later. A team of assistant police commissioner K Laljy and central inspector S Vijayasankar tracked down the accused and recorded his arrest. Sivadasan, who used to sleep on the walkway premises, used to decorate the statue everyday by arranging flowers around it. TOI had carried a standalone photo of Sivadasan, describing his routine during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/homeless-kalam-fan-found-dead-one-arrested/articleshow/79802500.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Pune||Man-eater leopard killed in Karmala||PUNE: A fully-grown male man-eater leopard that had spread terror in neighbouring Solapur, Beed and Aurangabad districts was shot dead in Bitergaon village of Karmala taluka in Solapur district around 6.15pm on Friday. The leopard, aged around 6 or 7, had mauled 12 people. It was killed by a team of sharpshooters of the forest department. Dhairyashil Patil, divisional conservator of forests, Solapur, told TOI on Friday, “Villagers had spotted the animal on Thursday evening in the village. Based on the inputs, our 15 quick response team (QRT) members studied its pug marks. On Friday evening, our dog squad gave us the specific direction of the animal. He was in a banana field. We first secured the field and tried to tranquillize the animal, but that was not possible. We had to shoot the animal. A total of three bullets were fired.” As per procedure, the post-mortem of the animal will be conducted at Solapur district’s animal husbandry hospital. Patil said, “The post-mortem will help us know how many bullets actually hit the leopard. We will videograph the post-mortem in the presence of two witnesses. An examination of the leopard is crucial to ascertain whether it was suffering from any deformity.” The forest officials had noticed a specific pattern in the way the animal struck, said Patil. “After killing a person, the animal would first severe the head and abandon the body after consuming 2-3 kg of flesh. A leopard needs at least 5 kg flesh to satisfy its hunger. We will have to find out why the animal had such a habit,” he said. It was a mammoth task for the Solapur forest department to track down the animal as it had given the slip to the teams in Beed and Aurangabad districts, Patil said. The Solapur forest department had roped in QRTs, teams of sniffer dogs, drones, 42 trap cameras and 21 cages to track the leopard’s movement ever since it was first sighted in Karmala tehsil on December 3. Additional principal chief conservator of forest Sunil Limaye said, “Past cases have revealed that the animal becomes a man-eater usually it fails to catch prey due to physical deformity. If the animal loses its pointed canine teeth or cannot chase prey due to injury, it hunts for easy prey like like small animals or humans. However, we will be able to ascertain the actual reason for this animal’s behaviour once the post-mortem and scientific study of each attack is done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-eater-leopard-killed-in-karmala/articleshow/79804983.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Interfaith couple from UP, fleeing hostile family, gets Delhi HC protection||NEW DELHI: An interfaith couple from Uttar Pradesh, fleeing a hostile family and fearing possible action by UP Police, has been granted protection by Delhi High Court. Justice Anu Malhotra earlier this week directed Delhi government to ensure that the couple is provided a safe house and can live together, in view of the Supreme Court’s standing instructions to states on handling adult runaway couples fearing reprisals or honour killings from families. The couple, from different faiths, had sought the court’s intervention to ensure adequate protection since they were residing on the premises of an NGO, Dhanak of Humanity, in the capital. They had sought a direction to the Delhi social welfare department to provide a safe house to them and make appropriate arrangements for their accommodation. The department told the court it had made the arrangements and also informed the couple about the contact numbers of local SHO and beat constable so that in case of any apprehension, they could reach out to them. However, the high court refused to go into other prayers that the couple had made seeking relief. They had sought directions to the father of the girl “not to commit or omit any act designed to interfere or impede the petitioners’ decision to marry each other”. Fearing hostility from the family, the couple had also wanted the court to direct Delhi government to ensure that no coercive action was taken against the couple since they had got married willingly. They further pleaded that Delhi government and police must be directed that in case UP Police carried out any investigation against them, the couple was not taken out of the territorial jurisdiction of Delhi without prior permission of the court. The high court, however, refused to be drawn into these aspects of the case and said that at present, these were more in the “realm of speculations” and as such no further orders in relation to these prayers could be granted. After ensuring that the couple was provided a safe house by the government, the high court disposed of the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/interfaith-couple-from-up-fleeing-hostile-family-gets-hc-protection/articleshow/79805021.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Two Hyderabad-based firms operated nine financing apps||HYDERABAD: During their investigation into app-based instant financing, Cyberabad police officials said they identified two Hyderabad-based companies who were operating nine different financing apps. After receiving complaints a few days ago, police raided the two companies in the city. Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police (crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini said that when the business organisers were questioned, investigators found the companies had developed different apps and had entered into an agreement with Non Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs). The owners of the companies are Hyderabad residents. “These app developers took money from different NBFCs and in-turn disbursed this to persons who registered on the apps. Recovery of money was done by harassing and intimidating people,’’ Priyadarshini said. TimesViewNot only are many of these app-based lending services using harsh, coercive methods to recover loans, they are also infringing on the privacy of their borrowers. It is now clear that these apps are preying on the vulnerable in society by offering easy loans and then blackmailing them into clearing the dues. They should not be allowed to operate with such impunity and should be immediately shut down.The officials said that app organisers have been made accused since they were fully aware that they were collecting exorbitant interest from customers and because intimidation is an offence. Police have served them notice to appear before them for further investigation. These companies were also operating call centres, to make intimidating calls to people. The companies were sealed and the phones which were used to call the customers were seized by the police. In an earlier instance, cops said that when people at the call centres were spoken to with regard to a complaint, they were defiant towards the police. The Cyberabad police have also issued a notice to Google informing it to remove apps from Play Store as they are being misused for alleged criminal offences. App-based finance companies are spread across the country. Officials said that they are verifying whether NBFCs if they have permission from competent authorities. “We are yet to verify the role of NBFCs to know whether they have any role in this crime. We will know only after verifying the details of their agreement,’’ police said. Recently, while dealing with Chinese online gambling case, Hyderabad police, in the chargesheet filed in a local court, made a reference to the fact that these online gambling companies diverted money into instant financing through apps. However, in the cases investigated by Cyberabad police, they have not found the Chinese angle till now. Cyberabad police personnel recently met Reserve Bank of India (RBI) officials who said that they will get back to the police about whether NBFCs can use a third party for disbursement of loans as this is a grey area. Interestingly, in case their apps are removed, app organisers upload different apps onto Google Play Store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-city-based-firms-operated-9-financing-apps/articleshow/79803473.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Doon Smart City to come up with children-friendly streets||Dehradun: The Dehradun Smart City officials on Friday carried out a tactical exercise to check out if the streets are safe for children. The exercise was carried out on a 450-metre stretch at Survey Chowk. The Tactical Urbanism Exercise, officials say, is an effective mechanism to prototype and test different aspects of child-friendly streets and spaces through a series of interventions. During the exercise, facilities like proper foot paths, sign boards on roads and junctions, street lights, among others, are being developed especially for children, women, and senior citizens. The officials said that under the Child Friendly City project, the facilities will help in providing safe commuting for the children. During the tactical urbanism exercise, the school children were also given a trial run of the newly-inducted electric bus. In addition, suggestions from parents have also been invited in a bid to ensure safe roads for the children. Dehradun mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama, who launched the exercise, said, “The ‘Children friendly Roads’ is an initiative to make commuting safer for them. The exercise will help prepare roads where children can commute without any assistance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-smart-city-to-come-up-with-children-friendly-streets/articleshow/79802523.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 19, 2020||Goa||Announce Rs 100cr for economic revival: Kamat to CM||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat has demanded that the chief minister announce an economic revival package of Rs 100 crore to the marginalised sector on the occasion of Goa’s Liberation Day and also implement “Goemche Daiz” scheme. Addressing media persons, Kamat underscored the need for implementing the “Vision Document - 2035” prepared during the 50th year of Goa Liberation by the committee headed by eminent scientist Raghunath Mashelkar. Following criticism from Kamat that freedom fighters had not received invites from the government for the Liberation Day function, a government statement said that the invitation cards have been sent to the freedom fighters. However, those who have not received the invites can use their freedom fighters’ photo identity card to gain entry at both the venues— Azad Maidan and Dayanand Bandodkar ground. The chief minister has appealed to the freedom fighters to come to the venue by 5pm. Maintaining that the government should not have spent extravagantly on the Liberation Day function “when people of Goa are suffering,” Kamat, however said he would attend the function “to respect the protocol of President of India”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/announce-rs-100cr-for-economic-revival-kamat-to-cm/articleshow/79806092.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Mystery over Kirni Mounika taking Rs 3 lakh from app firm||HYDERABAD: Three days after 25-year-old agriculture extension officer (AEO) Kirni Mounika ended her life humiliated by an app-based finance company, it remains a mystery as to why she took Rs 3 lakh from a loan app. Officials said Mounika could have easily got a loan from a banking and financial institution, but Mounika chose a loan app. The app defamed her on social media, sharing her photograph, name and phone number when she did not repay the loan. Mounika was the sole earning member of her family. She has three younger brothers. Her father Bhoopani, a resident of Rajagopalpet in Nangunuru mandal, is a former sarpanch. District agriculture officer P Sravan Kumar told TOI, “She used to be out on the field by 8am to meet farmers in the cluster given to her. She was committed to her job.” Officials said Mounika was a role model for other AEOs in Siddipet district. Her job as an AEO was to cover five to seven villages and educate about 1,500 farmers. She would tell them about benefits accrued from government schemes and also provide necessary advice for 5,000acre under cultivation. Officials of agriculture department, who were shocked by her untimely death, said she took up challenging tasks. Such was her grasp of subjects and her quickness in implementing government schemes that superiors would tell others that her work has to be emulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mystery-over-mounika-taking-rs-3l-from-app-firm/articleshow/79803486.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Sunil got job, felt employers may have been approached||During investigation, police found that Sunil, originally from Guntur, had downloaded 35 apps and taken loans ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000, amounting to Rs 2 lakh.  All the apps have an uncanny commonality in their methods. They appear to be built upon one software development kit, which is suspected to be provided by a foreign country, the DGP’s office said. “Their act of calling up friends and relatives is violative of Rule 3(2) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines) Rules 2011,” the note said. Police are collecting details of the app-based financiers with the support of cybercrime police. “Once we get the details, we will arrest the owners of the app,” Rajendranagar Inspector Suresh told reporters. Recently Sunil did land himself a job, but police suspect that his future employers might have also got a message, forcing the engineer to kill himself. While he did not leave any suicide note, his family members, including wife Ramya, who was in another room, alleged that Sunil was depressed with the phone calls and even persons on his phone list were intimidated by telephone callers that they should ensure Sunil cleared his loans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sunil-got-job-felt-employers-may-have-been-approached/articleshow/79803514.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||CBI raids ex-TDP MP’s house, office||VIJAYAWADA: Sleuths from the Central Bureau of Investigation conducted simultaneous raids on Friday at the residence and office of former TDP MP Rayapati Sambasiva Rao in Guntur, Hyderabad and Vijayawada. According to CBI sources, the raids began at around 8 am and officials stated the action was related to a case registered last year based on a complaint filed by a consortium of banks led by Union Bank of India to CBI’s Banking Securities and Fraud Cell. Officials said they registered two separate cases related to the alleged fraud of Rs 7,926 crore and Rs 313.79 crore approximately. The FIR of the first case shows that charges were pressed against a Hyderabad-based construction company Transstroy (India) Limited and others including its CMD, additional directors, unknown public servants and unknown others on a complaint from Canara Bank. “It was alleged that the private firm based at Hyderabad and its directors had availed credit facilities on multiple banking arrangements. The consortium was formed with other banks, led by Canara Bank. It was further alleged that the accused had involved in falsification/fabrication of books of accounts, fudging of stock statements, tampering of balance sheets, round tripping of funds, etc,” a CBI press release reads. The second case has been registered against a private subsidiary company based in Chennai and others including its chairman, director, unknown public servants and private persons on a complaint from State Bank of India. It was alleged that the borrower company represented by its chairman and director availed credit limits of Rs 310 crore (approx) from SBI. It was further alleged that the loan amounts were diverted to related parties. The account became a non-performing asset resulting in an alleged loss of Rs 313.79 crore (approx). “Searches were conducted at the premises of the accused at Chennai which led to recovery of incriminating documents,” the press release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbi-raids-ex-tdp-mps-house-office/articleshow/79802530.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Forest dept gives nod to start bus service on Pakhro-Morghatti-Kalagarh-Ramnagar route||Dehradun: Harak Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand minister of forests and environment, on Friday announced the opening of Pakhro-Morghatti-Kalagarh-Ramnagar route for public buses to operate. The move is aimed at making the connectivity between Kumaon and Garhwal quicker and easier. Earlier, public transport was banned on this route, according to Nainital high court order. “Garhwal Motors Union Limited will again operate bus service on Pakhro-Morghatti-Kalagarh-Ramnagar route. The service was stopped on the orders of the HC earlier. The move comes after the locals demanded for public service on the route. With the opening of this route, people of Uttarakhand will have to travel a very short distance from Garhwal to Kumaon,” said Harak Singh Rawat. He added the Chief Wildlife Warden also issued a letter in this regard to the authorities of Corbett Tiger Reserve on Friday. The minister added that the motorway will also allow quick access to healthcare services to people from hills. “People travelling from Kumaon to Garhwal and vice-versa had to halt on the border for a long time. With the introduction of this motor route, people of our state will be able to travel between the two regions of the state without entering Uttar Pradesh,” added the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-dept-gives-nod-to-start-bus-service-on-pakhro-morghatti-kalagarh-ramnagar-route/articleshow/79802557.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 19, 2020||Kochi||Sigh of relief as dist records no surge in cases post polls||Kochi: Health authorities in Ernakulam are heaving a sigh of relief as there is no surge in Covid-19 positive cases as expected in view of the local body polls in the district. However, they are keeping their fingers crossed in view of the implications of the victory celebration of political parties following the counting of votes. They were expecting more than 1,000 cases per day by now, as recorded during the peak time. But contrary to their belief and fear, there is not much spike in cases and the test positivity rate is hovering around 10. “If there is any increase in cases due to the hectic activities in the , it should have been surfaced by this time as more than seven days have passed after the polling. But cases do not show any increase now. We were expecting that the TPR would touch 20 as reported during peak time and more than 1,000 cases would report daily by now. Giving us more relief, there is only 1 to 2% increase in daily cases. Absence of increase might be due to vigilance people resorted to or the antibody developed following most of the people got infected and recovered due to spread of the infection,” said Dr Mathew Numpeli of NHM in Ernakulam. Meanwhile, facilities in Aluva district hospital would be strengthened in phases to accommodate Covid patients who need tertiary care support, when classes start in full fledge at Kalamassery Medical College next month. Ernakulam on Friday reported 578 positive cases. As many as five healthcare workers, three Navy personnel and six guest workers were also tested positive in Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sigh-of-relief-as-dist-records-no-surge-in-cases-post-polls/articleshow/79802547.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||How stir at Chilla border has made Ashram Chowk nightmare worse||NEW DELHI: Ashram Chowk, which was already congested due to the construction of an underpass there, has been seeing more congestion, especially during peak hours, owing to diversion of traffic from the borders onto arterial roads. Chilla border, which is barely 8km away, has added a lot to the traffic chaos. On Friday, however, the border was partially opened for traffic. Construction of the underpass at Ashram Chowk was to be completed this month, but the deadline has now been extended to March 2021. The delay has added to the misery of commuters who find a bottleneck there, further adding to their commute time. Regular commuters said they take an additional half hour to cross the stretch. They added that poor planning had added to the mayhem. The stretch is an important link between central and south Delhi with the satellite towns of Noida and Faridabad. “I have been travelling regularly on this road for more than five years. This place has been a commuter’s nightmare from day one. However, it is much worse now. First, it was the Delhi Metro, then the closure of the Kalindi Kunj border because of the Shaheen Bagh protest, and now construction of this underpass. This intersection is an arterial passage and its mismanagement brings the city to a standstill,” said Kavita Bhogal, a commuter. Delhi Traffic Police officers said they had deployed more personnel at the site to manage the traffic and also put up signage to alert commuters. In case of congestion, they alert commuters through social media. Police said they were conducting regular review meetings with PWD to assess changes to the diversion plan. “We are regularly issuing advisories asking commuters to avoid the stretch, if possible, because of the construction work taking place there,” said an official. Ever since construction work was started in December 2019, the road width has reduced to such an extent that it is only wide enough for a bus to pass through. PWD officials said work resumed in May after the lockdown, but it was slow because of shortage of labour since most labourers had migrated to their villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-stir-at-chilla-border-has-made-ashram-chowk-nightmare-worse/articleshow/79805099.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||On Vijay Diwas, India gifts ammo to Bangladesh||NAGPUR: On the 49th Vijay Diwas on December 16, which marks the liberation of Bangladesh and India’s victory over Pakistan, India dispatched a batch of 120mm mortar shells and other related equipment to its eastern neighbour Bangladesh, which marks it as Victory Day. Fifty years ago, India must have sent similar gifts to the groups fighting for Bangladesh’s independence from Pakistan. Sources say this year’s gift was part of a goodwill gesture by the Indian government to Bangladesh. India’s war against Pakistan in 1971 played a major role in Bangladesh’s independence, and ultimately resulted in Pakistani surrender. The equipment and ammunition sent this week were made by the ordnance factories. The whole affair was kept low profile due to security reasons. However, sources told TOI that this was not part of any regular export against orders by the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). Rather, it was an initiative from the Indian side on the occasion of Vijay Diwas. The move is expected to further develop India’s ties with the neighbouring country in view of the current relations with China, said a source requesting anonymity. The consignment was sent through the Petrapole border. Though the whole affair was kept under wraps, the customs department is reported to have tweeted about the smooth export of the two high security consignments. The tweet also mentioned that the director general of OFB had thanked the customs department for the smooth handling. The 120mm mortar ammunition is used for short range shelling. Ammunition of this calibre has range up to 2 to 7km depending upon the grade. This comes as a fillip to the OFB, which has lately drawn flak for lack of efficiency, and a proposal has been mooted for corporatizing the entire structure. The unions are opposing the move to corporatize OFB. Both unions and management have agreed to maintain a status quo at present. Sources said although the current consignment was part of a goodwill gesture between two countries, the ordnance factories have been successfully exporting ammunition to different countries against commercial orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-vijay-diwas-india-gifts-ammo-to-bangladesh/articleshow/79805098.cms||Shishir Arya
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad churches tweak plans in shadow of pandemic||HYDERABAD: Sunday marks the beginning of Christmas celebrations in many churches across the city, albeit subdued with restrictions on carol singing, mid-night mass and community gatherings. The Covid-19 pandemic has cast a shadow on the festive fervor as churches tweak their Christmas plans to implement government guidelines. For the first time in 40 years, the United Christian Celebrations will not be held on a grand level. “Usually, we have close to 2,000-3,000 people joining us from different disciplines every year apart from bureaucrats and ministers. This year, we have decided to have a subdued celebration limiting people to only 200 to 300. Last year, the choir itself was close to 100 people. This time, it will be 25 to 30 people,” said Robert Surya Prakash, general secretary, United Christian Celebrations Committee. Mid-night mass too has been called off at many churches. Some churches have allowed families to sing carols within the church premises. “We have organised a family carol evening this Sunday from 6pm to 8pm wherein each family will be given three minutes to sing carols or perform a skit. Instead of having a mid-night mass, we will be having morning service on Christmas,” said Norman Issac, treasurer of Church of St John the Baptist, Secunderabad, adding that the service will also be live streamed. Majority of churches are not allowing children below 10 years and adults above 60 years on Christmas day. “We are expecting more younger generation in the mid-30s and mid-40s to attend carol singing and other services in the church. Not more than 50 to 60 people will be allowed at one time. Holy communion will also be distributed in disposal glasses,” said Reverand Dr T Bhaskar, vice-chairman of Medak Diocese. It will be a low-key affair with many restricting the celebrations to service. “We will have an early morning service at 3 am on December 24 followed by the Christmas holy service the next morning,” said Father Thomas Oommen, priest of St Mary’s Orthodox Church, Ramachandrapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/churches-tweak-plans-in-shadow-of-pandemic/articleshow/79803523.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 19, 2020||Patna||Dehri freezes at 5°C, Bihar feels chill||PATNA: Chilly weather prevailed in state on Friday as the minimum temperature in Patna plunged by 4.2 notches to 8.4 degrees C owing to icy winds blowing in the region. Gaya shivered at 5.1 degrees C, which was five notches lower than the corresponding normal. However, Dehri in the state recorded the lowest minimum temperature at 5 degrees C. Shivery conditions prevailed in most parts of the state as the minimum temperature plunged by 3-5 notches over the last 24 hours. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted further fall in minimum temperature by three to four notches over the next two to three days in eastern parts of the country. However, weathermen at the Patna Meteorological Centre said temperature is likely to prevail around the same at least over the next two days. “The sharp plunge in minimum temperature in the last 24 hours has been due to cold northwesterly winds blowing at a comparatively higher speed of up to 20 kmph. However, the wind speed has slightly reduced, though it is expected to continue blowing at the speed of around 18-20kmph over the next 48 hours. Accordingly, minimum temperature is unlikely to nosedive further over the next few days unless there is any change in weather conditions,” said Sanjay Kumar, meteorologist at Patna centre. Sanjay said windy conditions will avert dense fog across the state, except places close to the foothills of Himalayas in north Bihar. “People should, however, exercise caution as shivery conditions will continue to prevail in the morning and night hours,” he said. Ravindra Kumar, another officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said westerly and northwesterly winds were blowing at the speed of 16-22kmph, leading to shivery feeling. “Weather has started changing as the third week of December is about to end. Minimum temperature has plunged by three to four notches at most places in the last 24 hours,” he said, adding that dense fog was not reported from anywhere in the state owing to high wind speed. He said day and night temperature is likely to plunge by one or two notches over the next 24 hours owing to cold winds entering the state at the speed of around 16-18 kmph. “However, the wind speed is expected to reduce after 24 hours,” Ravindra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dehri-freezes-at-5c-state-feels-chill/articleshow/79803347.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Car dealer arrested for duping banks of crores||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has arrested chief financial officer of a car dealership firm on charges of allegedly duping banks to the tune of Rs 300 crore. The accused has been identified as Bibhav Sharma, a resident of Gurugram. According to joint commissioner (EOW) O P Mishra, HDFC Bank had filed a complaint alleging that the directors of M/s Zenica Cars India Pvt. Ltd and M/s Zenica Performance Cars had duped the bank to the tune of Rs 102 crore. “They had named directors Rash Pal Singh Todd, Mandhir Singh Todd and its CFO Vaibhav Sharma in their complaint. The accused had sought financial assistance in the form of cash credit facility, trade advances etc,” Mishra said. According to the terms and conditions executed between the bank and the alleged company, the accused had to furnish details pertaining to utilisation of the funds along with details of the stock which were hypothecated with the bank. The trade advances availed by the alleged companies had to be returned within 90 days. Till March 2018, the alleged companies had been fulfilling the terms and conditions but defaulted after that, police said. In June, 2018 an inspection was conducted at the showroom of the alleged company and the bank found only 29 cars against 200 cars as promised. During investigation, it further emerged that the alleged persons had availed financial assistance of Rs 130 crore from other financial institutions i.e. ICICI Bank, Federal Bank, J & K Bank and Volkwagen Pvt. Ltd. Officials of alleged companies have misappropriated around Rs 102 crore. Sharma had told the complainant that the companies were running in losses for the last four years, while the balance sheet of the companies showed profits, police said. Rashpal and Mandhir were arrested earlier. The alleged company obtained the credit facilities/trade advances and loans for demo cars. They sold the demo cars without NOCs, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/car-dealer-arrested-for-duping-banks-of-crores/articleshow/79805100.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Protesters outside CM residence must be evicted if gatherings banned: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday made it clear to police that the protesters outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence ought to be evicted if the state disaster management authority has prohibited political and other gatherings in the city till December 31 due to Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said that the court expected police to take appropriate steps to implement the direction of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and also the provisions of Section 144 IPC, which has been imposed in the area where the chief minister’s residence is located. The court said that if no action was taken for violation of standing orders of DDMA, then it would send out an “incorrect signal.” The high court then posted the matter for next week to take stock of steps taken by police in this regard. The court is hearing a plea by Civil Lines Residents’ Association against the ongoing protest outside the CM’s residence, primarily by mayors and other municipal corporators, on grounds that it was blocking the road and causing inconvenience to local residents. The directions and observations by the court came after it was told by Delhi Police that it had provided to the protesters the copies of the DDMA direction, a standing order issued by the agency prohibiting protests in residential areas and that Section 144 IPC had been imposed in the area, but they were still not moving away from the site. Delhi government said“requests were made to the protesters to shift to an alternative site, but they have not complied with it.” A day earlier, the high court had expressed concern over the ongoing dharna and protests observing that any permission to allow such demonstrations in a residential area could set a wrong precedent. The mayors of the three municipal corporations have been protesting outside Kejriwal’s residence seeking release of funds and clearance of alleged pending dues payable to the civic bodies. In its status report, Delhi Police said that 20-25 persons, including mayors and councillors of the municipal corporations, started protesting from December 7 at Flag Staff Road outside the chief minister’s residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-protesters-outside-cm-residence-must-be-evicted-if-gatherings-banned/articleshow/79805111.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||In eco-friendly move, CMC staffers ride bicycle to office||Chandrapur: In a unique initiative aimed at mitigating pollution in the city, all officials and employees of Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) on Friday reached the office riding bicycles. Under the Majhi Vasundhara programme started by the state government, CMC has made it mandatory for all officials and employees to shun automated vehicles on Fridays and ride to office on bicycles. The employees gathered at Priyadarshini Square in the morning and pedalled up to the CMC building in Gandhi Chowk to launch the initiative. Municipal commissioner Rajesh Mohite along with a bunch of deputy commissioners led the cycle rally. Mohite said the state is implementing ‘Majhi Vasundhara’ programme through local governing bodies between October 31 and March 2021. “The campaign is aimed at synchronizing human lives with five basic components (air, water, fire, land and sky) of nature and to promote naturalistic lifestyle,” he said. The civic chief also said officials and employees coming to office on Fridays using bikes or cars will be denied entry. “The move is important from personal as well as environment point of view,” he said. All the officials and employees have been asked to promote the concept same among their subordinate as well as minimum five other people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-eco-friendly-move-cmc-staffers-ride-bicycle-to-office/articleshow/79803492.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 19, 2020||India||HC stays arrest of man under UP’s anti-conversion law||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday stayed the arrest of a man booked by UP Police under the recently promulgated Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, for allegedly trying to marry a woman with intentions of converting her to another faith. This is the first time that an affected party has approached HC against this ordinance. Hearing a writ petition filed by one Nadeem from Haridwar, who was booked by UP Police, a division bench directed the state police not to take any coercive action against Nadeem who was booked by UP Police on November 29. The petitioner had taken the plea that constitutional validity of the ordinance is before another division bench of this court. Appearing on behalf of the petitioner, senior advocate SFA Naqvi argued that the ordinance is ultra vires of the Constitution and any criminal proceeding initiated under the provisions of the ordinance shall be quashed. “Special Marriage Act is a Central Act which provides a special form of marriage for interfaith couples. By impugned ordinance new prohibited degrees are created on religious grounds and this amounts to creating a communal and divisive legislation which is not at all permissible in our constitutional scheme. Once the central government has made the law over the subject of marriage, then there is no space available for the state government to pass this ordinance,” argued Naqvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-arrest-of-man-under-ups-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/79806806.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Lessons of 1971 war should be kept in mind whiledealing with northern borders, says IMA commandant||CommandantDehradun: “India hasn’t seen a battle as big as the 1971 war in the past 50 years and hence its lessons should be kept in mind, lest the ongoing standoff at Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) throws us back into its memories,” said Indian Military Academy (IMA) commandant Lt Gen Harinder Singh during a celebration of ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, the 50th year of India's victory over Pakistan, held in Clement Town on Friday. "Lessons of 1971 must be kept in mind while we, at present, deal with the northern borders of the country," he said. Importantly, before joining the IMA on November 13, Singh headed the 14 Corps and oversaw operations along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. He also led the team of the Indian Army and bureaucrats during talks with the Chinese delegation in an effort to end the ongoing stand-off between the two countries. Singh, who is an expert in counter-insurgency, remained at the LAC as the command of the 14 Corps for almost a year (October 2019 to October 2020). He has also served as the Director General of Military Intelligence and Director General of Military Operations in his over three decades long career. Sharing the significance of the 1971 war, Singh said that it is very important that the country and its Armymen should remember the contribution and sacrifice. The 1971 war - a brief battle that lasted for 13 days - was actually a ‘full-blown war’ in which a new nation was born, he added. “This was the occasion when we have shown the world that we are capable of safeguarding our national integrity. After the 90s, we have seen brief skirmishes which has become a pattern now. Hence, it is very important that we all should keep recalling the four major wars - 1948, 62, 65 and 71,” Singh said. The IMA commandant also maintained that not just the lessons but sacrifices of martyrs and war widows should be recalled and "it is the duty of the country and the Army to ensure that they lead a safe and decent life".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lessons-of-1971-war-should-be-kept-in-mind-whiledealing-with-northern-borders-says-ima-commandant/articleshow/79802578.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||551 new Covid-19 cases, 97% recovery in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday reported 551 new Covid-19 infections and one death, taking the overall toll to 1,506. While there are 7,040 active novel coronavirus cases in the state, authorities said the recovery rate in the state has now touched 97%. So far, a total of 63,54,388 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the state, out of which 2,80,195 have tested positive and 2,71,649 persons have recovered. In the data released by the health department officials, 47,991 Covid tests were conducted in the state on Thursday, while reports of another 512 samples are awaited. The data also revealed that a total of 682 persons recovered between Wednesday and Thursday. The GHMC limits saw 111 new cases followed by 48 new cases in Rangareddy and 42 cases in Medchal Malkajguri districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/551-covid-19-cases-97-recovery-in-t/articleshow/79803552.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Couple kill selves in Visakhapatnam a day after wedding||VISAKHAPATNAM: A married couple committed suicide a day after their wedding by hanging themselves to death at their residence in Sundarayya Colony under Gajuwaka police station limits in Vizag on Friday morning. The deceased have been identified as B Avinash and N Nagamani, both residents of Bonangi village in Visakhapatnam. Although the reasons that led the couple to kill themselves remain to be ascertained, police believe family opposition to the marriage could have played a part. Police said Avinash and Nagini were lovers, but their parents opposed the match. In 2015, Nagini was married to one K Paparao. Following the marriage, Paparao and Nagini shifted to Andaman. In December 2019, Nagini returned to her hometown. Following the Covid-19 lockdown, she did not go back to her husband. Meanwhile, Nagini and Avinash reignited their flame. When Paparao came to know about his wife’s affair on December 12 this year, he committed suicide. Upset over the sequence of events and their families’ refusal to acknowledge their relationship, the couple was in visible distress. Locals took note and informed the police who counselled the couple. On December 17, Avinash and Nagini got married at a temple near Kasimkota. However, their parents did not accept the marriage. The couple was found lifeless hanging from the ceiling on Friday. Gajuwaka police registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/couple-kill-selves-a-day-after-wedding/articleshow/79802570.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA to start land geo-tagging on January 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) would launch its land bank digitisation initiative on a pilot basis on January 1, 2021. For this, the VMRDA has identified two land pockets—91 acres in Madhurawada and 109 acres in Paradesipalem in the suburbs of Vizag. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said the urban development authority would utilise change detection software for this purpose. “After completing geo-tagging and digitisation of these two land pockets, we would extend the initiative to other areas from March 2021. This would help in preventing encroachments, avoid legal issues and better utilise the assets,” said Koteswara Rao. The VMRDA conducted a meeting with the representatives of the National Remote Sensing Centre and a private agency on Thursday on the digitisation process. “The software would detect any physical changes made to the lands or any encroachments and send an SMS and e-mail to the concerned officials. This would also help detect unauthorised layouts in the jurisdiction of the VMRDA,” said Koteswara Rao. Once the digitalisation process is complete, the VMRDA would incorporate these lands in the list of 22-A prohibited properties (government lands) in the government portal to ensure that no private person can encroach on or register these lands in their names. Two land pockets will be geo-tagged in the first phase. The step will help prevent encroachments, avoid legal issues and better utilise assets||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-to-start-land-geo-tagging-on-jan-1/articleshow/79802590.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||Manish Sisodia visits Haridwar, takes feedback from worker||Haridwar: With an eye on Uttarakhand assembly polls, scheduled in 2022, Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister, reached Haridwar on Friday. He was warmly welcomed on the Narsan border in Roorkee by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers. He also took part in the Ganga Aarti at Har-ki-Pauri in the evening and met with Pranav Pandya, head of Haridwar’s Shantikunj. He also met with party workers and took their feedback. He also visited the famous Mayadevi temple in Juna Akhada. After offering prayer at Har-ki-Pauri, the deputy CM interacted with media persons and said that development will be the main agenda of the party in the upcoming assembly elections of Uttrakhand. He also targeted the state government and said that the BJP government has failed to fulfil the expectations of Uttrakhand. He added that the key focus of the party will be — education, health, unemployment, and migration. To a question related to the ongoing Kumbh Mela works, he said that it is the responsibility of the officials to complete the work honestly. It is worth mentioning that deputy CM Sisodia will attend a party event in Dehradun on Saturday. A few days back, Sisodia had also visited some areas of the Kumaon region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/manish-sisodia-visits-haridwar-takes-feedback-from-worker/articleshow/79802589.cms||MS Nawaz
December 19, 2020||Goa||Govt invites bids for building Dona Paula convention centre||Panaji: Over five years after outlining plans to construct a mega convention centre at Dona Paula, the state government has finally gone ahead and floated a tender inviting interested firms to set up the facility. Estimated to cost at least Rs 700 crore, the project will come up on close to 25 acres of land which was earlier earmarked for the Rajiv Gandhi IT habitat. CM Pramod Sawant has given his go-ahead to setup the project on a public-private-partnership basis (PPP). The convention centre, which will become the official venue for the International Film Festival of India (Iffi), will be built on a Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer (DBFOT) model, and interested firms have been offered a 60-year concession period. Initially conceptualised in 2015, the project went through a lengthy bureaucratic process and was shunted between departments before landing with the PPP cell. In 2018, when Economic Development Corporation (EDC) was responsible for the project, 25 firms had shown interest. These included ITC, Inorbit, Strong Australia, Dempo Group, HKS-US, Essel, Hiranandani Group, Chowrangee Group, L&T, Amanora, Zee and Feedback Infra. As per the request for proposal floated by the government, the convention centre must include an international-grade main convention hall capable of seating 5,000 individuals, an exhibition hall, multiplex, and a 500-room hotel. Retail malls and related infrastructure can also be set up. EDC’s proposal, estimated at Rs 1,400 crore, had also included an indoor film shooting shed, Entertainment Society of Goa office, Iffi office, and the smart city centre of excellence. Goa is the permanent venue for IFFI. Around 98,299 sqm of prime land at Dona Paula has been picked for the project. The land is already in possession with the government.“A pre-bid meeting will be held on January 14, 2021. The last date for submission of proposals is February 11,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-invites-bids-for-building-dona-paula-convention-centre/articleshow/79806106.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops cite same rule to stop AAP MLAs||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday sought responses from Delhi Police on AAP MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi’s petitions challenging refusal to hold protests outside the residences of Union home minister Amit Shah and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Justice Navin Chawla issued notices to Delhi government and police, and sought their stand on the petitions by the two AAP members by January 14. During the brief hearing, police told the court that permissions were denied to the two MLAs on the basis of orders passed by Delhi Disaster Management Authority prohibiting large gatherings in the city in view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. Police also told the court that, in accordance with a Supreme Court order, it had issued a standing order prohibiting protests and dharnas in residential areas in the national capital. The court asked the cops to indicate its stand on an affidavit, which will be taken up on the next date. Both AAP MLAs wanted to stage dharnas outside the residence of the home minister and the LG on December 13 to protest against the alleged misappropriation of funds by North Delhi Municipal Corporation, but were denied permission. They were detained by police on December 13 along with some other AAP functionaries, for attempting to protest at the two sites without the necessary permission. The MLAs have pointed out that while Delhi Police denied them permission to protest on the grounds of Covid-19 restrictions and law and order concerns, however, the municipal corporations’ councillors of BJP had been permitted to continue their dharna outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. They informed the court that permission was only sought for four people to protest at each of the two sites, however, several people were staging a demonstration outside the CM’s residence without facing any resistance from police. They alleged that this indicated the arbitrariness in the decision taken by Delhi Police and had sought quashing of its December 12 communication rejecting their request to hold a protest outside the residences of Shah and Baijal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-cite-same-rule-to-stop-aap-mlas/articleshow/79805153.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP proposes law to define roles of tenant and property owner||Lucknow: To safeguard the rights of both property owner and tenant, the Uttar Pradesh government is proposing to implement a model tenancy law. It has prepared a draft of the UP Regulation of Urban Premises Tenancy Ordinance 2020 and has asked people for their comments and suggestions on the proposed law by December 20. Principal secretary (housing) Deepak Kumar said that the new law will work to the advantage of both tenant and property owner as it will fix responsibilities between the two and lay the ground for fewer disputes by giving clarity on various issues. “The government has asked people for their suggestions on this matter. Once the ordinance is implemented, it will address all disputes arising out of renting a property and solve the problem of shortage of rental properties in urban areas,” said a government official. He explained that due to legal wrangles often arising from rental properties, owners prefer not to put their properties on rent even if they are vacant, to avoid problems. In light of that, while several properties are lying vacant, there is a tremendous shortage of rental properties in urban areas. “Once this law is in place, there will be much more clarity in the agreement between the tenant and property owner and therefore, there will be no scope for petty disputes or at least, there will be more clarity. For instance, the law will make it clear whose responsibility it is for painting, paying maintenance, water, power bills, etc,” the official added. Suggestions welcome: The draft is up for comments and people can send in their suggestions and objections directly to the office of the housing and urban planning department or email on sohousingone@gmail.com. The comments can be sent till 5pm on December 20. The draft is available on the housing and urban planning department website awas.up.nic.in and on the website of Awas Bandhu www.awasbandhu.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-proposes-law-to-define-roles-of-tenant-and-property-owner/articleshow/79806105.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farmers take social media route to ‘tell complete truth’||NEW DELHI: To ensure that true stories about the protest reach people across the country and the world, Kisan Morcha has set up an official IT cell called Kisan Ekta Morcha, which is available on all social media platforms. Baljeet Singh Sandhu, vice-president of Majha Kisan Committee, told TOI, “These official pages were launched on Thursday. We held a meeting with all members of the 37 unions and everyone felt it would be right to have such platforms. The message going across to people about the meeting with the government was that farmers were being adamant and not agreeing to the changes proposed to the three farm acts. We needed to tell the full truth.” Interestingly, the members of the IT cell are all volunteers consisting of 36 people. “We made an announcement from the stage about launching the platform and asked whoever knew about IT, social media and digital marketing to come forward and help. That is how the team was formed,” said Sandhu. The social media accounts exist on Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Snapchat. Narrating the story behind the Snapchat account, Sandhu said, “A 16-year-old boy came to us and showed videos and photos that he had made on Snapchat. He insisted that there should be a page on that platform too, which is used a lot by people outside the country.” Within just a day, all social media pages have garnered a lot of followers. On Twitter, there are 46,700 followers, while there is a similar number on Instagram. The platforms would also be used to spread awareness among the masses about the three agri laws. To educate people about the pages, large kiosks were placed on Friday near the stages giving all their details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-take-social-media-route-to-tell-complete-truth/articleshow/79805181.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Lending apps tie up with NBFCs, use it as legal cover||HYDERABAD: Legal and banking experts said no person or entity can lend money without the required permissions, particularly from the RBI. They said the law enforcement authorities should take stringent action against the new entities mushrooming online in the name of finance apps offering instant loans. A question remains as to how these apps are able to publicise in every social and public domain and venture into people’s mailboxes openly without any legal backing. A closer look at their modus operandi reveals that these lending apps, probably as a measure of precaution, tie up with several non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and use it as a legal cover for their operations. As part of the tie-up, the NBFCs will give money to these lending apps and they, in turn, would find people in dire need and lend money to them. “That their rates of interests or methods of recovery will never be decent is beyond doubt,” an expert said. The pertinent question is whether the NBFCs are authorised to employ these lending apps with all their recovery agents. The authorities admit that this is a grey area that remains to be filled by the regulator. “Till then, police have to deal with such situations,” a legal authority said. A legal officer said unless the practice of NBFCs employing third parties is prohibited, the unruly methods of lending apps cannot be curbed. “The discreet practice of allowing third parties and their coercive recovery methods is a direct violation of the order of the Supreme Court delivered in May 2008,” another legal officer, who earlier worked with banks, said. What Supreme Court said in its order: The apex court in its order said, “Banks are responsible for the actions of their agents. Hence, they should ensure that their agents engaged for recovery of their dues strictly adhere to the RBI guidelines, banking code and instructions while engaged in the process of recovery of dues.” The RBI may consider imposing a ban on a bank from engaging recovery agents in a particular area, either jurisdictional or functional, for a limited period. “In case of persistent breach of the guidelines, the RBI may consider extending the period of ban or the area of ban,” it said.  This SC judgement was delivered in a case of atrocious behaviour by the recovery agents of ICICI Bank that led to the suicide of a young man whose motorbike was taken away from him by the recovery agents after humiliating him. “The cases we are seeing now in Telangana are much worse because there are lending apps on one side and their inhuman recovery agents on the other, both having no legal sanctity at all,” Pratap R Reddy, digital payments consultant, said. He said anybody who is lending money should obtain a licence from the RBI first and should comply with its regulations and guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lending-apps-tieup-with-nbfcsuse-it-as-legal-cover/articleshow/79803585.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 19, 2020||Dehradun||MDDA office closed after three staff members found Covid-19 positive||Dehradun: The Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) office was shut on Friday after three staff members, including two engineers and a supervisor, at the office of the civic body were tested positive for Covid-19. The MDDA VC, Ranvir Singh Chauhan, has issued orders to the entire staff asking them to self-isolate in case they come in contact with the officials tested positive. The MDDA office will remain closed on Saturday for sanitisation purposes. In addition, thermal screening has been made mandatory for all the employees before entering the MDDA office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mdda-office-closed-after-three-staff-members-found-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79802604.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||National Rly Plan envisages 2 ind corridors for Nagpur||Nagpur: The Indian Railways maiden draft National Rail Plan (NRP) released on Friday aims to develop Nagpur-Hyderabad (NHIC) & Delhi-Nagpur (DNIC) as industrial corridors under its National Industrial Corridor Development Programme.The NRP released by Railway Board CEO VK Yadav plans India's most ambitious infrastructure program aiming to develop new industrial cities as ‘Smart Cities’ and converging next-generation technologies across infrastructure sectors. The two industrial corridor projects are among 11 projects to be developed in four phases up to 2024-25. Apart from the two industrial corridors, the draft NRP also aims to establish a dedicated freight corridor (DFC) between North-South between Delhi-Chennai via Itarsi-Nagpur-Vijayawada.The basic aim is the development of futuristic industrial cities in India that can compete with the best manufacturing and investment destinations in the world. The same will create employment opportunities and economic growth leading to overall socioeconomic development. With Indian Railway’s focus on augmenting railway infrastructure to facilitate the movement of freight and passengers, the NRP has identified several high-speed railway (HSR). The NRP also gives importance to Mumbai-Howrah route with tripling and quadrupling of the entire route between East-West.Besides, the two HSR projects have been envisaged between Nagpur-Varanasi (855km) and Mumbai-Nagpur (789km). Earlier, seven such HSRs were identified in the country but now Mumbai-Nashik-Nagpur corridor will be extended till Varanasi.AECOM, a global infrastructure company had commenced the study in January 2019 and submitted various reports on railways' future. As part of the interim report, extensive data were collected and analysed. The collected data included, rail passenger quantum and their respective origin and destinations along with other characteristics, freight quantum its origin and destination, road survey data for both, passengers and freight, etc. This data was analysed, and various conclusions were drawn. The objective of the study is to prepare a compressive strategy and master plan for the rail sector in the form of NRP for India for the creation of adequate capacity ahead of demand.The NRP states that investments will be needed over 2022-2051 to address capacity constraints and make multi-modal transportation more efficient for users — dovetailing with existing and planned transport infrastructure in the country.Such investments/capital expenditure requirements have been estimated under earlier modules of NRP for three major asset categories — tracks, terminals, and rolling stock. Till 2031, capital expenditure requirements in track infrastructure account for a majority 66% of the total capital expenditure requirements.Capital expenditure requirements for rolling stock (wagons, coaches, and locomotives) account for 29% of the total capital expenditure requirements with the balance of 5% of the total capital expenditure requirements pertaining to the development of terminal infrastructure (including both passenger and freight terminals).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/national-rly-plan-envisages-2-ind-corridors-for-nagpur/articleshow/79803555.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Dholka man wins 113-day battle against Covid||AHMEDABAD: It was a miracle of sorts for Devendra Parmar, 60, a resident of Dholka, who came out of Sola Civil Hospital after 113 days – or three months and 23 days – of hospitalization due to Covid-19. As Parmar’s lungs have got weakened, he was discharged with oxygen supply which could be managed from home. Nitin Patel, the state deputy CM who also holds the charge of health ministry, was present on the occasion and termed it one of the longest hospital stays in India during the pandemic. Earlier, Bharatsinh Solanki, the senior Congress leader and former Union minister, had 102-day hospitalization due to Covid infection. Patel told media that Parmar was first admitted to a private hospital in Dholka after testing positive on August 26. As his condition got deteriorated, he was shifted to Sola Civil Hospital two days later. Out of 113 days, he spent three months or 90 days in ICU, he added. “He was given 75 litres of oxygen per minute at one point, but only some amount of that was being used as his lungs were not functioning properly. His recovery started soon after, and today he has defeated the virus,” said Patel, adding that the treatment could have cost Rs 30 lakh in a private set-up. Parmar’s wife Indumati thanked the staff and said that without the Covid warriors’ constant efforts, her husband could not have survived against the severity of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dholka-man-wins-113-day-battle-against-covid/articleshow/79803599.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Change of name is part of right to expression: HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that change of name is a part of right to expression guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India. Allowing a writ petition filed by one Kabir Jaiswal, Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “As the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution, freedom of expression through the change of name cannot be denied to the petitioner in the present case and he is entitled to change his name.” The court also directed the CBSE to issue a fresh certificate recording the name of the petitioner as Kabir Jaiswal in place of Rishu Jaiswal within a period of two months. According to the petitioner, he had appeared in the Secondary School Examination in the academic year 2011-13, i.e., Class-X, and Senior School Certificate Examination in the year 2015, i.e., Class-XII, conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education, Delhi in the name of Rishu Jaiswal, son of Santosh Kumar Jaiswal and had passed the said examinations also. Later, the petitioner with an intent to change his name from Rishu Jaiswal to Kabir Jaiswal, got a notice published in the notification in the Gazette of India and moved an application for correction of the name from Rishu Jaiswal to Kabir Jaiwal. In the petition, the petitioner claims that the name was changed in the Aadhaar card and the PAN card also in pursuance to the Gazette Notification. However, when the petitioner moved an application through the school concerned for change of name in the certificates, the Board vide order dated May 27, 2020, rejected the application for change of name on the ground that the particulars of the school records do not show the change of name as sought by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/change-of-name-is-part-of-right-to-expression-hc/articleshow/79806807.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Industrial park mooted on outskirts of Vizag||Visakhapatnam: The government is keen on setting up an industrial park on the outskirts of Vizag, towards Vizianagaram, according to tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao. Srinivasa Rao said discussions on industrial parks, including one at Visakhapatnam, were held with industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy. Srinivasa Rao said the proposed industrial park will come up at Aanandapuram and Padmanabham mandals, which have good rail and road connectivity, as well as air connectivity once Bhogapuram international airport is readied. A plug-and-play model will be established for the benefit of the organisation, the minister said, adding that the park would attract an investment of Rs 2,500 crore to Rs 20,000 crore. There will be direct employment and foreign investment is also possible with the establishment of the park. An earlier tweet by Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy stated, “Bhoomi World Group expressed interest to invest Rs 2,500 crore to develop the MSME Park in Vizag. This is expected to create direct employment to 20,000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/industrial-park-mooted-on-outskirts-of-vizag/articleshow/79802617.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Nagpur||Youths creating nuisance in Ambazari Layout||Nagpur: Many youngsters engaging in objectionable behaviour at public places at Kasturba, Ambazari, Purohit, Verma and adjoining layouts has become an irritant for citizens who are demanding strict action against miscreants. The morning and evening walkers at the parks, gardens and grounds also complained against anti-social elements thronging the places and engaging in illegal activities in the open. It is learnt ongoing roadwork at Futala lake had compelled the visitors to abandon their hangout spots and they now spend time at gardens and parks of nearby residential localities. According to citizens, the youngsters often throng the gardens, lanes, parks and grounds where they consume liquor in the open, play loud music in their cars and smoke. They also targeting women, especially girls, with lewd remarks or obscene songs. After sundown, anti-social elements use the gardens and parks for gambling too. According to a woman, liquor bottles can be spotted strewn along on the roads along with pots of narcotics and such materials much to the discomfort of the elderly and women. “The youngsters can be seen engaging in questionable activities in the cars including consuming liquor. Later, they target the women passing by,” said the woman. It is learnt corporator Varsha Thakre had taken up the issue with the Ambazari police station. Following Thakre’s intervention, police have now intensified patrolling. Senior inspector Narendra Hiware of Ambazari said he would look into the grievances of the residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youths-creating-nuisance-in-ambazari-layout/articleshow/79803567.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 19, 2020||Surat||Gajera gets court nod to go abroad||SURAT: A local court has allowed diamond baron and real estate developer, Vasant Gajera, accused in a case of forging land documents, to fly abroad for business, albeit with certain conditions. Police had Gajera on March 21, 2018 following a complaint lodged by a Puna area resident Vraj Malani who alleged that the diamantaire and others had forged land documents to claim ownership of 18,500 sq m land worth Rs 100 crore in Vesu area. Malani had claimed that the land was owned by him since 1990. Gajera was released on bail in May 2018 by the Gujarat high court which asked him to surrender his passport. The district and sessions court in Surat permitted businessman Vasant Gajera to get back his passport and to go abroad on a business tour with certain conditions. Vasant Gajera was booked under various sections of IPC including 193 (false evidence), 196 (Using evidence known to be false), 200 ( Using as true such declaration knowing it to be false), 465 (forgery) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) among others in 2018. Gajera’s lawyer submitted that he had to visit Dubai, Bangkok, America, Antwerp and Hong Kong for business purposes from December 15, 2020 to June 30, 2021. Additional public prosecutor SS Patil opposed this plea and submitted that cancellation of bail plea is already pending before the court and there are all chances that the accused would flee abroad and not to return. Gajera has been directed to immediately present himself before the court on the date of trial commencement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gajera-gets-court-nod-to-go-abroad/articleshow/79802666.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Saryu Rai files complaint against Incab owner ‘for Rs 100cr-theft’||JAMSHEDPUR: Independent MLA from Jamshedpur east assembly segment Saryu Rai along with aides entered a section of the locked factory of the Incab Industries Limited in Jamshedpur on Thursday to take stock of the ground situation. After his visit, Rai on Friday said, “It seems machines worth Rs 100 crore have been stolen from the factory after it was shut decades ago. I feel the company’s administration has been hand-in-glove in the removal of the costly machines as such things cannot happen without support from insiders.” “In the 20 years of staying shut, the owners connived with powerful politicians and removed costly machines. Reasons such as terming the factory a ‘loss making unit’ were cited, but the matter is sub-judice in the court of law and none have the right to remove machines from the unit.” Rai said. Rai also demanded the Hemant government to initiate a CBI probe into the incident. He pointed out that the matter is serious as it involves the future of hundreds of workers and their families, who are waiting for years in the hope that one day the company gates will reopen and they will get back their jobs. Rai had visited cable town after locals, mostly employees of the closed factory, had informed Rai that water supply stopped in the area after three pumps installed inside the factory’s premise were stolen. Rai also got a complaint filed against the owner of Incab Sashi Agarwal at Golmuri poluce station. “The pumps were installed near the gates which are guarded round-the-clock, so without the help of those in high positions, such a theft is not possible,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/saryu-files-complaint-against-incab-owner-for-rs-100cr-theft/articleshow/79804160.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cases booked against 160 for arson at plant site in East Godavari||KAKINADA: Police have booked cases under sections 307 and 436 of the IPC against 160 persons in connection with the arson incident in the premises of Divis Laboratories at Kothapakala village of Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district on Thursday. While 36 people have been arrested, search is on to nab others. While locals have alleged that police dragged men and women from their homes and arrested them, cops have refuted the claims as baseless and false. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said the situation is under control. “Cases have been booked against 160 people for taking the law into their hands. We have also reinforced security around the plant site by deploying over 350 police personnel. The leaders had promised that it would be a peaceful demonstration on Thursday, but they turned violent and damaged private property which would not be tolerated. Section 144 will continue to remain in force at the plant site till further orders,” he said. Local fishermen and farmers are opposing the Divis Laboratories plant in the area as they fear that the effluents likely to be released from the plant will destroy marine life, including juvenile fish, in the region. “About 20,000 fishermen from six panchayats in the area depend on fishing. If the sea gets polluted, all of them will have to starve,” a local fishermen leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cases-booked-against-160-for-arson-at-plant-site-in-east-godavari/articleshow/79803672.cms||Samson Raj
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||BSL develops software in bid to go paperless||Bokaro: In a bid to promote its ‘Go Green’ initiative and ensure transparency in the system, Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) has decided to go paperless and launched the ‘eNote Sheet’ system under the leadership of its director-in-charge, Amarendu Prakash, officials said on Friday. BSL’s chief of communication Manikant Dhan said the paperless software has been developed with the resources available in-house. Prepared under the guidance of executive director (materials’ management) V K Pandey by using SAP technology, a team — comprising acting chief general manager (computer & IT) A Bankira, general manager (computer & IT) Sharad Kumar Singh and assistant general manager (computer & IT) P K Surya — has played a key role in its development. Under the new system, all documents will be maintained online which will help in keeping the plant’s functioning more transparent. “The online system underlines BSL’s commitment towards its ‘Go Green’ initiative. The paper-less system will also help in minimising the spread of Covid-19 as physical contact will go down considerably,” Dhan said. BSL plans to shift all its paper-work to the online mode in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsl-develops-software-in-bid-to-go-paperless/articleshow/79803945.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Cong’s panchayati wing says it favours timely polls in state||Ranchi: Former Congress MP and chairperson of the Rajiv Gandhi Panchayati Raj Sangahthan Minakshi Natrajan on Friday said her wing was in favour of holding the panchayat elections in the state on time. Speaking to mediapersons after a day-long conference on panchayati raj, Natrajan said her wing has been raising the issue on various occasions. Natrajan said that state president of the party and minister Rameshwar Oroan has assured that the state government will make all efforts for timely elections to the local bodies. She said that the Centre has tried to weaken the gram sabhas by transferring their powers to the department and these forces are also responsible for bringing in the black laws in the farming sector. She said her organisation is working in full strength to fulfil the aspiration of the masses and said ‘sampurna swaraj’ cannot be complete before achieving the aim of gram swaraj. The daylong meeting was attended by Oraon, MLAs Rajesh Kacchap, Depika Pandey and Suresh Baitha and spokesman Alok Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congs-panchayati-wing-says-it-favours-timely-polls-in-state/articleshow/79804493.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||274 new cases, biggest 1-day spike in 5 wks||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded 274 new Covid cases on Friday, the highest since since November 13, sparking fears that the marriage season could be behind the steadily increasing number of fresh infections. Meanwhile, with 195 recoveries through the day, the number of active active cases reached 1,707, returning above the 1,700-mark for the first time since December 9. With 98 cases, Ranchi reported the highest number of new cases, followed by east Singhbhum with 36 Ramgarh with 31 cases. Dhanbad reported 25 fresh, Khunti 16 , Palamu 14 and Bokaro 12. The only Covid death of the day was reported from Dumka. Till date, 1,12,606 cases have been reported in the state, of which 1,09,891 (97.58%) have recovered and 1,008 (0.89%) have died. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/274-new-cases-biggest-1-day-spike-in-5-wks/articleshow/79804274.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||HC orders govt to frame guidelines for use of nameplates in pvt vehicles||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Friday ordered the state transport department to come out with a scheme for allowing or disallowing name plates to be used in private vehicles. The matter had surfaced during the hearing of a public interest litigation filed by one Gazala Tanvir highlighting the flagrant use of name plates in private vehicles in the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad while hearing the petition pulled up the state transport department for not being able to check the malpractice. The transport secretary appearing online admitted that there was no guideline on the usage of name plates in private vehicles till date. Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan observed that name plates can only be used by constitutional authorities in their official vehicles. Quoting lines from a famous book written by Munshi Premchand, Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan said that those who were committed to their work don’t require name plates to mark their recognition in the society. Their work will speak for them and they need not put up name plates on their vehicles. From mukhiyas to panchayat sevaks and secretaries of private and non-governmental organizations, office bearers of political parties put their name plates on their vehicles, the court said. The bench in an oral observation said that even high court judges don’t have name plates on their private vehicles. Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan further said that he shall soon instruct officials in the lower judiciary across the state to remove name plates if such have been installed in their private vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-orders-govt-to-frame-guidelines-for-use-of-nameplates-in-pvt-vehicles/articleshow/79804434.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Consumers in Bokaro demand reduction in power tariff by 30%||Ranchi: Th residents of Bokaro township have demanded that the power tariff be reduced by 30%. The demand was made before the Jharkhand State Electricity Regulatory Commission (JSERC) which on Friday conducted a virtual public hearing here of the tariff petition filed by the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), which supplies power to Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and its township areas after purchasing it from Damodar Valley Corporation. The township residents even said that the discom’s proposal for a tariff hike should be rejected. Speaking of the annual revenue requirements of the SAIL unit — BSL — Bokaro township general manager (electrical) Sanjay Kumar said they have proposed a modest tariff hike of 25% in order to meet the obligations of purchasing power and to bridge the increasing revenue gaps. He added that plans are underway to upgrade the existing power infrastructure, including laying of underground cables and installation of smart meters at the consumers’ premises. Bokaro resident Rajendra Kumar Vishwakarma, however, pointed out that 90% of electricity is earmarked by SAIL-BSL for running the plant and the township and its adjoining get only 10% of the supply. He accused the discom of trying to put the burden on ordinary consumers, instead of putting it on the steel giant. “Despite numerous JSERC directives, the discom hasn’t instituted a separate power accounting methodology for the steel plant and for commercial, industrial and domestic consumers. Commercial and domestic consumers are clubbed into a single category and resultantly, the households are required to pay for power consumed at commercial rates,” he said. He further said that 50% of the supply is being consumed illegally by the khatals (road-side makeshift shops) as most of them steal electricity. “Even the displaced people residing in villages are consuming power free of cost since no electric meters have been installed there,” he added. He claimed that the power infrastructure in Bokaro is more than 50 years old and even a mild breeze causes widespread blackouts. Another consumer from Bokaro named Ravindra Kumar pointed out that unlike other discoms which had given its consumers some relief by waiving off the fixed charge in view of the outbreak, SAIL-BSL did not make any effort to provide similar sops to its consumers. JSERC member (engineering) R N Singh, who was present at the hearing, said the consumers needed to be more realistic in their submissions. “The revenue gap, as per the petitions submitted by SAIL-BSL, is quite high and a more realistic approach by all the stakeholders is called for. Having said that, we understand that power reliability is an important issue and there seems to be complaints regarding its billing. The commission will look into the matter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/consumers-in-bokaro-demand-reduction-in-power-tariff-by-30/articleshow/79803975.cms||Tapas Biswas
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Lockdown extended, cinemas & coaching centres to remain shut||Ranchi: Owners of multiplexes, cinema halls and coaching institutes were left disappointed after the state disaster management department through a notification on Thursday allowed most establishments, except public parks, coaching institutes, cinema halls and swimming pools, to operate. The notification issued by the chief secretary allowed schools to conduct offline classes with the consent of the parents for Class X and XII students from Monday. The same order also allowed medical, dental and nursing colleges outside containment zones to hold classes from the same date while adhering to the safety guidelines issued by the UGC. Permission has also been granted to Sri Krishna Institute of Public Administration, State Institute of Rural Development, Police Training College, Forest Training School and Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society to conduct classes from Monday in compliance with guidelines issued by the department of personnel and training, Government of India. Thursday’s notification also allowed shooting of films to resume but sans the presence of spectators. Notably, Tapasee Pannu-starrer Bollywood movie ‘Rashmi Rocket’ was being shot at the Birsa Munda football stadium from Friday. Expressing his disappointment with the notification, Vimal Kumar of Fun Cinemas said that they have given representation to the chief minister and state officials twice. “The multiplexes that have a pan-India presence are in a better position because their business is going on in other cities but it has become increasingly difficult for the local chains and franchisee holders to manage the finances in the wake of closure for more than nine months,” he said. An official of PVR Cinemas said that multiplexes have been allowed to operate in all other states. “We have given in writing our consent to abide by government safety guidelines, but no one is listening to us,” the official said, unwilling to be quoted. Similar discontent was expressed by the association of coaching institutes, which is now planning to hold a stir. The joint secretary of Jharkhand Coaching Association, S D Mishra, said that around 30% of the coaching institutes have already closed down as they were unable to pay the rents. “We have decided to stage protests all over the state because if schools can operate with parents’ consent, so can the coaching institutes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/lockdown-extended-cinemas-coaching-centres-to-remain-shut/articleshow/79804359.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Babulal served another notice for defection||Ranchi: Dhanwar MLA Babulal Marandi was served another notice by the Speaker’s office within 24 hours of the Jharkhand high court putting a stay on the proceedings initiated by the Speaker against the MLA over his alleged defection to BJP. The notice was sent in response to a petition filed by JMM Gumla MLA Bhushan Tirkey. The Speaker sought a reply from Marandi on why a case of defection should not be initiated against him under Schedule X of the Constitution. The fresh notice would mean that the Speaker’s court would hear afresh a defection case against Marandi at a time when the high court had put a stay on the proceedings of a case that was instituted suo motu by the Speaker. While talking to the media on the issue, JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya asked the BJP to pay due respect to parliamentary democracy and its norms. “We would like to remind the BJP that in 2005 at the time of Arjun Munda government, a resolution was adopted by the state assembly empowering the then Speaker M P Singh to take decisions in his own motion. The resolution still exists and the decisions of the Speaker should be acceptable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/babulal-served-another-notice-for-defection/articleshow/79805197.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Make 32km stretch on NH-31 motorable: HC orders state, NHAI||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Friday directed the state government and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to conduct a proper study on the stretch between Rajauli and Koderma on National Highway-31 to ascertain why it gets damaged even after frequent repairs. Hearing a PIL filed by Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan after he took suo moto cognisance of the road’s poor condition, the division bench of Dr Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad observed that the 32-km-long stretch has never been in a good state. The bench ordered the government and NHAI to make the stretch motorable in a time-bound manner. Though the expansion of the road seems unlikely, it ought to be strengthened, the bench said. The road construction department’s secretary, Sunil Kumar, while appearing in the case through video conferencing, said that since November 2 NHAI has been entrusted with the responsibility of repairing and maintaining the stretch. The bench, while appreciating the department’s efforts in maintaining roads across Jharkhand properly, reminded the secretary that before NHAI took over its maintenance, the department was responsible for the upkeep of the stretch. The court said it may initiate an inquiry through an agency on the expenditure incurred for maintenance of the NH-31-stretch which has never been in a good condition. Chief Justice Dr Ranjan, in course of the proceedings, said, “It’s not like the particular stretch has got damaged over the years. It has always been in a dilapidated condition even when I was a student and used to travel through that stretch.” NHAI (Jharkhand division) officer Pranay Mishra, also appearing virtually in the case, informed the court that a tender has already been floated for its maintenance and a contractor has already been appointed for repairing the road. “The road will be made motorable by January 10 next year,” the official said. The case will again be heard on January 22 next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/make-32km-stretch-on-nh-31-motorable-hc-orders-state-nhai/articleshow/79804074.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Vadodara||Night curfew-hit revellers seek new year holiday destinations||VADODARA: This New Year’s Eve, Gujarati revellers have made elaborate plans to seek freedom from being holed up inside homes amid the present night curfew. They have, instead, decided to ring in the new year at brighter holiday destinations elsewhere, even inside the country, where the authorities haven’t imposed restrictions like the night curfew. And already hotel accommodations bookings for families and groups of friends have started in advance. “Amid the limited venues for new year entertainment in the state, the night curfew has managed to play further spoilsport this year. With such strict deadlines, it won’t be possible for us to hang out with our friends and family in the city,” said Chirag Patel, a Vadodara-based restaurateur, who added that he is planning to go either to Udaipur or Lonavala in Maharashtra with his friends and family on New Year Eve. Pranav Vyas, a physiotherapist from Ahmedabad, too has planned to party away from the state. “We were not able to travel anywhere this year due to Covid-19. The situation, it seems, is easing a bit now. So, I have planned to travel to Goa with my family for the new year celebrations. We are looking forward to enjoying there, but with all precautions,” he said. Dhaval Talapara, a banker based in Rajkot, too, is planning a family tour to God’s own country. “We are getting holidays due to an extended weekend on New Year’s Eve. So I will take my family to Kerala as we haven’t taken a break for a long time now,” he said. Most Gujaratis prefer to spend their New Year’s Eve at Udaipur, Mt Abu or Kumbhalgarh in Rajasthan, Mumbai, Diu or Daman. “Many of my clients are heading outside the state for new year celebrations due to the strict night curfew in Gujarat. The hotels and restaurants that are already reeling under losses here are set to lose a lot of business,” said DJ Yazad from Vadodara. Fun-loving Surtis too aren’t lagging as they too will be heading to their favourite watering hole in Daman this New Year’s Eve. Hoteliers in the Union territory have started receiving booking orders for the December 31 party, mostly from people in Surat and Mumbai. Unlike Surat, there is no night curfew in Daman and beaches will be open for revellers till late in the night. Haresh Thangal, secretary of Daman Hotel and Restaurant Association (DHRA) told TOI, “Due to Covid-19, hotels and restaurants here are operating at less than 35% capacity. During the weekends, Daman witnesses a good inflow of tourists, especially from Surat and nearby districts. This time around, the majority of hotels have started receiving advance bookings for the New Year’s Eve and Christmas festival and we hope for grand celebrations in Daman.” (With inputs from Niyati Parikh in Ahmedabad, Nimesh Khakhariya in Rajkot and Melvyn Thomas in Surat)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/night-curfew-hit-revellers-seek-new-year-holiday-destinations/articleshow/79802281.cms||Tushar Tere
December 19, 2020||India||'No issue left to be sorted' remark irks G23 before Sonia meet||NEW DELHI: Congress on Friday said all issues raised by dissenters stood resolved with the announcement of the election to the post of party president, as it sought to play down Saturday’s meeting called by Sonia Gandhi with leaders who had written a letter in August flagging drift in the organisation. Congress also said the party rank and file wants Rahul Gandhi to assume the leadership of the organisation and he is best suited to take on the Modi government. “This is not a meet of any specific group of leaders, this is not a meet of any dissenters or rebels...,” AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said. Surjewala’s comment that there were no issues left to be resolved angered the dissidents. Miffed dissident leaders held a meeting wondering what was the rationale of the remark a day before Sonia’s interaction. A leader said it was more important to know if the remark was spontaneous or was orchestrated by someone, stressing who was it, and if it was to sabotage the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-issue-left-to-be-sorted-remark-irks-g23-before-sonia-meet/articleshow/79806810.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt seeks to make Centre party to local polls petition||Vijayawada: The state government on Friday told the AP high court that it intended to make the Union government a party to the petition seeking suspension of proceedings issued by the state election commission to conduct elections to local bodies in February 2021. The request from the government came after the SEC filed a counter affidavit, ridiculing the grounds of the state government expressing its inability to conduct elections in February because of the Covid-19 vaccination program, which is likely to be launched during the same period. Arguing before Justice DVSS Somayajulu, government pleader C Sumon said the SEC did not consider the facts and seriousness of the soon-to-be-launched vaccination program. The SEC has stated that the reasons given by the government for suspension of election proceedings in view of the vaccination program are “speculative” and “fictitious”. The SEC also stated that as a national policy on vaccination is still in evolving stage, it would take three to six months for administration of vaccine to people. As the vaccination program is part of national policy which is in the ambit of the Union government, the state government told the high court that it would be appropriate to include the Union government as a party in the petition and to take its opinion on the vaccination program, said Sumon. Considering his arguments, the high court posted the matter for further hearing to December 22. The request from the government came after the SEC filed a counter affidavit, ridiculing the grounds of the state government expressing its inability to conduct elections in February because of the Covid-19 vaccination program, which is likely to be launched during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-seeks-to-make-centre-party-to-local-polls-petition/articleshow/79803695.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||After decade-long wait, Vijayawada bypass road works to begin in January||VIJAYAWADA: Vijayawada residents may have a reason to cheer in the New Year as work for the Vijayawada bypass road, a potential solution to the city’s traffic problems, is set to begin in January. Meanwhile, contracting agencies have already started work on NH-16 expansion under packages three and four. The Vijayawada bypass road project has been pending for long. The road starts at Chinna Avutapalli village and touches the outskirts of Vijayawada city at Gollapudi. The project includes a 3.5km-long bridge on river Krishna. The proposed bypass road intersects with NH-16 at Chinnakakani in Guntur district. Once finished, the bypass road is expected to significantly reduce traffic congestion in the city. Vehicles going towards Chennai and Hyderabad from Kolkata will be diverted through the bypass road. This will potentially help reducing traffic jams at Gannavaram, international airport, Enikepadu, Nidamanuru, Ramavarappadu, Benz Circle and other important city junctions. “The bypass road is a dream project for residents of Vijayawada. The project has been pending for the past decade. Heavy vehicle movement in the city will fall drastically on completion of this project,” said Donepudi Shanka, city secretary of CPI. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has completed survey of road works and is about to complete land acquisition. “We are eyeing on starting bypass road works at the earliest. Except for a few stretches, land acquisition for the project is complete. All four packages of highway expansion are going on at fast pace,” said NHAI project director Devireddy Narayana Reddy. Contracting agencies have set up base camps at Pathapadu and Nuna villages on the city outskirts and have started pre-casting works of pillars and poles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/after-decade-long-wait-vij-bypass-road-works-to-begin-in-jan/articleshow/79803765.cms||Venu Lanka
December 19, 2020||Noida||Noida: Man walks up to farmers at border, calls them terrorists||NOIDA: A 28-year-old construction materials dealer who was in the Chilla area on Friday morning to pay a traffic fine created a flutter by walking up to the farmer agitation site and shouting at the gathering. Farmers alleged he called them “terrorists” while questioning their protest against the Centre’s new farming laws. The man, who police said is based in Greater Noida, was taken into police custody soon after when he got into a scuffle with the protesters. He was taken to Sector 20 police station, where he remained detained at the time of filing the report on Friday evening. Farmers at Chilla – where the protest began on December 1 – said they had never seen him before. They also claimed he was accompanied by one or two others. “He was here for the first time along with one or two more persons, who possibly managed to flee,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union-Bhanu, one of the outfits leading the protests here. “He was asking protesters what was wrong with the farm laws. We feel he is one of the agents who have been deployed among farmers, trying to destablilise and break our protest,” he added. During his tirade, the intruder also allegedly told the farmers minimum support price (MSP) would remain intact and they had no reason to protest. One of the protesters, Praveen Sharma, told TOI the farmers were speaking to news reporters when he walked up and started shouting at them. “He was trying to induce violence. Before the media, he called us terrorists. Are we terrorists? We are sharing our pain here,” he said. Amarpal, another protester, added, “We told him if we had no problems, why would we be sitting here? We asked him if he was a farmer and told him to show us proof that he was. He did not show us any identity card.” As tension rose, and some farmers pushed him away, police intervened. He was taken away in a van. Farmers said he wasn’t the first – a few had this week popped up at the protest site and got into arguments with them. Farmer outfits had earlier this week criticised attempts by those in the government to defame their protests through references like ‘terrorists’ and ‘Khalistanis’. “In the morning, a woman had come to the protest site. She started arguing with farmers over the laws but when we asked her her name, she left the spot,” Amarpal said. “What can we say? Such elements have been caught at the Singhu and Ghazipur borders too. They are being planted by the BJP government to destabilise and demean our protests,” the BKU-Bhanu’s Singh. Asked about the intruder and the Chilla incident, BJP’s Noida unit head Manoj Gupta said, “Farmers are our brothers and we respect our farmers. He (the intruder) is not our worker.” Police said the Beta I resident was active on social media. On a social media account, he claims to have graduated from a well-known management and engineering college in Greater Noida.  ACP Vimal Kumar said he had come to the Sector 14A office of the DCP, which also houses the traffic police office, to pay a challan and went to the protest site. While being taken away in the police van, he told reporters when he was right, there shouldn’t be a problem. “I am saying when the farmer has been given all kinds of liberty, what was the problem? I came here to ask them what problem they had,” he said. Watch Noida: Man walks up to protesting farmers, calls them terrorists||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/farmers-see-plot-to-break-protest-by-intruder-gr-noida-youth-detained/articleshow/79806410.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 19, 2020||India||After outrage, UP dist scraps ‘Rs 50L bond’ notices to tillers||BAREILLY: To deter farmers from protests and inciting local residents against the recently passed farm laws, police in Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal have asked several of them to file Rs 50 lakh bonds. Farmers claimed similar notices of lesser amounts were sent out in other districts of western UP as well, including Moradabad. On Friday, BKU district president Rajpal Singh Yadav said, “The administrative officials are trying to convince us to give in writing that we will ensure peace and not campaign against the farm laws. But we have refused.” According to him, the amount of Rs 50 lakh was deliberately mentioned by the administration to intimidate farmers. An official in Sambhal, however, said that it was a clerical error and the original bond amount dictated to the clerk was Rs 50,000. Those told to sign the bond will have to pay the amount if they continue to indulge in activities against which they have been warned in the notice. In case they don’t and are not able to pay, their properties will be confiscated. In the notice, the recipients were informed that the administration has got a report that they had misguided the farmers and brought them on road and blocked the traffic. Sub-divisional magistrate Deependra Yadav, however clarified, “The amounts of Rs 50 lakh and Rs 5 lakh were due to a clerical error. When this error came to our notice then we immediately ordered withdrawal of all the notices||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-outrage-up-dist-scraps-50l-bond-notices-to-tillers/articleshow/79806811.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 19, 2020||India||Centre, Bengal hold video meeting, continue to spar over 3 IPS officers||KOLKATA/NEW DELHI: The Centre has turned down the West Bengal government’s objections to releasing three state-cadre IPS officers for central deputation, prompting the state to dig in its heels too. An hour-long video-conference on Friday evening between senior MHA officers and Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and state director-general of police Virendra saw both sides sticking to their respective positions, raising the spectre of a protracted administrative battle of nerves in the election-bound state. Senior Bengal government officials have already indicated that the state may move the Supreme Court if left with no other option. The Bengal government on Friday also received support from two different parties. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned “the Centre’s blatant interference in Bengal’s administration”. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, too, criticised the BJP’s attempts to interfere in a state’s affairs. During Friday’s videoconference, the MHA officials told the state’s top officers that there should be no security lapse for VIPs in the state. Movement of VIPs would increase in Bengal now and the state should take all necessary measures, they said. Sources said the home ministry is keen on the officers being relieved in order to fix responsibility of what it considers a “serious lapse” in the security cover for the president of a national party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-bengal-hold-video-meeting-continue-to-spar-over-3-ips-officers/articleshow/79806813.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Business||Agarwal, UK firm plan $10bn India M&A push||Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal is planning to invest $10 billion through a new partnership targeting government privatisations in India. The billionaire is teaming up with London-based Centricus Asset Management to seek investments in Indian companies offering substantial growth opportunities, according to a statement on Thursday. They will look to turn around companies being sold off as part of the country’s $29-billion divestment programme. Agarwal made a fortune buying state companies and fixing them up, building a metals and mining powerhouse under the umbrella of Vedanta Resources. He’s now seeking to repeat that success, betting he can spot gems among the dozens of companies being put on the block by the government. The billionaire plans to help former government companies accelerate their transformation into private-sector firms with professional management, according to the statement. Vedanta is among the parties that have expressed interest in acquiring stake in Bharat Petroleum. Agarwal and Centricus have been seeking to raise capital from international investors to deploy in such turnaround opportunities, Bloomberg first reported in September. They have been planning a fund with a 10-year lifespan that will use a PE-type strategy, buying into companies and boosting their profitability before seeking an exit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/agarwal-uk-firm-plan-10bn-india-ma-push/articleshow/79806840.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||International placements at IIT-Bombay plunge to 58 in Phase I from 156 last year||MUMBAI: In the midst of the pandemic, IIT-Bombay saw international offers in the first phase of campus placements drop to 58 this year from 156 last year. At IIT-Kharagpur, the number dropped to 30 from 43 and IIT-Madras to 14 from 33 in the first phase last year. Last year, the Powai institute had seen a 75% rise in international offers from 89 in 2018. Including pre-placement offers, in the first phase this year, IIT-B got a total of 1,128 offers —down from last year’s 1,319. The number is the lowest in four years. At IIT- Madras, it dropped to 945 from 1,045 and IIT-Kharagpur to 1,100 from 1,275. At IITKanpur, 232 recruiters made 821 offers, including pre-placement. It has received 19 international offers so far. IIT-Roorkee had 770 offers from 206 firms, of which nine were for international roles. Despite the pandemic as well as the economic slowdown, placement cells at most IITs have managed to retain the total number of firms that visited the campuses by aggressively reaching out to newer companies. The number of recruiters visiting IIT-B therefore was at an alltime high this year. However, the number of offers made by many of the firms dropped this year, bringing down the overall offers made in the first phase of placements, which ended this week. Officials from most IITs, though, said comparison with previous years would be unfair, considering the economy, travel and logistical challenges in the pandemic. They said the placements, in fact, have been robust despite the challenges. “Companies have become very choosy this year. Instead of the usual four or five students, many have picked one or two. Many probably would want to wait and see how the pandemic progresses,” said a student from a placement cell. Several IITs will continue to recruit in the coming days and the second phase will start in January. At IIT-Bombay, a UAE-based manufacturing firm, Halcon, which had picked 37 students for international roles last year, did not visit this time. Several firms may not be keen to hire students from overseas, added a representative. Many IITs received offers from Japanese and Taiwanese firms. At IIT-Kharapur, the offers from these countries are higher than in 2018. At IIT-B, international offers came from Japan, UAE, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Netherlands and one from the US. The average package this year was Rs 18.4 lakh per annum at IIT-B in the first phase— a drop from last year’s Rs 20.3 lakh. While the average package in IT and software increased to Rs 22.35 lakh from Rs 21 lakh, there was as a drop in the average package in engineering and technology to Rs 16 lakh from Rs 21 lakh, and research and development to Rs 22 lakh from Rs 27 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/international-placements-at-iit-bombay-plunge-to-58-in-phase-i-from-156-last-year/articleshow/79806844.cms||Yogita Rao
December 19, 2020||Surat||‘Owner won’t deliberately drive his car inside water’||SURAT: Will someone intentionally take his car inside deep water and inflict damage to the vehicle? Sounds bizarre, right? But a private insurance company believes this has happened and rejected the damage claims of a Daman resident whose car had got stuck on a heavily waterlogged road. However, the Valsad District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission has ordered the insurer, Tata AIG General Insurance Co Ltd, to reimburse the claim amount of Rs 3.29 lakh along with 7% interest since February 2019 to the complainant Kalpesh Shah, a resident of Nani Daman. “The owner of the car would not intentionally take his car in deep water to cause damage to his own property,” the commission observed in its order. Shah had purchased an insurance policy for his car from the company for the period between July 30, 2017 and July 29, 2018. On June 25, 2018, Shah’s car was stuck on a waterlogged road on Tithal Road in Valsad town. So, without trying to start the car, he took help of some passersby to park the car by the roadside. Later, he sent the car for repair to Surat and incurred a cost of Rs 3.54 lakh due to the damage. Shah submitted his claim for reimbursement but the insurance company passed only Rs 22,809 while rejecting the rest. The company argued that the car engine’s hydraulic got locked and the driver had attempted to start the vehicle in a waterlogged area, which resulted in the damage. “The driver of the vehicle, without taking adequate precautions, and paying attention to the road conditions, was driving into a severely waterlogged area and when the vehicle stopped, instead of following instructions of not attempting to start the vehicle, he tried to start it, which in turn, damaged the engine. It is a well established legal principle that ‘no person could be allowed to take benefit of his own wrongs.’ This loss was caused, not on account of any accident but attributable to the gross negligence of the driver,” the company told Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/owner-wont-deliberately-drive-his-car-inside-water/articleshow/79802675.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 19, 2020||Surat||Constable caught taking Rs 10,000 bribe||SURAT: A constable posted at the police headquarters in Vyara town of Tapi was caught taking Rs 10,000 bribe on Friday. The anti-corruption bureau’s (ACB) Surat division sleuths caught constable Yashwant Pawar who had demanded Rs 1.5 lakh to release a pick-up van of the complainant that he had detained on December 17 in Valod town. Later, he agreed to accept Rs 50,000 and Pawar released the complainant’s vehicle after taking Rs 40,000. However, Pawar then allegedly threatened to frame him in a case of illegal transporation of teak wood if he did not pay the remaining Rs 10,000. After the man approached ACB, a trap was laid in Vyara and Pawar was caught red-handed taking the money. The trap was laid by Navsari ACB’s police inspector BJ Saravaiya. ACB officials have detained Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/constable-caught-taking-rs-10000-bribe/articleshow/79802703.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Vadodara||L&T set to bag project to build 28 steel bridges||VADODARA: L&T-IHI Infrastructure Systems, a consortium of Indian and Japanese companies, emerged the lowest bidder for the procurement and fabrication of 28 steel bridges crossing over railway lines, rivers, highways, road and other structures for Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) corridor. The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) opened the financial bids for the project on Friday. Eight companies had participated in the bid of which four were qualified after technical evaluation. The four include Tata Projects Ltd, Afcons Infrastructure Ltd, NCC Ltd and Larsen & Toubro – IHI Infrastructure Systems Consortium. NHSRCL has already awarded civil contracts for construction of 64 % of MAHSR alignment which includes five high speed rail stations at Vapi, Billimora, Surat, Bharuch, Anand/Nadiad, a train depot at Surat and a mountain tunnel of 350 m. “It is estimated that about 70,000 metric tonnes of steel will be used for the fabrication of these steel bridges,” said a release issued by NHSRCL. NHSCRL has already sensitized the steel industries to cater such a huge demand for country’s first high speed rail corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/lt-set-to-bag-project-to-build-28-steel-bridges/articleshow/79802415.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Business||Honda shuts 23-year-old Greater Noida car unit||NEW DELHI: Hit hard by stiff competition and a challenging business environment, Japan’s auto major Honda Motor Cars has decided to shut down its factory at Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh. The halt comes within weeks of Harley Davidson closing down its plant in Haryana. The Greater Noida plant, with a capacity of 1 lakh units annually, has been one of the oldest car plants in India and was set up 1997. The cash-strapped company is facing a tough time in managing costs and is taking this step to save money and cut unnecessary expenditure. Honda sells cars such City, Amaze, WRV and Jazz, and will now manufacture vehicles at its Alwar plant, which has an annual capacity of 1.8 lakh units, much higher than the near 1 lakh units the company sold in the domestic market in 2019-20. Honda’s exit from Greater Noida comes months after the company offered a lucrative VRS to a large section of its employees as it started taking steps to cut its dependence on the factory. When contacted, Honda officials refused to give answers to a detailed questionnaire. Sources said, while the production will be halted at the 150-acre facility, a large amount of official work and other activities will be carried out from the location. “Honda will continue to have its R&D set-up, corporate office and spare parts operations at the Greater Noida location. Functions such as purchase, finance, service, marketing and sales, PR and HR would also continue from the location,” a source said. Read AlsoHarley-Davidson cuts short solo India rideAmerican cult bike maker Harley-Davidson has decided to shut down its India factory as business remains sluggish and sales are hard to come by. The company may soon announce a partnership with a local, homegrown Indian two-wheeler company that many expect to be Hero MotoCorp. The company had itsGiving reasons for the company’s poor performance, industry analysts said Honda has “generally been late in responding to competition and changing market needs”, which has led to the brand facing a difficult period. The company, which had several top-management rejigs in the past, was initially late in introducing diesel engines and vehicles in India that had impacted its business severely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/honda-shuts-23-yr-old-greater-noida-car-unit/articleshow/79806845.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 19, 2020||Business||SC relief for Premji, wife||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday stayed all criminal proceedings before a trial court against IT mogul Azim Premji and his wife Yaseem, who had sought quashing of summons issued to them by a Bengaluru court in “frivolous criminal complaints” against merger of investment and trading companies Vidya, Regal and Napean with Hasham Investment and Trading Company, all owned by the Premji group. Premji said the three companies were merged with Hasham Investment in 2015 after the RBI gave in-principle approval followed by the Karnataka HC’s green signal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sc-relief-for-premji-wife/articleshow/79806878.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 19, 2020||Business||Covid has democratised access to funding: Y Combinator MD||BENGALURU: Silicon Valley based storied accelerator Y Combinator’s MD and group partner Michael Seibel has said the company looks at India as one of the most powerful markets for investment. Seibel, who is credited with Airbnb’s survival by telling its founders in their early days to apply for the Y Combinator programme, also said the pandemic has democratised access to funding, given that everything is happening remotely. “I don’t know of an easier time to raise early stage financing, and I have been in the tech world since 2006. What’s also been amazing is watching how investors have adjusted to it. In the winter 20 batch, investors were trying to figure out the status of the portfolio and how to move operations online. By the summer 20 batch, everything had changed. Every single dollar was raised virtually. International founders had a massive opportunity that they didn’t have before, they didn’t have to be here,” he said during payments startup Razorpay’s annual fin-tech event. Y Combinator, or YC, has backed 99 startups in India, which cumulatively have raised over $713 million in capital. Apart from Razorpay, it has backed ClearTax, Messho, and Groww. YC now sees about 40% of its startups coming from outside the US, and India is its largest international country. It used to select under 10 Indian startups in a batch for its accelerator programme, but in recent times it has been picking 14 to 25 startups in each batch. Seibel said even in the postvaccine world, the remote arrangements will continue and will offer more opportunities for international founders as they wouldn’t have to be in the same location as those they are trying to raise money from. Speaking about new trends among Indian founders he mentors, Seibel said he has seen local (Indian) investors pushing Indian founders to go global faster. “This is short-sighted. When we look at the investments happening around the world, we see India as one of the most powerful markets. I always love the idea of you getting there early and then you are there. Let’s not wait till India is 10 times bigger before we think it’s a good business-to-business (B2B) software-as-a-service (Saas) market,” Seibel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/easiest-time-to-raise-funds-yc/articleshow/79806889.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Mercury slips to as low as 2.7C in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Cold wave conditions continued in most parts of Delhi on Friday and the minimum temperature dropped to 4.4 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, at the Safdarjung observatory, the city's base station. Cold wave conditions are likely to continue on Saturday too. The mercury plummeted to 2.7 degrees Celsius, the lowest minimum temperature on Friday, at Jafarpur, followed by 3.5 degrees at Aya Nagar and 3.8 at Lodhi Road, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The Met department said Delhiites might get relief for four days from Sunday as temperatures were likely to go up. The maximum temperature recorded on Friday was 19.8 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal, at Safadarjung. On Thursday, Delhi had recorded a "severe cold day" with the maximum temperature at 15.2 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. The maximum temperature rose on Friday due to disappearance of "uplifted fog" that gets lifted to a higher than usual elevation and partially screens out sunlight, making day conditions colder, Met officials said. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional weather Forecasting Centre, said, "The minimum temperature dipped due to cold winds coming from the snow-capped hilly region. Cold wave conditions are forecast for Saturday at a few places during morning hours. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 21 and 4 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Saturday." A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is four or more degrees below normal. According to the forecast, Delhi is likely to get respite from "cold day" or "cold wave" for four days from Sunday. "The minimum temperature may hover around 7 degrees Celsius in the first four days of the next week while the maximum is likely to remain around 23 degrees Celsius. Moderate fog is predicted from December 22 to 24," said an official. Meanwhile, Delhi's air quality index (AQI) was in the "poor" category at 281. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said, "Surface-level winds are high and west-southwesterly. High surface winds are forecast till Saturday and likely to slow down after that. The current better ventilation conditions are likely to continue for the next two days and decrease thereafter." AQI is forecast to stay in the "poor" to "very poor" category on Saturday but likely to deteriorate in the lower end of "very poor" on Sunday, SAFAR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mercury-slips-to-as-low-as-2-7c-in-delhi/articleshow/79806892.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Days before 20th birthday, delivery boy killed by speeding Mercedes||MUMBAI: Satish Gupta had taken up a job as a delivery boy for a food app amid the lockdown to help his family tide through a rough patch. Barely six months into the job and days before his 20th birthday the youngest of five siblings was killed after a speeding Mercedes on the wrong side of the road rammed into his two-wheeler early on Friday. Gupta, who was out to deliver an order in Lokhandwala, Andheri (W), was dragged nearly 800 feet before one the of car’s front tyres burst, forcing it to come to a halt. Oshiwara police have arrested final year college student Tauffir Shaikh (20). Tauffir, the son of a businessman from Lokhandwala, was produced before the Andheri metropolitan magistrate court later in the day, and released on bail. “Tauffir was driving his father’s car and had a valid driving licence at the time of the accident. He claimed he lost control of the car while trying to overtake another vehicle. There were two persons in the car, who were guests of the family. Prima facie, Shaikh does not seem to have been drunk. His medical report is awaited,” said senior inspector Dayanand Bangar. Police said the mishap occurred around 2.30am near Bhavani Chowk bus-stop in Andheri (W) when Gupta was going to deliver an order, while Tauffir was headed towards Khar to drop the guests. The officer said the Mercedes hit the two-wheeler, which got stuck between the wheel and bonnet of the car, and was dragged for a distance. “Tauffir lost control of the vehicle after hitting the two-wheeler. The vehicle came to a halt near Twinkle Apartment in Oshiwara after a front tyre burst. Tauffir hired an autorickshaw and took Gupta to Kokilaben Hospital, but he was declared dead on admission,” said the officer. Tauffir was arrested from the hospital. “He has been booked for rash driving and causing death due to negligence,” said a police officer. He has also been booked under the Motor Vehicles Act for driving without vehicle insurance. Lawyer Y P Singh said if the vehicle involved in a mishap does not have insurance or if the insurance has lapsed, the owner is not entitled for third-party compensation. “In such a case, the accused driver has to bear the entire compensation for the victim. Besides, under section 196 (driving uninsured vehicle) of the Motor Vehicles Act, the accused is liable for three months’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs1,000,” said Singh. “Satish would have turned 20 on January 8. His father is an auto driver and he had taken up the job to help his family, which is struggling with finances,” the victim’s uncle, Saroj, told TOI.He said actor Sonu Sood met the victim’s parents and assured monetary help. Gupta’s final rites were performed on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-days-before-20th-birthday-delivery-boy-killed-by-speeding-mercedes/articleshow/79806838.cms||V Narayan
December 19, 2020||Business||‘Govt weighing options to ease stress in banking’||NEW DELHI: The government is considering all options, including setting up of a bad bank, to help nurse the health of the banking sector, a top finance ministry official said on Friday, asserting that the Centre had recapitalised banks and would do as and when required. “We are looking at various options including the option you mentioned (of a bad bank) and it is still in the works, so let us wait for a slightly longer period... The RBI has been asking us, and we ourselves also feel that we need to recapitalise. We have been recapitalising to a large extent and this year too, we have kept some money for recapitalisation. So, that commitment is there,” Tarun Bajaj, secretary, department of economic affairs (DEA), said at a panel discussion at the CII partnership summit, while responding to a question on whether the government was exploring setting up of a bad bank. The idea of setting up a bad bank has been floated several times but there have been strong views against establishing such an entity. A bad bank essentially is an entity that buys the bad loans of a bank or financial entity, helping them to clean up their balance sheet and get on with the task of lending. Bajaj said several indicators pointed to a sharp recovery and was confident that the growth would return to the positive territory in the quarters ahead as estimated by the central bank. He said there are expectations that the GST revenues for December would also follow the trend of the past few months of Rs 1 lakh crore revenue, while the advance tax collections have been better than estimated as evident from the December 15 data. “All in all, we are hoping that the economy should be back on track. We are hoping for a good robust growth next year obviously because of the low base effect also,” Bajaj said. He highlighted the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme as an important reform that had received a positive response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-weighing-options-to-ease-stress-in-banking/articleshow/79806894.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Business||Zomato gets $660 million in new round||BENGALURU: Online food delivery major Zomato has closed a $660-million financing round which now values the company at $3.9 billion. This fund-raise comes to a close after more than a year since Zomato kicked off the exercise. It is planning to go for an initial public offering (IPO) next year. Zomato co-founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal tweeted Friday night that 10 new investors have joined the funding round and it includes Tiger Global, Kora Capital, Luxor, Fidelity Management and Research, D1 Capital, Baillie Gifford, Mirae, and Steadview. The fund-raise was initially expected to be around $600 million. Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund Temasek, an existing investor, had invested in the Gurgaon-based company earlier this year as part of the round. This was followed by new investor Tiger Global putting around $100 million. China’s Alibaba group affiliate Ant Group had committed to invest $150 million, but only a third of it had come to the company before the border tension started between India and China. Following that, Ant Group in its regulatory filing for its now-suspended IPO had said it was reviewing its investment in Zomato due to India changing foreign investment rules. Since then, Zomato hasn’t commented on its investment commitment from Ant Group. Goyal said the company is conducting a secondary transaction of $140 million. “As part of this transaction, we have already provided liquidity worth $30 million to our ex-employees,” he tweeted. Goyal’s tweets also said he is expecting this December to be its ‘highest ever GMV (gross merchandise value) month’ . "We are now clocking 25% higher GMV than our previous peaks in February 2020," Goyal tweeted. Online food delivery was one of the most-hit categories by the virus outbreak. During the initial months of the lockdown, order volumes had taken a severe hit, but it saw a gradual recovery over the subsequent months. In May, Zomato fired around 520 people to battle the pandemic’s impact on its business. “The tailwinds for food delivery businesses are clearly visible, and we believe that the growth of the sector will accelerate post vaccine,” added Goyal. Zomato hasn’t said how it wants to use the capital but in a note to staff in September, Goyal had told them this would be used as a ‘war-chest’ for future mergers and acquisitions and fighting off potential price wars from its rivals. While Bengaluru-based Swiggy is its biggest rival, Amazon recently entered the business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zomato-gets-660mn-in-new-round/articleshow/79806898.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 19, 2020||Business||Amazon India logistics arm revenue up 43%||BENGALURU: Amazon Transportation, which provides delivery services to the e-tailer’s India marketplace, has seen its revenue grow by 43% to Rs 2,964 crore for the year ended March 2020. According to regulatory documents sourced from business intelligence platform Tofler, the company has said it will “keep on investing” in further expansion and also in technology as the management of the company is confident of future growth. In the previous fiscal, its revenue had seen a growth of around 60%. In 2020, the company added 10 fulfilment centres (FCs) to take the total to 60, as demand for e-commerce grew in India aided by the pandemic. In FY20, the company’s losses jumped by 75% to Rs 48 crore, as it invested more to deliver goods faster. Amazon’s Prime subscription offers next-day and two-day delivery options, and Amazon Transportation plays a key role in servicing such orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-india-logistics-arm-revenue-up-43/articleshow/79806904.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||Misplaced phone used to shoot ’19 party video: Karan Johar to NCB||MUMBAI: In his reply to the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) notice, filmmaker Karan Johar on Friday said that he has ‘misplaced’ the cellphone used to shoot the widely circulated video of a party attended by Bollywood celebrities at his residence in July last year where it was alleged that drugs were consumed, sources said. Johar, instead, has sent a pendrive containing the video of the party and said that it was downloaded from what was available in the social media, sources added. The filmmaker has also denied indulging in drugs and iterated that drugs were not consumed in the party, sources said. NCB officials said they would seek legal opinion before deciding the next course of action. “In his interviews to the media, he had spoken about the party. However, for us to intervene and start inquiries, we need to have clarity on certain legal aspects associated with it,” an official said. The NCB had issued a notice to Johar on Wednesday after taking cognisance of the video. The agency had requisitioned him for the original source of the video to ensure its authenticity before progressing further with its inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/misplaced-phone-used-to-shoot-19-party-video-karan-johar-to-ncb/articleshow/79806839.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||Rlys expects passenger load to increase by 50% in 10 yrs||NEW DELHI: The number of passengers travelling by train is likely to increase by 50% in the next 10 years while freight loading is likely to go up by 300% by 2031, as per estimates projected in the draft National Rail Plan released on Friday. The plan also proposes to eliminate waiting lists in passenger trains by augmenting train services. As per the document, the railways would require around Rs 38 lakh crore investment in the sector for augmentation of infrastructure, rolling stock and other facilities. The plan includes three new dedicated freight corridors, seven new bullet train corridors, laying of new lines and a host of projects to upgrade the existing network. “The document has been put in the public domain for consultation. We will finalise it by January-end. The plan has been prepared to meet the demand till 2051,” Rail Board CEO and chairman VK Yadav said. In 2018, a total of 8 billion passengers travelled by trains and the draft plan has estimated this to touch 12 billion by 2031 and 19.2 billion by 2051. Similarly, the annual freight loading, which was around 1,200 million tonnes in 2018, is estimated to touch 3,500 million tonnes by 2031. “Our target is to increase the modal share of freight by train to 45% in the next 10 years from the current 27%,” Yadav said. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rlys-expects-passenger-load-to-increase-by-50-in-10-yrs/articleshow/79806905.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 19, 2020||India||SC ruling on MLA’s vote helps Cong save RS seat||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday ruled that vote cast by a Jharkhand Mukti Morcha MLA in the 2018 Rajya Sabha election hours before his conviction, sentence and resultant disqualification as a legislator, was valid, thus saving Congress a member in the upper House of Parliament, which it had won by a razor thin margin. The interesting question before a bench of CJI SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian was whether the vote cast by an MLA in a poll to Rajya Sabha, in the forenoon on the date of election, would become invalid upon his disqualification, arising out of a conviction and sentence imposed by a criminal court, in the afternoon the very same day? In the RS poll for two seats from Jharkhand on March 23, 2018, three candidates were in the fray — Pradeep Kumar Sonthalia, Samir Uraon (both from BJP) and Dhiraj Prasad Sahu (Congress). With each MLAs’ vote contributing 100 points, the value of votes for the three candidates were Sonthalia (2,599), Uraon (2,601) and Sahu (2,600). The returning officer declared Uraon and Sahu elected to the RS. On the day of election, JMM MLA Amit Kumar Mahto cast his vote at 9.15 am and at 2.30 pm, he was convicted and sentenced to two years imprisonment and later disqualified. BJP urged the returning officer to reject Mahto’s vote saying if a person got convicted, sentenced and disqualified on the date of voting, his vote could not be termed to be valid. “In our view, to hold that an MLA stood disqualified even before he was convicted would violate his substantive right to be treated as innocent until proven guilty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-ruling-on-mlas-vote-helps-cong-save-rs-seat/articleshow/79806916.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 19, 2020||World||China citizen journo to face trial for Wuhan reporting||A citizen journalist detained in China after reporting from the Covid-19 ground zero of Wuhan will face trial later this month, her lawyer said on Friday, as fears grow for her health. Zhang Zhan, a former lawyer, travelled to Wuhan in February and livestreamed her experiences on social media. She also wrote essays critical of the government’s response. Zhang was detained in May and is accused of “picking quarrels and provoking trouble", a charge routinely used to suppress dissidents, with a maximum prison sentence of five years. Restrained 24 hours a day, Zhang began a hunger strike in June and has been force-fed via a nasal tube, her lawyer claimed. Meanwhile, China is planning to vaccinate 50 million people before the start of the Lunar New Year travel season early next year, the South China Morning Post reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-citizen-journo-to-face-trial-for-wuhan-reporting/articleshow/79806923.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Delhi||Day 12 of dharna: Three councillors admitted to Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital||DELHI: Three councillors who were on indefinite hunger strike since Thursday, fell ill and were admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital on Friday. The dharna by the mayors and councillors outside the chief minister's residence, seeking release of funds entered its twelfth day. The three councillors include former SDMC mayor Sunita Kangra, EDMC health committee chairperson Kanchan Maheshwari and SDMC South Zone deputy chairman Maya Bisht. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the three councillors had to be admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital due to very low blood sugar levels. "The CM has not even bothered to meet us once, and instead, fake allegations have been levelled against us. I am open for any CBI inquiry on the matter," he added. SDMC mayor Anamika Singh said that they would not end their hunger strike until the CM comes to meet them. "The councillors' health is deteriorating. Instead of showing callousness, the CM should ask his officials to ensure release of the corporations' share without delay," she added. AAP has repeatedly denied that Delhi government has any dues. Former Rajya Sabha member Vijay Goel also met the protesting mayors on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-12-of-dharna-three-councillors-admitted-to-delhis-hindu-rao-hospital/articleshow/79806924.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Business||ITC’s Classmate takes Origami route to expand mkt||Kolkata: FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco conglomerate ITC is eyeing a bigger pie in the Rs 6,000crore notebook segment by extending Classmate, its notebook brand in new innovative segments. The company is introducing Origami notebooks under its new Classmate Interaktiv Series to Foster Creativity in Children. According to ITC, Origami notebooks, the first in the series of engagement-based notebooks, under its Classmate Interaktiv series is aimed at encouraging students to learn through “Do It Yourself (DIY)” activities. These origami notebooks will enhance their creativity and imagination through experiential learning. Origami is the art of folding papers to make models which will help kids to improve their visualisation skills, develop imagination and improve concentration; thus, helping children exercise their creativity. By consumer spend, Classmate is a Rs 1,400crore brand. It has a market share of 22% as per October 20. The market share of Classmate has gone up marginally from 19.6% since January this year. Other national players in this segment are: Camlin and Navneet. Vikas Gupta, CEO (education and stationery products business division), ITC, said: “ITC Classmate has at its core the driving commitment to ensure consumer delight with its high-quality, innovative and visually appealing products. In accordance with ITC’s focus on continuous innovation, we believe in encouraging children to learn through experiential knowledge. Classmate through its Interaktiv series wants to ensure that kids enjoy the process of learning through curiosity and imagination.” According to ITC, the new ranges would be available in Amazon, Flipkart and Big Basket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itcs-classmate-takes-origami-route-to-expand-mkt/articleshow/79804816.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||Sonia Gandhi asks CM to fulfil CMP on SC/ST schemes||MUMBAI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday asked CM Uddhav Thackeray to take steps for the implementation of the MVA’s common minimum programme (CMP) in letter and spirit, and give a push to schemes that would benefit the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, reports Prafulla Marpakwar. “I am writing to you in connection with policies and programmes for the welfare of Dalits and Adivasis. This is a very important commitment made in the CMP of the MVA alliance. I have been receiving suggestions in this regard,” Sonia said in the letter, probably her first since Thackeray took over the reins last November. She wrote that she had received a suggestion that budgetary allocation for the development of SC/ST communities should be proportionate to their share in the population. Sonia calls for job drives to fill up posts for SCs & STsSonia added that focus may be on schemes that benefit SCs and STs in order to bring them on a par with the rest of society at the earliest, and there should be legislative backing to utilize the funds allocated during the same financial year. “I recall that previous governments in Karnataka and undivided Andhra Pradesh had enacted such a law,” she said. Further, she said that in order to stimulate entrepreneurship among the SC/ST communities, reservation in government contracts and projects for enterprises promoted by SC/ST professionals should be introduced. “This had been done earlier by the UPA government at the Centre and by the previous Congress-led state government in Karnataka,” she wrote. Sonia said rapid recruitment drives should be mounted to fill up backlogs of vacancies in a time-bound manner for posts already reserved for SCs and STs in different departments. “Education, technical training and skill development for SC/ST youth are crucial. This should receive the highest priority, and scholarship schemes, hostel facilities, particularly residential schools, must be expanded. I am confident that under your leadership, the MVA government will implement the common minimum programme,” she said. A month ago, a delegation led by energy minister Nitin Raut had a meeting with AICC secretary H K Patil, who is incharge of Maharashtra, on the present status of schemes and programmes for Dalits. On the basis of the deliberations, Patil had submitted a plan to the Congress chief, following which she wrote to the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sonia-gandhi-asks-cm-to-fulfil-cmp-on-sc/st-schemes/articleshow/79806832.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||BKC car shed would be near Line 3, but incur Rs 30,000 crore loss||MUMBAI: The only advantage of BKC as a possible site for the Metro 3 car shed seems to be its proximity to the corridor. But this could be outweighed by the disadvantages: A revenue loss of at least Rs 30,000 crore looking at the site’s real estate value and high expenditure towards relief and rehabilitation for making way for a connecting ramp. Calling the government’s choice “ridiculous and childish”, leader of the opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis said on Friday that any such move will also increase the annual maintenance cost five times and make the Metro venture non-feasible. According to a technical committee that had looked into alternatives to Aarey for the depot, there would be merits and demerits of BKC as a choice. The site, MMRDA Grounds, is spread over 20 hectares and located opposite Diamond Bourse. Listing out the merits of the site, the panel had said, “The site is in the vicinity of the corridor and less than 1km from the BKC station. Since MMRDA is the owner of the land, acquisition can be done relatively easily.” On the demerits of relocating the depot at BKC, the panel had observed, “The depot will have to be developed at an intermediary location which is not recommended for operations. A switchover ramp will have to be constructed to bring the trains from underground to the atgrade section. This will require approximately a 400 m tract of land to build the ramp. Such a ramp would cut across the main BKC road and will require R&R issues to be addressed. The cost of such a ramp will require an additional Rs 30 crores.” Times viewIn the political clash between the state and the Centre over the location of the Metro car shed, Mumbai should not be made to suffer. The city needs the Metro project going at the earliest, and all steps must be taken to see that there are no needless delays and that commuters get to travel by the Metro as soon as possible.Expanding on the demerits, Fadnavis said on Friday, “The last land sold at BKC was at the rate of Rs 1,800 crore per hectare. So, if 25 hectares are taken at BKC (for the car shed) it would cost Rs 25,000 crore to Rs 30,000 crore.” He said the proposed bullet train station at BKC would be a three-level underground structure and take only 500 meters of land. “It is designed in such a way that financial buildings can be constructed above it without any loss. But, if we talk about constructing the Metro car shed below the ground, then its cost will go up from Rs 500 crore (envisaged under his government) to more than Rs 5,000 crore.” The panel said that the land in question “is an extremely valuable economic asset” and “the revenue estimated to be generated is about Rs 30,000 crores”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bkc-car-shed-would-be-near-line-3-but-incur-rs-30000-crore-loss/articleshow/79806834.cms||Manthan K Mehta
December 19, 2020||Mumbai||Suicides in Mumbai down by 14% this year despite lockdown||MUMBAI: More than 900 men and women died by suicide in Mumbai between January and November this year, data with the Mumbai police has shown. Young adults in the 19-30 years age-group comprised a majority (36%) of the victims, while 10% were senior citizens. The data also shows 371 of the total 928 deaths by suicide occurred during the complete lockdown between March and July. However, despite the lockdown, the 928 deaths were 14% fewer than the 1,075 deaths by suicide reported between January and November 2019. “Young adults in the 19-30 years age-group could have been impacted the most as many of them were stranded in different cities, away from families, in the lockdown either for education or work. Some suffered in their careers as companies weren’t hiring due to economic losses and many were terminating new recruits. Lack of social support, loneliness and financial issues made young adults more vulnerable,” said Dr Avinash De Sousa, consultant psychiatrist. Experts also said the police data was in line with a trend across India of young individuals succumbing most after a suicide bid than to any ailment or post an accident. “Everything is available at the click of a button. So when there is no instant gratification, young adults find it difficult to handle things and take a drastic step. Whether it’s a soured relationship, failure in an exam or merely being reprimanded by parents, the frustration threshold is low. Additionally, a large number of young adults are hooked to drugs or alcohol, which further impairs their judgement,” said psychiatrist and de-addiction expert Dr Sagar Mundada. The positive side of the lockdown has been more social support from families which, in turn, prompted more people suffering from mental health issues to seek help. This may have accounted for the fewer number of suicides this year. “While there was certainly a lot more stress in the lockdown, there was also a huge amount of awareness. A lot of stigma about mental health disappeared because people realised everyone was suffering,” said De Sousa. Several telephonic mental health helplines were started, such as the one by MPower Foundation and another called Mission Zero Covid 2020. “Video consultations were also being done. So transportation issues in the lockdown did not halt consults,” said De Sousa. Mental health became a big talking point after actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death this year. “Being able to discuss mental health became possible in families. Parents became more empathetic to mental health issues faced by their children during lockdown and could give them more attention, which otherwise may not have happened as both parents in most families are out for work all day. During the complete lockdown, addicts could not get access to liquor or drugs, and their withdrawal symptoms could be immediately spotted by families and they could seek help. The influx of patients for counselling and treatment prevented more deaths by suicides,” said Mundada. In early October, a 20-year-old woman climbed up the overhead water tank of her society’s terrace at Andheri, prepared to leap off. For an hour-and-a-half, a three-member police team tried every trick in the book to dissuade her. Eventually, constable Pravin Jadhav hit upon an idea and offered her a glass of water, pulling her to safety when she stepped forward to collect it. Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said the police have foiled instances of suicide attempts this year on being alerted through social media or by witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/suicides-in-mumbai-down-by-14-this-year-despite-lockdown/articleshow/79806827.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government to pay input subsidy to cyclone-hit farmers on December 29||VIJAYAWADA: The state government will pay input subsidy of Rs 718 crore to farmers whose crops were damaged in Nivar cyclone that devastated the state in September-October this year. The input subsidy would benefit 8,06,504 farmers cultivating in 13.01 lakh acres in the state. The cabinet meeting which was held here on Friday approved the proposal to pay the input subsidy to the Nivar cyclone victims to help them go for the rabi season. The cabinet also decided to pay the third instalment of the Rythu Bharosa of Rs 2,000 each to the 50.47 lakh farmers across the state. The government would pay this amount on December 29. The government had paid Rs 11,500 into the bank accounts of the farmers this year for the current kharif-rabi season. The cabinet approved the proposal to recruit 147 lab technicians and equal number of lab assistants for the veterinary and dairy development departments. They would be appointed in the veterinary clinics to be opened in every assembly constituency in the state. The cabinet cleared the proposal to issue ordinance to create AP Medical Education, Research Corporation (APMERC) to strengthen the existing government hospitals and nursing colleges. The corporations would also take up establishing new medical colleges in the state, as proposed earlier by the government. The government would take up extensive land survey in the state from December 21. This would bring amendments to the 1923 Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries Act and resolve all existing land disputes. The cabinet approved the proposal to go for Rs 1,931 crore loan from Nabard for the Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme on Godavari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-pay-input-subsidy-to-cyclone-hit-farmers-on-dec-29/articleshow/79803561.cms||Gopi Dara
December 19, 2020||Vijayawada||CM Jagan felicitates chief secy ahead of retirement||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and his cabinet colleagues felicitated chief secretary Nilam Sawhney during Friday’s cabinet meeting. Sawhney, a 1984 batch IAS officer who took over as chief secretary in November 2019 after the transfer of LV Subrahmanyam, would be retiring on December 31. Though she was due for retirement on June 30, the chief minister secured two extensions for her. Friday’s cabinet meeting was the last session during her year-long service with the new government which came to power in May 2019. Sawhney played a crucial role during the Covid-19 crisis, besides assisting the government in the proposed reorganisation of districts from the existing 13 to 25. Sources said the chief minister wants to utilise her services in some important assignment after her retirement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-jagan-felicitates-chief-secy-ahead-of-retirement/articleshow/79803592.cms||---
December 19, 2020||India||SC sends contempt notice to Kamra, dispenses with his personal presence||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday asked standup comic Kunal Kamra to show cause why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against him for making derogatory posts on social media platforms scandalising the apex court and attempting to show it in bad light. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah asked Kamra to respond in six weeks to three petitions, one by an advocate and two by law students, seeking contempt proceedings against him. However, it dispensed with his personal presence. It said that the three petitions were filed after obtaining the consent of the attorney general of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-sends-contempt-notice-to-kamra-dispenses-with-his-personal-presence/articleshow/79806949.cms||---
December 19, 2020||Ranchi||Woman dies as land subsides in Jharia||Sindri: A 35-year-old woman, Kalyani Devi, died after a portion of land caved in and she got buried under debris near Vishwakarma project under Kusunda area of Bharat Coking Coal Limited on Friday. Kalyani’s body was recovered five hours after the mishap. The locals blocked the Jharia-Dhanbad-Sindri main road to protest against the woman’s death. The blockade was lifted after the colliery management agreed to pay a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the victim’s family and bear the cost of education of her two children. According to reports, Kalyani, wife of Dilip Bauri, had gone to relieve herself along with her seven-year-old daughter Komal near the project site. Suddenly, the land subsided and she got trapped under debris. A few locals tried to rescue her, but without success. Locals alleged that though Jharia circle officer Rajesh Kumar and local police reached the spot after being informed, no official from the colliery turned up for more than four hours. This enraged the locals and they blocked the road. BJP leader Ragini Singh reached the site and spoke with the colliery management over the phone, after which the rescue operation began. The body of the woman was recovered an hour after the rescue operation started. The locals, however, continued blocking the road demanding compensation for the family of the deceased. Later, the GM of the Kusunda area of BCCL, B K Goyel, reached the spot and assured to pay compensation on humanitarian grounds. Goyel said the area fell within the dangerous fire zone of Jharia coalfields and no one was allowed to enter it. In Jharia, underground fire at coal pits has been raging for more than a century now, causing damage to several properties and killing people. While the authorities had chalked out a detailed plan in 2004 to rehabilitate more than a lakh affected families to safer locations, till date only about 4,000 families have been shifted out to Belgaria township, which has its own share of difficulties. Fear of land subsidence increases during the monsoon months when water enters the crevices and loosens the land already ravaged by fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-dies-as-land-subsides-in-jharia/articleshow/79803700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 19, 2020||Kolkata||Councillor ‘assaults’ retd IPS officer in Domkal||Behrampore: A retired IPS officer was allegedly dragged out of a school he set up and assaulted by a group led by Trinamool councillor Majdul Sheikh in Domkal, Murshidabad, on Friday. According to victim Nazrul Islam, the councillor wanted him to withdraw an earlier assault complaint lodged against a close aide. The Trinamool leader’s phone was switched off and he could not be reached for a comment. In 1995, the IPS officer had set up Basantapur Education Society in Domkal to run an engineering college. A private BEd college and an English-medium school followed. A few months ago, the administrative officer of the Society was allegedly attacked by the councillor’s aide and Islam had lodged an FIR. “The accused secured bail in the previous incident. Today, I was assaulted and asked to withdraw the complaint,” he said. Former chairman of Domkal Municipality and Trinamool leader Jafikul Islam refused knowledge of the attack, but said the party would not support anyone “trying to create chaos in an educational institution”. Domkal SDPO Mohammad Farooq Chowdhury said they had begun a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/councillor-assaults-retd-ips-officer-in-domkal/articleshow/79805933.cms||Sukumar Mahato
