December 20, 2020||India||India strongly protests vandalisation of Maharaja Ranjit Singh's statue in Lahore||NEW DELHI: As the treatment of religious minorities and human rights turn into a new battleground for India and Pakistan, the government has officially raised with Islamabad the issue of recent vandalisation of Maharaja Ranjit Singh's statue in Lahore. Official sources said India had asked Pakistan in a note verbale to probe the incident and protect rights of its minority communities. For the second time in the past 18 months, according to reports in media that India has taken cognisance of, the statue of the founder of the Sikh empire in Lahore Fort was vandalised by a radicalised youth last week. Last year in August, the same "life-size" statue was said to have been damaged by members of a religious group. The unveiling of the 9-feet statue of a horse-mounted Sikh ruler in July last year was seen as another attempt by Pakistan, after the groundbreaking of the Kartarpur Corridor, to promote religious tourism, with a special focus on the Sikhs. Despite no substantive bilateral engagement with Pakistan since December 2015, India worked with the Imran Khan government to open the Kartarpur Corridor last year, keeping in mind the Sikh sentiments. After India's decision to revoke the special status of J&K though, Pakistan went into an overdrive to highlight internationally not just its own allegations of human rights abuses in the Indian union territory but also alleged "Islamophobia" in other parts of India. The government has responded by raising issues concerning human rights abuses in Pakistan with focus on cases where minority community members faced violence, forced conversions and marriages. The government has been following cases concerning women, including minor girls from religious minority communities, who continue to be victims of religious violence and persecution in Pakistan. It has taken note of the USCIRF Annual Report 2020 which says that in Hindu, Christian, and Sikh communities, young women, often underage, continue to be kidnapped for forced conversion to Islam, and that 1,000 women are forcibly converted to Islam each year. "The report further says that local police are often accused of complicity in these cases by failing to investigate them properly. In the Sikh community itself, more than 55 such instances of abductions and forced conversions are said to have taken place in the past few months," said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-strongly-protests-vandalisation-of-maharaja-ranjit-singhs-statue/articleshow/79818015.cms||Sachin Parashar
December 20, 2020||India||Rahul aide Surjewala, Venugopal's absence from meeting raises eyebrows||NEW DELHI: In the Congress meeting that focused on big issues of dissension and reconciliation, two absences were the focus of post brainstorming chatter in the party circles. Not present in the meeting were KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala — close aides of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. What made their absence stand out is the key positions they hold in the AICC. While Venugopal is general secretary organisation, Surjewala is the head spokesman of the party. The GS organisation is the most important position in the Congress organisation, responsible for coordinating the party’s functioning while the chief spokesman leads the party’s media interaction on key issues. Aides said the duo had family engagements and personal issues to attend to, which made them unavailable for the much talked about meeting. Sonia Gandhi's meeting with a group of party leaders, who wrote a letter a few months ago, seeking a complete overhaul of the organisation..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-aide-surjewala-venugopals-absence-from-meeting-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/79817728.cms||---
December 20, 2020||World||Trump says cyberattack 'under control,' plays down Russian role||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump Saturday downplayed a massive cyberattack on US government agencies, declaring it "under control" and undercutting the assessment by his own administration that Russia was to blame. "I have been fully briefed and everything is well under control," Trump tweeted in his first public comments on the hack, adding that "Russia Russia Russia is the priority chant when anything happens" and suggesting without offering evidence that China "may" also be involved. The Cyber Hack is far greater in the Fake News Media than in actuality. I have been fully briefed and everything is… https://t.co/EZtljGasQL— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1608395411000"There could also have been a hit on our ridiculous voting machines during the election, which is now obvious that I won big, making it an even more corrupted embarrassment for the USA," he added, in his latest baseless allegation of mass fraud in the November 3 vote, which was won by Democrat Joe Biden. Trump's response came a day after Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in an interview that the attack -- which cyber experts say could have far-reaching impact and take months to unravel -- was "pretty clearly" Russia's work. "There was a significant effort to use a piece of third-party software to essentially embed code inside of US government systems," Pompeo told the Mark Levin Show on Friday. He was referring to widely used security software from Texan firm SolarWinds. "This was a very significant effort," Pompeo added, "and I think it's the case that now we can say pretty clearly that it was the Russians that engaged in this activity." Russia has denied involvement in the attack. The US Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, without identifying the source of the hack, said Thursday that the attack poses a "grave risk" and that thwarting it would be "highly complex." President-elect Joe Biden has expressed "great concern" over the breach while Senator Mitt Romney, a Republican, blamed Russia and slammed what he called the "inexcusable silence" from the White House. Among the government agencies affected, according to media reports, are the State Department, the Treasury, the Commerce Department, the Homeland Security Department and the National Institutes of Health -- as well as the Energy Department, and the National Nuclear Security Administration, which manages the nuclear weapons stockpile. Microsoft said Thursday that it had notified more than 40 customers hit by the malware, which security experts say could allow attackers unfettered network access to key government systems and electric power grids and other utilities. Roughly 80 percent of the affected customers are located in the United States, Microsoft president Brad Smith said in a blog post, with victims also found in Belgium, Britain, Canada, Israel, Mexico, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. "It's certain that the number and location of victims will keep growing," Smith said. NATO said Saturday it was checking its computer systems but had found "no evidence of compromise." The European Commission said Saturday it had not found any computer system intrusion but was "analyzing the situation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-cyberattack-under-control-plays-down-russian-role/articleshow/79818266.cms||---
December 20, 2020||World||Anger in Army over opposition's criticism of Gen Bajwa: Pak PM||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan has claimed that there is a “lot of anger” within the armed forces over the verbal “attacks” on the top military leadership by leaders of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an anti-government alliance of 11 opposition parties. In an interview to local Samaa TV on Friday, Khan said that ousted prime minister Nawaz Sharif, in several of his speeches delivered via video-link from London, has alleged that Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa and ISI head Lt Gen Faiz Hameed had orchestrated his ouster in 2017 and rigged the 2018 general elections to “impose the incompetent and selected Imran Khan” on Pakistan. “I must praise Gen Bajwa here. To attack an Army chief in this manner; a reaction comes from the Army,” he said. “There would be a strong reaction if somebody else was leading the Army,” he claimed, adding that Bajwa was “tolerating this for the sake of democracy.” Khan further said that the opposition was accusing him of being a “puppet”. “It signifies that they (opposition) were willing to talk to only the security establishment. This means they’re putting pressure on the Army to remove a democratic government,” he said while describing the opposition’s anti-government movement. “This is happening because PDM leaders had realized that I would not grant them any leniency in their corruption cases,” he added. By asking the Pakistan Army to remove a democratic government, the PM said, he believes that Article 6 of the Constitution applies to them. “This is a case of high treason,” he said. Khan further claimed that the opposition’s backup plan was to ‘blackmail’ the military into ousting the Army and ISI chiefs. The prime minister reiterated his allegations of the PDM being supported by anti-democratic forces such as Pakistan’s former ambassador to the US Hussain Haqqani. “Why is Nawaz Sharif so popular in India? He has become a hero there. He is doing what India is doing. He is constantly degrading Pakistan and destroying its economy,” he claimed. He said the establishment had helped the PML-N chief in the 2013 elections but their ties became strained because the establishment did not support him in 2018. In an attempt to remove Khan’s government, the PDM has vowed to march in Islamabad in February and also tender en masse resignations from federal and provincial assemblies at an appropriate time. In their first phase of anti-government campaign, the PDM had organized rallies in six major cities of the country. Their final rally was held last week in Lahore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/anger-in-army-over-oppositions-criticism-of-gen-bajwa-pak-pm/articleshow/79818559.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||City bouncers help maintain safety norms at weddings||The pandemic has affected our lives at many levels. Our jobs and lives have changed in some way or the other. The bouncers are no different. Without parties and celebrity activities, many of them have started doing odd jobs after the lockdown phased out. Most of the bouncers in Kolkata work for agencies. And at present the only job they are getting from those agencies are at weddings. According to Sandip Mitra, owner of a city-based security agency, the party scenario in Kolkata has been extremely bad since March. “Just like the rest of the country, there has not been any gathering and even if there was something, people would come in a very small number, for which bouncers were not needed,” he said. But from July, weddings started happening. Even though the guests were few in numbers, there was a requirement for bouncers. Besides, different city malls started hiring bouncers now. “In both cases, our job was to help people maintain social distancing. While many of the malls have stopped hiring us, big weddings are still doing it,” said Gunjan Mitra, a bouncer. Rohit Shaw, another bouncer said that starting from July, he has already attended more than 10 weddings. “The job is pretty boring compared to what we used to do. But I think this is all about the new normal,” he added. According to the bouncers, people often forget the pandemic situation especially when they dance. “Then we go there and ask them to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” Gunjan added. Besides, another important job of the bouncers is to protect the jewellery and gifts received at weddings. After the party, when the guests have left, they shift the gifts to the host’s place from the wedding venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-bouncers-help-maintain-safety-norms-at-weddings/articleshow/79818718.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
December 20, 2020||India||J&K DDC poll concludes, SEC calls it a major success||SRINAGAR: The eighth and final phase of J&K District Development Council (DDC) election — the first-ever such democratic exercise after the special status of the erstwhile state was scrapped in August last year — concluded on Saturday with nearly 52% of the electorate exercising their right to franchise. Soon after the day’s polling ended, State Election Commissioner KK Sharma termed it a major success as “all stakeholders, including state machinery, political parties, Independent candidates and citizens, participated in it”. Results of the polls will be declared on December 22. Holding a press conference, Sharma said, like previous phases, the last phase was smooth as no law and order incident was reported from anywhere in the Union Territory. “Today, we recorded 51.65% voting across the UT, with Jammu division registering 68.5% polling,” Sharma said. He said DDC election was a gargantuan process and that police and central forces deserved special praises for its smooth and successful completion. “We were monitoring the election very keenly. Given the Covid pandemic, all arrangements were made to ensure safety of the voters and officials involved in the election process across the UT,” Sharma said. To a query about the timing of the polling from 7am to 2pm, the SEC said “everything is done under proper norms applicable pan-India and it was also to ensure safety and security of polling staff and voters”. “We’ve received feedback about the poll timing, but some of the areas in J&K are vulnerable,” he added. In Jammu division, it was Poonch, a town known for frequent shelling by Pakistan along the Line of Control, that saw the highest polling at 75.41%. This was followed by Reasi, which recorded 72.95%. Rajouri, another town alongside the LoC, recorded 72.18%, while Jammu, Kathua, Ramban saw 67.1%, 63.7% and 67.7%, respectively, a senior election official said. In Kashmir region, Kupwara and Bandipora districts saw the poll percentage cross 50%. While Kupwara recorded 50.5%, Bandipora saw 50.9% polling. Towns like Pulwama and Shopian, two hotbeds of militancy, saw “moderate” polling at 8.5% and 14.9%, respectively. Overall, Kashmir witnessed 34.8% voter turnout. “These are extremely satisfying figures considering that polls in some region took place while it snowed heavily, not to mention precautions to control Covid spread,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-ddc-poll-concludes-sec-calls-it-a-major-success/articleshow/79818755.cms||M Saleem Pandit
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Over the years, Christmas has become a festival for all’||Festivities in Lucknow are synonymous with tales of Chand Raat, but there is another night during the year which is not apt to be called ‘silent’ in Lucknow anymore. While most may stereotype Lucknow festivities with the buzzing lanes of Aminabad and Chowk during Ramzaan, the midnight hustle at Cathedral in Hazratganj on Christmas Eve is fair competition. Over the years, Lucknowites have warmed up to the spirit of Christmas and welcomed Santa and all things Christmas with open arms (and chimneys) into their homes. CHRISTMAS FEELS LIKE DIWALI AND VICE VERSA“Our friends tell us they look forward to Christmas like Diwali now,” says Michelle Fanthome, telling us that religious lines have blurred in every celebration now. “And we look forward to Diwali like Christmas. I’ve been celebrating Christmas in Lucknow since 2009 and every year, the celebrations have just grown. I remember, during my first few years here, Christmas was limited to a very traditional celebration with the community — the mass, carols, etc. Now it is about feasts, games and a whole lot of fun with our friends. A lot of it is attributed to the kids who are very excited about Christmas. Since the past few years, they have started putting up Christmas plays for their grandparents, organised games like Secret Santa, and just made the festival more festive,” adds Michelle. Michelle Fanthome (in the centre) with a group of kids celebrating Christmas (BCCL)For Shafuq Mohan, who is from the UK, finding decorations in Lucknow during her first Christmas in 2008 was a challenge. Now, she just has to make a trip to Aminabad or order stuff online and Christmas is ready to roll. “I remember, I asked my father to send a Christmas tree from London to Lucknow back in 2008 just because we did not get any here. I would even tell my husband, ‘Yaar garmi lag rahi hai, it just does not feel like Christmas’. Then, I would want the traditional Christmas turkey, not chicken or raan,” laughs Shafuq, adding, “But over the years, the festivities have grown. Everything about the festival has become more elaborate now!” Viraj and Shafuq Mohan celebrate their first Christmas together in the city in 2007 (BCCL)CHRISTMAS TREES ON CITY ROADSFor ophthalmologist Dr Annie Singh, Christmas festivities in the early nineties were limited since there was no scope for much celebration. “It started picking up when Archies and these malls started selling Christmas decorations. Earlier, it was not so easy to find stockings, trees, etc. But ab toh sab roadside pe bhi milta hai. It looks like everyone is celebrating Christmas,” says Annie. OF RUM & PLUM CAKESSeeing the enthusiasm among Lucknowites for Christmas, bakeries and hotels have capitalised on the popularity of the festival. Jasjeev Singh Kohli of one of the city’s oldest bakeries, JJ Bakers, tells us, “We have been making Christmas cakes since the last 30 years and not in a single year have I seen the sales graph dipping. It is always on the rise. Because of the popularity of the festival, we have added more Christmas-themed items on the menu besides the regular plum cakes.” Cake mixing ceremonies are a big thing in the city now (BCCL)Hotels and restaurants have also started holding cake mixing events over the last couple of years to kickstart Christmas festivities almost a month before the actual festival. Baker Aarti Vaid, who has been organising a cake mixing ceremony at her hotel in Aishbagh for the last three years, tells us, “The cake mixing ceremony is generally done a month before Christmas where we soak all the dry fruits in rum. The flavour that comes out when we bake the plum cakes during Christmas time is unmatchable. So, instead of doing it in my bakery, I like to do it with friends. It becomes a fun afternoon with music, food and bonding over cake mixing,” says Aarti. Manjuli and Nalin Philips at their annual Christmas party in their home in 2007 (BCCL)CHRISTMAS IS AN OPEN HOUSENalin Phillips, who has been hosting a lavish Christmas party at his house almost every year since 1994, tells us, “I remember, the first party that I hosted had around 20 couples in attendance. Now, since the last couple of years, the guest list has gone up to almost 100-150 people. It is an open house, everyone is welcome — right from friends of friends, neighbours, everyone. In the early years, it was mostly just Christians, but over the years, it has become a festival for everyone.” He adds, “The crowd is not just limited to parties; I have seen that churches have started putting extra benches outside because the people just keep pouring in. It is a wonderful vibe.” X-MAs Fair!Abhijit Gupta, a teacher at Cathedral Senior Secondary School recalls the days when Christmas celebrations at the Cathedral used to have just a handful of visitors. “It is very recently that the Cathedral Church would be full of people on Christmas Eve,” shares Abhijit, adding, “Around 25 years back or so, the church used to have only a handful of Anglo-Indian visitors on Christmas. It is when the celebrations at the school became grand with music and carols played at the church along with a few programmes, people became inquisitive and started visiting the church. The craze picked up even more when several stalls were put up in and outside the school on Christmas and the Cathedral was decorated. Christmas at Cathedral over the years has become the most awaited fair kind of an event for Lucknowites.” - Saloni Tandon with inputs from Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-the-years-christmas-has-become-a-festival-for-all/articleshow/79814820.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire in two Poonch sectors||JAMMU: Pakistan on Saturday violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in two sectors of Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district. This was the second breach of truce in the district in the past 24 hours. “Around 5pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked firing with small arms and heavy mortar shelling along the LoC in Kirni and Malti sectors, to which Indian Army effectively retaliated,” Jammu-based defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, adding that no injury or damage was suffered by own side in the cross-border exchange of fire. Till November 13, 2020, Pakistan violated the ceasefire around 4,052 times — 128 times in November and 394 in October alone — the highest-ever in a year since the ceasefire agreement was inked between both countries in November 2003. There has been no let-up in ceasefire violations by Pakistan in the twin frontier districts of Rajouri (Sunderbani and Nowshera sectors) and Poonch (Qasba, Krishna Ghati, Balakote, Mankote, Mendhar and Kirni sectors) ever since the nullification of Articles 35A and 370 in August last year paved the way for the reorganization of Jammu and Kashmir into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. On Friday evening, Pakistan had resorted to heavy firing and shelling on Indian positions and civilian areas along the LoC in Poonch’s Balakote and Mendhar sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-two-poonch-sectors/articleshow/79818849.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
December 20, 2020||India||ED attaches Farooq Abdullah’s properties in money laundering probe||NEW DELHI/SRINAGAR: The Enforcement Directorate has attached properties of former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah to the tune of Rs 12 crore under Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Abdullah and his close associates are being probed for laundering over Rs 100 crore of funds received by the J&K Cricket Association when he was its president. The attached properties include his Gupkar Road residence in Srinagar; one at Katipora tehsil in Tanmarg and one in Jammu. One of his commercial buildings at posh Residency Road area of Srinagar are among assets attached besides other lands. “Among these attached properties the residence and land of Farooq Abdullah at Gupkar Road and commercial buildings at Residency Road are state lands obtained on lease. The other attached house at Bhatindi, Village Sunjwan, (Jammu) had been constructed by Farooq Abdullah on state and forest land, where he has also grabbed them illegally,” ED has claimed in its attachment order. The agency has said that its investigations revealed Abdullah had, during 2006 to 2011 when he was president of the JKCA, “misused his position” and laundered funds the cricket association received from the BCCI. The JKCA had received Rs 110 crore from BCCI during this period. “Between 2006 and 2012, when Farooq Abdullah was President of JKCA, he misused his position and clout illegally appointing office bearers of JKCA whom he gave financial powers for the purpose of laundering of JKCA funds,” ED claimed. The agency further claimed that Abdullah was “instrumental as well as beneficiary of the laundered funds of JKCA”. The probe revealed that ignoring existing bank accounts of JKCA, Abdullah’s aides opened six new bank accounts to launder the funds. The agency said its probe has already tracked JKCA funds to the tune of more than Rs 45 crore laundered by Abdullah and his aides, including cash withdrawals to the tune of Rs 25 crore with no corresponding justification. “Investigations disclose that for the purpose of generation of proceeds of crime, JKCA funds were layered by way of complex interbank transfers in all the bank accounts of JKCA and also by transfer to several personal bank accounts,” ED said. Abdullah’s son, Omar Abdullah, in a series of tweets, said properties attached by ED are largely ancestral properties dating back to the 1970s. The most recent one was built in 2003. “My father has seen the media reports regarding attachment of his properties in the ongoing investigation into the JKCA matter. Not surprisingly the media was tipped off regarding the seizure before he had received any official notice or documentation,” Omar said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-attaches-farooq-abdullahs-properties-in-money-laundering-probe/articleshow/79819043.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||India exports Rs 550 crore dairy items during Covid-19, Ghee tops list||NEW DELHI: During the Covid-19 pandemic, with all its constraints, India has managed to export dairy products worth Rs 554 crore to more than 110 countries so far. A report by the Agricultural & Processed Food Exports Development Authority (APEDA), the apex body for trade promotion, prepared last week found that the UAE remains the biggest market for Indian dairy products. This year, so far, orders worth Rs 154 crore were placed by the UAE alone. The US came next (Rs 110 crore), followed by Bhutan (Rs 78 crore), Singapore (Rs 53 crore), Saudi Arabia (Rs 39 crore) and Australia (Rs 37 crore). Last financial year, India had exported dairy products worth Rs 1,341 crore, significantly lower than the Rs 2,423 crore the year before that. So, while this year’s figures have been less than half so far, the pandemic effect and the fact that there still are four months to go have been seen as positive indicators. Milk production from Uttar Pradesh (30 MT), Rajasthan (23 MT), Andhra Pradesh (15 MT) and Gujarat (14 MT) have largely contributed to these exports. Over four years, India’s dairy exports have overall touched Rs 5,500 crore trade. The top export in that period has been ghee (Rs 1,521 crore). The UAE has imported ghee worth Rs 74 crore this year so far. “One of the reasons ghee is so popular is the presence of the Indian expat community in the Middle East,” Union minister of state for animal husbandry and dairy Sanjeev Balyan told TOI. Butter has also been a big export over the past four years (Rs 1,486 crore), followed by farm cheese (Rs 435 crore) and milk cream (Rs 230 crore). There’s also been a small market for buttermilk (Rs 20 crore). Whole milk carton export has been worth just Rs 0.5 lakh. “As far as the low export and trade of packed milk food supplements and powdered milk is concerned, India has a lot of catching up to do. Other countries already have big international players which make cheaper products for the retail market,” Balyan said. The report was submitted by APEDA to the animal husbandry department last week. Watch Ghee tops the list among dairy exports worth Rs 554 crore during COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-exports-rs-550-crore-dairy-items-during-covid-19-ghee-tops-list/articleshow/79819321.cms||Rohan Dua
December 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Boy rescued, 6 who demanded bitcoins as ransom arrested||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district police solved the abduction case of an 8-year-old boy in less than 36 hours after the crime was reported. The boy was reunited with his family in Kolar after a police team rescued him by arresting six men at Malur in the early hours of Saturday. A search is on for the kingpin. The accused are Ranjith, 22, data-entry operator at an IT company; Hanumanthu, 21, cab driver from Mandya; Gangadhar, 25, of T Narasipura; Kamal, 22, mechanic from Electronics City in Bengaluru; Manjunath, 24, and Mahesh, 26, both from Kolar. The boy, son of a businessman, was kidnapped from his house in Ujire of Belthangady taluk on Thursday evening. First, the kidnappers demanded 100 bitcoins (valued at Rs 17 crore) as ransom. But later, they lowered the figure to 60 bitcoins (Rs 10 crore). Demanding cryptocurrency as ransom is said to be the first in the state, police said. SP BM Laxmi Prasad told mediapersons on Saturday that four special police teams were formed soon after the incident, and all the checkposts were alerted. The kingpin, who is known to the boy’s family, had promised to pay his gang Rs 7 lakh for the operation. Prior to kidnapping the boy, four of the gang members did a recce for 10 days and stayed at a lodge near Dharmasthala. They moved around the place in a cab, interacting with locals to collect information about the boy’s family and their movements. After kidnapping the boy, they went to a village in Kolar, crossing Sullia, Madikeri, Mandya and Bengaluru. Two hours after the abduction, one of them made a call to the family, demanding 100 bitcoins as ransom to release the boy. The number was traced to Madhya Pradesh. What followed next were messages through WhatsApp. The cryptocurrency wallet number was also sent for the family to transfer the bitcoins. Speaking on the unusual demand for bitcoins, Laxmi Prasad said the kingpin was aware that the boy’s father had a bitcoin business. “But when we asked the boy’s father, he said he had stopped trading bitcoins three years ago. The kingpin planned the crime assuming the boy’s father was still in that business. We were clear that the crime was done by a person known to the family. We have some clues and are confident of arresting him soon,” the SP said. Confident that the family would pay the ranson immediately, the kingpin had told the gang that the abduction drama would end in 24 hours, the SP said, adding: “But when it got delayed, the panicstricken gang did not know what to do. So they travelled to Kolar as two of them are from the region.” The SP said the gang treated the boy well, and was keen to send him back to his family. The accused were produced before a court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bitcoin-ransom-cops-rescue-boy/articleshow/79819689.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Brother stops marriage of 16-year-old girl||BELAGAVI: An older brother stopped his 16-year-old sister from being forced into a child marriage in Konnuru village of Gokak taluk on Friday evening. Raju Megannavar, 21, averted his sister’s marriage to his aunt Shevakka Modagi’s son. Raju’s parents are vegetable vendors and were struggling to earn a living after the lockdown. Raju’s aunt offered to help the family, saying she would ensure the girl’s education till PUC and later organise her marriage to her son. The family agreed to send the girl to her aunt’s home in Konnuru village. For two months, she had been staying there. Fifteen days ago, Raju’s parents went to Sherabad village in Rayabag taluk, leaving him alone at home in Ghataprabha. Sensing an opportunity, Shevakka Modagi tried to organise the marriage of the girl with her son, 24, on the pretext of Kartika Habba at home on Friday. When the girl’s parents heard about it, they asked Raju to stop the marriage. Raju rushed to his aunt’s house. “When I went to my aunt’s house, I realised it was not a Kartika festival but my sister’s marriage. I called up the local police station,” Raju said. After the tip-off, police and women welfare officers rushed to the house. Sensing trouble, the girl was whisked away by her aunt’s family. Shevakka told police: “We don’t know the girl’s whereabouts; she may have gone to her friend’s house. We are celebrating Kartika Habba.” After questioning Shevakka, police and women and child welfare officer took a written undertaking from the family that they wouldn’t arrange the girl’s marriage before she becomes a major. SR Gudumaale, local women’s welfare officer, said: “We saw through the aunt’s scheming ways. Police told her to produce the girl within 24 hours.” Raju filed a case against his aunt at Gokak Rural police station, claiming she had kidnapped his sister. He said: “Once she comes home, women welfare officers will take her to the child rescue centre where she’ll stay for three years.” A police officer said: “We’ll take action if we find anyone guilty in this incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/brother-stops-marriage-of-16-yr-old-girl/articleshow/79819691.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||India on verge of approving first set of Covid-19 vaccine: Govt||NEW DELHI: India is on the verge of approving its first set of Covid-19 vaccine, health minister Harsh Vardhan said while emphasising the need for an expeditious vaccination drive to cover the priority population, estimated at around 30 crore. Speaking at the 22nd meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 on Saturday, Vardhan stressed on the need to ensure that people continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing of masks, maintaining physical distancing, hand hygiene and getting themselves tested in case symptoms persist. On Saturday, the total case-load of infections in India crossed the one crore mark, though Covid-19 growth has dropped to 2% and case fatality rate is among the lowest in the world at 1.45%. “India’s recovery rate has peaked to 95.46% while the strategy of testing one million samples has decreased the cumulative positivity rate to 6.25%,” Vardhan said. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on CoronavirusThe minister also underlined that despite festivals in October and November, no new surge in cases was observed due to the comprehensive testing, tracking and treatment policy implemented on the ground. The meeting was also attended by external affairs minister S Jaishankar, civil aviation minister Hardeep S Puri, ministers of state Ashwini Kumar Choubey (Health) and Nityanand Rai (Home). Niti Aayog member – health VK Paul, who also attended the meeting, apprised the GoM that 12 countries have requested India for supply of Covid-19 vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-on-verge-of-approving-first-set-of-covid-19-vaccine-govt/articleshow/79819631.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||TMC heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari leads 6 MLAs, 1 MP into BJP ahead of 2021 polls||MIDNAPORE(BENGAL): In an unprecedented pre-poll churn in Bengal that Union home minister Amit Shah termed “just the beginning”, former minister and Mamata Banerjee aide Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday led a batch of 10 turncoat MLAs and one MP – eight of them Trinamool Congress deserters – to the ranks of BJP. A total of 60 other councillors and zilla parishad and panchayat samiti members from various parties switched to saffron in the presence of Shah, whom Adhikari referred to as “my elder brother”. “You will be left alone by the time Bengal goes to polls,” Shah said, alluding to Mamata, at a rally in Midnapore, considered Adikari’s bastion. Of the MLA recruits, two were from the Left Front and one from Congress. Two-time East Burdwan MP Sunil Mondal rounded off BJP’s day of gains at Trinamool’s expense. Arch-rebel Adhikari had travelled to Midnapore from Kolkata along with Shah on the latter’s chopper. “Nobody from the party I served for 22 years called me when I was quarantined at home after contracting Covid. Shah called me twice. Mukulda (Mukul Roy, who joined BJP from Trinamool in 2017) used to tell me that I would not be able to stay in that party with self-respect,” he said. Read AlsoSuvendu in BJP, Adhikaris huddle at Contai homeWhen Suvendu Adhikari held hands with Union home minister Amit Shah at a BJP rally on Saturday, he missed the handholding of his family.After accepting the BJP flag from Shah, Adhikari stressed the need for Bengal to discard the “anti-Centre narrative” of the Left and Trinamool in favour of Centre-state synergy. “I believe both Kolkata and Delhi should have governments under Modiji’s party for the sake of Bengal’s development," he said. Countering Trinamool’s "traitor" tag for Adhikari with Trinamool's history, Shah said, "Didi, what did you do when you quit Congress to form Trinamool?" Read AlsoNo one from Mamata Banerjee’s family wants to be Bengal CM: TMCNo one from Mamata Banerjee’s family wants to be chief minister, the Trinamool Congress said on Saturday, hurling the nepotism barb back at the BJP, Union home minister Amit Shah and new BJP recruit Suvendu Adhikari.The Union home minister charged the Trinamool government with taking recourse to "the politics of fear" to stay in power. "More than 300 BJP workers have been killed. They threw stones at BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy. Didi thought we would give up. We will not," he said. Shah had visited freedom fighter Shahid Khudiram Bose’s family before reaching the Midnapore College ground, indicating a resolve to shake off the "outsider" label that Trinamool has stuck on BJP’s central leadership. Adhikari reminded his critics that Trinamool could not have survived without former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s support. "Trinamool was part of the NDA then." He urged TMC workers to join him in rescuing Bengal from the "crossroads", saying "personal interests are getting precedence over public interest" in his former party. The ex-minister was particularly scathing in his criticism of Mamata's nephew and Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee, calling him "tolabaj bhaipo (extortionist nephew)" . Explaining the change in his political stance, he said, "A Trinamool friend messaged me on Friday, pointing out that I had raised the ‘BJP hatao, desh bachao’ slogan before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. I messaged him back, saying I work sincerely wherever I am. I was then with Trinamool. Now, when I have joined the BJP, I will work 16 hours for the party." Watch Political stakes raised in West Bengal by Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-heavyweight-leads-6-mlas-1-mp-into-bjp-ahead-of-2021-polls/articleshow/79819765.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||Sonia, Rahul assure Congress seniors of ‘respect’ in party||NEW DELHI: With the Gandhi family listening, Congress leaders said that an impression has been created that seniors were unwanted in the party and were not considered relevant, prompting Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi to assure that this was not the case and their views and contributions were indeed valued by the party. The complaint and the assurance came about at a five-hour discussion on Saturday attended by some of the G-23 group of dissenters at the invitation of Sonia Gandhi along with other leaders like former finance minister P Chidambaram, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot and party treasurer Pawan Bansal. With seniors like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma (part of G-23) and former MP CM Kamal Nath touching upon the seniors versus juniors — read as leaders close to Rahul Gandhi — divide, Sonia Gandhi is understood to have pointed out that seniors were present at the meeting. Rahul Gandhi intervened to say he respects seniors and rebuffed as a wrong impression that older generation is not required, noting that many were his father's associates. Read AlsoIn throes of flux, Congress likely to hold party chief election in AprilCongress is mulling holding its organisational elections for party president in the month of April, a process insiders hope will settle the flux that has roiled the opposition player since its decimation in 2019 Lok Sabha elections.According to sources, Rahul said he treated Azad, Sharma, former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda (all letter writers) foremost as his “father’s friends” who had worked to build Congress. He promised respect to the elders. The meeting was the first such interaction between the G-23 and Congress leadership after the August missive to Sonia that called for a full-time and available leadership and the CWC's subsequent rejection of the letter. Saturday’s meeting came in the backdrop of Congress’s continued poor electoral performance, something the G-23 said was due to lack of introspection. The meeting was seen as an ice-breaker after considerable tensions had built up between the dissenters and the official group in the party. In interesting observations, Rahul said RSS-BJP were so entrenched in governance that even when Kamal Nath was CM, the Sangh through their appointees in government, ran the show. He pointed out that Nath could never work as CM and take his decisions, and the government collapsed in 15 months. When Chidambaram said Congress will do well in the coming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Rahul shot back that the party should not delude itself and it will be DMK which will be fighting the polls, with Congress just a small partner. At one point, veteran A K Antony interjected to say that Azad and Sharma, besides he and others, had become leaders at a young age and the older generation then also grumbled in the same manner. Azad and Sharma said they would like to work in the party and die as partymen. There was some more plainspeak, however, with former Maharashtra CM Prithviraj Chavan saying that the nomination culture in the party should end and elections held to the working committee. At the end of the meeting, Azad said if the party spokesperson on Friday had announced that all issues were resolved, what were the lengthy Saturday discussions all about. With the Gandhi household, including Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in attendance and some of the young AICC appointees like general secretary (Organisation) KC Venugopal and AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala absent, seniors laid out issues of political challenge before Congress and how the party had regressed while BJP had become a tough enemy to contend with. Nath spoke about BJP’s “money, muscle and EVM power”. The demand for organisational reforms — mentioned in the controversial G-23 letter — was also raised. Besides Chavan, Vivek Tankha, Manish Tewari and Shashi Tharoor sought elections to the CWC. Chidambaram spoke about the need of resuming the practice of the parliamentary board to ensure clarity on issues. He also underlined the need for restructuring the party from booth level to make it more effective as did Rahul. Interestingly, some leaders urged Rahul Gandhi to take over the reins of the party. Source said he remained quiet on the issue but added the meeting should not be reduced to this one point, as usually happens. Rahul, accommodating and also obliquely self-critical, expressed strong views about the functioning of the party as also the strength of BJP. Rahul was also seen as clubbing MP and Rajasthan together when he told the leaders that Congress did not win the two states but BJP lost them. He singled out Chhattisgarh as the real victory. His remarks came in response to comments of some participants that Congress won three states in 2018. Hooda said the party needed to recognise state leadership that is built over a long time. He slammed that some of the PCC chiefs appointed in recent months, like in Delhi, were not known to anyone and said responsibility should be given to mass leaders. The meeting ended with applause after Sonia Gandhi thanked the leaders. Pawan Bansal, Harish Rawat and Chavan told reporters that the party will in future hold brainstorming sessions like Panchmarhi and Shimla. Rahul Gandhi appeared to address the issue of dissidence when he said there was “communication gap” from his side and that they would now on meet regularly. He said no one person can rebuild Congress and collective work was required to that end. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka received the leaders on the lawns of 10, Janpath. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the party’s internal strategic communication was slow and the workers were often not clear about the stand to take on subjects. Tankha complained that Congress had not done anything on the 1971 war anniversary though it was a big example of the Congress government’s leadership. Ambika Soni, CM Ashok Gehlot, Bhakta Charan Das and Ajay Maken, among others, attended. Watch Sonia Gandhi meets section of Congress dissenters, looks to end crisis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-rahul-assure-congress-seniors-of-respect-in-party/articleshow/79819779.cms||---
December 20, 2020||World||Top science and technology achievements of 2020 in the world||NEW DELHI: Even though the pandemic slowed down life on earth, it could not halt the scientists across the globe from looking beyond. From the cultivation of crops in space to self-driving robotaxi services on the road, the year saw some truly revolutionary advances in the field of science and technology. As a new year approaches, here's a look at some of the most interesting scientific discoveries and technological achievements of 2020- Vaccine is here!The vaccines produced by Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna against Covid-19 became the first vaccines developed using Messenger RNA. It marks the fastest vaccine development and approval, taking only 10 months. The Pfizer vaccine shows efficacy of 95% at preventing symptomatic Covid infection. While the Moderna vaccine is 94.1% effective at preventing symptomatic Covid-19. Plastic-eating 'super-enzymes'To address a different ecological crisis, scientists engineered plastic-eating "super-enzymes" that can break down bottles in days. The enzymes break down a common type of plastic called polyethylene terephthalate - used in single-use bottles as well as clothing and carpets - into its chemical building blocks. Water on moonNasa announced that for the first time they have found water on the surface of the Moon. Nasa confirmed the presene of water molecule, H2O, in sunlit areas of the Moon. This indicates that water is widely distributed across the lunar surface. However, the Moon is so dry that as a comparison, the Sahara Desert has 100 times the amount of water than what the SOFIA mission detected in the lunar soil. Water molecules have been detected in the Clavius Crater. The crater is situated in the southern hemisphere of the Moon and is among the largest craters visible from the Earth. First crop harvested in spaceNasa astronaut Kate Rubins harvested radish plants growing in the Advanced Plant Habitat (APH) aboard the International Space Station. She meticulously collected and wrapped in foil each of the 20 radish plants, placing them in cold storage for the return trip to Earth in 2021. The plant experiment is the first time Nasa has grown radishes on the orbiting laboratory in the APH. Aliens exist?Scientists got, what they called, one of the first hints of detecting an exoplanet in the radio realm. The first possible radio signal is believed to be emanating from a planet outside the solar system about 51 light-years away. The researchers also observed other potential exoplanetary radio-emission candidates in the constellation Cancer and Upsilon Andromedae systems. Driverless robotaxisWaymo became the first company to offer self-driving car services to the general public without a human supervisor in Chandler, Arizona. While autonomous vehicle provider Zoox also revealed a fully functional, electric, autonomous vehicle that is designed for dense, urban environments. The fact of eliminating the need for a human chauffeur, robotaxi could make it a very affordable solution for the customers. Chang’e 5 brings samples from moonIn December, the moon got a new visitor: China's Chang'e-5 lander - a robotic mission of the chinese lunar exploration program. It returned to earth and brought 1,731 grams of samples collected from the moon. It was the China's first attempt to bring the moon samples in over 40 years after the US sent astronauts to the moon to collect samples. Nasa's Mars 2020 missionMars 2020 is a Mars rover mission by Nasa's Mars exploration programme that includes the perseverance rover and the ingenuity helicopter drone. It will study the habitable conditions on Mars in preparation for future human missions. World's oldest meteor crater foundA crater in western Australia was formed by a meteor strike more than 2.2 billion years ago and is the world's oldest known impact site. The revelation also raises the intriguing possibility that the massive impact could have significantly altered the Earth's climate, helping end a period of global "deep freeze". Wind speed on a brown dwarf measuredFor the first time, scientists have directly measured wind speed on a brown dwarf, a type of substellar object that is larger than Jupiter (the largest planet in our solar system) but not quite massive enough to become a star. To achieve the finding, they used a new method that could also be applied to learn about the atmospheres of gas-dominated planets outside our solar system. (with inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/top-science-and-technology-achievements-of-2020-in-the-world/articleshow/79956575.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||Farmers' open letter counters PM Modi, Narendra Tomar||NEW DELHI: A day ahead of observing ‘Shraddhanjali Diwas’ (Day of Homage) in memory of protesting farmers who died during the ongoing agitation, the farm unions on Saturday wrote a joint ‘open’ letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar saying it’s the farmers’ protest that compelled the opposition political parties to change their stand and not the other way round as is being erroneously propagated by the government. The farmers’ unions have planned to reach out to more than one lakh villages across the country while observing 'Shraddhanjali Diwas’ on Sunday even as the government has been in informal talks with several organisations to end the current impasse. Read AlsoFarm unions reject government proposals in writing, SC acts to break deadlockFarmer unions protesting against the farm laws wrote to the agriculture ministry on Wednesday morning, rejecting the Centre’s December 9 proposals on amending the laws and clarifying certain provisions. Farmer leader Darshan Pal of the "Sanyukta Kisan Morcha" also requested the Centre not to defameAs more and more Haryana farmers started assembling at borders in solidarity with their counterparts from Punjab, Haryana chief minister M L Khattar on Sunday met Tomar and is learnt to have discussed issues relating to farmers’ agitation and water sharing of the Sutlej Yamuna Link canal involving Punjab. Insisting that the central farm laws would only be beneficial for corporates and MNCs, the unions’ umbrella body, AIKSCC, issued point-wise clarifications on what Tomar had said in his ‘open’ letter to farmers two days ago, and reiterated their demand of repealing the farm laws. Read AlsoDelhi: Farmers take social media route to ‘tell complete truth’To ensure that true stories about the protest reach people across the country and the world, Kisan Morcha has set up an official IT cell called Kisan Ekta Morcha, which is available on all social media platforms.“It seems you are just trying to create misunderstanding about the farmers’ movement as you preferred to write an ‘open’ letter instead of calling for a meeting to find a solution,” said the AIKSCC addressing Tomar. The Centre has, however, on multiple occasions said that the government was ready for “clause by clause” discussions with farm leaders to find a solution. Besides explaining how the farm laws would benefit farmers, Tomar in his open letter on Thursday seemed to target Congress, Left-aligned farmers’ unions, AAP, SAD and some experts, saying the same group of people with similar thinking has been, in the past six years, trying to create unrest in society while hiding sometimes behind students, sometimes behind ‘Dalits’, women or the minorities. “The same people have once again, while hiding behind the country’s farmers, been directly or indirectly promoting unrest for their political interest,” Tomar had said. Responding to the PM on linking the ongoing protests with opposition parties, the farmers’ unions in their letter said, “If you look at our demands carefully, you may find that none of our demands have anything to do with any political parties.” They were referring to the remarks made by Modi during his address to ‘Kisan Sammelan’, held across MP, through video conferencing on Friday. On the agriculture minister’s point that the farmers would not lose their land at any cost under the new farm laws, the AIKSCC said in its letter that Tomar’s claim was contradicted by the Contract Act 2020, which provided for “farmer land to be mortgaged under Section 9 and for recovery of dues from the farmer u/s 14.7 as arrears of land revenue for advances taken from the company under section 14.2 of the Acts”. On the minister’s assurances on MSP and procurement, the unions said such claims had fallen flat on the face of Niti Aayog experts openly claiming that the government has excessive food stocks with no place to store and no money to buy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-open-letter-counters-pm-modi-narendra-tomar/articleshow/79819783.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 20, 2020||India||Reliance to build ‘largest zoo in world’ in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Reliance Industries Ltd will build what it claims to be the world’s largest zoo in Gujarat’s Jamnagar, a top company executive confirmed on Saturday. The zoo will house close to 100 different species of animals, birds and reptiles from India and across the world. A pet project of Anant Ambani, RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani’s youngest son, the zoo will be built on about 280 acres of land close to the company’s refinery project at Moti Khavdi near Jamnagar, the world’s largest oil refining complex where it operates a petrochemicals project as well. The zoo is expected to open for public in the next two years if the project, which was delayed due to Covid-19, doesn’t face any further postponement, the executive said. “It will be called ‘Greens Zoological, Rescue & Rehabilitation Kingdom’. All the required approvals from concerned central and state government authorities have already been obtained,” said Parimal Nathwani, RIL director (corporate affairs). The zoo will have sections like ‘Forest of India’, ‘Frog House’, ‘Insect Life’, ‘Dragon’s Land’, ‘Exotic Island’, ‘Wild Trail of Gujarat’ and ‘Aquatic Kingdom’ among others, as per the plan layout shared on the Central Zoo Authority’s website. Various species, including barking deers, slender loris, sloth bears, fishing cats, komodo dragons, Indian wolves and Rosy pelicans are proposed to be attractions of the zoo, which will also house six each of crowned cranes, jaguars and African lions, besides 12 ostriches, 20 giraffes, 18 meerkats, 10 spectacled caiman, seven cheetahs, African elephants and nine Great Indian Bustards. The frog house will have about 200 amphibians while the aquatic kingdom will house around 350 fishes. “We are aware of RIL’s interest and passion for wildlife and its conservation. While not fully aware of the project details, I’m sure it will set a good example for private participation in wildlife conservation,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, additional director-general of forests (wildlife), ministry of environment, forest and climate change. The concept of private zoos is not new in India, Dasgupta said, adding that one of the country’s oldest zoos — The Zoological Garden, Kolkata — is a private one. RIL has also set up a rescue centre at Jamnagar where a few leopards were recently shifted from the wild by the state forest department. “The centre is a CSR initiative meant to aid the forest department in sheltering big cats like leopards that have been injured or come into conflict with humans. It is separate from the zoo project and won’t open for the public,” said Nathwani, adding that the centre will provide state-of-the-art medical facilities for the resident animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reliance-to-build-largest-zoo-in-world-in-gujarat/articleshow/79819786.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 20, 2020||India||Want to leave our village: Hathras girl kin||AGRA: They don’t step out of their house, no one comes in without a thorough check and they have barely spoken to anyone else in the village for three months now. The family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras who was allegedly gangraped and murdered just wants out. “We had said this before and we say this again. We want to move out of our village,” the victim’s younger brother told TOI on Saturday.  The families of the four accused are influential people in the village and the Dalit families, four of them, would “stay out of the way” of the 60 upper caste families. “We fear we could be harmed,” he said. In October, for instance, they had received a text: “My advice to you is that you admit to the truth or all the land in this country will not be enough for you to hide. I will get you and your mother jailed for killing her (the victim).” He saw the message in November and told the police and CBI who, he added, said they’d look into it. But around the time the message was sent, the family had expressed concerns about their safety and provided a security cover. Two weeks after that, the family had approached the Allahabad high court with a plea to secure their relocation to Delhi so they could “move freely.” So far, no one from the administration has reached out to them about this. “CRPF personnel always accompany us but don’t bother us. No one enters without them checking with us first. But the security we have now will not be there forever,” he said. The Hathras district magistrate, Praveen Kumar Laxkar, had told them as much in a purported video that went viral a day after the girl was cremated by the police without her family’s consent. “How can we feel safe?” the victim’s sister-in-law said. The younger brother has quit his job as a lab attendant in Ghaziabad. In all this, there is, unavoidably, the question of basic sustenance. “We have received the Rs 25 lakh compensation but no house or job has been provided, which the CM had promised,” he said. Initially, the district administration had been sending food supplies and cattle fodder to their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/want-to-leave-our-village-hathras-girl-kin/articleshow/79819802.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt junks slot system for asset registrations||HYDERABAD: The state government on Saturday announced reversion to ‘CARD’ system for registration of non-agricultural properties dispensing with the slot booking plan. Chief secretary Somesh Kumar said from December 21, the registrations can be taken up using ‘CARD’ system as was being followed earlier. Somesh Kumar said, “in order to obviate any hardship and inconvenience to the public”, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed that registrations of non-agricultural properties be taken up in all sub-registrar offices without insisting on advance slot booking, and using CARD system ‘for the time being’. The decision was taken following the high court order. He pointed out that a major initiative in the registration system for non-agricultural properties was introduced on December 11. This was to bring in transparency and the advance slot booking was meant to serve the purpose. The registration of non-agricultural transactions resumed on December 14 in the new system and so far 2,599 slots were booked and 1,760 registrations were completed. The slot booking was available for 23 different types of transactions like sale, mortgage, gift, development agreement, and GPA. It was planned to roll out another five services in the same manner. Workshop on new system conductedThe chief secretary had held a meeting with bankers on December 16 and a workshop was conducted for builders and developers on December 17 on the new system. But the high court, in an order on December 17, stayed the mandatory slot booking facility for registration, while permitting registration without insistence on Aadhaar details. The senior officer has clarified that registrations in respect of the slots already booked for December 19 and after that could be taken up on the date and time as per the slots already booked. The chief secretary’s office has said clarifications could be sought from the registration and stamps department on the call centre number: 1800 5994788, or write an email to grievance-igrs@igrs.telangana.gov.in. Clarifications can also be sought on WhatsApp number: 9121220272.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/card-system-back-for-registrations/articleshow/79818878.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 20, 2020||Patna||New Year revellers can book zoo tickets online||PATNA: Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, has introduced online ticketing system for people who usually enjoy the New Year 2021 celebrations at the place. The zoo will start issuing online tickets within the next 3-4 days. The cost of ticket for adults and kids has increased to Rs 100 and Rs 50 per person from Rs 30 and Rs 10, respectively. The visitors, who wish to spend time at zoo, can also make advance booking from December 25 to December 31 at the ticket counters on gate numbers 1 and 2 of the zoo, a press statement issued by the zoo officials said. According to zoo officials, the calves of giraffes, rhinos and cubs of hyenas and bears would make their first public appearances with their mothers on January 1, 2021. Visitors can also see the newly-built areas like Rhino Breeding Centre, ghariyal cage near old pond and cages of hyena, jackal and wolf. Zoo director Amit Kumar said three display screens have been set up near Rhino Breeding Centre for the visitors, so that they can see the natural habitat of rhinos on digital screens. “A 40-year-old Bonanza aircraft has also been put up on display. It has been provided to the zoo by the aviation department. Visitors can see the information related to this single-engine aircraft which was used by the Bihar government before 1980,” he said. Kumar added, “In view of Covid pandemic, safety protocols will be followed at the zoo. Services like boating, battery-operated cart and aquarium will remain closed.” All the cages, including those of animals, birds and reptiles in the zoological area are equipped with QR (quick response) codes. By scanning the QR codes tagged near the enclosures and nurseries, people can get the all information on their smartphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-year-revellers-can-book-zoo-tickets-online/articleshow/79817947.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Allahabad||Colonies and parking lot on lands seized from gangsters in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: The crackdown against over two dozen jailed gangsters, history-sheeters and mafias including ex-MP Atiq Ahmad by joint teams of police, district administration and Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), especially from August onwards, has resulted in a loss of over Rs 700 crore for them till now. Joint teams of PDA, police and administration claimed to have freed at least 34 prime properties from the clutches of gangsters, mafia dons and history-sheeters in the city, trans Ganga and Yamuna areas. After the announcement made by chief minister Yogi Adityanath that land reclaimed from gangsters in the ongoing drive against the mafia will be used for constructing houses and given to poor, lawyers, teachers and media persons on “no profit and no loss basis,” the officials of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) have drafted a blueprint to develop five plots freed as part of the drive at Panki ki tanki, Nawab Yusuf road, Lukerganj and Mehdauri areas for different purposes. Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) Zonal Officer, Sat Shukla exclusively told TOI that the PDA would develop a free left turn and a police outpost at around 200 square freed land near Pani Ki Tanki area. This land was freed from the clutches of a gangster during the drive. He further added that a mega vehicle parking would be developed on around 500 square feet land at Nawab Yusuf road area under the smart city project by the PDA and PMC. This land was freed from the clutches of don turned politician and ex-MP Atiq Ahmad. Moreover, a residential colony would be developed on two plots spread around 7,000 square feet and 3,800 square feet area at Lukerganj area on no profit and no loss basis. These two plots were freed from the clutches of ex-MP Atiq Ahmad on August 13 as the plots were grabbed on the Nazool land. Besides, PDA has also drafted a blueprint to develop a colony at around two bighas of land (state land) which was freed from the close aide of ex-MP Atiq Ahmad, one Hamza Usman, at Mehdauri area on August 11. He further added that apart from these lands, officials of PDA are thoroughly probing the nature of freed lands and corrective measures would be initiated accordingly. Shukla, meanwhile, said that joint teams of PDA, police and administration have not only freed grabbed land from the clutches of over two dozen mafia and gangsters but also demolished the illegal structures in the city, trans Ganga and Yamuna areas. A senior cop said that after investigating and compiling documents that expose the wealth accumulated by gangsters and mafia done in Civil Lines, Mehdauri, Kareli, Khuldabad, Lukerganj, Andhawa Crossing road, Roshan Bagh, Kareli, Chakia, Jhalwa, the police have chalked out a plan to attach properties and demolish illegal structures besides initiating their confiscation under the Gangsters Act. He added that many illegal constructions by Atiq’s henchmen in Mehdauri and Bajupur were razed and government land freed. “Cops are taking concrete steps such as seizure, demolition and attachment of the properties,” said the police official. “There are more than a dozen gangsters, and mafias whose properties would be seized or illegal structures would be razed to the ground,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/colonies-and-parking-lot-on-lands-seized-from-gangsters-in-prayagraj/articleshow/79816875.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: No cultural events, night vigil at churches on Christmas||PATNA: Churches in the city have geared up for the Christmas celebrations amid Covid-19 pandemic. Several churches have decided to hold prayer services in different shifts. Cultural events, on the other hand, will not be held this year to maintain social distancing. Patna Archbishop William D’souza SJ has asked heads of all the churches to follow Covid protocols during Christmas celebrations. Decorations in churches will be limited this time and night vigil will not be held on Christmas-eve. Cultural events like carol singing and skit will also not take place. Fr Prem Prakash SJ, Vicar General of Patna Archdiocese, said he will conduct prayer services on Christmas-eve from 6pm to 8pm at St Joseph’s Pro-Cathedral Church in which only 150 devotees will be allowed. “On the day of Christmas, the prayer will be conducted in two shifts between 7am and 9am by the Patna Archbishop. The gates of the church will be shut after the prayers,” he said. “Devotees will not be allowed to light the candle on church premises after the completion of prayer service. The church will not be decorated with fairy lights and other decorative items like previous years. Baked cakes will not be served as a religious offering after the prayer service. Cultural events like carol singing and skit on Jesus Christ birth will also not be organised,” Fr Prakash SJ said. Wearing face masks would be compulsory for devotees. They will also have to undergo thermal screening before entering the churches. After each prayer service, the cathedral will be sanitised thoroughly. Queen of Apostles Church in Kurji, where thousands of devotees join the celebrations, has decided to conduct the prayer services in four shifts on December 25. No Christmas crib will be made this time. Fr Pius Prashant SJ, Parish Priest of church at Kurji, said no night vigil (11pm to 2am) will take place on Christmas- eve, while two prayers will be held in the morning and two in the evening on Christmas day. “Instead of one mass, we are going to have four Eucharistic celebrations. We have categorised the devotees area-wise and given the prayer slot to them. The number of people will be limited to 350 at each mass. One mass prayer will be kept for elderly people, who are healthy. After 9.30pm, the gates of the church will be closed,” he said, adding the decoration at the church will be limited time. We will use money to serve the poor.” At Padri Ki Haveli in Patna City too, the prayers will conducted in three shifts to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-cultural-events-night-vigil-at-churches-on-xmas/articleshow/79818044.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 20, 2020||Patna||PMC sets up 27 temporary night shelters for 400 homeless people||PATNA: As cold wave continues to sweep the city, more than 400 homeless poor have taken refuge at night shelters set up in different localities here. Altogether 27 night shelters, including five permanent ones, are now functional for homeless people in the district. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said people are provided woollen blankets, pillows, beds and mattresses at night shelters besides other basic facilities, such as drinking water and toilets. “The free-of-cost accommodation facilities for homeless people in the city have been made by the Patna Municipal Corporation. More such shelters will be set up at different areas if required,” the DM said. The district administration has also distributed blankets among people living along the roads or near bus stops and chowks in areas like Gandhi Maidan, Station Road, Exhibition Road, Bailey Road and Frazer Road. Arrangements for bonfires have also been made in different localities of the city. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma said five permanent night shelters have been set up near Patna Science College, Malahi Pakri, Gai Ghat, Saidpur and Mc’Dowell roundabout. “At these places, people can find accommodation to spend chilly nights. These shelters have facilities like television, water heater, toilets, drinking water, beds with blankets, pillows and mattresses. We are also providing meal to the occupants of night shelters twice a day. The accommodation and other services are free. However, one has to pay Rs 30 for meal,” he said. Himanshu said the temporary shelters have been set up near Gandhi Maidan, J P Golambar, Patna GPO, Meethapur and New Sachivalaya. “Temporary shelters have been put up at such locations where there are toilet and drinking water facilities. These are water-proof shelters. Bonfire facility has been introduced at 20 places, especially at chowks and roundabouts,” the PMC commissioner said. According to PMC sources, around 450 people have been accommodated at night shelters, including rickshaw-pullers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-sets-up-27-temporary-night-shelters-for-400-homeless-people/articleshow/79817756.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 20, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court seeks extensive guidelines for Magh Mela||PRAYAGRAJ: Expressing dissatisfaction over the measures taken by the state government to combat the menace of Covid-19 during the forthcoming Magh Mela in Prayagraj, the Allahabad high court has directed the state government to place before it comprehensive guidelines regarding precautions and measures which are being taken for the religious event. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “We are not satisfied with the guidelines which have been issued by the chief medical officer, Prayagraj. The court desires to have more comprehensive guidelines, which would ensure that people who enter the city of Prayagraj during the mela are in no manner going to bring in the infection of Covid-19.” The court further said, “It is necessary to point out that it would be going to be a herculean task for the district and police administration to differentiate between pilgrims coming to Magh Mela and ordinary people coming to the city from outside and, therefore, there is needed quite an intensive exercise to identify pilgrims coming for bathing not in identified Magh Mela area only but other banks of the rivers Ganga and Yamuna in the city.” Emphasizing on seriousness of the issue, the court further said, “Seeing the impact of Covid-19 pandemic, prima facie, we are of the opinion that unless the entire city is developed in a fort and entry into the city is absolutely banned in the month of Magh, except for those who are having “Negative RT-PCR” and then are again put to an Antigen testing at the very border of the city with further RT-PCR and complete tracking is followed, we cannot save the people of the city from getting infected by Covid-19.” “We must acknowledge the continuous effort of our district and police administration and other frontline corona warriors in bringing down positive cases and containing the spread of pandemic during last two months and so we cannot permit all these efforts to go waste by permitting entry and camping of thousands of people from outside in the city area during the month of Magh,” the court added. As per the direction of the court, the state government placed before the court the precautions and the measures which were being taken for the Magh Mela. Expressing dissatisfaction over these measures, the court said, “Upon the perusal of these guidelines, we find that mostly these are persuasive in nature and the Government has proceeded to frame guidelines only to apprise people who would be coming to Magh Mela to take up certain general safety precautions.” So far as the monitoring of schools, colleges etc., are concerned, the court said that the state is leaving no stones unturned to see that the infection does not spread in the schools. However, the court directed that the schools, colleges should be made to run with the most limited staff, students keeping in mind that pandemic Covid-19 is still around and vaccination is not in sight. The court directed to list this case on January 7, 2021 for the next hearing. The court passed this order on December 17 and it came to light on December 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-seeks-extensive-guidelines-for-magh-mela/articleshow/79816891.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 20, 2020||Patna||Court summons Patna DM and SSP in 21-year-old case||PATNA: A local court on Friday issued a show-cause notice to Patna DM and SSP, asking them to appear before it on January 18 to explain why no witness could be produced for deposition in a 21-year-old attempt to murder case. Trial in the case is still pending due to non-production of any of the nine witnesses. The court of ADJ-XVII Avinash Kumar-I passed the order while hearing the case on Friday. The court had earlier issued summons to witnesses also to appear before it. Bailable and non-bailable warrants were also issued against them. The court had even issued a show-cause notice to SHO of Kotwali police station on November 28 last year for non-production of the witnesses. However, the SHO had not submitted any reply to the court. The FIR in the attempt to murder case was lodged with Kotwali police station here on May 6, 2000 by one Manish Kumar Jha, who had alleged that his brother Prashant Kumar Jha and a neighbour, Rajendra Kumar Singh, were stabbed by some people when they tried to intervene to save a rickshaw puller who was being thrashed in front their residences. Manish had named Pappu Thakur, a native of Phulparas in Sitamarhi and Pappu Rai in the FIR. Police had submitted chargesheet in the case against both the named accused and one Rambali Rai on June 22, 2000. Charges against Rambali were dropped on August 30, 2012 after he died. However, trial could not be concluded even after two decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/court-summons-patna-dm-and-ssp-in-21-year-old-case/articleshow/79817798.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 20, 2020||Patna||Body of kidnapped youth found in drain||PATNA: Police recovered the body of a kidnapped 18-year-old boy from a drain near Karmalichak under the Bypass police station area in Patna late on Friday night. The youth was identified as Bobby Kumar, a resident of Morcha Road Chowk under the Chowk police station area in Patna City. SHO of Chowk police station Gaurishankar Gupta said Bobby’s father Dinesh Kumar Yadav had lodged an FIR on December 17, alleging that his son was kidnapped. “Two people had taken away Bobby from his house on December 13. The police were informed about the incident four days later. The youth’s body was recovered from a drain on Friday night,” Gupta said. The SHO said Bobby’s throat was slit. “The body was in a decomposed state. It seems he was killed on the same day when he was kidnapped,” he said, adding the victim’s father has named six people in the FIR. “Bobby had taken loan from one of the accused before lockdown. A fortnight back, the lender reached Dinesh’s home along with his accomplices and pressured Bobby to return the money. They had also threatened Bobby with dire consequences if he failed to return the money,” the SHO said, adding efforts were on to arrest the accused. Foreign-made cigarettes worth Rs1.2cr seized: A team of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) intercepted a container truck used for transporting cars in Muzaffarpur on Friday and seized 5.99 lakh sticks of three different brands of cigarettes manufactured in Myanmar, South Korea and China. The seized cigarettes are valued at over Rs 1.2 crore in Indian market. Sources said three cars were loaded in the container inside which the consignment was hidden. They said container truck’s driver and assistant driver were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/body-of-kidnapped-youth-found-in-drain/articleshow/79817963.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Vijay Diwas: It’s time to look East||It is time for nostalgia and revisiting the tales of sacrifice and valour as we celebrate the Golden Jubilee of the 1971 victory. December 16, celebrated as Vijay Diwas, heralded the beginning of Swarnim Vijay Varsha. The Silver Jubilee celebrations in 1996 were not only low key but also confined to the Eastern Command. It is heartening to see that we seem to be gathering the confidence to commemorate our wars and victories. This is indeed welcome because war memorials and museums in military stations were not even authorised. They were constructed surreptitiously in the garb of other listed works. In 2014, the government decided to commemorate the centenary of World War I to acknowledge the enormous contribution of Indian soldiers. Western Command organised an exhibition and other events at short notice at Manekshaw centre, New Delhi. The PM not only spent considerable time here but also nudged ministers, MPs and bureaucrats to attend, which led to increased footfall. We didn’t commemorate the 1965 operations even when Pakistan celebrated Youm-e-Difa (Defence day) on September 6. It is a double whammy that an aggressor celebrates the day as self-proclaimed, victorious defender, despite India having secured a definite upper edge. It was the peoples’ war with the iconic, “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” slogan, which is, ironically, in focus again. The year 1965 was a watershed marker. India jettisoned the ignominy of the 1962 debacle and pushed back better armed Pakistan, equipped by and allied with USA through SEATO. In 2015, Western Command anchored even bigger pan-Indian Golden Jubilee celebrations with major events in the capital and command. Once again, the PM spent more than two hours in the exhibition. Golden Jubilee commemoration of the 1971 war is likely to entail many events throughout the country, including the journey of the Victory Flame, in all cardinal directions and transits through Bangladesh. However, there are attendant challenges of keeping it Covid compliant. Assembly elections in West Bengal could create their own share of regional complications. The 14-day blitzkrieg in East Pakistan, named Operation Cactus-Lilly, is probably the most under-rated operation, despite being the catalyst for the birth of a new nation, Bangladesh. It also dealt a deadly blow to the two-nation theory and theological state, tenuously balancing two wings, physically (1,600 km) and culturally (linguistically) separated. The offensive in East Pakistan, initially planned with conservative and limited aims, panned out very differently. Besides imaginative operations by the Indian Armed Forces, rather timid capitulation by Gen Niazi and his forces made it one of the shortest wars, leading to surrender of 93,000 Pakistani POWs, the largest after 1945. Every commemoration, besides nostalgic recollections, should seek to validate and consolidate for the future. As we look ahead, the most obvious poser is - have we optimised, altered geo-political reality of Bangladesh replacing East Pakistan, as neighbour? It would be appropriate to recall that Pakistan initiated its diabolic dalliance with Naga insurgents in tango with China in Dec 1956, when Phizo escaped to East Pakistan and was provided transit to Europe. Safe sanctuaries and bases were available to groups like NSCN, ULFA and others, under hostile regimes of Ziaur Rehman, Gen Ershad and Begum Khaleda Zia, even after 1971. The scenario has changed in the friendly regime of Sheikh Hasina with exchange of enclaves and restoration of surface links. In the long term, answer to problems of residual flow in rivers, particularly during lean season, has to be found, with better basin management. Bangladesh, with resurgent economy, can be the key enabler in ‘Act East’ policy. Formalised transit and connectivities, should reduce reliance on Siliguri Corridor and build redundancies. Similar and enduring linkages, with longevity beyond odd friendly regime, are necessary to meaningfully operationalise ‘Neighbourhood First’ mission. The key objective or raison d’etre for the 1971 operation was liberation of Bangladesh, yet most of our discussion remains skewed in the Western theatre. Hence, folk lore is focused on Battles of Basantar, Chhamb, Laungewala and Chachro raid. When asked about war heroes, names readily recounted are PVC winners- Maj Hoshiar Singh, 2 Lt Arun Khetarpal and Flying officer Nirmaljit Sekhon. Discussion on Battles of Hilli, Jessore, Bogra and Gangasagar remains largely muted. Only very few mention Lance Naik Albert Ekka, fourth PVC. In recent official publications, Albert Ekka was shown to have fought in battle of Hilli, which was fought by five guards. Like Dograi and Basantar, Battle of Hilli needs to be part of folklore. Ekka’s unit, 14 Guards, earned honours in battle of Gangasagar (SE Bangladesh). Similarly, the exploits of Mukti Jodhas of Mukti Bahini should be chronicled and given due credit, as it was our first successful foray in hybrid war. The 1971 operations highlighted the utility of amphibious PT-76 light tanks and armoured cars, in challenging terrain. Though Pakistan disparagingly dubbed them as ‘Pippa (canister), yet PT-76 of 63 Cavalry raced to ultimate fortress in Dacca. Chinese equipment, including tanks, have proliferated in Bangladesh and Myanmar, even jointly produced in Pakistan and serviced by their contractors. It may be appropriate to incorporate neighbours in joint production of defence equipment and telecom infrastructure. It is high time that we take ownership of the resolute 1967 operations at Nathu La and Cho La. Currently, described as Battle Skirmish, it delivered a telling message to China that Indian Army has put 1962 behind them. We should recognise it as proper operation and award well-deserved battle honours to valiant units. Final poser, victory in Bangladesh was due to wonderful troops lead by commanders like FM Sam and Gen Sagat. Will our system, in future, allow such leaders to emerge? The writer is former Army Commander, Western Command||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vijay-diwas-its-time-to-look-east/articleshow/79818880.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||Widening of two Gaya roads to ease traffic: Civic body||GAYA: The ongoing work on widening of G B Road and K P Road, two of the busiest thoroughfares in Gaya town, is likely to ease traffic congestion and remove encroachments. According to Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) commissioner Sawan Kumar, the average width of G B Road from Peer Mansoor Mor to New Godown Mor will be 60 feet and that of K P Road from Tower Chowk to Kathokar Talab will be 90 feet. “Street lights will be installed on both the roads that house several business establishments,” Sawan told this newspaper on Saturday and added, “We have already written a letter to the electricity department for shifting the electric poles on the roadside.” Sources claimed that a sum of Rs 6 crore was being spent on the widening of the roads. Apart from this, drains are being constructed in different wards of the GMC to get rid of waterlogging under the Saat Nishchay scheme. “We are building drains from Anandi Ma Temple Mor to New Godown Mor at an estimated cost of Rs 18 lakh. Once the work is complete, there will be no waterlogging during the monsoon season,” councillor of ward 13, Rahul Kumar, said, adding that drains had been constructed on six other roads and high-mast lights installed at two places at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/widening-of-two-gaya-roads-to-ease-traffic-civic-body/articleshow/79818016.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||LNMU senate approves Rs 1,793cr deficit budget||DARBHANGA: The Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) senate, in its meeting held on Saturday under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor (VC) Surendra Pratap Singh, approved a deficit budget of 1,793 crore for the 2021-22 fiscal. Pro-VC Dolly Sinha said in her speech that the budget entails an expenditure of Rs 1,882 crore and an income of Rs 88 crore during the upcoming fiscal. Addressing the senate meeting, the VC said, “The NAAC accreditation ended in June this year. This university was awarded ‘B’ grade in earlier two cycles. The distance mode of education in the university has received a setback because for its continuation the university needs A+ grade. The UGC has withdrawn its affiliation with effect from 2020-21 session beginning from July last,” he said. The VC added, “My priority is to make the directorate of distance education alive by obtaining A+ grade from NAAC. Pandemic has hit the regular academic session here. The process for online admission in degree-1 has been initiated and within a fortnight 1.78 lakh students have applied for admission. The first merit list of 1.18 lakh students for admission following roster has already been released. From November, their online classes will also start. Admission to PG courses for 2020-22 has also been started.” Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, JD(U) MLA Binay Chaudhary and BJP MLA Murari Mohan Jha, who have been nominated for the senate, also attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lnmu-senate-approves-rs-1793cr-deficit-budget/articleshow/79818003.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
December 20, 2020||Shimla||RERA directs Himachal Pradesh builder to refund Rs 1.65 crore with interest||SHIMLA: The Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Himachal Pradesh, while deciding nine cases on merit, has directed the builder (respondent promoters) to refund Rs 1.65 crore with 7.3% interest at SBI-MCLR (highest marginal cost of lending rate) plus 2% as per rule 15 of the Himachal Pradesh Real Estate Regulation and Development Rules 2017. The order said that promoters are liable to pay 9.3% interest on the abovementioned amount of Rs 1.65 crore, approximately along with refund. The Authority has also imposed penalty worth Rs 21 lakh to be deposited in the RERA account for non-completion of obligation under the Act, to be paid in two months, failing which they have to pay a penalty of double the amount. The Authority further imposed penalty on promoters Rajdeep and Company Infra and Rajdeep Sharma the Promoters for not providing basic facilities like electricity and water connections and also taking charges from complainants without providing facilities worth Rs 18 lakh to be paid in a prescribed period of two to three months, failing which the amount of penalty and refund of extra maintenance charges worth above Rs 50 lakh will be paid by the defaulting promoters. Further, they have to pay interest at SBI-MCLR rate to complainants from the date of disconnection of their electricity and water connections till the date of restoration of these connections on the amount charged by them and the date of charging of extra maintenance charges from the complainants at the rate of 9.3%. According to an official spokesperson, RERA received 12 complaints from different complainants against Rajdeep and Company Infra, Rajdeep Sharma and Shakuntla Devi of Jakhar village of Rohru tehsil in Shimla district alleging that they booked flats in Claridge Residency project, Bharari in blocks A, B, C and D in the year 2014. The complainants said the total land of the project is 1,418 square metres and Rajdeep Sharma, owner of the project, had transferred the titles and interests in the land to Rajdeep and Company Infra Private Limited through the joint development agreement in May 2014. An official spokesperson said out of the 12 complaints received against the above promoters and developers, nine have been decided in favour of allottees and three are pending for hearing and order. He said five complainants had alleged that Rajdeep Sharma promoters along with others members of the family, grabbed their money amounting to around Rs 1.65 crore by booking of 2BHK/3BHK flats in Blocks C and D. They said promoters and the company concerned has not executed construction work in time or have delayed possession of the flat in the prescribed period. They also alleged that inspite of receiving their consideration amount for booking the flats, the property was sold to a third party. Other complainants alleged that they are living in the flats in Block A but Rajdeep and Company Infra Private Limited and Rajdeep Sharma have still not still provided them with domestic water and electricity connections in spite of repeated requests. The complainants said they are paying commercial rates for water and electricity connections. According to them, the builder has also received maintenance charges in lakhs from them without providing basic facilities of parking, electricity and water connections, club house building and gym etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/rera-directs-hp-builder-to-refund-rs-1-65-crore-with-interest/articleshow/79818870.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||As mercury dips, cold and flu cases rise 20% in Patna||PATNA: As the city shivers with the mercury plummeting to nearly 6 degrees C, common cold and flu virus is making its presence felt with almost 20% rise in the number of patients at the hospitals. Health experts have advised residents to take all precautions and cautioned that they expect such cases to increase further. The former superintendent of PMCH, Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, said every year in December and January the hospital witnesses at least 20% increase in the arrival of patients with cough and cold at the medicine department and even more patients in the paediatric department with cases of pneumonia in children. The current PMCH superintendent, Dr Bimal Karak, agreed and added that there were nearly 15 patients admitted at the hospital due to common cold and flu, while at least 10 people are coming every day at the OPD with such problems. Even private clinics were seeing 15 to 20% increase in the number of patients with cold-related problems. City-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejasvi said his clinic has seen a 20% increase in the number of patients suffering from cough, running nose, sore throat and mild fever. “There is also an increase in the number of patients with high blood pressure and cases of cerebrovascular accidents also increase as well as those of stroke,” Dr Diwakar added. Asked how one can differentiate between common cold symptoms and that of Covid-19, he said, “In case of Covid-19 there is dry cough and shortness of breath. Sore throat is common in both cases, but in Covid-19, there is more weakness. Also, loss of smell and taste is specific to Covid-19 and not generally in the case of flu.” He said doctors in the city were getting Covid-19 tests done. “We do not want to take a risk, and since a free test is available, we ask people to get tested. A young person with Covid-19 may not be much symptomatic, but he may pass on the virus to elderly people in his family.” Expecting the weather to be colder in the coming days, doctors advised people to take all precautions, including wearing warm clothes and avoiding exposure to the cold as much as possible. IGIMS neuro medicine department head Dr Ashok Kumar said since people avoid walking in this weather and sleep more, blood flow decreases. “Long sleep increases chances of a blood clot,” said Dr Ashok. Doctors cautioned not to go for a morning walk in the chilly winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-mercury-dips-cold-and-flu-cases-rise-20-in-patna/articleshow/79817737.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 20, 2020||Patna||Patna: 266 CNLU students to get degrees tomorrow||PATNA: Altogether 266 students and a PhD scholar of Chanakya National Law University (CNLU) will be awarded degrees at a virtual convocation on Monday. Supreme Court Justice D Y Chandrachud will be the chief guest of the event that will be presided over by Patna high court chief justice Sanjay Karol. According to CNLU vice-chancellor Mridula Mishra, the toppers of different batches will receive gold medals at the convocation which will begin at 3.50pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/266-cnlu-students-to-get-degrees-tomorrow/articleshow/79817992.cms||B K Mishra
December 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gold worth Rs 1.5 crore seized||PATNA: Gold smugglers appear to be using the state as a transit point for bringing in the yellow metal into the country from Myanmar. With the seizure of six gold bars worth Rs.1.56 crore from a hotel in Muzaffarpur on Friday, the cache of smuggled gold seized in the past six months has gone up to Rs 7.5 crore. On Friday, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials seized six gold bars weighing 3 kg valued and arrested two smugglers from a hotel at Bairia Chowk in Muzaffarpur town. The smugglers were at the hotel since December 16 and were to leave for New Delhi by a private bus from where they were supposed to go to Bikaner in Rajasthan to deliver the consignment. They had booked their seats in the Delhi-bound bus from Muzaffarpur. DRI officials at the Muzaffarpur regional office revealed that the smugglers got the consignment from Guwahati in Assam. “The smugglers had concealed the gold bars in waist belts and travelled from Guwahati to Muzaffarpur,” a senior DRI officer said. The officer pointed out that the smugglers of yellow metal mostly preferred to travel by trains from the northeast, but this time decided to go by bus due to operations carried out by the DRI in Patna. On December 6, DRI officials seized 26 gold bars weighing 4 kg worth Rs. 2.25 crore. One person was arrested from the Debrugarh-Delhi special train at Patna junction. The arrested person stated to be a resident of Sangli district in Maharashtra failed to provide any valid documents for the gold bars recovered from his possession. During interrogation, the arrested smuggler revealed that the seized gold bars were smuggled from Myanmar into India through the border in Manipur. “I am carrying the same consignment,” a DRI official quoted the arrested smuggler as saying. A day earlier, officials had seized 12 gold bars weighing 5 kg worth Rs.2.65 from a Delhi-bound train at Patliputra railway station. Two people were also arrested. Top officials of the agency claimed that two more smugglers were earlier arrested in Muzaffarpur after they arrived by a bus from Guwahati via Siliguri. Altogether 24 gold bars were recovered from their possession. According to authoritative sources, the operation against smuggling of gold of foreign origin has been intensified after intelligence inputs suggested that smuggling of gold from Myanmar through the northeastern states have increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gold-worth-rs-1-5-crore-seized/articleshow/79817761.cms||Ramashankar
December 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD meeting to review poll performance today||PATNA: The RJD will hold a meeting on Sunday to review its performance in the recently concluded assembly elections in the state and discuss the farm laws enacted by the Centre. It is the first time after elections that all the party contestants, district presidents and secretary generals will attend a meeting together. “The meeting, to be held at the RJD office here, will be presided by party’s state president Jagdanand Singh. Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will also attend the meeting,” RJD state general secretary Alok Mehta said. Party’s spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said state committee members would also attend the meeting. Asked whether the decision to hold the meeting was taken after Tejashwi’s meeting with RJD chief Lalu Prasad, Gagan said, “This meeting was scheduled long time back.” Former state minister Shyam Rajak said at least 250 party functionaries would attend the meeting in which the recently enacted farm laws will also be discussed. “The central and state governments are trying to fool people. We will discuss how to take the right information about the farm laws to people,” Rajak said. Asked about the statement of party’s national vice-president Shivanand Tirawi on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Rajak said, “Shivanand Tiwariji has not said anything wrong. He is a socialist leader and has given a piece of advice to Congress. It is up to Congress to accept or reject his suggestion.” However, state Congress leaders reacted sharply to Tiwari’s comments on Rahul. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said Lalu is in jail because of Shivanand. “He now wants to destroy the political career of Tejashwi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-meeting-to-review-poll-performance-today/articleshow/79817971.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 20, 2020||Patna||Four booked for gang rape in Patna||PATNA: Police on Friday booked four people for allegedly raping a 36-year-old woman at a village under the Maner police station area in Patna district on December 2. SHO (incharge) of Maner police station Mukul Kumar on Saturday said the woman told police that the incident occurred when she was going to a field to relieve herself. “The woman alleged that four people of her village forcibly took her to a secluded place behind a government school and took turns to rape her. Three of the accused were known to her,” the SHO said, adding police have registered an FIR against Rajesh Kumar, Nirala Kumar, Abhishek Rai and one unknown person in connection with the incident. However, all are evading arrest. “All the accused have fled the village. Raids are on to arrest them. The woman’s statement was recorded in the court of judicial magistrate,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-booked-for-gang-rape/articleshow/79817746.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||Covid ward at railway hospital now a 30-bed facility||PATNA: The isolation ward for Covid patients at the central superspecialty hospital (CSSH) of the East Central Railway (ECR) at the Karbigahiya end of Patna Junction was recently upgraded to a 30-bed facility. The CSSH treats Covid-19 patients at level 1 and 2 stages. The level 3 patients are referred to NMCH and AIIMS-Patna for further treatment. CSSH medical director Dr R K Verma said the superspecialty hospital, the fourth one of the Indian Railways, has increased its indoor capacity to 200 beds with 12 well-equipped departments, including urology, cardiology, nephrology and neurology. While two floors of the hospital are being used for superspecialty treatment, the other two floors are functioning as central hospital wing of the ECR. The hospital has the strength of 39 doctors and 250 paramedical staff. Dr Verma, who joined the hospital recently as medical director, said he would try his best to ensure availability of medicines at CSSH. He said on an average 900 patients, including retired railway employees, visit the hospital daily either for consultation or treatment. “Though the annual budget on medicines is Rs 7 crore, I will ensure that there is no paucity of medicines at the hospital. Latest medical equipment will also be procured for advanced treatment of patients,” the MD said. Keeping in view sudden increase in footfall of indoor patients, the hospital has set up five modular operation theatres (OTs). Laparoscopic surgery has also been started at the hospital while the ICCU has been upgraded to a 20-bed facility, the MD said, adding four dialysis units have also been made functional at the hospital. The superspecialty hospital, which runs its emergency cell 24x7, also has the facility for joint knee replacement surgery and it has improved its infrastructure in the paediatric, dental, ENT and gynaecology departments as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-ward-at-railway-hospital-now-a-30-bed-facility/articleshow/79818178.cms||Kumod Verma
December 20, 2020||Allahabad||VHP’s fund collection drive for Ram temple from January 15||PRAYAGRAJ: Seers, saints and volunteers of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) will reach out to 12 crore Hindu families in five lakh villages across the country between Makar Sankranti (January 15, 2021) and Maghi Purnima (February 27) to urge public participation in the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya and collection of funds for it. VHP volunteers will meet the President, Vice President and Prime Minister on January 15, 2021 marking the launch of the campaign. The campaign also aims to connect people with Ram temple and to brief youngsters about the history of Ram Janmabhoomi struggle. VHP organised its first Sant Sammelan at Keshar Bhawan on Saturday to chalk out strategy for collection of funds for Ram temple construction. VHP’s kendriya sant sampark pramukh Ashok Tiwari said, “The trust has decided to hold a “Samarpan Abhiyan” between January 15 and February 27, 2021 under the guidance of saints and seers and will reach out to maximum Hindus.” “We will reach out to over 12 crore families in more than five lakh villages. The campaign is not only for collection of funds but seek people’s ‘samarpan’ (dedication) and ‘sahbhaagita’ (participation) in the construction of the temple. Whatever people contribute would be acceptable,” he said. Speaking about the temple at Sant Sammelan, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai said, “Yeh concrete ka mandir nahin banega, yeh pattharon se banaya jaayega (Ram temple will not be concrete structure, but will be built of stones).” Top experts have been involved for advice on the construction, he added. “The temple will be built in three years. Each and every stone of the temple will be alluring and will add to the pride of Hindus. Many people laid down their lives for the Ram temple,” he said. “VHP volunteers will meet the President, Vice President and Prime Minister on January 15, 2021 marking the launch of the samarpan campaign,” Rai added. Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) chief Swami Narendra Giri said “Akhara parishad will also be reaching out to people.” VHP leaders said coupons have been printed for collection of funds and complete transparency will be maintained in the exercise. Saints and seers who arrived from different parts of the state said they would also reach out to people for collection of funds for the construction of a grand Ram temple. The second Sant Sammelan will be held in Varanasi on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vhps-fund-collection-drive-for-ram-temple-from-jan-15/articleshow/79816882.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||Nature safari at Rajgir to be ready by March: Nitish||BIHARSHARIF: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday said the nature safari at Rajgir, comprising a magnificent glass bridge, would be made ready by March next year. Talking to reporters at Rajgir after inspecting the upcoming nature safari, Nitish described it as an “excellent piece of work”. “I have been taking care of Rajgir’s development since 2009. Apart from its climatic advantages, the place is also associated with Lord Buddha and Lord Mahavira. I inspected the zoo safari a few days ago and suggested officials to link it with the nature safari in the adjacent hills and the open areas. The officials told me that the nature safari will be spread over the earmarked forest area. Hence, I have come here to see the progress of the project,” Nitish said. The CM said he has asked the officials concerned, including chief secretary, to ensure safety and security of the visitors who will visit the nature safari in large numbers once it is ready. “The nature safari will be a big attraction for children and youth as they will be able to know more about nature. Arrangements should be made for their safety as well. Police personnel should be deputed in sufficient number round-the-clock,” the CM said. He added technical experts should also be deputed near the glass bridge. “It will be protected from all four directions so that no notorious element could do any mischief,” Nitish said. The CM also spoke on the awareness being spread about environment conservation through the ambitious ‘Jal Jivan Hariyali’ mission of the state government. “Works are being done for water conservation and agriculture according to climatic changes. Use of solar energy is being promoted in the state for conservation of environment,” he said. Nitish also talked about the ambitious project to bring Ganga water to Rajgir. “Once the Ganga Udhav Yojna is implemented, the Ganga water will be available to everyone. Once the Ganga water is made available here, there would be restriction on the use of groundwater as the water table in the area has been disturbed. Thus, this project will also address the issue of depletion of groundwater level,” the CM said. The CM had earlier visited Rajgir on December 1 and asked the officials concerned to ensure that the new ropeway becomes functional by January next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nature-safari-at-rajgir-to-be-ready-by-march-nitish/articleshow/79817897.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 20, 2020||Patna||712 more test positive for coronavirus in state||PATNA: Altogether 712 fresh cases of Covid-19 were registered in Bihar on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,46,645. Besides, six deaths — four from Patna and one each from Rohtas and Jehanabad — were reported after which the state’s toll reached 1,347. During the same period, as many as 793 patients also recovered from corona. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported three deaths, including those of an 89-year-old man from Magistrate Colony in Patna, a 54-year-old woman from Dhankaul in Sheohar and a 65-year-old from Bhagalpur. “Altogether 10 patients were admitted to the hospital and 11 discharged,” AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI on Saturday. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, where two Covid positive people were admitted on Saturday, reported the death of a 79-year-old man from Biscomaun Colony. No patient was discharged from the hospital. According to the figures of the health department, Patna accounted for 288 of the 712 new cases on Saturday. Although the district’s tally reached 46,359, it has 1,926 active cases with 44,077 recoveries and 356 deaths. Covid cases were also reported from districts like Saran (39), Nawada (35), Muzaffarpur (30), Madhubani (25), Jehanabad (24), Bhagalpur (22), Siwan (18), Bhojpur (15), Sitamarhi (15) and Kishanganj (13). Meanwhile, a tweet by health minister Mangal Pandey stated that the state’s recovery rate had reached 97.44%. In the last 24 hours, 1,21,534 samples were tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/712-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-state/articleshow/79818088.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 20, 2020||Allahabad||Find out criminal history before granting bail: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has directed all the courts of the state to take up the issue of criminal antecedent(s) (criminal history) of accused persons while deciding their bail applications and also give a complete detail of the criminal antecedent, if any, of the applicant accused before them or record the fact that there are no criminal antecedent(s) of the said person if there is none. The court took a serious note when an accused applicant, Udai Pratap alias Dau, of Firozabad claimed in his bail application filed before the high court that he has no criminal history but the state counsel, on the basis of information received from the police authorities, disclosed that the applicant is involved in seven other criminal cases. Rejecting the bail application of Udai Pratap alias Dau, who is an accused of kidnapping and murder, Justice Samit Gopal observed, “The order rejecting bail by the courts below is silent about the criminal antecedents of the applicant/accused but on the basis of instructions of additional government advocate (AGA) of this court or on the basis of instruction of counsels for the first informant (who has lodged FIR), it transpires that the applicant/accused has previous criminal history.” “When the counsels, appearing for applicants, are countered with the same, it becomes embarrassing for them and is also an impediment in deciding the bail application due to the non-disclosure of the criminal history of the accused.” Emphasizing the requirement of criminal history of the accused applicant while deciding each bail application filed before the high court, the court said, “Although the criminal antecedents of the accused are not the sole and decisive factor for decision of bail applications but the same needs to be considered while deciding an application for bail under Section 439 Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) as per the legislative mandate of Section 437 CrPC, which provides grounds as to when a person will be released on bail in case of a non-bailable offences.” The court directed the high court’s registrar General to communicate this order to all the district and sessions judges of the state who shall ensure the immediate implementation of this order by the courts in their jurisdiction. The court also directed the registrar general to ensure compliance of this order in its true spirit and submit a report of compliance before this court by January 29, 2021. The court directed to list this case on January 29, 2021 for further orders. The court passed these directives on December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/take-up-applicants-criminal-history-before-granting-bail-hc-tells-courts/articleshow/79816893.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 20, 2020||Kanpur||Muslim man held for posing as Hindu to marry girl in UP's Kannauj||KANPUR: A Muslim man was arrested in Kannauj on Saturday for allegedly concealing his religious identity and posing as Hindu and fraudulently marrying a local Hindu girl. Kannauj Police registered a case against the man under the new UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020. On Friday, the girl’s father had lodged a complaint at Gursahaiganj Kotwali police station against the man for concealing his religious identity and fraudulently marrying his daughter, alleging it to be a case of ‘Love Jihad’. In his complaint, the girl’s father, who runs a tailoring shop in Kannauj, said a Muslim man, identified as Taufeeq, had befriended his daughter, a teacher, on internet using fake Hindu name Rahul Verma and claiming to be from Lucknow about two years ago. “Later, on the insistence of his daughter, he had fixed her marriage with the man. He even got his wedding invitation printed with fake name Rahul Verma and the marriage was solemnised on December 10 in Lucknow as per Hindu rituals. Only the family members of the girl side were present in the wedding. When the girl’s family enquired about his family members, he said he was not on good terms with them and hence hadn’t invited them,” said a police official privy to the investigations. “The fraud came to light when he shared his marital status on the internet and a relative posted greetings asking when his ‘nikah’ ceremony was held,” he added. The girl’s father then lodged a written complaint at Gursahaiganj Kotwali police station. “We initiated an investigation on the complaint. A police team swung into action and brought him for questioning, during which he revealed his true identity as Tauseef. The charges against the accused were found to be true so we booked him under the anti-conversion law and arrested him. He will be sent to jail,” said inspector Kotwali Raja Dinesh Singh. On Friday, a group of BJP leaders and activists had gone to the Kotwali police station and staged a protest demanding swift action and arrest of the accused. Police officials gave them an assurance that an inquiry would be conducted into the matter. BJP district vice-president Jeetu Tiwari said, “This is a clear case of love jihad. We had protested at Kotwali police station in this regard on Friday. Muslim youths are brainwashing Hindu girls and converting them.” Under the new law, a man and woman from different religions have to give two months’ notice to the district magistrate before they get married and will be given permission if there are no objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/muslim-man-held-for-posing-ashindu-to-marry-girl-in-kannauj/articleshow/79818690.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||‘War of ’67 gave impetus to Army’||Chandigarh: The second day of Military Literature Festival 2020 kicked off with a discussion on the book ‘Watershed 1967: India’s Forgotten Victory Over China’ by Probal Dasgupta. Former Army officers Lt Gen N S Brar, Lt Gen K J Singh and Lt Gen J S Cheema alongwith Dasgupta discussed the book and the session was moderated by Lt Gen Brar. Lt Gen K J Singh, who commanded the corps at Sikkim which was the place of the battles in 1967, spoke of the nuances around these battles and the area. He elucidated how the Chumbi valley presented a similar vulnerability to the Chinese, like the narrow Siliguri corridor posed to India. He brought up the senior leadership’s perplexing decision in 1965 to withdraw from Jelep La, which gave Chinese the psychological edge (despite India now occupying the heights around the pass) and highlighted the need for a deeper analysis of that decision to withdraw. Probal spoke about the purpose of writing the book during Doklam 2017, when he realised that much of the ongoing discourse in India’s public domain was fixated around India’s 1962 debacle against China. It struck him as odd that India’s victory of 1967 over an arch rival had been buried and forgotten. The author spoke about the China-Pakistan nexus in 1965, which also forms the beginning of the book. The author spoke about the involvement of the CIA in Delhi and a thinktank in Arlington, Virginia, which knew of a Sino-Pakistani plan involving the capture of Kashmir alongside making inroads into Sikkim to force India to a defensive negotiating position and seize Kashmir in exchange for giving back Sikkim (then a protectorate state). Lt Gen Cheema spoke about the happenings in the aftermath of 1967, wherein geopolitical events, more than the battles of 1967, ensured that China didn’t interfere with India’s campaign in Bangladesh. However, he felt, the victories of 1967 had swung the psychological advantage in India’s favour and also felt that the book rightly brought out the parallels between India’s actions in 1967 and similar boldness during the Sumdoring Chu standoff with China in 1987. Lt Gen Cheema also felt that such alacrity and confidence were in view during the 2017 Doklam crisis as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/war-of-67-gave-impetus-to-army/articleshow/79818907.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vadodara||Seven middlemen booked for forging certificates for health benefits||Vadodara: Seven middlemen were booked on Saturday for forging income certificates of 35 persons to help them get benefits of Mukhyamantri Amrutam Vatsalya (MAV) scheme.Detection of crime branch (DCB) lodged an offence against the seven persons identified as Manish, Manoj Soni, Patel, Naresh, Jitu, Pravin and Satish after conducting a preliminary investigation for over a month. Police said that suspicion about forgery started when district project coordinator of health department visited the Sudamapuri urban health centre on Ajwa Road.While going through records of the beneficiaries of MAV scheme, project coordinator Chirag Patel found income certificates of 35 beneficiaries to be forged. On verifying with the deputy executive magistrate, it was confirmed that the certificates were fakes and not issued by any government authority. The 35 beneficiaries received benefits based on the fake certificates.The district health officer then wrote to the police commissioner to initiate an investigation and register an offence in the case. DCB sleuths contacted all the 35 beneficiaries and learnt that the middlemen had procured the income certificates for all of them as well as processed the papers for the scheme in return of payment.“We do not have many details about the middlemen, but we have their contact numbers. Using our technical sources we will arrest them,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-middlemen-booked-for-forging-certificates-for-health-benefits/articleshow/79817342.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||SDM sacks driver over post against deputy CM Dushyant Chautala||HISAR: Hansi SDM sacked Pannalal, a driver appointed under the outsourcing policy in Hansi tehsil, for uploading a post on social media against deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. The SDM said any employee could not do this according to service rules. In an order, SDM Jitendra Ahlawat wrote that he received a WhatsApp message on December 11 in which driver Pannalal had written a post against Chautala. He described this as a serious offence and against the rules. In the order, he also wrote that Pannalal was released from office with immediate effect after he was indicted in the preliminary inquiry. The SDM has also sent a copy of the order to Hisar DC, Hansi tehsildar, Pannalal and nazar branch. Ahlawat, when contacted about the matter, confirmed the dismissal. Sarvendra Yadav, the district president of Sarva Karmachari Sangh (SKS), said the Hansi administration’s decision to sack the driver without conducting an inquiry was wrong. “If the driver approaches us, we will fight for him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sdm-scaks-driver-over-post-against-dushyant/articleshow/79818905.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||RTI: Of 15, only one developer extracting groundwater legally||CHANDIGARH: In what appears to be an eye opener for the Central Ground Water Board (CGWD) and Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), only one out of 15 licenced builders of Panipat is drawing water with due permission from authorities. The remaining 14 projects are drawing water without permission. This came to light after a local resident sought details from the HSPCB and called for action against defaulters. “In fact, we had sought the details under various heads. As of now, we have only got details of developers. We have sought action against them,” said Amit Rathee, an activist. The Pollution Control Board has forwarded the list of such defaulting licencees to CGWD and has asked all regional officers of the Board to provide details of industries, entrepreneurs and developers extracting ground water. S Narayanan, member secretary of the board admitted the report submitted by Panipat and Board’s move about preventing illegal extraction of water, especially in dark zones of the state. “Though we have got the report of Panipat, we have sought details from across the state. We don’t have direct power as the power to give permission lies either with CGWB or the local administration. We normally act on the directions of NGT or the Central Pollution Control Board but now, we have sought details of all districts. At the same time, details of Panipat have been forwarded to the Town and Country Planning Department as well as CGWB for further action,’’ said Narayanan. He added that they generally monitor activities in Gurgaon district where water extraction activities are being watched. According to information, besides monitoring Gurgaon, the Board is also monitoring activities of packed water units found to be functioning in violation of the Water Act or without permission. “We had closed down such units in the past and this is an ongoing exercise,’’ said the member secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rti-of-15-only-one-developer-extracting-groundwater-legally/articleshow/79818895.cms||Manvir Saini
December 20, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Admin to track visitors’ health via Covid Care Cards||PRAYAGRAJ: Seers and kalpwasis camping on Magh Mela ground will be given special Covid Care Cards (CCC) which will help authorities track the status of their health. Magh Mela will be organised in Prayagraj between January 14 and March 11. The health department will distribute around a lakh Covid care cards during the Magh Mela. Each individual/organisation camping on the Mela ground will be allotted a CCC. The card will display details like the name of the individual or the name of the organisation they represent, permanent address, temporary address, name of the head of the organisation, mobile number, date of arrival on the Magh Mela ground, status of Covid report of the past three days, pre-existing medical conditions and details of Covid testing. Nodal officer and additional CMO Dr Rishi Sahai said, “A Covid care card will be allotted to individuals and organisations who would be staying on the Magh Mela ground. Surveillance teams would be conducting tests in six different phases between January 16 and February 28.” The six phases would be from January 15-22, January 23-30, February 1-7,February 8-15, February 16-23 and February 24-28. “Apart from deploying thermal scanning teams at 15 entry points of the venue, we would also administer three doses of Ivermectin to the devotees. An adequate number of health surveillance teams would also be deployed in all five sectors of the venue. Plus, 20 mobile testing vans would also be roped in for testing,” Sahai said. Devotees’ camps would be sanitized at regular intervals and health department officials would be interacting with seers, kalpwasis and other officials on duty at frequent intervals to inquire about their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/admin-to-track-visitors-health-via-covid-care-cards/articleshow/79816905.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur : GM, NER inaugurates steam loco cutout||GORAKHPUR: NE railway GM, Vinay Kumar Tripathi inspected mechanical workshop in Gorakhpur and inaugurated Steam Loco Cutout and also inspected 3-D model of mechanical workshop on Saturday. He also inaugurated the Hydraulic Shock Absorber testing machine and inspected wheel machine. He gave instructions of quality maintenance. The GM also inaugurated BIMS software, computerized DB bench and re-constructed AC staff canteen. GM Tripathi also planted sapling in the administrative building campus after meeting with officials. GM stressed on quality of work and said, “We have so much resource at the workshop that we could make anything and while increasing output, quality should be maintained.” GM also announced a group award of Rs 50 thousand for good maintenance of the workshop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gm-ner-inaugurates-steam-loco-cutout/articleshow/79818632.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Change tack to solve China issue’||Chandigarh: In view of the military manoeuvres and challenge posed by China, security and foreign experts on Saturday suggested that India adopt a more aggressive approach to forge issue-based geo-strategic multilateral partnerships like QUAD. During a panel discussion, “The Quad: The emerging Indo-Pacific naval alliance” on the second day of the virtual military literature festival, noted defence commentator and director, Institute of South Asian Studies, National University of Singapore Prof C Raja Mohan said Delhi must not let academic debates about alliances cloud its judgement on the extraordinary economic and security challenges it faced. “India faces growing threats and needs more partnerships than it has ever needed before globally,” Raja Mohan said while pointing out India’s traditional reluctance to be an active QUAD partner due to fear of being perceived as taking a side. Moderating the discussion, former Navy Chief Admiral Sunil Lanba (retd) expounded on the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad as a club of four nations comprising India, US, Japan and Australia, which was mooted by then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in 2007. Forged in the wake of coordination between these four democracies during the 2004 tsunami, the ambitious grouping went into limbo owing to Australia’s reluctance to antagonise China. It’s prominence in 2017 has been a response to China’s assertiveness in the region. Career diplomat and former ambassador Shyam Saran, who was the foreign secretary in 2004, when the tsunami struck Indian shores, recalled the great acknowledgement India received from foreign nations for swift action by the naval forces. Elaborating on the reason for QUAD’s retreat into limbo after 2007, Saran said the US wanted to play down the group’s significance because it did not want to lose out on China and Russia’s support for pushing the Iran Nuclear Deal. Marking reasons for the revival of QUAD, he said the challenge posed by assertive China to India and other countries, including Japan and Australia as the immediate trigger. Maintaining that QUAD is not just a naval alliance, Vice-Admiral Pradeep Chauhan said China considers India one of its targets of military assertion, a challenge our establishment has so far not been familiar and comfortable in dealing with. “We need to have a nimble asymmetric strategy and must manoeuvre our strengths to the best of our capabilities in thwarting China,” he said. Pointing out that China has been weaponising its economic prominence to saddle other countries, he added that India cannot be choosy while entering into alliances, while referring to the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). He said India’s decision to stay out of RCEP is not in line with its ambitions to match geo-strategic goals. “We need bold steps across the board to counter rising China,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/change-tack-to-solve-china-issue/articleshow/79818925.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Nation must prioritise its needs’||Chandigarh: A panel discussion on “Self-reliance towards defence preparedness” was held on the second day of the Military Literature Festival 2020. Panellists included Brig Suresh Gangadharan, Rajeev Chandrashekhar MP and Harpal Singh from the corporate sector. Experts observed that India is one of the largest buyers of defence equipment in the world, which is in sharp contrast with the ‘Make in India’ policy being promoted currently. Moderator M V Kotwal said there is no wisdom in making every piece of technology indigenously but the nation must prioritise what is strategically important to be developed and focus on its development. Brig Suresh Gangadharan advocated standardisation and scalability of the defence inventory. He also suggested integration of military, R&D, academia and industry. Harpal Singh spoke about citizens’ perspective of national security, their concerns as to whether the defence ecosystem is oiled enough to independently develop weapons or if we are still dependent on others for our defence. One of the panellists, Vishnu Som said that in last 10 years or so, the country had made remarkable strides in the process of defence manufacturing. “We can build and design world class, state of art missiles but our indigenous manufacturing faces an image crisis leading to deniability and thereby importing weapons is preferred. This needs to be addressed along with the provision of sufficient finances for the projects, since domestic weapons won’t come cheap unless the scale of manufacture is humongous,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nation-must-prioritise-its-needs/articleshow/79818929.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Vadodara||Covid cases cross 20K mark in Vadodara, death toll at 233||Vadodara: With 102 fresh cases recorded in the evening, Covid-19 cases in Vadodara city and district on Saturday crossed the 20,000 mark on Saturday. With this, the total number of positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic has reached 20,093. The 102 positive cases were results of 3,880 samples that were tested since Friday, while the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) declared one more death due to Covid-19 pushing the official toll from Covid to 233. As per VMC’s bulletin, currently there are 1,343 active cases in Vadodara of which condition of 1,127 is said to be stable. While 157 patients are being treated with oxygen support, 59 others are on ventilator or BI-PAP. On Saturday, 96 patients, a majority of whom were in home isolation, were discharged taking the total number of discharges to 18,517. Currently, there are 3,388 individuals who are under home quarantine. It is worth mentioning here that of the total 20,093 cases on official record, 6,205 are from Vadodara rural while the rest are from the four zones of VMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-cases-cross-20k-mark-in-vadodara-death-toll-at-233/articleshow/79817355.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||App loan: Harassed youth seeks Telangana cop help||HYDERABAD: Close on the heels of two people ending their lives in Telangana due to alleged harassment by mobile app-based private financiers, a 23-year-old man approached the Jangaon police on Saturday with a similar complaint. An agriculture extension officer from Siddipet and a software engineer from Rajendranagar had recently ended their lives after being defamed by mobile loan apps. Jangaon police have started an investigation based on the complaint lodged by the victim, who said he was getting abusive telephone calls repeatedly and was being harassed. The youth, a resident of Gondlagadda in Jangaon, had worked as a supervisor in a store in Hyderabad. He had taken a loan from a loan app, but complained to police that though he repaid it, he was being harassed to pay up more. Jangaon circle inspector D Mallesh cautioned people against taking money from loan apps as they were getting complaints that the apps were demanding three or four times more of the amount taken as loan. This 23-year-old man too had taken a small amount as loan. However, to repay it, he reportedly took loans from 15 different apps to be able to clear what he had earlier borrowed. Sub-inspector Ch Ravi Kumar told TOI that they had begun investigation based on the complaint given by the victim. Police are now out to trace from where the calls were being made to the victim. It is learnt that one of the numbers is from Maharashtra. A case has been booked under relevant section of IT Act and IPC. The mobile loan app could also access the contacts of the victim, whose friends and family members have also been reportedly getting abusive calls, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/app-loan-harassed-youth-seeks-cop-help/articleshow/79818931.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 20, 2020||Shimla||Rare Himalayan musk deer seen in Lahaul||Manali: After snow leopards, the rare Himalayan musk deer seems to have found a safe habitat in the cold, barren landscape of Lahaul-Spiti district in Himachal Pradesh, where the endangered animal is believed to be breeding safely and thriving. Residents of Lahaul have been claiming of spotting the elusive animal for long, but there are few photographic evidences. A person had captured the Himalayan musk deer in Miyar valley of Lahaul in 2018. Now, a photographer from Rashil village of Lahaul has captured a large number of photos and HD videos of the endangered deer in Lahaul valley in last few days. The photographer, Inder Jeet Bhanoo, claims he has been watching the animal every year in winter. Bhanu said he is not sure if he watched the same deer every year. “This time, I was ready with my camera. I captured many photos and videos in last three days. I saw it last on Tuesday. The animal descends to lower areas every year in winter in search of leaves when everything is covered with snow. Generally, it comes close to Lahaul villages in search of apple leaves. Dry apple leaves below the trees are covered with snow. I could capture the video showing how it removes snow to reach the leaves,” he said. Himalayan musk deer, which is found in the Himalayas above 2,500 metres in parts of India, China, Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan, is a victim of poaching and the species has reached close to extinction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/rare-himalayan-musk-deer-seen-in-lahaul/articleshow/79818930.cms||Suresh Sharma
December 20, 2020||India||India’s Covid-19 toll falling but Tamil Nadu & Kerala buck the trend||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 death count may be coming down across states but there are still two exceptions in Kerala and Tamil Nadu where the toll continues to rise though not as sharply as earlier. Measured over two successive fortnights — November 22-December 5 and December 5-18 — Kerala’s deaths from the novel coronavirus show an uptick from 341 to 367. In Tamil Nadu, the casualties have increased from 172 to 177 during the two 14-day periods examined by TOI. The disease has decelerated but a downturn is awaited in these states. However, across India the death counts have declined by at least 22% during this period. The total nationwide deaths due to Covid declined from 6,447 (during Nov 22-Dec 5) to 4,951 (Dec 5-18). Delhi, in the last one month has managed to bring down casualties by more than 45%. Its coronavirus related deaths have dropped from 1,183 to 645 during the two fortnights. Maharashtra, too, has brought down Covid deaths from 1,071 to 880 during the last two fortnights. Maharashtra and Delhi, followed by West Bengal, Kerala and Punjab, are among the top five states reporting highest Covid related casualties in the last 14 days. Maharashtra has reported 48,574 deaths till December 18, the highest by any state, as against the total deaths of 1.45 lakh across India. Despite a high case load, Andhra Pradesh has managed to bring down casualties to a low of 46 in the last 14 days as compared to 86 in the previous fortnight. Similarly, Odisha has brought down its Covid casualties from 125 (during Nov 22-Dec 5) to 64 and Bihar from 71 to 49. At 104, India has one of the lowest Covid casualties per million population while that of the US is 967 and more than 1,100 in Italy and Spain. Most of the European countries, including France, have around 1,000 Covid deaths per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-19-toll-falling-but-tamil-nadu-kerala-buck-the-trend/articleshow/79819805.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand has the potential to become an education hub: Sisodia||Dehradun: On the second day of his second trip to Uttarakhand within a month, Manish Sisodia, Aam Aadmi Party leader and deputy chief minister of Delhi, said that the state has potential to become an education hub. Speaking during an event organised by a Dehradun-based NGO, he said, “I appeal to all the state’s teachers, educationists present here to take Uttarakhand’s education level at par with the best institutions in the globe. Uttarakhand has the capability to become an education hub where students from developed western nations can come for studies. However, a lot needs to be done for the same,” When asked regarding the challenges due to hilly terrain, Sisodia replied, “There are other hilly states with tough terrains but the governments over there have worked and produced good results. Unfortunately, successive governments in the past 20 years in the state haven’t taken any significant steps in the direction of developing Uttarakhand as an education hub.” Commenting on the newly introduced National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, Sisodia said, “It is a good policy but the implementation of it is going to be a challenge. Without proper implementation, we can’t witness any significant results.” Sisodia also raised concerns about the disruption faced by students due to Covid-19 outbreak. “This year, our children have faced big losses in regards to academics. The schools are yet to reopen and unfortunately, there will be no vaccine for such academic loss. All of the stakeholders need to think of innovative ways in order to cover such losses. Teachers and academicians must come up with innovative measures,” said the MLA from Patparganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-has-the-potential-to-become-an-education-hub-sisodia/articleshow/79817364.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 20, 2020||Vadodara||Survey to assess damage begins||Vadodara: The forest department on Saturday begun probe into the racket of disposing highly toxic industrial waste in Vishwamitri river which is known for its healthy population of crocodiles.The Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) on Thursday had busted the racket near Vadsar and lodged an FIR against five persons at Manjalpur police station. The accused were disposing the acidic waste into the river using a flexible hose pipeline.“Our survey began on Saturday morning. The first thing we are ascertaining is whether any animal has got injured, sick or died due to the highly acidic effluent that was dumped in the river,” said deputy conservator Kartik Maharaja.On Saturday, the department carried out the survey in the stretch of Vishwamitri falling between Munj Mahuda and Vadsar.“The survey will continue as we will be ascertaining impact starting from Munj Mahuda to Padra to Dhadhar river — the entire river stretch that falls within Vadodara district,” he said. “Even if animal life is not damaged, we can carry out our action based on damage caused to their habitat under the Wildlife Protection Act. Toxic chemicals cannot be released in the river,” said Maharaja, adding that the GPCB too has sent a written communication to the department regarding the racket.Crocodiles are protected under schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act.GPCB had acted on complaints that sarpanches of three gram panchayats – Karali, Khalipur and Maretha – had made to the district collector and the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) in October this year. A stretch of nearly 8km from Vadsar to Maretha has been badly affected due to the illegal disposal of toxic industrial waste.The FIR lodged by the GPCB names Vijesh Gandhi, who is said to have taken the site of the illegal activity on lease, a supervisor by the name of Ravi and three other accused – Bhikha Bhaliya, Dipak Bhaliya and Mahesh Bhaliya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/survey-to-assess-damage-begins/articleshow/79817363.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC fixes January 6 for final hearing of Uma Bharti’s plea in criminal case||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has fixed January 6, 2021 for the final hearing of a case filed by senior BJP leader Uma Bharti, challenging criminal proceedings initiated against her in the year 2012 at Mahoba district for obstructing a public servant from performing his duties. Earlier, on October, 17, the high court had vacated the stay order granted earlier on the said criminal proceedings and had directed the trial court of Mahoba district to proceed with the trial in accordance with law. The allegations against Uma Bharti was that in the year 2012, she and her supporters, during a political event at Charkhari of Mahoba district, forcefully stopped a public servant from discharging his duty and also violated the prohibitory orders promulgated at that point of time. Hearing a petition filed by Uma Bharti and six others, Justice Suneet Kumar directed to list this case on January 6, 2021, saying that no further adjournment would be granted in the matter. In the petition, it was stated that Uma Bharti and her supporters were falsely implicated in the case due to political rivalry, as she was a candidate for the legislative assembly of the Uttar Pradesh state elections of 2012. To recall, in 2012 an FIR was registered against Uma Bharati and her supporters at police station Charkhari of Mahoba district. Later, chargesheet was submitted against her and the court took its cognizance. At present, the trial in the case is pending before the district court at Mahoba.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-fixes-jan-6-for-final-hearing-of-bhartis-plea-in-criminal-case/articleshow/79816894.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘CM has been advocating farm reforms’||Lucknow: While the Centre has brought in three farm laws for agricultural reforms, CM Yogi Adityanath has been advocating modernisation of farming from as early as 90s, says a book on his speeches released on Saturday by Governor Anandiben Patel. For long, he has strongly been advocating that the farmers should not be limited to farming activities alone, but they should turn into farm entrepreneurs, says the book ‘Yogi Adityanath ke Ojasvi Vichaar’ written by journalist Radhey Krishna. Pawan Kumar has clicked the cover picture while Durgesh Upadhyay has written the preface. The governor praised the author for his research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-has-been-advocating-farm-reforms/articleshow/79819632.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Agra||Still want to leave, our village has turned on us: Hathras victim’s family||AGRA: They don’t step out of their house, no one comes in without a thorough check and they have barely spoken to anyone else in the village for three months now. The family of the 19-year-old Dalit girl from Hathras who was allegedly gangraped and murdered just wants out. “We had said this before and we say this again. We want to move out of our village,” the victim’s younger brother told TOI on Saturday, a day after the CBI filed a chargesheet in the case. It named the four upper caste men from the village who had been arrested after the victim said in her dying declaration that she had been gang-raped by them. The families of the four accused are influential people in the village and the Dalit families, four of them, would “stay out of the way” of the 60 upper caste families. The tacitly established social dynamic was upended when the Dalit family filed a police complaint. “The atmosphere here has turned hostile. We fear we could be harmed,” the younger brother said. In October, for instance, they had received a text with a warning: “My advice to you is that you admit to the truth or all the land in this country will not be enough for you to hide. I will get you and your mother jailed for killing her (the victim). The Rs 25 lakh, a job and a house will remain a dream.” He saw the message much later, in November, and told the police and the CBI who, he added, said they’d look into it. Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal, however, said, “No written complaint was filed.” But around the time the message was sent, the family had expressed concerns about their safety and provided a security cover. Two weeks after that, the family had approached the Allahabad high court with a plea to secure their relocation to Delhi so they could “move freely.” So far, no one from the administration has reached out to them about this. “CRPF personnel always accompany us but don’t bother us. No one enters without them checking with us first. But the security we have now will not be there forever,” he said. The Hathras district magistrate, Praveen Kumar Laxkar, had told them as much in a purported video that went viral a day after the girl was cremated by the police without her family’s consent. “How can we feel safe?” the victim’s sister-in-law said. The younger brother, in fact, has quit his job as a lab attendant in Ghaziabad. “I would be all alone in Noida (where he used to live) if I went back. Anything could happen to me.” In all this, there is, unavoidably, the question of basic sustenance. “We have received the Rs 25 lakh compensation but no house or job has been provided, which the chief minister had promised,” he said. Initially, the district administration had been sending food supplies and cattle fodder to their house. They have leased their five-bigha land, in return for which they get half the grains cultivated. The three other Dalit families pitch in and send food sometimes. “We do feel the attitude of the village has changed. The village has turned on us. We have no choice but to leave." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/still-want-to-leave-our-village-has-turned-on-us-hathras-victims-family/articleshow/79816788.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 20, 2020||Varanasi||DDU Junction declared as ‘green station, gets Silver rating||VARANASI: The Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) has awarded Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction with Silver rating after it was declared a ‘green station’. The station scored 51 points out of 100 for its environment-friendly initiatives. More than 100 years old and one of the busiest railway stations of the country, it achieved the silver rating almost two years after getting its name changed from Mughalsarai railway station to Pt. Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction. Talking to TOI on Saturday, the divisional railway manager, PDDU division of East Central Railway, Rajesh Kumar Pandey said, “We secured maximum points in the category of health, hygiene and sanitation (64.5%) followed by energy efficiency (50%) and water efficiency (47.7%). This certification was possible due to the continuous efforts of all departments to improve and upgrade this station. Pandey said that encouraged by this achievement, fresh efforts have been intensified to ensure improvement in all categories in order to secure the Gold rating next year. The officials said that Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)-IGBC, with the support of environment directorate of Indian Railway, has developed this rating system, which is a voluntary and consensus-based programme. It is a first of its kind holistic rating system in India to address environmental sustainability of Indian railway stations, they said. “The overarching objective of the rating is to facilitate adoption of green concepts, thereby reducing the adverse environmental impact of station operation and maintenance, and enhancing the overall commuter experience,” added the officials. The rating system helps the station management to gauge the ‘green performance’ of the station and assess requirements for continuous improvement. The rating system is designed primarily for existing Indian railway stations, said the officials. “Many steps including training station operation and maintenance personnel on ‘Green Railway Station’, performance improvement and detailed study on opportunities for reducing energy and water consumption, increasing renewable energy, effective waste management, enhancing passenger amenities, guidance on implementation of green measures and facilitation of assessment by third party independent experts, are taken into account for the rating process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ddu-junction-declared-as-green-stn-gets-silver-rating/articleshow/79818623.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 20, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Unidentified body exhumed from family graveyard||KANPUR: The body of an unidentified man was found buried in a family graveyard in Ghatampur area of the district on Saturday. The police, on being informed, reached the spot and launched an investigation in this regard. “Akhtar, native to Patara, visited his family graveyard at Barnaav village road to offer prayers on Friday, and spotted a fresh grave existing there. As none of his family members had died in the recent past, he grew suspicious and immediately alerted the local police,” informed Ghatampur circle officer Ravi Kumar Singh. “A few bamboo sticks, a half-burnt cow dung cake and a quilt were also found in the graveyard, said police. “During investigation, the cops exhumed the body of a man wearing a blue woollen shirt and a black underwear. There were no injuries spotted on the man’s body. It was then dispatched to the mortuary for postmortem examination,” said a police officer. Police have formed special teams to trace those who had buried the body in a family graveyard. The cops suspect that the body was buried late in the night after the area turned deserted. “We have got some clues and will zero in on the suspects soon,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/unidentified-body-exhumed-from-family-graveyard/articleshow/79818702.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vadodara||Surat team joins search for leopard in Panchmahal||Vadodara: A team of forest officials from Surat joined the search for a leopard in Panchmahal district’s Ghoghamba taluka on Saturday.The team joined the existing manpower a day after an LIC agent Ajmal Parmar was attacked in Jabuvaniya village. The leopard has attacked seven persons of which two children have succumbed in the last 11 days. Five animals were also killed by the leopard during the same period. The team from Surat has been deployed in the rocky area near Goya Sundal village. “With the new team joining, around 60 persons are out there in the field to search and rescue the leopard. We have also placed nine cages with baits at strategic locations,” said a forest official. He added that a few more cages have also been kept as stand-by options. “In case the leopard travels five kilometres further, we will use the back-up cages in other areas,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/surat-team-joins-search-for-leopard-in-panchmahal/articleshow/79817373.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur anti-Sikh riots: SIT records version of victims’ kin||KANPUR: After Ludhiana and Chandigarh, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Kanpur on Saturday visited Mohali and recorded the statements of a family whose two members were killed in Sharda Nagar of Kalyanpur in the city during the violence. “One Bhagat Singh and his brother Harbansh Singh were hacked to death by an unruly mob in the Sharda Nagar. Their family members had later migrated to Mohali. Their father Hukum Singh had lodged an FIR at Kalyanpur police station and the police had submitted a final report in the case. On Saturday, we met three women of the victims’ family — Surinder Kaur, Manjeet Kaur and Surendra Kaur and recorded their statements as they were the eyewitness to the case,” said SIT sub-inspector Shiv Mangal Singh. To recall, the state government had set up SIT on February 5, 2019, to inquire into the circumstances leading to the riots in 1984 in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the apex court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking SIT probe into the riots. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP Atul. The other members are retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-anti-sikh-riots-sit-records-version-of-victims-kin/articleshow/79818719.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 20, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Cop, others booked on molestation charge||KANPUR: Inspector Musanagar and three others have been booked for allegedly molesting a woman in Kanpur Dehat district. As per the police, an FIR under sections 354, 323, 504, 506, 452 and 427 of IPC has been lodged at Musanagar police station on the orders of the court on Saturday. The police said a listed history-sheeter Siyaram has accused one Durgesh and latter’s brothers Balram and Ram Dulare, besides Inspector Musanagar Rajnesh Singh Chauhan of molesting his wife on October 18. “We have lodged an FIR and investigations are continuing in this regard,” said Circle Officer Bhognipur Prabhat Kumar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-others-booked-on-molestation-charge/articleshow/79818711.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Govt procures 4.5 cr syringes for vaccine||Lucknow: A single vaccination team in Uttar Pradesh will be covering 100 shots in a day with those selected for the vaccination being informed in advance on their registered cell phones. After vaccination, the person will be kept under observation for 30 minutes at the vaccination centre, said an official statement after the chief minister’s review of state’s preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccination programme held here on Saturday. In the official statement, CM Yogi Adityanath said that the state is preparing a fool-proof plan to provide the Covid-19 vaccine to the people with adequate arrangement to ensure safety concerns of the health care teams and address adverse events (if any). “Adherence to timelines is of paramount importance,” the CM told officials. The CM urged people not to take Covid-19 prevention protocol lightly till the vaccine actually comes and every person gets the shot. Officials also told the CM that the state has procured 4.5 crore syringes for the programme, while purchase for another 1.5 crore units is underway. In this regard, the CM told officials to ensure proper disposal of the biomedical waste generated. The CM also took stock of the training of vaccinators besides enquiring about the readiness of the district level plans to ensure the safety of the stored vaccine. The state is expected to get around 4 crore units of the vaccine in the first phase. The vaccine shots are to be provided in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-procures-4-5-cr-syringes-for-vaccine/articleshow/79819633.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After 2 human kills, tiger scare stalks Kagaznagar villages||KAGAZNAGAR: More than two weeks after a 16-year-old girl was mauled to death (second human kill in November) by a suspected man-eating tiger, fear continues to stalk tribal villages in Kagaznagar area of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. While farmers are worried over losing cotton crop, farm workers are not venturing into cotton fields for ‘kaikili’ (cotton picking in local parlance). Villagers who otherwise head to the forest for collecting raw material for broomsticks have also stopped their activity fearing tiger attacks. Mandika Thulsakka, a tribal woman from Kondapalli village in Penchikalpet mandal, summed up the fear among the villagers. “Puli bhayaniki kaikili ki kuda pothallemu. Patti tiyyatalledu (Due to fear of tiger attack, we are not picking up cotton),” said Thulasakka whose village falls in the tiger corridor near Pranahita river. Like several villagers, she also blamed the forest officials for failing to capture the man-eater and leaving them to fend for themselves. “The officials told us after Pasula Nirmala’s death (on Nov 29) that they will capture the big cat. Even after 20 days, they haven’t even tracked it. Due to the fear of tiger attacks, we are not even venturing into the fields,” she said. She owns half an acre of land and does podu cultivation. “But, I depend mostly on ‘kaikili’ for my livelihood,” she says. Forest officials asked villagers not to venture into the forest areas. Forest divisional officer M Vijay Kumar said the tiger might have killed the two villagers ‘accidentally’. “It is not a man-eater. Villagers should take adequate measures to keep themselves safe and not harm any wild animal, including the tiger,” he said. Some of the villagers, however, are venturing out to work in the fields. On their way back home, they beat drums to scare away the tiger. They mostly go in groups. By 4 pm, they are back in the village and confine themselves to their homes till the break of dawn. Mandiga Mahesh, who beats the drum while farmers and coolies work, said the forest officials have done precious little to alleviate their problem. “I have taken a small piece of land on tenancy and borrowed money to cultivate. If I don’t pick up cotton in time, I will end up in huge debt,” he said. Sharing the concern, Madhukar, a tenant farmer in Kondapalli, said: “For a week after Nirmala’s death, we didn’t go to the forest at all. As the farm field where I cultivate cotton is close to the village, I started picking up the cotton. But, for those who live close to the forest and within the forest patches, they have almost abandoned their fields.” Amidst the fear of tiger attacks, resentment is building up among the villagers against the forest department. Kalavati, a farmer of Kondapalli, said it’s a double whammy for them. “The officials are threatening us that no axes would be allowed to the fields and that we should not cut any bush or a small tree in the land we cultivate. Who knows where the tiger is hiding and waiting to attack us. Don’t we deserve some protection? We cannot forever live in the fear of the tigers and officials,” she rued. Kondapalli sarpanch U Sanju said there are around 500 families in the village. “If the tiger fear continues, we will lose cotton crop as coolies are not coming to pick it,” he told STOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-2-human-kills-tiger-scare-stalks-kagaznagar-villages/articleshow/79818977.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||SIT recovers over Rs2 crore cash in marketing scam||Nagpur: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) attached to Ranapratap Nagar police station has made cash recovery of Rs2.11 crore in the multi-level marketing scam which was unearthed by the city police in November. So far, 15 persons, including mastermind Vijay Gurnule, have been arrested. In the latest development, police arrested Tulsiram Zengthe and Alok Meshram, both executive adviser to Gurnule and his close aide Devendra Gajbhiye, for alleged involvement in the racket. Investors were lure by promising high returns in different schemes floated by them, including crypto-currency. Zengthe, kin of Gurnule, was arrested from Chandrapur. Meshram was taken into custody from Madhya Pradesh. Police have seized Rs1.17 crore from some profitmaking depositors and also Zengthe and Meshram. It is learnt, police have seized gold worth more than Rs13.45 lakh and silver worth more than Rs38,000. Five cars and several cell phones too have been recovered. The SIT team is working under the supervision of zonal DCP Noorul Hasan, addl CP Dilip Zalke and CP Amitesh Kumar. The total recoveries in the case have crossed Rs three crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sit-recovers-over-rs2-crore-cash-in-marketing-scam/articleshow/79817384.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man recording police drive video falls in own trap||VADODARA: Recording a video of cops during a mask-checking drive near Sayajipura Township proved costly for a civil contractor on Friday. The man identified as Keyur Patel himself came under the scanner while recording the video as he had not put on his mask properly. Police said that Patel had a suspicion that commuters are getting harassed during the mask-checking drive, so he stood at a distance and started recording the video. Cops from Bapod police station were stopping commuters for not wearing masks at Mukhinagar junction near Sayajipura Township. After observing him for a while, a couple of policemen went up to him asking Patel to cough up the fine of Rs 1,000 as he had not worn his mask properly. As cops asked for the fine, Patel started arguing with them. “He started saying that we are harassing citizens by asking them to pay a fine. However, we only stop and take fine from those commuters who have either not worn a mask or someone who has not worn the mask properly,” a cop said. Patel continued arguing and refused to pay the fine amount. Police detained Patel as he was adamant about not paying the fine. Patel was booked at Bapod police station for obstructing police in discharging their duties and committing a negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-recording-police-drive-video-falls-in-own-trap/articleshow/79817389.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Varanasi||Height of power line over Gorakhpur zoo to be raised||GORAKHPUR: In view of the safety of zoo animals, Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Ltd (UPPTCL) is tripling the height of high voltage power line over Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoo Gorakhpur. At present, the height of high voltage transmission power line is 6.5 metres, which is dangerous for the zoo animals. Work is under progress and the height of the transmission line conductor will be increased to 21 metres, chief engineer (Transmission) HN Prasad said. The corporation is using a new technology for the purpose. “Due to space constraints, we are using a monopole (single pole) technology instead of a tower. Monopoles can be installed in small spaces and still ensure the wire are installed at a desired height. With the increased height of the power line over the zoo, we can assure the safety of animals,” said Prasad. Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoo will soon be opened for people and the 4-D theatre will also start functioning at the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/height-of-power-line-over-gorakhpur-zoo-to-be-raised/articleshow/79818642.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 20, 2020||Rajkot||72-year-old bootlegger held under PASA||Rajkot: A 72-year-old bootlegger from Savarkundla was detained under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act on Saturday.The bootlegger identified as Haba Unava will be sent to special jail in Bhuj to serve the detention period. The local crime branch of Amreli police had initiated the procedures of PASA Act against Unava. On Saturday, the district magistrate of Amreli invoked PASA Act by issuing warrant against Unava.Police said that Unava has been booked under eight cases in Amreli district in last five years. Besides prohibition cases, Unava also faces charges of attempt to murder, rioting, assault and criminal intimidation among others in different police stations in Amreli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/72-year-old-bootlegger-held-under-pasa/articleshow/79817345.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Agra||PM’s participation in AMU’s centenary celebration is not matter of pride for varsity, says Irfan Habib||Agra: Renowned historian and Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) professor emeritus, Irfan Habib, on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's participation in the university’s centenary celebrations is “not a matter of pride for the institution”. Reacting to the proposed online participation of PM Modi in an event on Tuesday marking 100 years of AMU, Habib said, “Scholars visit universities… it doesn’t matter whether the prime minister participates in the university's celebrations or not. Especially when it’s a PM who has misled the nation on its ancient culture.” “Invitation to the PM, who tolerates the ‘love Jihad’ law in UP, was the VC’s own decision. BJP is a party which has different views on social aspects and lives by different rules,” he said, adding that they (BJP) “cannot ruin the culture of the country but can surely misrepresent it for their gains”. Dwelling on history and its importance, Habib said that when he was a student, (the then PM) Jawaharlal Nehru visited the university after Independence in 1949. “He and the then home minister, Sardar Patel, had decided to send the Kumaon Regiment here for protection of the university and it stayed here for two years. This shows how important the university was for them,” he said. Due to a financial crisis, the government took over in 1952 and declared it an autonomous institute. “Pt Nehru had sent a grant to the university to start work on medieval India (history of the Indian subcontinent between the ancient and modern periods) in 1953 without any demand from the administration. Not only this, he had given a grant for Maulana Azad Library and general education centre and he had himself visited the institute to inaugurate the library,” Habib said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pms-participation-in-amus-centenary-celebration-is-not-matter-of-pride-for-varsity-says-irfan-habib/articleshow/79816795.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 20, 2020||Kanpur||Sakshi Maharaj says ‘minority status of Muslims be ended’||KANPUR: BJP MP from Unnao Sakshi Maharaj on Saturday said “as there are more Muslims in India than Pakistan, their minority status should be ended”. Sakshi was addressing a gathering at an inauguration ceremony of an anganbadi kendra in Babakheda under Nawabganj block of Unnao. He said, “There is more Muslim population in India than Pakistan, therefore the minority status of Muslims should be abolished with immediate effect. Also, Muslims should now consider themselves to be younger siblings of Hindus and live with them in the country.” Speaking over the rising population of the country, Sakshi said, “Soon a bill would be tabled in Parliament to check the increasing population. Those who will have more than two children, will be deprived from contesting elections.” Sakshi further attacked opposition parties on the farmers’ ongoing protest against farm laws, and said, “The government is ready to talk about the farm laws.” He lashed out at the Congress, saying that “like the Ram temple, the Congress and other political parties should appeal in Supreme Court on the agricultural bill. Rather, they are firing guns by keeping it on innocent farmers’ shoulders”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sakshi-maharaj-says-minority-status-of-muslims-be-ended/articleshow/79818714.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bareilly||Essential food supplies for protestingfarmers at Delhi border stopped in UP||Pilibhit: Three tractor-trolleys full of wheat flour, rice, pulses, quilts and blankets were stopped by police in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit district from moving towards the Delhi-UP border on Friday night. The essential supplies were being sent in support of the protesting farmers.On Saturday, traffic was disrupted for over six hours on the Pilibhit-Basti highway [NH-730] near Bari Bhujia village after angry farmers launched a stir against the police action.Puranpur CO Pramod Yadav, his counterpart at Puvayan in Shahjahanpur Navneet Kumar Nayak, along with personnel of six police stations reached the place."We don't want the roads near the Delhi-UP border to remain blocked any further. So, farmers are not being allowed to proceed. We did not lodge any FIR against them," the Puranpur CO said.The farmers termed the police action "dictatorial" and have taken it up with their leader VM Singh, the national convener of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan.About 30 farmers were travelling with the three tractor-trolleys when it was first stopped by the police near Bari Bujhia village on Friday night. Over a thousand farmers then assembled in the area and began protesting on the road.The three trolleys were forcibly returned by the police. One of them was escorted by the SHO of Khutar Jai Shankar himself. While the other two from villages Andbojhi and Rampura Kon were escorted by the SHOs of Seramau North and Puranpur Kotwali police stations."Police tricked us. We were allowed to travel for 30 km towards Pilibhit headquarters and then we found the roads blocked with barricades. They prevented the essential supplies from moving and they misled us completely," Balvinder Singh, one of the farmers, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/essential-food-supplies-for-protestingfarmers-at-delhi-border-stopped-in-up/articleshow/79816797.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Bor staff withdraw boycott, tourism to resume today||Nagpur: The Bor Tiger Reserve forest staff and guides withdrew their boycott on tourism activity on Saturday evening after Chiranjeev Prasad, special inspector general of police (IGP), Nagpur Range, and Wardha SP Prashant Holkar gave them an assurance that the absconding accused who attacked the foresters would be arrested soon. On Wednesday afternoon, Mahesh Thakur, a history-sheeter from Wardha and MCOCA accused, along with seven others attacked RFO Nilesh Gawande and forest guard Premdas Bhakre after they refused entry inside the park in private vehicles. The staff and guides boycotted tourism activity until the accused were arrested. The park remained closed on Friday and Saturday. On Friday, police nabbed Swapnil Talwekar and Mangesh Ramteke who were involved in the attack. On Saturday evening, both the top police officials visited the park and pacified the agitating guides and staff and promised to arrest all the accused after which it was decided to resume tourism from Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bor-staff-withdraw-boycott-tourism-to-resume-today/articleshow/79817375.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Budding singer dupes three of Rs 14 lakh, gets abducted by ‘victims’||LUCKNOW: A budding singer, who defrauded three persons of Rs 14 lakh on the pretext of jobs, got the taste of his own medicine when they trapped and kidnapped him using his own tactics. Cops have now booked the singer and his father on charges of fraud. A YouTube video played a key role in the entire sequence of events. Kaiserbagh SHO Deenanath Mishra said: “On December 14, Sushila Devi, mother of a budding singer Sonu Singh, informed police that he left home to meet someone at Kaiserbagh bus station but did not return. His phone was switched off and she got a ransom call of Rs 15 lakh.” “Using surveillance, a joint team of Kaiserbagh police and crime branch recovered Sonu from the house of one Ombir Singh of Bijnor,” Mishra said. JCP, Crime, Nilabja Choudhury said during interrogation Ombir told cops that Sonu and his father Pappu Lal Gautam had taken Rs 14 lakh from him, Abhishek Kumar and Vishal Rahi, promising government jobs in secretariat. “They fled to Haldwani after taking the money,” Choudhary said. “Ombir, Abhishek, Vishal and their friends Amit and Sumit started searching for the duo. They tracked Sonu to Lucknow through one of his YouTube posts,” he said. They called him on December 14 on the pretext of signing a contract with the singer and abducted him. “All the five persons have been arrested. A case of illegal confinement will be registered against them,” the SHO said. He added that Sonu and his father had also been booked for fraud and dishonesty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/budding-singer-dupes-three-of-rs-14l-gets-abducted-by-victims/articleshow/79819635.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||‘Varasat’ drive in Uttar Pradesh to resolve land disputes in villages||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Government has launched a two-month-long special ‘varasat’ drive in the state to end land disputes in villages over succession rights and curb property lawsuits that form a bulk of cases at Tehsil and district level. The novel drive will end long-pending disputes over land and property, and prevent exploitation of villagers by land mafia who target disputed properties. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath launched the drive on December 15. The government spokesperson said villagers will be provided the facility to register their names in land records through both online and offline methods. For those who own land in their native villages but are living somewhere else, a special counter will be opened at tehsil for submitting applications. “This initiative is expected to settle long-pending cases in 1.08 lakh revenue villages in the state. This will also curb the irresponsible behaviour of lekhpals who, it has been noticed, generally do not take an interest in these matters and are responsible for piling up land disputes,” the spokesperson said. Under the scheme, the lekhpal will also have to visit villages to verify successors and assist them in filing online applications. Helpline on anvil to facilitate filing of applicationsThe option of filing applications from community facility centres will also be provided to people while a helpline is also being launched to assist people if they face difficulty in filing applications. All information related to ‘varasat’ will be uploaded on the revenue board website where the progress of the scheme can be reviewed. “At the end of two months, the district magistrate will randomly identify 10% of the revenue villages and check the details given in lekhpal’s report through the sub-divisional magistrates, additional district magistrates and other district level officers,” the spokesperson added. An official said the main reason for land and property disputes, which form the bulk of complaints on Tehsil Diwas, is that lekhpals do not take timely decisions in matters of land and are generally ignorant towards issues related to land. “Villagers keep visiting his office but their names are not registered in government records. They get exhausted due to the tedious exercise, and many villagers give up and hence become ineligible for loans from banks since the land is not in their names in record. This is also the main reason for disputes within families and relatives and a majority of villagers face lawsuits that drag on for years,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/varasat-drive-in-up-to-resolve-land-disputes-in-villages/articleshow/79819637.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Love jihad’ accused freed, wife says life’s back||BAREILLY: The 21-year-old Muslim man from Kanth in Moradabad who had been arrested on charges of “forcibly converting” a 22-year-old woman was released from jail along with his elder brother on Saturday. Police had filed a report in court on Friday, saying there was no proof for the charges pressed under UP’s new anti-conversion law. Around 11.45am, the man and his brother were set free. They got home around 1.30pm to a family waiting anxiously. “Aa jaa mera bachcha (come here, my child),” his mother said as she embraced him, tears rolling down her face. His wife, still sick from the miscarriage she had some days ago, managed to sit up. “I feel like my life is back,” she said. “We will make a fresh start.” Her mother-in-law smiled: “My children are back home. My daughter-in-law is here with me. I could not be happier.” The family has been grappling with everything that led up to this point. “We were doing the right thing, getting their marriage registered,” the man’s brother said as his mother added, “That day, we were coming back from court after consulting a lawyer. My son had married five months ago. The lawyer took money from us and then reported us to Bajrang Dal.” Sources said the lawyer’s brother is a member of Bajrang Dal. The right-wing outfit had told TOI that they were doing their duty “as citizens” by reporting the couple. “We were stopped near Ramleela Ground by Bajrang Dal men. They misbehaved with us and took us to the police,” the brother said. “I was called in later. I hadn’t committed any crime, so I went to the thana. They detained me and my brother,” the husband said. At the police station, his mother said, a lot was playing out. “Our girl kept telling them she had not been coerced, that she had the papers to show they were married. But no one was ready to listen. The Bajrang Dal men (at the police station) said, ‘You’re lying, naatak dikha rahi hai (being dramatic),” she said. “Hamare bahu ka bachcha khatm hi kar diya (my daughter-in-law’s baby was lost because of all this).” Regional convener of Bajrang Dal Gaurav Bhatnagar told TOI, “We only told the police about it (the inter-faith marriage), who registered an FIR and sent the woman to custody. Our workers never harmed her or her baby." Moradabad additional SP (rural) Vidya Sagar Mishra said, “The case is being investigated. If any complaint is filed holding someone responsible for miscarriage, action will be taken.” The woman’s mother-in-law also said that the new bride's mother, on whose complaint the police finally took action, never wanted to come to Moradabad and file an FIR. “When they called her up, she didn’t want to come. She couldn’t afford it. So, a jeep was sent to bring her here. I was told the three of them (the woman, her husband and his brother) would be released in the morning. I went to the police station with a flask of tea in the morning and saw my sons had been arrested and my daughter-in-law sent to some shelter.” The man and his brother had been jailed by then. “I was surprised. We were legally married for five months but the police didn’t believe us. I am happy they have found out the truth now,” he said on Saturday. “Police treated us alright in jail. I was shocked when I got to know about her miscarriage but there was nothing I could do. Now, I will get her proper treatment and support her. I also have to find a job.” The couple got married at a madrassa in Dehradun on July 24 and came to Kanth to stay with the man’s family. Money was tight after the lockdown and the couple found they were having a baby. So, the woman sold her phone, got Rs 5,000 for legal fees and impending expenses, and got in touch with a lawyer to register their marriage. “We didn’t want to take any chances,” the woman, who used to work as an accountant in Dehradun, told TOI. And they still don’t. So, they are weighing whether to press charges for harassment or not. The man’s brother said they don’t want any action against anyone and “just want to stay safe.” The woman added, “I am extremely grateful that news organisations supported us. We will discuss with our family before we consider any action against anyone."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-14-days-in-prison-on-fake-forced-conversion-charges-up-man-released-from-jail/articleshow/79816808.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 20, 2020||Rajkot||Cattle owner fights off leopard, injured||Palanpur: A 48 -year-old farmer, identified as Dinesh Vankar from Gabad village in Bayed taluka of Aravalli, was injured in a leopard attack on Saturday morning. Vankar received wounds on his neck and left hand when he bravely fought off the animal and forced it to run away from his yard where it had entered to prey on the cattle early in the morning. Bayed range forest officer Madhuben Khant said that they have called in experts from Anand to trpa the rogue animal which had even attacked a member of the forest team. Taluka development officer Rakesh Patel said that the leopard is yet to be trapped while villagers have been asked to stay vigilant and cautious while the animal roams free. Meanwhile, efforts have been intensified and lighting arrangements made to trap the animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cattle-owner-fights-off-leopard-injured/articleshow/79817401.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tending hills for over a century||Who would have thought almost all the important public buildings in the hill town of Ooty has a glorious history that dates back to the colonial era? Spread across 7.61 acres, the building that houses the Ooty government headquarters hospital isn’t any exception either. Originally made of lime mortar and bricks, the building stands apart from the modern-day hospital structures. Started as a convalescence centre for the British army officers in the 1800s, it is one of the oldest hospitals in the state. While Fredrick Price, author of ‘Ootacamund: A History’, says “it was certainly neither a gift, nor a memorial”, when it comes to the Ooty government hospital’s overall development, today it could be seen both as a gift and memorial of its rich past. Built atop Jail Hill in 1829 in a small building, it was the first-ever hospital in the hill retreat. Initially, it just had a block comprising a ward with four beds for army officers and a small room to store medicines. Shortly, another wing was added, this time with 10 beds for local residents. Yet another wing was added in 1841 at a cost of Rs1,776. There isn’t any information available about the hospital for the next 10 years from 1842 and 1852. In 1853, the government brought the hospital, which was under the military management until then, under the management of a committee comprising Coimbatore collector and the joint magistrate of Ootacamund. This was the first step taken to make it a civil hospital, as the staff were paid from private subscriptions. A subcommittee was also constituted and that had only women members. More than a decade later, the government took over the hospital in 1865 and it was named St Bartholomew’s Hospital. By 1867, it saw more additions and started operations in a full-fledged manner. Hence, 1867 is considered as the birth year of the present-day hospital. According to a report of the subcommittee, St Bartholomew’s Hospital was set up in 1867 at a cost of about Rs25,000 and the roof was made water-tight. It also says the facility was initially supported by public funds alone. “I consider that Ootacamund has every reason to be proud of St Bartholomew’s hospital. It stands on a totally different footing from any other medical institution in the (Madras) Presidency, as it is managed by a local committee which works in conjunction with a subcommittee of ladies, and is, very largely indeed, dependent on charity for its existence,” Price says in his book. The hospital started getting monthly contributions from the St Stephen’s Church from 1870, while the Ootacamund municipality made an allowance for medical supplies. During 1884-85, a new ward named after Lady Robinson, one of the members of the subcommittee, and another ward with the sole contribution of M R Ry Tiruvengadaswami Mudaliyar, a wealthy contractor, were added. It got an outpatient ward, which is today converted into maternity wing, on November 17, 1900. While the government took care of the construction cost, other expenses were met by A R Hajee Fakeer Mohamed Sait, a wealthy gentleman who later added quarters for nurses. Now, the maternity wing is named after him and it is locally known as ‘Sait’ hospital. In 1904, the Nizam and Maharaja of Mysore made contributions to carry out alterations to the wards that were added in 1884-85 and they were subsequently called the Nizam and Mysore wards. Dr H Ravikumar, superintendent, Ooty government hospital, said the old names were no longer in use. The hospital also doesn’t have any of the items from the colonial era. “There is a procedure called ‘condemnation process’ of articles after a certain period,” Ravikumar, who was born in the hospital, explained. “I am proud to be a part of it today.” The hospital celebrated its sesquicentennial (150th year anniversary) in 2018. Presently, the hospital is equipped with 421 beds, including 160 in the maternity wing. It usually sees 1,000 outpatients and 250 inpatients on an average a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tending-hills-for-over-a-century/articleshow/79814580.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cops issue notice, mayors end protest for civic ‘dues’||NEW DELHI: The 13-day protest of the mayors of the three municipal corporations in front of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house came to end on Saturday after a visit by Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. The mayors were demanding the payment of Rs 13,000 crore that they claimed Delhi government owed the municipal bodies. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that they ended the protest on the request of Puri and after Delhi Police issued them a notice to vacate the site under Section 144 of CrPC, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people. Delhi Police visited the dharna site on Saturday morning and asked the mayors and the councillors to vacate the site. The move came after Delhi High Court asked police on Friday to follow Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s directives on disallowing political gatherings to curb Covid-19 spread. Jai Prakash said, “We respect the court’s direction and ended the protest. But our fight to get the pending dues released will continue. Our demands are genuine and related to the welfare of 200,000 corporation employees, 50,000 retired employees, 70,000 sanitation staff, doctors and teachers.” Expressing displeasure at the lack of effort by the CM to reach out to the agitating councillors, SDMC mayor Anamika Mithlesh said, “We were sitting on indefinite hunger strike and dharna for 13 days, but the CM never tried to meet the mayors even once. It shows how insensitive he is.” Senior AAP member Durgesh Pathak dismissed the BJP members’ protest as ‘drama’. “On Friday, after having their lunch they started the so-called hunger strike and we heard they were ailing. For 15 days, the BJP-led corporations haven’t worked because their leaders are sitting outside the residence of Delhi CM.” He accused the BJP councillors of “taking money when any new house in the city is built, and everyone knows that without bribing the BJP councillors, no house can be built”. Pathak said it was to deflect the attention of Delhiites from the Rs 2,500-crore rent scam that the councillors were on dharna. Jai Prakash hotly contested this and said, “We will also pursue CBI to investigate this matter. If nothing comes out, then we will demand those making the allegation to vacate their seats.” He also released a statement rejecting the scam charges, insisting that orders of the Delhi cabinet and director of the civic bodies made it clear that SDMC owed nothing to the north corporation for using office space in Civic Centre. Meanwhile, the SDMC mayor was admitted to Hindu Rao Hospital after her blood pressure and sugar level dropped significantly. The north corporation mayor too reported similar issues and was examined by the team of municipal doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-issue-notice-mayors-end-protest-for-civic-dues/articleshow/79819032.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Rajkot||Bulk water pipeline by ’22||Rajkot: Chief minister Vijay Rupani laid the foundation stone for the bulk pipeline to be constructed between Budhel to Borda at the cost of Rs 376 crore in a programme organized at Budhel village of Bhavnagar district on Saturday. The water will reach to Talaja, Mahuva, Rajula, Jafrabad to Una and Somnath temple through this pipeline by June 2022. The water will be made available to a population of 43 lakh people in 612 villages and 20 urban areas. Water source for the ambitious project will be Saurashtra branch canal which gets water from Narmada and Vallabhipur branch canal. The GWIL will provide 18 crore litres in three districts of Bhavnagar, Amreli and Gir Somnath everyday, based on scientific analysis.Addressing the gathering, Rupani said, “We have laid foundation stones of water supply projects worth Rs 3,300 crores. The central government has set a target to provide piped water to every household by 2024 and we aim to to complete our target by 2022.”Regarding the recent debate over new farm laws, the CM said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rule is getting stronger day by the day, a fact that Congress cannot tolerate. In it’s election manifesto, Congress had promised to amend APMC Act and provide free market to farmers.” He said, “Rahul Gandhi had even written a letter to all the chief ministers suggesting creation of a system where farmers can sell fruits outside the market, while it is the same party today opposing the amendment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bulk-water-pipeline-by-22/articleshow/79817425.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM gifts Rs 2,500 cash for Pongal, M K Stalin sees red||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday launched the AIADMK’s poll campaign in his home turf Edappadi in Salem district with Rs 2,500 Pongal cash gift for people. Announcing the government’s decision at a state event soon after formally launching his campaign, the CM said Pongal gift hampers for 2.06 crore rice cardholders will be given, starting January 4, 2021, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic. Fee dhotis and sarees would also be distributed to beneficiaries along with cash and the kit, he said. “PDS staff will distribute tokens to cardholders at their doorsteps, and beneficiaries can collect gift hamper and cash on scheduled dates from PDS outlets,” the CM said. Each gift hamper will have one kg of raw rice, one kg sugar, a piece of sugarcane, 20gm of cashew, 20gm of dry grapes and 5gm of cardamom. Last year, Rs 1,000 was given as Pongal gift. Earlier in the day, addressing huge crowds that thronged his convoy, the CM said, “Edappadi constituency is AIADMK’s fort. The DMK has not been able to win the seat for 43 years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-hits-poll-trail-with-rs-2500-pongal-cash-gift/articleshow/79817404.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||NDA ally Hanuman Beniwal quits Parliamentary panels||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: A key NDA partner in Rajasthan, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal, on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of the farm agitation against the Centre’s recently passed farm laws and said he will lead a protest at the Rajasthan-Haryana border on December 26. The Nagaur MP, an important Jat leader from the desert state, said he continues to be part of NDA but will take a call on continuing his association soon. “I continue to be part of NDA so far,” said Beniwal, whose party has three MLAs in the state. आज किसान आंदोलन के समर्थन में व लोकहित के मुद्दों को लेकर संसद की 3 समितियों के सदस्य पद से त्याग पत्र लोकसभा अध्य… https://t.co/GAbv2C1GGB— HANUMAN BENIWAL (@hanumanbeniwal) 1608373256000“Decision about continuation in the alliance will be taken on December 28,” Beniwal said. He had expressed concerns earlier as well, but held back after BJP functionaries spoke to him. At the same time, Beniwal also announced he will contest the assembly elections due in 2023 and by-elections for the three assembly seats next year on his own, indicating that his ties with NDA have become tenuous. He also said he would lead a march with farmers from across Rajasthan assembling at Shahjahanpur border. “More than two lakh farmers from the state will reach the Rajasthan-Haryana border,” he claimed. The leader's decision to join NDA helped BJP score a clean sweep in the state during the Lok Sabha polls. It had required some persuasion to get him on board given his strained ties with former CM Vasundhara Raje. Beniwal submitted his resignation from parliamentary panels to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. "I had raised various people-centric issues with the committees I was part of in Parliament. It is said that action has not been taken on the issues. There is no justification for committees in the parliamentary system if action is not taken,” he said in a statement. He said, “As the issues remained unheard and due to the farm agitation, I am resigning from the committees.” Beniwal was a member of parliamentary committees on industries; petroleum and natural gas; and petitions. He has been supporting the farmers’ agitation and had demanded the laws be withdrawn and asked the Centre to implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee on agriculture fully. After a meeting in Jaipur on Saturday, Beniwal said his party has always stood by farmers and will continue to do so. In the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, RLP contested a seat in Rajasthan in alliance with NDA at the Centre. Beniwal contested from Nagaur in the last Lok Sabha elections in alliance with BJP and won. Earlier, RLP contested the assembly elections in 2018 alone and the party won three seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nda-ally-beniwal-quits-parl-panels/articleshow/79819027.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Well-crafted seat of power||Famous for its pleasant climate and lush greenery, the hill station of Ooty is never complete without its imposing heritage structures. Even the power seat of the Nilgiris is housed in one such colonial marvel, which adds royal elegance to the Queen of Hills. With its gables and several arched openings, the heritage building that houses the Nilgiris collector’s office on Commissioner’s Road in the town is a beauty to behold. Built in 1866 at a cost of Rs44,820 within the public offices campus, this colonial-era building first served as the office of the joint magistrate and civil and sessions judge. The building was then known as the new public offices. It became the commissioner’s office on August 18, 1868, after the Neilgherry (Nilgiris was spelt so then) Hills was separated from the Coimbatore district under the Madras Act I of that year and placed under a commissioner after making it a separate district. The civil and the sessions judgeship was subsequently abolished. James Wilkinson Breeks I C S, who entered the Madras Civil Service in 1849, was the first commissioner of the Nilgiris. He later went on to author a book titled ‘An Account of the Primitive Tribes and Monuments in the Nilgiris.’ According to the records available with the Nilgiri Documentation Centre, the Neilgherry Act received the governor general’s assent on June 6, 1868. The new district’s jurisdiction was spread across 1,000 square miles with a population of 88,142. Of them, 2,616 were Europeans. However, it is not known when the commissioner’s post was changed into that of collector. In 1902, the building was expanded with an upper storey at a cost of Rs19, 685. The construction took only three months. Fredrick Price, author of ‘Ootacamund: A history’, says in his book that when the work was in progress for three months till April 10, 1902, the office was shifted to Primrose House, a nearby private property that was rented for Rs200 per mensem (month). Price mentions that there was no treasury for the custody of money and it was the Bank of Madras branch (now SBI) at Ootacamund that transacted all the banking business of the government. Today, a massive room with a fire-place and chimney on the upper storey houses the district collector’s chamber. Except for its structure, the heritage building has seen several changes inside over the years and today it sports the look of a contemporary office with modern partitions and furniture. Not a single item of furniture or other things belonging to the colonial era could be found here. The heritage office of the Nilgiris district administration has seen 113 collectors so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/well-crafted-seat-of-power/articleshow/79814609.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Rajkot||114 gold medals awarded in SU convocation||Rajkot: More than 29,000 students were conferred degrees in the 55th convocation of Saurashtra University organized virtually on Saturday. University chancellor Acharya Devvrat awarded 114 gold medals to 98 students of 13 faculties. According to SU’s official statement MBBS student Riya Shah of C U Shah medical college Surendrangar bagged highest four gold medals followed by another student of the same college, Kavita Gadhvi, along with general surgery student Saravna Kumar of M P Shah medical college Jamnagar bagged three gold medals each. Two other students were also awarded three gold medals. In his address, the governor urged the students to become good citizens of the country and continue discharging their duties with honesty, devotion, and total compliance. He also appreciated the varsity’s online education during Covid-19 pandemic conditions. Senior education ministry Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and junior education minister Vibhavari Dave also attended the convocation programme. The theme of the 55th convocation was based on the 125th birth anniversary of Zaverchand Meghani. The entire programme was webcast live on various social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/114-gold-medals-awarded-in-su-convocation/articleshow/79817465.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Rail plan keeps Hyderabad bullet train dream alive||HYDERABAD/NAGPUR: The Indian Railways in its new draft National Rail Plan (NRP) released on Friday stated that by 2051 several cities across India including Hyderabad will be connected via bullet trains. The development comes close on the heels of the National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL) floating tenders for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for Mumbai-Pune-Hyderabad bullet train project. The draft NRP aims to develop a corridor between Hyderabad and Bengaluru by extending the Mumbai-Hyderabad line proposed earlier. This new corridor will connect Mumbai to Chennai and help bring cities in North India such as Jammu, Amritsar, Delhi and Jaipur closer to Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Indian Railways hopes to finalise this draft NRP by January 2021. Apart from the corridor between Hyderabad and Bengaluru, the NRP released by Railway Board CEO VK Yadav plans India’s most ambitious infrastructure programme aiming to develop new industrial cities as ‘Smart Cities’ and converging next-generation technologies across infrastructure sectors. The NRP also aims to develop Nagpur-Hyderabad (NHIC) and Delhi-Nagpur (DNIC) as industrial corridors under its National Industrial Corridor Development Programme. The two industrial corridor projects are among 11 projects to be developed in four phases up to 2024-25. Apart from the two industrial corridors, the draft NRP is focused at establishing a dedicated freight corridor (DFC) between North-South between Delhi-Chennai via Itarsi-Nagpur-Vijayawada. With Indian Railway’s focus on augmenting railway infrastructure to facilitate the movement of freight and passengers, the NRP has identified several high-speed railway (HSR).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rail-plan-keeps-hyd-bullet-train-dream-alive/articleshow/79819031.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bareilly||7 booked for 'encroaching' into PTR forest land||PILIBHIT: Seven persons of Dhakia Talluke Maharajpur village under Madhotanda police station have been booked for allegedly grabbing land of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR). An FIR has been registered on Friday night. The issue came to light after the state’s forest minister Dara Singh Chauhan took cognizance of a "land grab" report on the social media. He then reportedly directed the PTR officials to take necessary action. According to a wildlife photographer, Bilal Khan, who had first raised the matter, the land measuring around 400 acres in Barahi forest range and another of around 300 acres partly situated in Barahi and Haripur range areas had been illegally allotted by the concerned range officers to local villagers for cultivation in lieu of Rs 10,000 per acre. By this "deal", the two rangers would get a huge amount of Rs 70 lakh, Khan claimed. Chief conservator of forest of Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma, said that he has ordered a probe. Officiating field director of PTR Javed Akhtar will soon file a report to him, Verma added. Madhotanda SHO Ram Sevak said that following a written complaint of forest inspector Ram Bahadur, seven villagers were booked under section 25 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/7-booked-for-encroaching-into-ptr-forest-land/articleshow/79816843.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Paddy purchase in districts crosses target||LUCKNOW: The government has surpassed the paddy purchase target set for various districts this year. In west UP, the government has purchased 20.6 lakh tons of paddy against the target of 18.1 lakh tons. Food commissioner Manish Chauhan said the government had purchased 39.6 lakh tons paddy from 7,44,895 farmers till December 19, paying them Rs 5,113.4 crore. Last year, 33.1 lakh tons of paddy was purchased from 3,92,335 farmers during the same period. In 2019-20, 56.5 lakh tons of paddy was purchased from 7,06,549 farmers. Giving districtwise break up of west UP, Chauhan said 3.9 lakh tons paddy has been purchased in Shahjahanpur (104% of the target), 2.7 lakh tons in Pilibhit (85%), nearly 2.6 lakh tons in Rampur (107%), 2.3 lakh tons in Lakhimpur Kheri (112%), 2.1 lakh tons in Bareily (122%), 1.8 lakh tons in Sitapur (159%), 1.6 lakh tons in Hardoi (122%) and over 1 lakh tons in Moradabad (125%). “As compared to last year when 3,880 paddy purchase centres were set up, the government set up 4,390 centres this year. Last year, 9,26,075 farmers had registered for selling paddy while this year 12,18,616 farmers have already registered themselves,” he said. He added that it was the first time that mandis were working as agencies of the state to purchase paddy and small farmers were being given priority. “An online billing module has been created which also contains details of paddy dispatch, when the rice mills received it, delivery of custom rice etc,” Chauhan said. “This is also the first time that purchase centres were geo-tagged by rice mills and storage depots of the Food Corporation of India through remote sensing application centre portal. This made it possible for the farmers to get information about the centres on their phones. They were also intimated through SMS about the date and time when they could visit the centre for sale of their produce,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/paddy-purchase-in-dists-crosses-target/articleshow/79819644.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bareilly||Man, parents, 3 siblings, 3 others booked under new anti-conversion law, 10th such case in UP||BAREILLY: In the tenth such case in the state, a 27-year-old man along with his parents, three siblings and three others was booked under section 3/5 of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 in Shahjahanpur. After a 40-year-old woman had lodged a complaint against the man on Friday, he was also booked on charges of rape and extortion. Activists of Bajrang Dal accompanied the woman when she came to the police station on Friday to register the complaint. The incident was reported from a locality that falls under Chowk Kotwali police station in Shahjahanpur city. The woman is married and is the mother of a boy, 20, and a 17-year-old daughter. Her husband works in a metropolitan city. The victim alleged that the accused introduced himself as Sunil and befriended her. One day, he allegedly raped her at gunpoint and took her obscene pictures which he used for blackmailing her. “Later, he revealed that he is a Muslim and forced me to convert for ‘nikah’ with the help of his family members and a cleric. When she resisted, she was allegedly raped on the instructions of the cleric. The accused had also blackmailed her to extort money,” the complainant said. The FIR was registered under sections 376 (rape), 384, (extortion), 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) along with section 3/5 of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, Additional SP (city) Sanjay Kumar told TOI, “After initial investigation, we have found that the woman was in a relationship with the accused for the past five years. The main accused has been arrested and sent to jail but we didn’t find direct involvement in the crime by any co-accused as of now. Our investigation is on.” Asked about the presence of Bajrang Dal activists at the time of the filing of FIR, the ASP said, “Bajrang Dal leaders accompanied the woman when she approached us with the complaint but there was no pressure on us. Every complaint by a woman is taken on priority by the police.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-parents-3-siblings-3-others-booked-under-new-anti-conversion-law-10th-such-case-in-up/articleshow/79816838.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||1,333 property owners pay Rs 1.43 crore dues under Abhay Yojana scheme||NAGPUR: Many citizens are coming forward to avail of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s amnesty scheme which was introduced to generate revenue during the economic slowdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since its launch a few days ago, as many as 2,040 tax defaulters have cleared their dues to the tune of Rs1.87 crore. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had announced the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters on December 13. The scheme was launched to recover dues which had crossed a whopping Rs600 crore. Besides this, currently, NMC’s outstanding demand from property tax is around Rs810 crore, including arrears. As per Abhay Yojana-2020, citizens will get an 89% waiver on interest if they pay the dues till 2020-21 between December 15 and January 14. The waiver will be reduced to 50% if paid between January 15 to February 14 next year. On December 15, the first day of the scheme, 425 property owners cleared their arrears amounting to Rs27 lakh and also deposited the current year’s property tax to the tune of Rs13.77 lakh. The NMC recovered Rs3.55 lakh via penalty. On December 16, the second day, 440 property owners paid Rs29 lakh arrears and Rs3.46 lakh penalty. They also paid the current year’s property tax amounting to Rs15 lakh. On December 17, 468 property owners turned up and paid Rs31 lakh arrears. They also paid Rs4.24 lakh as 20% penalty on their tax dues. On Friday, 590 property owners paid Rs36.73 lakh arrears and Rs4.53 lakh in fine. The department also collected current tax (Rs18.01 lakh). On December 19, 117 property owners paid Rs8.34 lakh arrears. They also cleared their penalty of Rs1.85 lakh and current tax amounting to Rs5.71 lakh. “Citizens coming forward to clear their dues is a good sign. They should pay the tax within the stipulated time frame which will be beneficial for both the owners as well as the NMC,” said standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke. Meanwhile, the One Time Settlement scheme for water tax defaulters will commence from December 21, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1333-property-owners-pay-rs1-43cr-dues-under-abhay-yojana-scheme/articleshow/79817452.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid spread at IIT-Madras may push back reopening of Telangana universities||HYDERABAD: The spread of Covid-19 at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras has got universities in Telangana worried on reopening of campuses. While many students are demanding reopening of varsities, authorities are jittery over students accommodation in hostels. As per the UGC guidelines, only one student should be allocated in each room. “Sharing of rooms may not be allowed in hostels. Symptomatic students should not be permitted to stay in the hostels under any circumstances,” reads the guidelines. Not just that, the UGC has also asked universities to quarantine outstation students for a period of 14 days. With educational institutions in other parts of the country emerging as Covid-19 clusters, it has drawn a blank on reopening plans of universities in Telangana. “Although we are keen to reopen by January-February, we intend to call students in a staggered manner wherein 50% will be called for two months of practicals and remaining 50% thereafter. Accommodation in hostel has to be worked out before we take the decision of phased return of post-graduation students,” said Prof Vinod Pavarala, task force chairman at University of Hyderabad. English and Foreign Languages University has decided to keep the university shut for physical classes for first semester. “The university will not be reopened atleast for another three months for now. We have procured thousands of e-books at a cost of Rs 2.50 crore that can be accessed by students as well as teachers. We intend to continue the online classes using these resources,” said Prof Suresh Kumar, vice-chancellor, EFLU. Telangana State Council of Higher Education’s plan to hold a meeting with all stakeholders to discuss reopening of state universities has also been kept on the backburner for now. The meeting is likely to be held later in the month following availability of education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-spread-at-iit-m-may-push-back-reopening-of-t-varsities/articleshow/79819038.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: In Alwar to kill businessman, fugitives gang-rape two women||ALWAR: In Alwar district to kill a businessman, five fugitives, including a murder convict checked into a three-star hotel in Neemrana, and gang-raped two women employees at gunpoint on Friday. Police evacuated the women to safety and arrested the accused. “The five entered the hotel and asked the manager if some sex workers could be arranged. Soon after, two of the accused barged into rooms in which the women staffers were sleeping and raped them at gunpoint while the other three stood guard outside,” a senior police officer stated on Saturday. The manager rushed to the nearby police chowky and informed cops that some guests had checked-in with arms and entered the employees’ rooms, following which Bhiwadi SP Rammoorti Joshi constituted teams and ordered personnel to cordon the hotel and its nearby areas. Cops raided the premises and arrested the five accused after rescuing the women. During interrogation, the accused confessed they had demanded a ransom of Rs 20 lakh from one Naresh Jat, chairman of a housing society in the area, and planned to kill the businessman if he didn’t pay up. The five were identified as Naresh Gujjar (24) — who was jailed in a murder case before getting out and jumping parole in April — Lokesh (27), Rahul (25), Danveer (21) and Prince Tiwari (21). Police seized two pistols and live cartridges from their possession, SP Joshi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-alwar-to-kill-bizman-fugitives-gang-rape-two/articleshow/79819033.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Sept-Nov property registration figures highest in past four years||Pune: Property registrations in the state in three months from September to November this year were the highest in comparison to the figures for the corresponding period in the past four years, and a record 17,308 documents were registered on Friday, the maximum single-day number after the Covid-19 outbreak, sending a positive vibe to the economy.A total of 7,96,617 documents were registered from September to November this year. The distant second for the corresponding period in the past four years is the figures of 2018, when 5,71,326 properties were registered .The number of documents registered till December 17 this year is also encouraging. As many as 2,36,414 properties have been registered this month so far in comparison to 2,39,292 in the entire December 2019 – the second highest for the month in the past four years.The state has so far mopped up a revenue of Rs11,463.85 crore, achieving almost 76% of the target of Rs15,000 crore.Data reveals that there was a 30% surge in registrations in September this year compared to 2019, followed by over 40% in October and 20% in November against the figures in the corresponding period last year.The data reveals that 73% properties were registered from April 1 to December 17 in 2020 in comparison to the numbers during the same period last year. On the other hand, 52% revenue was generated from April to December in 2020 as against same period in the last year.Attributing the surge in registrations to the stamp duty cut, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Even as transactions have increased, the revenue has suffered a bit. But we expect to make up for it by the end of the financial year.”In a bid to revive the real estate economy, the state government had cut the stamp duty payable on all transactions executed and registered between September 1 and December 31 this year by 3% and by 2% for the transactions registered between January 1 and March 31 next year. Several experts claimed that the duty cut pushed the number of registrations to the north in the past four months. There has been a sharp rise in property transactions across Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik and Nagpur following the move, snowballing into record 17,308 registrations in the state on Friday. The average number of single day registrations is around 9,000 in Maharashtra in a normal period. State inspector-general of registrations and stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said, “This (Friday’s figures) is a record and I believe that with two more weeks to go for the end of the month, another record may be set.” Credai vice-president Shantilal Kataria said the Friday’s record was a combined effect of low interest rates and the upfront concession on stamp duty. The fear of realtors passing on the increasing construction cost onto the buyers in near future might have given impetus to the registrations, a real estate expert said.“As income streams are coming back to normal, we believe t more buyers will come to the market before the financial year-end to make most of this opportune time to buy their dream homes,” added a realtor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sept-nov-property-registration-figures-highest-in-past-four-years/articleshow/79819672.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 620 new Covid cases, four fatalities||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Saturday recorded 627 new cases of Covid-19 and four deaths. With this, the case load in the state has reached 2,80,822 while the death toll is 1,510, so far. Meanwhile, at 6,942, the number of active cases has fallen below the 7,000 mark, a first in several months. With the recovery rate further improving to 97 per cent now, the state has a total of 2,72,370 patients who have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The case fatality rate is currently 0.53 per cent. Telangana has now crossed 64 lakh Covid-19 tests and has reached 1,71,979 samples being tested per million population. Of the total people tested on Saturday, 56 per cent were either primary or secondary contacts of people who have recently tested positive, while the remaining were new suspected cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-620-new-cases-four-fatalities/articleshow/79819042.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 5,000 incentive for intern doctors in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government on Saturday announced that an incentive allowance of Rs 5,000 per month will be paid to intern doctors who have performed the Covid-19 duty in hospitals attached to state-run medical colleges. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel made the announcement after holding a meeting with the chief secretary and other state government officials. “Interns will be paid the incentive allowance with effect from April this year till February next year, over and above the stipend they are paid,” said Patel. “Their stipend, which is currently about Rs 13,000 per month, will remain unchanged,” Patel added. Interns at government medical colleges and at those run by GMERS (Gujarat Medical & Education Research Society) are paid a stipend of Rs 12,800. At least 2,000 intern doctors at government hospitals as well as at facilities operated by GMERS went on a strike on Monday seeking a hike in stipend and a daily allowance for those on Covid-19 duty. The strike, however, was called off on Saturday after intern doctors held talks with Patel, the state health minister, and other senior government officials. The intern doctors who were on strike had sought a stipend of Rs 20,000. However, based on their agreement with the government, they will get Rs 17,800, including the allowance. States such as Maharashtra and West Bengal have been paying much higher stipends to intern doctors. “In West Bengal, interns get Rs 28,000 as the monthly stipend,” a source said. “In Delhi, they are paid Rs 1,000 per shift for an eight-hour shift and Rs 2,000 per shift for a 12-hour shift.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-5k-incentive-for-intern-docs/articleshow/79818230.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh ranks highest in digital transactions during pandemic||LUCKNOW: As the Covid-19 lockdown and subsequent restrictions forced more and more people to opt for digital transactions, UP recorded a massive 126% jump in digital transactions in 2020 compared to the previous year. A government spokesperson said, the state recorded the highest digital payments this year, compared to all other states in the country. “It is due to the sustained and focussed emphasis of chief minister Yogi Adityanath on assimilation of technology with the economy that people in the state have embraced digital transactions in such a big way,” he said. UP, with a population of about 24 crore, saw online transactions of Rs 176.45 crore till September — Rs 98.53 crore more than last year during the same period. The spokesperson said the highest payment of Rs 60.31 crore was made through the UPI platform. In second place were debit card payments to the tune of Rs 47.79 crore. Net banking of Rs 20.43 crore accounted for the third most used mode of transaction, while Rs 16.36 crore was transacted through other means. In addition, payments of Rs 11.47 crore were made from NEFT, Rs 6.90 crore through credit cards, Rs 6.61 crore via IMPS and Rs 6.59 crore through Aadhaar.Meanwhile, the State Bank of India has identified Siddharthnagar and Firozabad districts as digital districts with an objective of promoting digital payments within a year. The Reserve Bank of India has set a deadline of March 31, 2021, to complete this project. Siddharthnagar is one of the statistical districts selected by the Government of India for digitalisation. “The CM had instructed banks to promote digital transactions during the pandemic and had said that people should know and use technology for speed and transparency in work,” the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-logs-126-rise-in-digital-payment-during-pandemic/articleshow/79819674.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||DCP traffic suspends cop for letting off violator||Nagpur: DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad suspended a traffic policeman and ordered a departmental inquiry for reportedly letting off a youth who was caught driving on the wrong side at Jhansi Rani Square. Awad said at around 4pm, when he was in his chamber in Civil Lines, spotted constable Gokul Pawar in one of the CCTV cameras installed at Rani Jhansi Square. “At first Pawar intercepted the two-wheeler rider coming from the wrong side. After having some discussion with the violator, the duo went off the camera’s focus. After some time, the violator returned to his parked two-wheeler and left,” said Awad. Suspecting foul play, Awad checked with the CCTV control room whether Pawar had issued any challan to a two-wheeler rider between 4pm and 4.30pm. The DCP office also checked the dashboard of device data being used to penalize the violator. It too showed no challan was issued to the particular two-wheeler number. The order said that the cop’s act is highly objectionable and amounts to misconduct, indiscipline and misuse of official position. Such an act has tarnished the image of police in general and traffic police in particular, the order read. The DCP then ordered a departmental inquiry by Sadar traffic zone senior PI against Pawar. Preliminary inquiry established that Pawar had conducted some misdeed. After he nabbed the violator, it was clearly visible in the CCTV camera that the youth was requesting the constable to let him off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcp-traffic-suspends-cop-for-letting-off-violator/articleshow/79817472.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Tests halt third Covid-19 wave in Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the third Covid wave, which struck the capital towards the end of October and climbed to its peak in November, was now under control. The positivity rate was 15% in November and has now declined to 1.3% while active cases that had touched 45,000 last month have now come down to just 12,000, the CM said in a press conference. “Delhi has a recovery rate of 96.5%; there were 131 deaths on November 19, but now, it has come down to 37. The figures are very less compared with other states,” he added. Kejriwal, however, advised all not to let their guard down till the time the vaccine is available and to continue following Covid norms. “The third wave in Delhi is over. In the month of November, once Covid single-day cases touched 8,600. Not only in India, but also across the globe this was the highest number of Covid-19 cases reported in a day from a city. The citizens stood firm with Delhi government and helped us bring the situation under control,” Kejriwal said. Kejriwal referred to New York’s Covid situation in the first week of April to show how the situation was better in Delhi. “New York city reported 6,300 cases in one day. Then it was the highest number of cases reported in a single day and Covid patients were lying outside the hospitals of New York and on the streets. But in Delhi when 8,600 cases were reported in a day, even then the situation was under control. In Delhi, Covid patients were not lying on the streets or the corridors of hospitals. The management of the pandemic in Delhi was very strong,” Kejriwal said. Lauding the role of doctors, healthcare professionals, officials and other Covid warriors, the CM said the deaths would further go down as the government was working on it. “Until August 20, we were conducting 20,000 tests per day. Then the second wave of Covid pandemic hit Delhi and we asked the officials to increase the number of testing. Within 10 days, Delhi conducted 60,000 tests per day. When the third wave hit Delhi, we increased the number of tests per day from 60,000 to 90,000. This number is highest across India and also across the globe. Today, Delhi is conducting 4,500 tests per 10 lakh population in a day. The number of tests per 10 lakh population is 670 in Uttar Pradesh, 800 in Gujarat, 4,300 in the US and 4,800 in the UK,” Kejriwal said adding that the situation was brought under control because Delhi government conducted genuine tests and did not manipulate the numbers. “In November, there was a time when 9,500 beds were occupied in Delhi but on that day also, around 7,000 beds were empty. Today around 3,400 beds are full and all the other beds are empty,” Kejriwal said. He stressed that Delhi gave the world various new techniques to fight Covid pandemic, including plasma therapy and home isolation model. Delhi was the first state to announce Rs 1crore financial assistance to the family in the case of Covid warriors' deaths in the line of duty, he added. The CM also thanked the central government for support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tests-halt-3rd-covid-wave-in-city-cm/articleshow/79819047.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials in Telangana on alert for second Covid wave||HYDERABAD: Being two months behind states like New Delhi and Kerala in witnessing the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the threat of a second wave remains despite numbers remaining under control in Telangana.  State health authorities are expecting numbers to rise by end of January. The micro clusters, if any, including 10-20 cases being reported from a single locality, are being investigated further. “It is possible that in such cases they might have gone for a marriage function or attended a party. We are trying to understand the cause, do contact-tracing and isolate the suspected patients apart from stepping up testing,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana state. Meanwhile, sources say that districts now have a daily target of testing 3,000 to 5,000 persons. Apart from GHMC limits—which is seeing around 15,000 tests per day—10 districts which have recorded more cases have aggressive targets set for testing. “There has been a consistent increase in testing targets in certain districts, based on number of cases recorded. With mobile testing, we are covering nearly double the number of people as compared to two months back,” said a source from Bhadadri Kothagudem district. While on one hand we are keeping the surveillance up at the micro level, we are also studying areas and localities where the number of cases have come down||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-on-alert-for-2nd-covid-wave/articleshow/79819044.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||33-day low tally for state||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours added 1,026 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the tally to 2.34 lakh. It was the lowest daily cases in the past 33 days. Likewise, the state recorded deaths of seven positive patients, taking the death toll to 4,227. It was the lowest daily death toll in 29 days. Analysis of the cases revealed that 58% of the cases were recorded from eight major cities of the state. Ahmedabad city recorded 211 cases, which were the lowest in 33 days. The city is recording four deaths since December 17. It was also the 31-day low daily testing at 54,365, giving the positivity rate of 1.9%. With the update, the state had 12,127 active cases, which consisted of about 5.2% of total cases. The share of discharged and deceased patients out of the total was 93% and 1.8% respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33-day-low-tally-for-state/articleshow/79818152.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Food, civil supplies dept awarded for digitalisation use||Lucknow: UP’s food and civil supplies department has been selected for the ‘Excellence in Digital Governance’ award. the President will give away the award on December 30. UP’s food commissioner Manish Chauhan said that all states were asked to make a presentation on projects and innovative techniques adopted to promote digitalization. “On the basis of these presentations, the food and civil supplies department was selected for the honour,” Chauhan said. He said that as per directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to promote digitalization and bring in transparency in every field, the food and civil supplies department has aggressively used online and transparent techniques for procurement of grains, payment to farmers and in the public distribution system through which foodgrain and essentials have been distributed to lakhs of beneficiaries, including during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The state government has implemented the online system of procurement for wheat, paddy and maize, for the dispatch of these items from purchase centres to Food Corporation of India depots, billing and subsequent payment to farmers directly into their accounts through PFMS portal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/food-civil-supplies-dept-awarded-for-digitalisation-use/articleshow/79819696.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Police raid 5 app-based loan firms in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A day after a software engineer committed suicide allegedly due to the harassment of app-based instant financing loan firm, Cyberabad police raided five different offices, which are into instant financing business. Though no one was taken into custody, officials are looking into various aspects as part of collecting the evidence. “These offices are similar to call centres. We will serve notices to question the officials of these companies. The raids are in continuation to the previous raids in connection with the five cases registered with us,’’ Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police (crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini told TOI.  In Cyberabad, five cases were registered. The police are treating these as cases of stalking besides slapping charges like intimidation under the TS Money Lenders Act. So far eight cases were registered in the Hyderabad commissionerate and the victims in all these cases are women. In Cyberabad, five cases were registered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-raid-5-app-based-loan-firms/articleshow/79819052.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers’ road blockade set to hit year-end tourism in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With protesting farmers blocking Delhi-Jaipur highway, the tourism industry is gasping for breath as holidayers from major domestic source markets like Delhi, Gurugram and Noida have started cancelling or postponing trips to Jaipur and other destinations in Rajasthan. After a decline in new Covid cases and a bumper wedding season, optimism had returned to the hospitality industry. But industry veterans said if the protests and road blockades stretch by another week, it will deal a heavy blow to the year-end rush the industry was counting on. “As such, there are cancellations happening as people are unable to drive down and afraid of getting caught in possible violence. These cancellations are for immediate days. But if the road blocks continue for another week, the industry is likely to lose even the year-end business as well,” said Sunil Mehta, a resorts owner. Another hotelier in the city confirmed that cancellations have come in due to the farmers’ protests and the whole industry is keeping its fingers crossed now. “Actually, the industry had never factored in a risk to business like the farmers’ protest affecting movement of tourists. The industry was already waging a battle for survival. We can only hope for an early resolution to the impasse. Otherwise, it will cost the hospitality industry dearly,” said Rajesh Rajpurohit, general manager of a leading hotel. Rajpurohit said the bookings for the last week of December still remain unaffected but if there is no early resolution to the protests, it would be hard to save the bookings. Jaipur, Pushkar, Sawai Madhopur, and other destinations in the region get large number of tourists from Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida and even Chandigarh. Due to the Covid pandemic, people avoid flights, trains and buses and prefer to travel by their own cars. “Unless the Jaipur-Delhi highway is cleared, no tourist will travel to Jaipur,” said another hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-road-blockade-set-to-hit-year-end-tourism-in-state/articleshow/79818143.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Loan apps’ representatives in Hyderabad faked FIRs for money recovery||HYDERABAD: From hurling invectives and group shaming on WhatsApp to sending out fake FIRs and legal notices, representatives of these app-based instant financing platforms did it all, in the name of recovering their loans. In fact investigators and victims STOI spoke to said that the callers were trained in intimidating defaulters — be it men or women. “Hey chor ka baap, WhatsApp group create kar ke badnam karu kya? (You father of a thief, shall I defame you by starting a WhatsApp group’...This was the opening sentence of a female executive, from one of these financing platforms, who called the father after his son defaulted on his payment,” said an official associated with the case, adding, “Similar calls, ridden with abuses landed on his phone — and that of other family members — every day.” A victim that STOI reached out to had a similar story to share. “My wife is a school teacher. She and my mother also had callers using such objectionable language. My wife had to attend these calls even while taking classes,’’ the victim said. Given that operating systems of smart phones allow these app aggregators to do business, victims and their families feel that they too should be taken to task for promoting such illegal financiers who are playing with the lives of people. “It is the failure of multiple agencies — including TRAI, Income Tax, RBI, WhatsApp etc — to crack down on these app that are mushrooming on online market places,” said a victim’s father. Since many a times executives do not have incoming facility on their phones, calling them back becomes impossible for the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loan-apps-reps-faked-firs-for-money-recovery/articleshow/79819046.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||PM Narendra Modi lying, trying to mislead the farmers: Sayunkt Kisan Morcha||Jaipur: Leaders of Sayunkt Kisan Morcha, Rajasthan, on Saturday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Friday speech was “full of lies and unfounded claims” and that he was trying to mislead farmers. While addressing farmers of Madhya Pradesh, Modi had said the Centre was serious about guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for their produce. “The speech delivered by Modi yesterday was full of lies and unfounded claims. Millions of farmers are now on the streets around Delhi in this cold weather facing BJP government’s oppression. Their only demand is to immediately repeal all three anti-farmer laws,” said the leader during the press conference at Alwar’s Shahajahanpur on Rajasthan-Haryana border. Among the leaders present at the press conference were Viju Krishnan, Ranjit Singh Raju, Balwan Poonia, Yogendra Yadav, Amra Ram, Foolchand Dheva and Purushottam Parmar. Meanwhile, Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Ram Pal Jat said, “Under Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA), 75% of the total production of oilseeds and pulses like - mustard, groundnut, sunflower, soybean, sesame, ramtil, moong, urad, arhar, lentil and gram - have been excluded from purchase at the minimum support price (MSP). This has led to a situation of falling income of the farmers. Despite this, the prime minister is constantly talking about continuation of the minimum support price (MSP). Not only this, they are even saying that they are ready to give written assurance to the representatives of the farmers on MSP. This is nothing but misleading the farmers.” “There is a possibility of a loss of Rs 117 crore in the purchase of gram and groundnut in Rajasthan alone due to non-procurement by the central government even up to 25% of the total production. The government is hell bent on stopping purchases even up to 25%. However, in Madhya Pradesh, 27.1% gram was purchased secretly to win Madhya Pradesh by-elections. This is discrimination against farmers of other states.” he added. Meanwhile, Gujjar leader Himmat Singh-led farmers’ group has also threatened to block railway line in protest against the three farm laws. The farmers will organize “Sraddhanjali” in every villages and towns of the state on Sunday to pay homage to all the farmers who have died during the agitation. They also organised a candle march on Saturday evening. “The Modi government is trying to ignore the farmers’ movement and is not paying attention to their hardships. The BJP-RSS and Modi government have a misconception that they will be able to crush, break and thwart the movement. But this time the farmers are firmly resolved and they will teach the government a lesson and force them to bow down,” said the leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-lying-trying-to-mislead-the-farmers/articleshow/79818148.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Pandemic eclipses NBRI flower show’s spectacle||Lucknow: For the first time in 50 years, people will not be able to enjoy the annual chrysanthemum and coleus flower show organised every December by CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI). The institute has decided to cancel the show-cum-competition due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Uncertainty also looms over the equally popular rose and gladiolus show held in January. NBRI director Prof SK Barik said preparations had begun for flower show, but it has been cancelled due to the rise in Covid-19 cases. “We can’t put people’s health at stake. NBRI flower show gets good response and the lawn gets crowded. This show cannot be deferred to January because by then the season of these flowers will end. As a result, we decided to cancel it,” he added. NBRI would review the pandemic situation later this month before deciding on rose and gladiolus show. Chief scientist SK Tiwari, head of botanic garden and plant division, said more than 100 exhibitors participate in flower shows, and footfall is more than 2,000. “Such a huge gathering could be a risk. We have been holding the show for 50 years without break, but this time, flower enthusiasts need to understand,” he said. Lt Col (territorial army) Prashant Kumar Singh, serving as chief mechanical engineer, North Central Railway in Prayagraj, who has been participating in the show since 1985, said the decision is in the interest of people. Nidhi Singh, who has also been participating in the show for many years, said, “We start preparations for the show four months in advance. We try to bag an award every year, but this pandemic has spoiled everything. But, as a responsible citizen, we should avoid all activities which can lead to rapid spread of the virus.” Gardening enthusiast Mamta Verma, who runs a play school said, “Obviously we will miss the flower show, but we can give up something we love for a year for the sake of people’s health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-eclipses-nbri-flower-shows-spectacle/articleshow/79819702.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-mayor blocks entire road for son’s wedding||NAGPUR: Former mayor Nanda Jichkar courted controversy by erecting a pandal for her son’s wedding on a public road outside her house in Gittikhadan Layout in Pratap Nagar. The office of DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad said no permission was given to block the entire road. Assistant municipal commissioner (Laxmi Nagar Zone) Ganesh Rathore said his office gave conditional permission to Jichkar to erect the pandal on half the road. Rathore, however, clarified that no permission was given to fully occupy the road. He added that a junior engineer from Laxmi Nagar Zone was sent to check whether the entire road was blocked or not. After officials visited the spot, the blockade was partially opened. “We asked them to remove a partial portion of the pandal,” said Rathore. Jichkar’s husband is a retired RTO. “Only two days’ permission (December 19 and 20) was given to erect the pendal,” said Rathore, adding, a penalty will be levied for violating norms. “The DCP’s office also asked Sonegaon traffic zone to visit the site. The cop visited Gittikhadan Layout and found the entire road blocked,” said a senior PI. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B assured of action if guidelines weren’t followed. Residents of Gittikhadan Layout told TOI that the marriage of Jichkar’s youngest son was solemnised on Saturday, but the entire road in front of her house was blocked since the last two days. The pandal was erected at night, said residents who were inconvenienced since Thursday morning. “Might is right for a particular class of people. It doesn’t matter if the public is inconvenienced. The city’s former first citizen (March 2017-November 2019) appears to be (mis)leading by example,” said traffic expert and high court lawyer Anjan Chatterjee. Another high court lawyer, Tushar Mandlekar, said, “Jichkar’s example shows the inept and casual approach of both the city police and NMC.” A few months before Jichkar took charge as mayor, the Bombay High Court’s Nagpur bench had on August 8, 2016, ruled that “There should be no obstruction to the free flow of traffic and citizens on account of erection of temporary structures.” The NMC had informed the court about its toll free helplines (0712-2532474 and 1800-233-3764). It had even assured the court via an affidavit that the identity of the inconvenienced complainant(s) would not be revealed and henceforth, no road would block the flow of traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-mayor-blocks-entire-road-for-sons-wedding/articleshow/79817492.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Covaxin’s phase 3 trials on 1,000 volunteers to complete on Dec 31||JAIPUR: Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin phase 3 trials on 1,000 volunteers in Jaipur will be completed on December 31. It is likely that the number of volunteers may increase. In the first three days, 200 volunteers received the first dose. The doctors at the private hospital, where the trial is being conducted, are taking blood samples for some common tests and to check if Covid-19 recovered volunteers already have antibodies. "Among those who have been given trial doses, some are medical and healthcare professionals. We are receiving a lot of queries from them and from people from different walks of life. We have to administer 1,000 doses but it may increase and we are in constant touch with the company," said Dr Manish Jain, principal investigator of the clinical trials. The second dose of the vaccine will be given after 28 days of getting the first dose. The third phase of Covaxin trial has been launched in Jaipur, funded by Indian Council of Medical Research in cooperation with National Institute of Virology, Pune. The principal investigator claimed that they have enough volunteers registered for the phase 3 trials of Covaxin as no serious side-effects have been reported in the first three days of the trial. It is an indigenous vaccine for which residents of Jaipur are volunteering. Mahendra Jeet Singh Malviya, MLA from Bagidora, is among the 200 persons who have received the trial dose of the vaccine and he appealed to the public representatives to volunteer for the trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covaxins-phase-3-trials-on-1000-volunteers-to-complete-on-dec-31/articleshow/79818193.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIT-M corona outbreak sets alarm bells ringing||Ahmedabad: The 183 Covid-19 positive case in a matter of fortnight at IIT Madras (IIT-M) set the alarm bells ringing across the residential educational campuses in India, and Gujarat is no exception. Several premier educational institutes – ranging from IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) to IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn) – are residential in nature due to demand of the course design. While some institutes have waited for the government directives to re-open the campuses, several are up and running with limited capacity. IIM-A Covid-19 dashboard points at 108 positive cases since September 1. Out of the total, 97 have recovered till December 17, mentioned the dashboard. In an email response, IIM-A officials said that the institute has allowed students with genuine reasoning to come to the campus. They added that the students undergo medical examination upon arrival and within a week, undergo rapid antigen test (RAT). ‘Two resident medical officers are proactively helping the community members... We have created two classrooms with oxygen cylinders and other accessories to help any community member needing such help,’ mentioned the response. While information or status of the students could not be obtained from IIT-Gn and PDPU when the article went to the print, the National Institute of Design (NID) registrar Rekha Nair mentioned in email response that NID has not allowed students to return to the campus yet. ‘Appropriate guidelines (for re-opening) are being worked out based on various academic requirements and advisories by the state and central government,’ mentioned the response. Sunjay Chandwani, head (estate and administration) at MICA, said that the institute opened the campus in phased manner since October. ‘A total of 86 students are currently on campus. They have been allowed after their and their parents’ undertaking. We allowed only those students with genuine reasons and thus have set specific parameters for the same,’ said the response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iit-m-corona-outbreak-sets-alarm-bells-ringing/articleshow/79818227.cms||Parth Shastri
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Krishna pipeline breaches, a million gallons of water goes down the drain||HYDERABAD: Even as a high-level meeting, chaired by MA&UD minister K Taraka Rama Rao with officials over supplying 20,000 litres of free water to each household was underway, nearly a million gallons of potable water has gone down the drain after a Krishna drinking water supply trunk main suffered a breach at Langar Houz around noon. The breach occurred just 100 metres away from the main road opposite pillar number 53 of PVNR Expressway. As the pipeline burst suddenly, water spray shot to a height of over 20-feet, almost touching overhead HT lines. Usually, the Aramghar-Mehdipatnam stretch is chock-a-block with vehicles, but on Saturday traffic was thin. Commuters who were passing on the stretch were shocked after they witnessed large volumes of water gushing on to the road. With the explosion, nearly 300 metre length of the B T road got damaged and gravel was strewn all over the place. “Water gushed out continuously from the pipeline bursted,” Mohammad Mehraj, a shopkeeper of an apparel outlet, told TOI. Initially, HMWS&SB officials suspected Bhagyanagar Gas Limited (BGL) had taken up earth excavation work without supervision of water board officials and it led to the pipeline getting damaged. “A couple of days ago, we had noticed water leaking in the area where BGL officials were attending earth excavation works to lay underground gas pipeline. On Saturday, while we are planning to arrest the leakage, the pipeline suddenly burst and water gushed from the 1,000-mm dia pipeline, which supplies Krishna water (phase-II) to the Old City areas,” HMWS&SB general manager, (O&M Division-I) Hari Shankar told TOI. “I was just 10 metres away from the spot and escaped miraculously or else I would have been thrown into the air,” Shankar added. Soon after the incident, the water board has lodged a complaint against BGL officials with the Langar Houz police, stating that due to their negligence the water pipeline got damaged and precious water got wasted. Water board officials swung into action to replace the damaged portion of the pipe. “We took up replacement of the pipeline, hope to complete it by midnight and restore water supply soon,” the official said. Nearly 20,000 to 30,000 consumers of the Old City might get affected due to the breach, the manager added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/krishna-pipeline-breaches-a-million-gallons-of-water-goes-down-the-drain/articleshow/79819056.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pipeline burst holds up traffic||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of vehicles were stranded in a traffic jam for about half an hour on Aramghar-Mehdipatnam stretch (from pillar No. 53 to pillar No. 70 of PVNR Expressway) on Saturday following the pipeline burst. Tolichowki traffic sub inspector Ailaiah, who was on duty, rushed to the spot and diverted traffic from pillar No. 68. “Within no time, I reached the water leakage spot and found that water was gushing up to the height of PVNR Expressway. Immediately, I alerted the police control room and HMWS&SB officials,” Ailaiah told STOI. Luckily, none of the commuters was hurt in the incident. Traffic cops regulated traffic coming from Aramghar, Attapur and Rethibowli and proceeding towards Mehdipatnam and Tolichowki. Water overflowed up to half a km on the main road. Traffic movement was restored after the water flow receded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pipeline-burst-holds-up-traffic/articleshow/79819058.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports below 1,000 cases first time in 148 days||JAIPUR: For the first time in 148 days, the state’s daily Covid count dipped below 1,000, recording 989 infections on Saturday, which took the tally to 2,98,081. The graph of daily infections has been going down over the past since November 24 and it has now reported lowest single-day spike in almost five months. On July 24, the state had reported 958 cases. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died taking the state’s toll to 2,608. During the same period, 1,259 recovered taking the tally of such persons to 2,82,631. The percentage of recovered cases rose to 94.8. Jaipur’s count of recovered cases breached the 50,000 mark as it touched 50,445 with 465 more being declared being cured. Apart from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur, all the other 29 districts reported less than 50 new infections. “Though Covid cases have gone down, it is not the time to lower our guards. People should continue taking precautions such as wearing face mask and avoid crowded places along with following social distancing norms,” said a health department official. Though the daily new infection graph has been going down for more than 20 days, the positivity rate remains almost the same. On December 16, the positivity rate was 6.03%, which was 6.04% on November 29. Sriganganagar has highest positivity rate at 11.2% while Karauli has lowest positivity rate 2.71%. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (205), Jodhpur (102), Kota (89), Udaipur (64), Bhilwara (49), Pali (38), Alwar (36), Bharatpur (35), Ajmer (35), Dungarpur (34), Bundi (31), Nagaur (30), Rajsamand (29), Baran (28), Chittorgarh (22), Jhalawar (19), Sirohi (18), Sawai Madhopur (18), Jaisalmer (16), Tonk (12), Jhunjhunu (10), Bikaner (10), Banswara (10), Sikar (9), Dausa (7), Barmer (6), Pratapgarh (6), Dholpur (5), Churu (4), Sriganganagar (4), Hanumangarh (3), Jalore (3) and Karauli (2). Two persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 488, Kota 162nd, Sikar 92nd, Nagaur 89th, Ajmer 213rd, Alwar 76th, Jalore 48th and Baran reported its 33rd Covid-19 death. Remdesivir price cap The government has put a cap on remdesivir injection prices in private hospitals for Covid patients. Doctors in private hospitals were charging Rs 4,000 per injection. For a course of six injections, a patient had to pay Rs 24,000. But, now the government has put a cap and private hospitals will not be able to charge more than Rs 2,800 for a single dose of remdesivir injections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-below-1000-cases-first-time-in-148-days/articleshow/79818189.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot blames Centre for failure to waive farmers’ loans||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday blamed the Centre for the failure of the Congress’ poll promise to waive farmers’ loans from various scheduled and commercial banks. Claiming that he had waived Rs 15,000 crore of farmers’ loans from the state’s cooperative banks, the chief minister, while talking to reporters in Delhi, said he has been unable to waive loans from various nationalised and commercial banks owing to the lack of cooperation from the Centre. He said the nationalised banks come under the purview of the Centre which is dithering on directing banks to waive their loans to farmers. “We have waived farmers’ loans from cooperatives banks, but nationalised banks comes under the Centre and the RBI. They are not able to waive loans as the Centre is not cooperating,” Gehlot said. “We have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct nationalised banks to waive farmers’ loans just like they do it for corporates. They have not decided on it as yet. So, the fault is of the Centre,” Gehlot asserted. State cooperative Minister Udaylal Anjana said due to lack of cooperation from the nationalised banks, the waiving of loans taken from them has not happened as yet. “The state government will do its part if we get cooperation from the nationalised banks. Waiving loans taken from the nationalised and commercial banks is possible if banks agree to waive a part of it. If they do it, the government can give a fixed percentage of the amount,” Anjana told reporters. Ahead of the Rajasthan assembly elections in 2018, former Congress President Rahul Gandhi had promised to waive farmers’ loans within 10 days, if his party is voted to power in the state. After the Congress emerged victorious, an order issued by the state cooperative department on December 19, 2018 said all short-term crop loans availed by eligible farmers from state cooperative banks up to Rs 2 lakh, outstanding as on November 30, 2018 would be waived off. As per the Cooperative Department, the state government has waived short-term crop loans of Rs 15,000 crore of 20.81 lakh farmers. Meanwhile, opposition BJP has been hammering the Congress government on the issue for long. BJP state president said the then Congress president had promised that its government will waive entire loans of farmers within 10 days of assuming power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-blames-centre-for-failure-to-waive-farmers-loans/articleshow/79818167.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||India sees 26.7k infections, 350 deaths; active cases near 3L||As in most of this week, India’s daily Covid-19 cases remained in the 26,000-28,000 range on Saturday even as the count of active cases in the country dipped closer to the 3-lakh mark. India reported 26,754 fresh cases while recording 350 fatalities from the virus on Saturday, as per data collated from state governments. The tally of fresh cases has remained close to this range since Tuesday, a discernable drop from last week’s counts which were close to or slightly more than 30,000. The death toll has stayed close to 350 for eight days now although this is a clear drop from the count in previous weeks. The overall death toll in the country has climbed to 1,45,467. Kerala continued to report the highest number of fresh cases in the country, with 6,293 new infections detected in the state on Saturday. This was a jump from Friday’s count of 5,456 in the state. Maharashtra reported 3,940 fresh cases, the second highest count in the country, followed by Bengal (2,155), Chhattisgarh (1,368) and Uttar Pradesh (1,226). New cases in Delhi dropped to 1,139, the lowest single-day count in the capital since August. Maharashtra again reported the highest deaths at 74, followed by Bengal (43), Delhi (32), Kerala (29) and Uttar Pradesh (26).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-sees-26-7k-infections-350-deaths-active-cases-near-3l/articleshow/79819810.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Surge in foreign students likely in US universities’||Ahmedabad: With a change of guard in the US government coupled with the beginning of the coronavirus vaccination drive in the country, universities in the US expect a surge in foreign students enrolling for several courses, according to experts. A webinar on “USA continues to be preferred destination for students”, was organised by the Gujarat Branch of Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC) in Ahmedabad on Friday.“There is pent up demand, we expect a surge in student enrolments to US universities when it becomes safe to travel again. We see students getting visas from January,” said B Vincent Milam, Assistant Director, International Recruitment at INTO Washington State University, during the webinar. The pandemic has impacted international student enrolments to US universities, which declined by 43% for Fall season 2020, according to IACC. Universities are also seeing more deferrals, estimated at 40,000 in the season thanks to the pandemic.The US education system is also upbeat about the positive impact incoming US president Joe Biden, a staunch supporter of immigration, on foreign student enrollments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/surge-in-foreign-students-likely-in-us-universities/articleshow/79818209.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Surat||1,180 SVNIT students get degrees at 18th convocation||Surat: Altogether 1,180 students were awarded degrees at the 18th annual convocation of Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) on Friday in an event organized online. The convocation was addressed by union education minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. Of the awardees, 26 won gold medals while 720 from Bachelor of Technology, 262 Master of Technology, 87 PhD and 111 Master of Science received their degree certificates. In his address Pokhriyal appreciated the initiatives taken up by the institute for start-ups and appealed to students to become job givers than be job seekers. He stressed the need for research and development and the significance of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ dream by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Guest of the event, advisor to CEO and MD of L&T Heavy Engineering, Y S Trivedi, inspired the fresh graduates with his eight-point mantra. He described importance of choosing an accessible role model, emphasizing on seeking finer details for value addition, learning to accept failure and work fearlessly, striving for attaining higher spiritual level through life balance and never miss the opportunity to help others grow in life as well as to give back to the society among many other values. In his address, director of SVNIT S R Gandhi highlighted that 547 students got recruited through campus interviews. “Top companies like HSCB, Amazon, NXp Semiconductors, Intel, Samsung, John Deere, Ircon, L&T and Godrej Honeywell visited the campus,” Gandhi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/1180-svnit-students-get-degrees-at-18th-convocation/articleshow/79817507.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court seeks report on aid to auto drivers||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered the state government to follow court directions issued earlier and hold meetings with associations of autorickshaw drivers to simplify the procedure for financial assistance to them in these distressing Covid times. On a contempt petition filed by the associations for not obeying court orders, the bench headed by Justice R M Chhaya on Friday requested the government pleader to see that court directions are complied with as expeditiously as possible. The court sought a compliance report by January 11, said K R Koshti, the petitioners’ advocate. On September 16, the high court asked the state government to rise to the occasion and render meaningful help to citizens during this pandemic. In response to the PIL filed by auto drivers for financial assistance, the court said it cannot direct the government to emulate other states, who have extended financial support to auto and taxi drivers. When the HC insisted on simplifying the process for Atmanirbhar loans to auto drivers, the state government also promised it would do the needful in this regard. Last month, the HC issued a contempt notice after auto drivers’ associations complained that the government did not respond to their demands and this was a violation of the court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-seeks-report-on-aid-to-auto-drivers/articleshow/79818228.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 1,139 new Covid-19 cases logged, lowest in four months||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported only 1,139 single-day Covid cases on Saturday, lowest in nearly four months even after 87,330 tests were carried out in the preceding 24 hours. The positivity rate declined to 1.3%, one of the lowest so far, and 32 deaths were reported. On August 24, the capital had reported 1,061 cases but the total number of tests conducted then was only 11,910. Delhi has so far reported 6.1 lakh Covid positive cases, out of which 5.9 lakh people have recovered and 10,251 people have died. Over 77 lakh tests — 4 lakh per million population — have been conducted. A majority of the Covid patients of the city have recovered from home isolation and currently out of 10,358 active cases, 5,943 patients are under home isolation. Of 18,770 Covid beds, 15,655 beds are vacant in the city. The Covid cases started coming down in the capital after the government increased tests. Up to 90,000 tests have been conducted in the city in one day with gold standard RT-PCR being almost half of the total tests. It helped the government in early identification of the infected people and trace their contacts and take appropriate measures for containment and treatment. The number of containment zones is also decreasing and has come down below 6,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-records-1139-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-1-3/articleshow/79819094.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Patna||S K Singhal finally made full-time DGP of Bihar||PATNA: Ending all speculations, the government on Saturday appointed S K Singhal as full-time DGP of the state. Singhal, who hails from Punjab, is a 1988 batch Bihar cadre IPS officer. He will superannuate on August 31, 2021. Singhal was holding the additional charge of the post after the then DGP, Gupteshwar Pandey, took voluntary retirement on September 22. Singhal was the DG of home guard and fire services then. Home department sources said the names of Singhal, Pandey and other suitable officers were sent to panel of Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) by state government at the time of selection of new DGP after K S Dwivedi’s superannuation. “Pandey was selected as DGP by the panel from the list that time. As Singhal’s name was already available, he has been made the new DGP of the state,” a senior home department officer said. Dinesh Singh Bist, a 1987-batch IPS officer, posted as DG of Bihar State Sports Authority, is the only officer senior to Singhal in the state. IPS officers Kumar Rajesh Chandra (1985), Sheel Vardhan Singh (1986) and A Sema Rajan (1987) are on central deputation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/singhal-finally-made-full-time-dgp-of-bihar/articleshow/79818092.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 20, 2020||Varanasi||‘Dead man’ excited to see the saga of his struggle on big screen||VARANASI: Lal Bihari Mritak, a resident of Azamgarh district who remained ‘dead’ in revenue records for 18 years, is excited to know that a biopic on his struggle to be declared alive in government records is complete and due to release early next year. The biographical movie on Bihari — ‘Kaagaz’ — written and directed by Satish Kaushik is scheduled to released on January 7, 2021 in UP’s cinemas and also on the OTT platform simultanously. “I am very happy that my struggle managed to catch the attention of moviemakers also and will be known to many more people through the film,” an elated Bihari told TOI. “I am eagerly waiting for the premiere of the movie and want to see it,” he added. In the film, actor Pankaj Tripathi has portrayed the character of Bihari. The movie on corruption and flaws in the system also stars Monal Gajjar, Mita Vashisht, Amar Upadhyay and Satish Kaushik. The film is based on the life and struggle of Bihari, who had to struggle long to prove that he is alive after he was declared dead in the land revenue records. Bihari remained officially dead between 1975 and 1994. He fought with the bureaucracy for 19 years to prove that he is alive. Meanwhile, he added Mritak (dead) to his name, and founded the Mritak Sangh to highlight the plight of similar people declared dead in records in a conspiracy for usurping their property. Bihari came to know that he was declared dead in revenue records when he applied for a bank loan. His uncle had bribed an official to register him as dead and got the ownership of his ancestral land transferred in his name. Over the years, Bihari tried various ingenious ways to expose the bungling in records and attract attention to his plight. He organized his own funeral, and even applied for a widow pension for his wife. He also went on to contest elections to prove that he is alive. In 1994, Bihari finally managed to have his official death annulled after a long legal struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dead-man-excited-to-see-the-saga-of-his-struggle-on-big-screen/articleshow/79819709.cms||Binay Singh
December 20, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man awarded death for 3-year-old’s rape, murder||PATNA: A special POCSO court in Samastipur sentenced a 30-year-old man to death on Saturday for raping and brutally killing a three-year-old girl more than two years ago. The convict, Ramlal Mahto, was virtually present before the court when the sentence was pronounced, three days after he was found guilty by the court. Special public prosecutor (POCSO Act, Samastipur) Vinod Kumar told TOI over the phone that the court observed that the case was most heinous, and the act of the convict was brutal. “The court pronounced the sentence under Sections 376 and 302 of Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POSCO) Act,” he said. Kumar said the incident took place at a village under Dalsinghsarai police station area of Samastipur on June 2, 2018. “The victim was playing with her seven-year-old brother outside the home of their maternal grandparents when Mahto came. The accused threw dust in the eyes of the boy and picked up the girl and vanished from the spot,” he said. The special public prosecutor said the next day, villagers along with the girl’s family members found her body in a field. “The minor girl’s head was smashed using a heavy object. Police later arrested Mahto based on evidence and statements,” he said. Kumar further said that the girl had come with her mother and brother to visit her maternal grandparents at Dalsinghsarai for a few days. Kumar said though the forensic analysis report said no spermatozoa were found, the medical board constituted for conducting the autopsy had clearly stated in its report that the minor was sexually assaulted before being killed. “Her brother’s deposition before the court was the most crucial for the prosecution. He identified Mahto as the one who had taken away his sister after which she was found dead the next morning,” he said. The public prosecutor said, “The sentence would have been pronounced several months back, but it got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-awarded-death-for-3-year-olds-rape-murder/articleshow/79818019.cms||Debashish Karmakar
December 20, 2020||Patna||Cold wave in Gaya, Patna shivers at 6°C||PATNA: Mercury took a nosedive in Bihar on Saturday morning with Patna, Gaya and several other places in the state experiencing the season’s lowest minimum temperature so far. While Gaya shivered at 3.6 degrees C, the minimum in Patna stood at 6 degrees C. Any respite from the bone-chilling cold soon is unlikely as the Patna Meteorological Centre has issued a cold wave alert across Bihar on Sunday, except for a few districts in the eastern parts of the state. Gaya is already in the grip of cold wave conditions. Cold wave is declared when the actual minimum temperature is 10 degrees C or lower along with a departure of 4.5 to 6.4 degrees C from the corresponding normal for at least two consecutive days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also predicted the first cold wave spell of the season in Bihar over the next three days. The weather warning for the cold wave will be in effect at a few places in the state on Sunday. The IMD further predicted that the minimum temperature is likely to remain two to four notches below normal over the next 48 hours in east India. The Patna meteorological centre also forecast that night, as well as day temperatures, are likely to fall by 1-2 degrees C over the next 24 hours. The Patna centre in its forecast on Saturday evening stated that the cold wave condition could lead to an increased likelihood of various illnesses such as flu, runny or stuffy nose or nosebleed, which usually get aggravated due to prolonged exposure to cold. It further cautioned people not to ignore shivering as it is the first sign that the body is losing heat. Thus, people should remain indoors. Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, “Icy north-westerly and westerly winds blowing from snowfall laden Himalayan mountains in north India have led to a sharp fall in temperature at most places in Bihar. Shivery conditions are expected to prevail in the morning and evening hours along with sunny conditions during the day time over the next two days.” He added, “Orange alert has been issued for cold wave in northwestern, north-central, southwestern and south-central parts of Bihar owing to continuous plunge in temperature. People are advised to venture outdoors fully covered in warm clothing and special care should be given for upkeep of cattle and other animals.” The IMD has also predicted shallow to moderate fog likely at isolated pockets in Bihar during the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cold-wave-in-gaya-patna-shivers-at-6c/articleshow/79818038.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||In a first, cops register 10 cases of child pornography on social media in a day||NAGPUR: The city police have for the first time registered 10 FIRs on a single day (December 12) and another on a later date in different cases relating to child pornography. Police have also rounded up around 11 people, including five minors, for their alleged role in either forwarding, sharing or indulging in activities on the social media related to child pornography. A WhatsApp group administrator too is likely to be arrested. Mobile phones of the accused have been seized and will be sent for forensic analysis. The charge sheet will be put in the court in a few days. Between January and February this year, the police had registered around 13 FIRs against different offenders. Police chief Amitesh Kumar said the state cyber security cell had given information on child pornographic content being circulated, viewed or shared, which had triggered the drive. “We have zero-tolerance towards child pornography,” he said. Kumar has also issued a strict advisory stating that downloading, uploading, posting, viewing, surfing, sharing, forwarding, storing or encouraging any kind of explicit content related to children will attract strict legal action and can land one behind bars. “Our cyber team is keeping a watch on social media interactions round the clock,” he said. The cyber team, led by additional CP Sunil Phulari, had zeroed down on the offenders who were slapped with section 67B of Information technology Act and 15(1) (3) of the Protection of children from sexual offences Act, 2012. The cyber cell officers are also the complainants in the cases. The FIRs were registered at Nandanvan, Imambada, Tehsil, Jaripatka, Kotwali, Sakkardara, Yashodhara Nagar, Ganeshpeth, Kalamna and Beltarodi police stations. According to police, the offenders were mostly students in the the age group of 17-23 years and from different economic and family backgrounds. “There is an immediate alert raised by the international security agencies which traces the users and alerts the national enforcement and investigating agencies. The details are generated from the international agencies and are locally shared for action,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-a-first-cops-register-10-cases-of-child-pornography-on-social-media-in-a-day/articleshow/79817521.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Finally, Ahmedabad to have a catalogue of heritage souvenirs||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad World Heritage City Trust (AWHCT) has decided to prepare a catalogue of souvenirs of the heritage city Ahmedabad. The step has been taken nearly two and a half years after the city got the Unesco World Heritage City tag. AWHCT said that artisans, craftsmen and manufacturers, who have created unique souvenirs, can submit their entries for free in the catalogue. At present, some voluntary organizations have been supplying these souvenirs, but they are without any heritage tag. Once the catalogue is ready it will be published online. People can order online too. Artworks and paintings about the city will also be published so that anyone can purchase them. “The city has several artists who have great skills in embroidery and painting. Their works can be given due weightage. Those visiting the city can directly contact the artisans and purchase their works,” said an official. Tourism experts have always emphasized on having a souvenir shop and a dedicated agency for creating souvenirs. Kirti Thakkar, a city-based tourism expert, said, “If one looks at foreign countries, there are scores of souvenir shops reflecting identities of the country and the respective city. However, the same is missing not just in Ahmedabad but Gujarat too. Most tourist destinations here lack souvenir stores.” “There should be a centralized agency which from time to time identifies various icons of the city and develops innovative souvenirs that reflects Ahmedabad Heritage through various elements,” he added. Tourism industry players have also pressed for setting up souvenir stores and multimedia platform to disseminate information for tourists. “The civic body’s decision is definitely good but it should have been done long ago. For a heritage city like Ahmedabad, a souvenir shop is a must and also an information bureau from where information about various tourist destinations is visible. Such measures are important because it is one way of generating employment and fetching revenues through local economy,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/finally-ahmedabad-to-have-a-catalogue-of-heritage-souvenirs/articleshow/79818231.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 20, 2020||Kochi||AICC calls for restraint as state leaders trade barbs||Thiruvananthapuram: All India Congress Committee (AICC), on Saturday, asked party leaders in Kerala to stop trading barbs after the party was hammered in the local body elections. General secretary, in charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar – in a press statement issued from New Delhi – reminded leaders that a blame game will only weaken the party. He assured that complaints brought to the notice of Congress leadership will be resolved. Anwar requested all Congress leaders not to air their differences publicly and take up their grievances before the party forum. “After the recently held civil elections in Kerala, it is being observed that some Congress leaders in state are publicly criticizing the state Congress leadership for the outcome of the polls. I earnestly hope that our leaders will realize that the trading of charges against each other is weakening the party and giving strength to opponents. The need of the hour is to close ranks and fight the opposition,” it read. Meanwhile, AICC on Saturday appointed three more national general secretaries in charge of Kerala ahead of the impending assembly election. On behalf of Congress president, AICCE general secretary K C Venugopal announced the appointment of P Viswanathan, Ivan D’Souza and PV Mohan in New Delhi. Meanwhile, resentment in Congress over the unexpected rout in the local body election continued to spill over to the streets on Saturday as Congress workers put up banners against several leaders who were holding the fort. While one set of posters brazenly asked for a leadership change in the party and suggested leaders like K Sudhakaran and K Muraleedharan to take charge of the top post in KPCC, others sought action against several DCC presidents and even former ministers. Leaders like Rajmohan Unnithan had publicly called for a leadership change in KPCC. The posters, suggesting K Sudhakaran to the post of KPCC president, were erected in front of KPCC office and MLA hostel. Posters were put up against KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, Thiruvananthapuram DCC president Neyyattinkara Sanal, former minister VS Sivakumar and Kollam DCC president Bindu Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aicc-calls-for-restraint-as-state-leaders-trade-barbs/articleshow/79817530.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Shadow fight loses steam as PK Krishnadas refutes rumour||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The shadow fight in state BJP unit suddenly lost all its build up after former state president PK Krishnadas publicly denounced ‘rumours’ that he had co-written a letter to BJP central leadership against the ‘authoritarian’ style of the state leadership. There were unconfirmed reports that Krishnadas had joined hands with dissident leader Sobha Surendran, accepting her criticism against the state leadership, especially president K Surendran. “There is no Krishnadas group in BJP. The reports about (me) having sent a letter to the central leadership is baseless. No such letter was written with my knowledge or consent. Those who have no idea about this organization are cooking up stories regarding group and factions,” wrote Krishnadas in a Facebook post which rejected the claims by Sobha’s coterie that she and Krishnadas had written to central leadership, demanding the removal of K Surendran from his post. Krishnadas also said that BJP has improved its performance in local body elections and termed the resentment among party leaders as a creation of ‘Left-wing media syndicate’. “There is no rift in BJP unit, it is working as a single unit. Reports suggesting the opposite are nothing but stories cooked up by forces working against the party. We made significant improvement in local body elections and central leadership has acknowledged the same,” Surendran said. The reactions of Krishnadas and Surendran rule out the possibility of central-state leadership holding conciliatory talks with Sobha. “Central leadership is aware of the spiteful impact that Sobha Surendran’s public outburst and machinations have generated against the party’s goodwill. There is no chance that central-state leadership will agree to keep peace with dissidents like her,” claimed a senior leader, adding that BJP got around 8 lakh more votes compared to last LSG polls. There was much discontent among senior leaders when Surendran took over as the state president and rejigged party forums. While former state spokesperson MS Kumar refused to continue in the new team, leaders like MT Ramesh suddenly shed their aggressive stance and started acting docile. But, none of the leaders, who are not close to Union minister V Muraleedharan or Surendran, expressed their resentment in public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/shadow-fight-loses-steam-as-krishnadas-refutes-rumour/articleshow/79817537.cms||B S Anilkumar
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi High Court orders inquiry into claims of beatings in Tihar||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has ordered a probe into allegations that inmates in Tihar jail were beaten up and the incident was being hushed up. A bench of justices J R Midha and A J Bhambhani recently directed a magistrate to conduct a swift inquiry into the allegations and submit a report after the jail authorities failed to satisfy the court with CCTV evidence to disprove the claim of beatings in their custody. “This court is of the view that it would be appropriate and in the interest of justice that a summary inquiry be conducted by a metropolitan magistrate into the complaint of the appellant...the principal district and sessions judge (headquarters) shall nominate a metropolitan magistrate to conduct a summary inquiry into the complaint…the necessary inquiry will be completed within a period of four weeks from the date of the nomination of the judicial officer by the principal district and sessions judge,” the bench noted in its order. The court was hearing a plea by one Mohd Sumer, a murder convict serving jail term in Tihar whose appeal in pending before it. Appearing for Sumer, advocate Sharad Malhotra, told the court that on the night of October 28 this year his client and various other inmates were mercilessly beaten by the jail staff and police officials without any provocation. He further alleged that all of them were kept in a single cell after the incident and were neither being provided medication nor proper food. When it was brought to the court’s attention, it sought the stand of the jail authorities and asked them to furnish CCTV footage. In response the jail administration denied the allegations and maintained that there was a scuffle between jail inmates where the injuries were inflicted. But in absence of CCTV footage, the bench decided to order a probe. It asked its registry to communicate the order along with the digitised copy of the entire record of Sumer’s appeal to the district judge within one week and the magistrate to conduct an inquiry thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-orders-inquiry-into-claims-of-beatings-in-tihar/articleshow/79818236.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC upholds Gujarat HC’s quota formula||AHMEDABAD: In an important order prescribing how the women’s quota can be implemented, the Supreme Court has upheld the Gujarat high court’s order in which it explained the proper and correct method of implementing horizontal reservation, by following seven steps. The issue pertains to the shifting of meritorious women candidates from caste quotas to the general category. The SC said those who score more marks in the SC/ST or OBC quota should be accommodated in the general category, and the vacant seats of that category be filled with candidates belonging to that particular category only. On Friday, while dealing with the issue of implementation of women’s reservation in recruitment for police personnel by the Uttar Pradesh government, a bench of Justices Uday Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Hrishikesh Roy observed, “We must say that the steps indicated by the high court of Gujarat in para 56 of its judgment in Tamannaben Ashokbhai Desai contemplate the correct and appropriate procedure for considering and giving effect to both vertical and horizontal reservations.” The apex court further said, “It is true that the exercise of laying down a procedure must necessarily be left to the concerned authorities but we may observe that one set out in said judgment will certainly satisfy all claims and will not lead to any incongruity as highlighted by us in the preceding paragraphs.” On August 5, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala had quashed provisions of the August 1, 2018 Government Resolution and cleared the path for caste quota candidates in the general category so far as reservation for women was concerned. The HC made it clear that among caste quotas, a woman belonging to a category can compete with women of the same category and not with women from other categories. But the toppers always stand a chance to shift to the general quota. The HC also clarified, “There is no reservation for posts in the General Category, and horizontal reservation in favour of women in the General Category is available to be filled up from among all women irrespective of their caste status.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-upholds-guj-hcs-quota-formula/articleshow/79818232.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||RT-PCR negative report must for Magh Mela visitors in Prayagraj||LUCKNOW: Pilgrims and 'kalpvasis' visiting Magh Mela in Prayagraj will have to bring Covid-19 negative report through RT-PCR test along with them. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said: “The test report should not be more than five days' old. Entry will not be allowed in the mela in case the visitor does not bring the required document.” 'Kalvasis' are the pilgrims who take pledge and live for a stipulated time period next to the Sangam. Adding that the step is being taken for larger public interest, Prasad said: “Magh Mela is a place of mass gathering. Lakhs of people will be attending the event and any risk cannot be taken. Also, the state has been able to sail through the pandemic well since March. The case positivity and mortality rates have remained under control. Every possible step needs to be taken to ensure that the command over the pandemic prevails.” An annual affair at the Sangal, Magh Mela is attended by people from across the country and abroad. Prasad also said that vaccine against the pandemic virus was on the anvil but it will take some time for it to reach to every target person. “Prevention is the best bet till the vaccine becomes a reality,” he said, cautioning people to be wary of any fake news around the vaccine. “All kinds of news are circulating in different kinds of media. But the state will make a formal announcement when the vaccine actually arrives. Therefore, do not pay attention to anything else,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rt-pcr-ve-report-must-for-magh-mela-visitors/articleshow/79819720.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Extra rumbler strips to slow down speeding trucks and cars||PUNE: The traffic police and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have decided to double the number of rumbler strips between new Katraj tunnel and Navale bridge, after discovering that the existing strips have failed to slow down cars and trucks on the accident prone stretch. Following a string of serious accidents involving speeding heavy vehicles near the bridge, rumbler strips were affixed at different spots on this stretch of the Katraj-Dehu Road Bypass in a bid to reduce the speed of heavy vehicles. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Vijay Choudhary and senior inspector (traffic) Nandkishor Shelke together inspected this stretch and pointed out spots for the rumber strips. Usually, NHAI fixes 25-30 rumbler strips at each spot. Officials said they have observed that drivers don’t slow down on this patch, and the gradual slope downwards from the tunnel towards the bridge only worsens matters, police said. The authorities concerned decided to increase the number of rumbler strips at each spot to 60. “After painting 25-30 strips on the road near the new Katraj tunnel, we observed that heavy vehicles and cars did not slow down. We increased it to 40 strips, which had some effect. We decided to take it a step further and increase it to 60 strips at each spot,” senior inspector Shelke said. “We will fix 60 strips at three different spots on the stretch — at Dari Pul and between Bhoomkar Chowk and Navale bridge,” Shelke added. “The extra strips serve the dual purpose of slowing down the motorists on the slope and waking up drowsy drivers. This will help reduce the number of accidents on the bypass, especially near Navale bridge,” he said. Since October 7, this stretch of the bypass witnessed major accidents in which speeding trucks ploughed through multiple other vehicles, causing fatalities and severe injuries. In all the accidents, it was observed that the driver lost control of the wheel, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extra-rumbler-strips-to-slow-down-speeding-trucks-and-cars/articleshow/79818234.cms||Gitesh Shelke
December 20, 2020||Kochi||Don’t need advice, UDF tells Pinarayi||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s comments about changes in inter-party equations in UDF have elicited sharp reactions from Congress and Muslim League leaderships. Vijayan in a social-media post, on Saturday, termed the alleged developments taking place in the UDF as abnormal. “A constituent placing demands on who should lead another political party in the fold is a bizarre development. Such strange and undemocratic developments are taking place in UDF. The developments after the local-body poll results raise doubts as to whether Indian Union Muslim League has started assuming the lead role in UDF. Has IUML assumed the central role of opining on the internal affairs of Congress, on issues including who should lead that party?” Vijayan said in the post. Reacting to the CM’s insinuations, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty said Muslim League isn’t in the habit of interfering in the affairs of other political parties. “No senior or junior leader of IUML has made such remarks. It seems the chief minister was commenting on something he had dreamt up. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said UDF could do without the advice of Vijayan as it can very well decide on its affairs. “League has never interfered in KPCC affairs. This is a cheap tactic aimed at communal polarization,” Chennithala said. Vijayan claimed that reports emerging from UDF showed that IUML was able to thrust upon Congress the ties it had struck with communal organizations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dont-need-advice-udf-tells-pinarayi/articleshow/79817544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Kochi||Accused in League rally kicks up row||Kozhikode: Presence of Abu Lais, an accused in the gold smuggling case, in the victory procession of the IUML candidate at Koduvally, has landed the party in an embarrassing situation. The visual of Abu Lais leading the procession by mounting on a jeep was aired on television channels on Saturday afternoon. Abu Lais was present throughout at the victory procession of P K Subair, the IUML candidate who was elected from the Modern Bazar ward of the Koduvally municipality. It was reported that Noor Muhammad from Congress was the candidate fixed by the UDF for the Modern Bazar seat. But later he withdrew, paving the way for Subair and it is alleged that Abu Lais was behind the operations to field Subair. The allegations got credence with the performance of Abu Lais at the procession. Abu Lais was arrested by the team of directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) from Thrissur when he arrived to attend a private function. An accused in the case related to smuggling of 38kg of gold through Karipur airport in 2013, using women as carriers, he was absconding for over five years. The DRI had issued a lookout notice against him. Abu Lais reportedly entered India through the Nepal border. He is allegedly connected to politicians and bureaucrats. He came out of jail a few months ago. IUML district president Ummer Pandikala said that he was not aware of the incident and would react after contacting the local leaders in Koduvally. Abu Lais’s presence has become a controversy at a time the LDF also is facing a similar allegation. Karat Faisal, another accused in the gold smuggling case, won Chundapuram ward in Koduvally municipality as an independent candidate. Initially, he was the LDF candidate, but the CPM leadership intervened to replace him with another person fearing that Faisal’s candidature will lead to unnecessary discussions. But Faisal won the seat and the official LDF candidate failed to get a single vote. CPM workers were present in large numbers in the victory procession of Karat Faisal and the party is planning to act against the branch committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/accused-in-league-rally-kicks-up-row/articleshow/79817543.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Former Vastrapur PI suspended||Ahmedabad: Former inspector of Vastrapur police station, Y B Jadeja, who fell into a controversy over his alleged ‘VIP treatment’ to Raman Patel, his son Monang Patel, Dashrat Patel and his son Virandra Patel, the promoters of Popular Builders, was suspended by commissioner of police Sanjaya Srivastava, after an inquiry report for a Rs-15-lakh bribe case was submitted by crime branch. According to crime branch sources, in October 2020, two bookies were caught by Vastrapur police. “It was then alleged that Rs 15 lakh was extorted from them to not show that they were also running a con call centre. At that time, Jadeja was transferred from Vastrapur police station to special branch and an inquiry into the allegations was handed over to crime branch. The agency submitted its report alluding to negligence by Jadeja in the incident as he was the supervisory officer of the case,” said a top crime branch source. In another development, Inspector R R Desai, was transferred from Airport police station to special branch for his alleged involvement in the beating of a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-vastrapur-pi-suspended/articleshow/79818244.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||One-act play competition Rangasangeet on for March||PUNE: The Theatre Academy, Pune, has confirmed that the student one-act play competition Rangasangeet Mahotsav, known for its musical plays, will go ahead in March 2021. Both the preliminaries and finals will be held at the Academy’s Mukundnagar premises. Due to the pandemic, other prominent student theatre competitions in Pune region have been postponed or nixed completely for the 2021 edition, making Rangasangeet one of the largest theatre competitions to still go ahead. The preliminary rounds will be held from March 20 to 22, with the final round scheduled for March 28, according to the competition’s organizers. All of the events will be held at the Theatre Academy’s performance space at Mukundnagar. Despite the name of the competition, organizers say that they are not insisting on a musical play. “We have started registrations for the competition. The entries need not necessarily be a musical play, but must be in one act,” said a spokesperson for the Theatre Academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-act-play-competition-rangasangeet-on-for-march/articleshow/79818242.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||State government seeks central funds for ICDS programme||PUNE: The cash-strapped government has turned to the Centre for funds for the Integrated Child Development Scheme programme. Women and child development (WCD) minister Yashomati Thakur has demanded Rs2003 crore from Union minister Smriti Irani for implementing the Integrated Child Development Service (ICDS) scheme with the number of beneficiaries having increased during the Covid-19 pandemic. Thakur said that additional funds were needed for the supplementary nutrition programme for 2020-21. Thakur told TOI that the government had presented the annual project implementation plan to the Centre under the ICDS supplementary nutrition programme for 2020-21 in March 2020, which was about Rs1630 crore. However, due to the Covid situation, the scope of the supplementary nutrition programme was required to be broadened. WCD ministry officials said more than 7.27 lakh beneficiaries were added since April 2020 and so there was a need for more funds. Thus, the revised proposal of Rs2003crore had been submitted. The state government has made a provision of Rs1700 crore for the programme, she said. Thakur said that many workers have returned to their native places from cities, pushing up the figures of beneficiaries of supplementary nutrition. Similarly, many families in the state have shifted to rural areas and they too are beneficiares of the supplementary nutrition programme. “Children in the age group of 3- 6 years, who were not beneficiaries of the supplementary nutrition diet scheme, were included following the closure of schools due to the pandemic so it was necessary that funds be provided as per the revised plan, the minister said. Yashomati also called for release of Rs554 crore to the state as per the 15th finance commission recommendation for nutrition programme for running a new scheme under it. While the state government had made a provision of Rs277 crore for this programme, the central government had not yet disbursed the allotted funds. The minister has appealed to the Centre to release the funds with immediate effect so that the state can undertake new projects under the nutrition programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-government-seeks-central-funds-for-icds-programme/articleshow/79818237.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 20, 2020||Goa||Goa’s forests, beaches have influenced me: President Ram Nath Kovind||PANAJI: President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday that Goa’s forests and beaches have influenced him, and praised the state for its unique hospitality. He also said that given Goa’s youth potential and expansion of internet services, Goa is set to become a development centre for infotech firms. He was speaking at the Dayanand Bandodkar ground after launching the year-long celebration of Goa’s 60th year of Liberation. Kovind said that Goa should take pride that its people have adopted a common civil code, which helps in promoting cultural diversities. He also stressed that not just Goans, but people across the country should remember Goa’s Liberation day, and that he was happy to be part of the celebration. Kovind also laid a wreath at the martyrs’ memorial at Azad Maidan, Panaji, as he paid his respects to freedom fighters. Here, a guard of honour by Goa Police enhanced the solemn but brief ceremony. A heavy police cordon was laid around the site with all vehicular movement stopped and diverted. Goa Police personnel supported by commandos were seen sanitizing the area prior to Kovind’s arrival. Kovind’s address at the function Panaji was only his second public event since the Covid-19 pandemic began. He said he has addressed most programmes virtually, and that when he entered Goa too it felt “dull” as protocol authorities tried to limit his interactions in the state. He said that Gandhi (who died over a decade before Liberation) thought that Goa, like any other state, is part of India. The president also remarked that for the Liberation, all organisations and communities came together. “Goa has some beautiful beaches along its coastline, scenic beauty, and its people are hospitable,” he said. Kovind said that to strenghten democracy, people have to maintain communal harmony. “This model which has active participation of the people is an example of Goans’ progressive thinking,” he said. He said that at the time of Liberation, Goa was under-developed, but today, as it enters its 60th year, it has the country’s highest per capita income. “The credit for this goes to the people of Goa, people’s representatives, social workers and the industrial sector,” he said. He also said that as India moves to strengthen the local economy, Goa’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat, Swayampurna Goa’ initiative is a commendable one. He also said that the share of the industrial sector in Goa’s GDP is among India’s highest. Despite its small size, Goa has attracted investment from large business enterprises, he added, stating that the state is known for the high quality of its pharmaceuticals, and that the state’s pharma companies played an important role in the fight against Covid. Kovind also lauded CM Pramod Sawant for taking ahead of the legacy of his predecessor, Manohar Parrikar. The president arrived at INS Hansa on Air India One, and was flown to the helipad at Goa University in the afternoon. Kovind is staying at Raj Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-forests-beaches-have-influenced-me-kovind/articleshow/79819180.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Will strike balance between environment, development: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant, during his Liberation day speech on Saturday, claimed that his government would strike a balance between development and environment in the interest of the state. Saying that Goa is “marching ahead” to bring new reforms, he urged the people to keep differences aside to make Goa self-sufficient and “golden”. “Let us pledge to develop Goa,” he said. At the Campal ground in Panaji, he unfurled the flag and inspected the parade. He also paid tribute to freedom fighters and others who fought for Goa’s Liberation, including those in Operation Vijay. He also felicitated personnel from Goa police and fire services. Later, Sawant said that December 19 is a significant day for the nation, since the Liberation completed India’s freedom struggle. The CM said that the world over, Covid-19 has created new challenges and people are trying to find new opportunities. “Due to the strong leadership of PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, the country has been able to come out of the pandemic,” he said. Sawant claimed that the Centre’s lockdown was “successful” and that essential commodities were provided to the people. The CM said that the state government has worked in a “responsible manner” during the Covid pandemic. “The government has made sincere efforts to provide help to the people of the state during the pandemic,” Sawant said. He said that the efforts of the state government during the pandemic was recognised by the people of the state during the recent concluded zilla panchayat polls. He also said that Goa is proud of its culture and heritage, but the time has come to become self-sufficient. Sawant said that despite having water and land, we still depend on neighbouring states for fruits, flowers, etc. “During the pandemic, there were restrictions on interstate transportation, and our youth have learned from the pandemic and become successful farmers by getting into agriculture and dairy farming,” he said He also said that Goans are always enthusiastic, optimistic and affirmative, and that there is no place for negativity and anti-nationals in the state. Ayush minister Shripad Naik, speaker Rajesh Patnekar, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, MLAs and MGP senior leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar attended the function. Later in the evening, Sawant, speaking at another function, said that the government would in the next year reach out to the people of the state to prepare a blueprint for the next 60 years with regards to industry, education, business, art and culture, and tourism. “We need to prepare the blueprint keeping in mind the future,” he said. He also said that the government had laid a foundation for a new Gomantak today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-strike-balance-between-environment-devpt-sawant/articleshow/79819171.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat high court seeks govt reply on denial of midday meal benefits||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has sought an explanation from the state education department and commissioner of the midday meal scheme, over the denial of the benefits of the scheme to poor students since the lockdown in March. On Friday, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora termed the issue of the plight of poor students during the pandemic “very serious” and took suo motu cognisance of a news report on the findings of a survey by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIM-A) and the UNICEF. The HC felt judicial intervention necessary in the larger public interest. The survey, covering 357 low-income parents from Ahmedabad, revealed that among households which had enrolled children in government schools, 85% of parents said they did not get anything in lieu of the mid-day meals since March. Only 15% of parents received rice, wheat and/or pulses in lieu of mid-day meals. The study revealed that 30% of children were not engaged in any formal learning activities after schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This number was the highest (33%) among those attending private schools, followed by the government schools (26%), and those attending private schools in RTE quota (22%). The state government’s efforts for a flat fee reduction of 25% also did not seem to have any impact on this class. More than 40% of parents with children at private schools were not even aware of any such relief granted during the lockdown. Among those who were asked to pay fees, more than 50% said that they found it difficult to arrange the money and meet the deadline for payment. The high court also took notice of children dropping out because of parents’ inability to pay fees. “This is something very serious,” the judges said. The court also took notice of the limitations in access to technology with only 54% of surveyed families having TV sets. Less than 2% had access to a laptop and 12% of families used wifi connections and email. Quoting these findings, the court said that the state government’s attention should be immediately drawn to this. It has issued notice and sought a reply by January 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-denial-of-midday-meal-benefits/articleshow/79818238.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Christmas star: Jupiter, Saturn to ‘become’ one||NEW DELHI: It is being called the “Christmas star”. In a celestial spectacle last seen nearly 400 years ago, planets Jupiter and Saturn are set to come so close to each other that they will appear almost as a single “star” in the evening sky on Sunday and Monday. The two gaseous giants of our solar system will appear closest on the evening of the winter solstice (Monday, December 21), just a tenth of a degree apart, in what astronomers refer to as the “great conjunction”. For comparison, the disc of the full moon in the sky is usually half a degree in diameter. So, the distance between the two planets on Monday will be a fifth of the apparent width of the full moon. “To the naked eye, the two planets are likely to appear almost as a single star on the southwest horizon Sunday evening, and more so on Monday,” said N Rathnasree, director of Delhi’s Nehru Planetarium. While a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn takes place every 20 years or so, this will be the closest the two planets will appear since 1623, just 13 years after Galileo first observed Jupiter and its moons through a telescope. Rathnasree says that a closer conjunction took place in 1682 and 1683 but the planets were too close to the Sun to be visible. “A relatively close conjunction took place in 1961, but the angular distance between the planets was twice that of the current event. The next such close encounter will take place in 2080,” Rathnasree said. The conjunction, being popularly referred to as the “Christmas star” as it takes place just days before Christmas, has been animating astro-buffs for months now. It will be webcast live from many observatories and astronomy clubs across the world, who will train their telescopes on the planets on Sunday and Monday. For astrophotography enthusiasts, this will be the rarest of opportunities to photograph the two planets together through a telescope. In Delhi, the Nehru Planetarium will be webcasting the conjunction on YouTube. It has also organised public skywatches from 6pm to 7pm on each night from Sunday to Tuesday. Participants need to register on the planetarium’s website, nehruplanetarium.org, in view of Covid restrictions. The planetarium, along with several other organisations including the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library and the Astronomical Society of India, had given a call to enthusiasts to make a simple cross-staff and measure the changing angle between Jupiter and Saturn as they were coming closer. “The results have been extremely encouraging,” Rathnasree said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/christmas-star-jupiter-saturn-to-become-one/articleshow/79818251.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: STF busts gang set to rig police hiring exam||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (UPSTF) on Saturday busted a gang that was all set to rig the written examination organised by UP Police Promotion and Recruitment Board to be held on Sunday. STF has arrested eight persons: gang members Maan Singh, Vikas Patel, Mangal Yadav, Shiv Kumar and candidates Satyam Patel, Mahesh Kumar and Rajgabbar Singh from Civil Lines in Prayagraj. Cops also recovered five admit cards, 22 educational certificates, five bank cheques worth Rs 28 lakh, 10 mobile phones, several Aadhaar and ATM cards, an SUV and Rs 2.7 lakh cash. ‘Took Rs 5-7L per candidate’The gang used to charge Rs 5 lakh-7 lakh per candidate for providing them with solvers. Additional Superintendent of Police STF Prayagraj Neeraj Pandey said that two masterminds, Maan Singh and Mangal Yadav, were clerks in the district courts of Etah and Varanasi. The three examinees were asked to pay Rs 5 lakh after selection and Rs 1 lakh in advance. “Vikas and Shiv used to trap gullible candidates who were ready to pay for selection,” said Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-busts-gang-set-to-rig-police-hiring-exam/articleshow/79819723.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gape at Monday night’s sky for planetary tryst||PUNE: Astrophiles in the city are excited about a “once in a lifetime” celestial event set to occur around 11.50pm on Monday night when Jupiter and Saturn will come within six minutes and six seconds of arc- 0.1 degrees from each other. This is the closest that the planets will be in nearly 400 years, and they will be this close again only in 2080, said Aniruddha Deshpande from Jyotirvidya Parisanstha. Billed as the “great conjunction”, the expected event has enthused astronomy lovers, many of whom have planned observation parties and decided to preserve the observations for the future. Since the invention of the telescope in 1609, this the second-closest that the planets will be observed, with the closest being recorded on July 16, 1623, when the planets were five minutes and 10 seconds from each other. The Jyotirvidya Parisanstha has planned a number of events to observe the planets and their positions, starting Sunday evening through till Tuesday night. “We are observing the position of the planets from Sunday night, as the planets will not be separated by much, and will be close angularly. We have allocated 12 slots for 600 people to come to our observation spot at Kesariwada ,” said Deshpande. While the planets can be observed by naked eyes, the ability to see both the planets separately during conjunction can be affected by a variety of factors, including condition of eyesight as well as age. “The point of the survey is to understand whether people are able to see the planets separately from now to the moment of conjunction. People can go and start recording their observations on the form from now on. It is a common practiceto test one’s eyesight by looking at the Alcor and Mizar stars, in the Great Bear constellation, and attempting to identify them separately, as they are also located very close to each other,” said Arvind Paranjpye, director of the Nehru Planetarium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gape-at-monday-nights-sky-for-planetary-tryst/articleshow/79818247.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parts of Ahmedabad to go under Gandhinagar police||AHMEDABAD: While the upgrade of Gandhinagar district to Gandhinagar police commissionerate in in its final stages, Gandhinagar SP Mayur Chavda has written to his subordinates to prepare details of areas currently under Ahmedabad city police that will fall under the Gandhinagar commissionarate. According to the letter, the notification upgrading Gandhinagar district police into a commissionnarate was issued in September 2020 and will come into effect in 2020-21. It will also get news areas in its jurisdiction. The letter written on Saturday says Chandkheda police station, which is now in the jurisdiction of Ahmedabad city police will be fully under the Gandhinagar commissionerate, as will parts of Sola police station and Sabarmati police station jurisdictions. A notification to this effect is yet to be issued by the government. The details of certain divisions in Zones 1 and Zone 2 were attached to the letter. Chavda asked his subordinates to collate information about those areas and send it to DSP Kalol division. The letter says that the map of the Gandhinagar police comissionerate will be prepared by Local Crime Branch (LCB), Gandhinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parts-of-city-to-go-under-gnagar-police/articleshow/79818249.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Industries in Gujarat get ‘raw’ deal as material costs surge||AHMEDABAD/VADODARA/RAJKOT: Industries across the state were expected to revive their fortunes after the backbreaking national lockdown and Covid-induced slowdown. And, some sectors did manage to stand up despite the challenges. But the sudden surge in raw material prices due to a variety of domestic and international factors has again cast a pall of gloom on several sectors in Gujarat. Rocketing costs take colour off chemical industryWith the chemical industry heavily dependent on imports of raw materials, anti-dumping duty on certain items from China has led to a rise in raw material prices. Dyes and intermediate raw materials such as phthalic anhydride, aniline oil and phosphorous trichloride have doubled. “The cost of production has gone up 30% following an 85-100% increase in raw material prices. At the same time, certain chemicals imported from China being classified under restricted commodities is also causing supply chain constraints as availability is a problem,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). Indian Chemical Council, Gujarat chapter chairman, Ravi Kapoor said that internal demand for raw materials shot up in China. “High demand for the raw material in China led to shortage apart from demand and supply gap internationally,” Kapoor said. “Increased raw material prices has dealt a big blow to the industries, particularly MSMEs, which do not have huge cash reserves to sustain their business,” said Bhupendra Patel, chairman – Gujarat region, Chemexcil. Engineering units gasping for survivalA sudden rise of 30-50% in the cost of raw materials like pig iron, steel and copper has become a cause of concern for the engineering firms. Most manufacturers believe that the surge in raw material prices will squeeze their margins as they haven’t been able to renegotiate prices due to stiff competition in the market. “China has increased prices of some raw materials while the restrictions on imports due to Covid-19 too has led to rise in the costs. Industry players in Gujarat now feel that the raw material prices have to be controlled,” said Nilesh Shukla, president, India SME Forum (Gujarat). “Our profit margin has shrunk because of the unprecedented price rise of raw material. I can’t even quote appropriate prices to foreign buyers due to the uncertainty in raw material costs,” said Parth Ganatra, vice-president, Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI). Plastic raw materials price swell by 300%About 12,000 units in Gujarat are staring at tough times as prices of some raw materials, especially polymers, have shot up by 20-300% in the last five months. A few months ago, the plastic manufacturers were bullish as demand for their products had gone up post lockdown. But the sudden surge in raw material costs seems to have spoilt their plans. “The plant utilization capacity across the units has declined by 60-70 per cent. Several units, especially the smaller ones, are also facing working capital problems,” said Shailesh Patel, president, Gujarat State Plastic Manufacturers Association (GSPMA). Plastic makers’ margins too have eroded to 3-4% from 8-10% previously. Rising costs puts non-woven fabric makers under stressAn unexpected surge in polypropylene prices has led to rise in the price of spunbond non-woven fabric that is used for making surgical masks and PPE kits being used extensively amid Covid-19 pandemic. “We are facing a tough time as the price of our raw material (polypropylene) has increased by 26% to Rs 107 from Rs 85% kilogram in just two months. Also, a premium of Rs 30 per kilogram is being charged in the grey market due to its shortage,” said Suresh Patel, president, Non-woven Federation of India (NFWI). As a result, the fabric cost increased by 45%. Some small units have already suspended their operations as they do not have enough capital to procure raw material at such a high price. Export orders are also affected with some facing cancellations. High material costs weaving web around textile processorsWith cost of caustic, coal as well as reactive dyes going up, the textile processing units across Gujarat are hit by an increase in cost of production. Industry players say the operating cost of textile processors have gone up by 20%, putting the sector under immense pressure. “The cash flow and working capital cycle has been disturbed. In times of the pandemic, textile is one of the adversely hit sectors and with increased cost of production, we will get lesser realisation for both our domestic as well as export orders,” said Nitin Thaker, ex-president, Ahmedabad Textile Processors’ Association (ATPA). Gujarat is home to at least 600 textile processing units, mostly MSMEs. Several units don’t have enough capital to meet the increasing cost of raw material that is also affecting their profit margins. Soaring costs dull shine of brass parts industryA 15% rise in the cost of brass imported to Gujarat from the US has left brass parts makers in the lurch as their cash flow cycle has disrupted. Jamnagar alone houses 5,000 brass products units. “In brass parts manufacturing, the amount of value addition is relatively less and as a consequence, our margins get impacted,” said Jignesh Shah, director, Material Recycling Association of India (MRAI). Shah also owns a brass parts unit in Jamnagar. “In a bid to infuse liquidity, the government of India has given calculative and calibrated packages, mostly rolled out in the form of borrowings, which does not help address working capital concerns,” Shah added. Realtors seek govt’s interventionAlleging cartelization by cement and steel makers, real estate developers’ body CREDAI has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the government’s immediate intervention to regulate the prices of construction raw materials. According to CREDAI, since January, the cement and steel prices have increased by 23% and 45% respectively. This has adversely affected the real estate industry. (With inputs from Kalpesh Damor and Nimesh Khakhariya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/industries-in-gujarat-get-raw-deal-as-material-costs-surge/articleshow/79818277.cms||Tushar Tere
December 20, 2020||Pune||Snags during form fill-up hit agri course aspirants||PUNE: Students filling up applications for admission to BSc Agriculture and allied courses are facing various technical problems ranging from documents not being properly uploaded to errors cropping up in the marks being logged in by them. Officials at the Maharashtra Council of Agricultural Education and Research (MCAER) said the problems have been communicated with the agencies concerned and would be resolved soon. As on Saturday, out of the 40,193 students who have successfully registered themselves online, only 27,415 applicants have filled their application forms. A first-year applicant said, “The site has a lot of problems. It takes a lot of time to load, problems surface while uploading documents and other processes. Many students have complained about it on social media too and have tagged the education minister in their tweets.” Many candidates and parents had requested an extension for filling the forms by visiting the Common Entrance Test (CET) cell office and through e-mails to the CET cell and director (Education), MCAER, Pune. In response to their requests, the state CET cell has extended the last date of filling the form from December 16 to December 23. Till last year, a private agency was facilitating the centralized online admission process for both the law and agriculture courses but this year a government agency was appointed as a cost-cutting measure.  “We received many complaints from students about the difficulties that they are facing and we have communicated the same with the new agency, as well as the CET cell,” said Harihar Kausadikar, director (Education and Research) at MCAER.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/snags-during-form-fill-up-hit-agri-course-aspirants/articleshow/79818248.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 20, 2020||Pune||Post-mortem rules out deformity in ‘man-eater’ leopard: Forest officials||PUNE: The ‘man-eater’ leopard killed in a banana plantation in Karmala tehsil of Solapur district on Friday evening was neither suffering from any physical deformity nor it had any injury marks on the body, the post-mortem report of the animal revealed on Saturday. Dhairyashil Patil, the divisional conservator of forests, Solapur, told TOI, “The teeth and body parts of the animal were in sound condition. We have preserved samples of its blood, saliva, visceral and intestine, among others, to carry out further investigations in the days to come.” Forest officials said the animal had restricted its movement in the last few weeks. “It had been targeting humans every alternate day. The animal followed this pattern in Beed and Aurangabad districts. But after killing a nine-year-old girl in Chikhalthan village in Karmala tehsil on December 7, it did not attack any human. The fear of the leopard was such that villagers had stopped stepping out of their homes. This aspect might have played a crucial role in restricting its movement in the last few days. It used to earlier travel or wander at least 8-10km daily, which came down to 2-3km in the last few days. We need to find out the exact reasons behind this behavioural change,” Patil said. The leopard had successfully evaded cage traps, despite having easy prey or bait in it, the officials said. “This shows that he was aware about our plans,” Patil said. As per the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), forest officials on Saturday incinerated the animal’s body in presence of Solapur district veterinary officer, wildlife warden and witnesses. “A detailed report of the operation will be submitted to the government in the next two days,” Patil said. Wildlife experts said the scientific study of the animal’s behaviour should be conducted to understand the possible reasons behind it turning into a man-eater. “It is very difficult to pin point the exact reason behind such behaviour change. But one fact is common that they are afraid of humans. We need to find out all possible reasons to avoid such a tragedy in the future,” Vidya Atherya, a wildlife expert who has done several studies on leopards, said. A senior forest official from the wildlife division said if an animal manages to attack or kill human easily, it then considers humans as ‘easy prey’ and continues attacking them. The officials have found that the image that was captured in the camera trap in Surdi village in Beed district was a perfect match for the killed animal. “Every animal has a particular pattern of spots and strips on their body. It confirms the identity of the leopard,” Patil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/post-mortem-rules-out-deformity-in-man-eater-leopard-forest-officials/articleshow/79818283.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Spurned, man assaults former lover||AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old woman from Shahibaug, who works at a bank, lodged a complaint at Sabarmati Riverfront (East) police station on Friday, alleging that her former lover, Yashwant Rana of Sughad in Gandhinagar, assaulted her on Riverfront Road, for not answering his calls. The woman alleged that Rana also threatened her with dire consequences if she does not maintain the relationship with him. Police lodged an offence under Sections 323, 506(2) and 294(b) of the IPC against the accused and are searching for him. According to the complaint, the woman was in a relationship with Rana, but for the last fifteen days did not answer his calls as she wanted to end the relationship. “When complainant was returning from work on Thursday, Rana came on his motorcycle and intercepted the rickshaw. They then went to the riverfront to talk. Rana then got angry and slapped the complainant at least 15 times, abused her and threatened her. He then took her to her home,” said a police official. “On Friday she went to the police commissioner’s office in Shahibaug and was directed to Sabarmati Riverfront (East) police station. We have lodged an offence and are hunting for the accused,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spurned-man-assaults-former-lover/articleshow/79818265.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Jhotwara elevated road: 604 structures to be removed||JAIPUR: The Jhotwara elevated road project, which has been moving at a snail’s pace for the past one year, is expected to gain momentum after the market association gave consent to shift their shops to the designated land by the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA). In the 2.2-km corridor, work was stalled as shopkeepers were not ready to shift. In the last two and half years, there has been only 45% progress of Jhotwara elevated road as JDA had failed to chalk out a plan to rehabilitate 604 house owners falling on the route alignment. However, after receiving the consent, the authority is hopeful to complete the structure in 2021. “The JDA has earmarked land to rehabilitate affected shop owners in Niwaru road and Hathroj Kardhani scheme. The shopkeepers have assured to move with their belongings within one month,” said a senior official. The Rs 108 crore project is aimed at easing traffic in one of the most congested areas of the city and provide relief to more than six lakh residents. The project is crucial as the narrow flyover has become a major bottleneck. As no land is available on either side, the JDA is left with no option but to construct an elevated road. Sources said the constant delay in the project could have escalated the cost and more problems might crop up. However, situation seems to be in control. “Now, notices to raze the structures will be issued as consent is provided by affected house owners. Once, belongings are transferred, the JDA will start the drive,” said the official In the budget of 2016-2017, the BJP government had announced the construction of elevated road to give relief to commuters travelling to Jhotwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhotwara-elevated-road-604-structures-will-be-removed/articleshow/79818259.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Railway official promotes ‘save livestock’ drive in Munabao||Jaisalmer: Jodhpur DRM Geetika Pandey visited Munabao in Barmer on Saturday to promote the save livestock campaign. She met the villagers and requested them to take part in the campaign. She also inspected the rail section from Jodhpur to Munabao. The campaign was launched on the initiative of Pandey as cattle get hit by trains and lose their lives. Besides, she paid tributes to martyred railway personnel near Gadra road. After inspecting the passenger facilities at the railway stations from Jodhpur to Munabao, she directed the officers to ensure proper security and maintenance.She directed them to make separate seating arrangements for women at Jaisalmer railway station.She said that electrification work is going on at Jodhpur division which is expected to be completed by 2023. She also held a meeting with Jaisalmer district collector Ashish Modi where she discussed about saving livestock and asked for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/railway-official-promotes-save-livestock-drive-in-munabao/articleshow/79818279.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||CP tells cops to be firm but polite||Ahmedabad: City police chief Sanjay Srivastava has instructed cops not to be confrontational with people who flout corona norms, especially the mask rule, and to fine offenders in line with the regulations. Srivastava issued the directions on Saturday during a crime conference involving inspectors and IPS officers. “He also instructed us to avoid arguments with the violators and to be polite with them,” said a top police source. A senior police official said Srivastava noted that police have made a good impression on the public during the pandemic. “Now, we have been told to work harder to retain the image,” the official said. According to police sources, Srivastava also asked officers to be strict in dealing with land-grabbers and that they would be briefed on the new law soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cp-tells-cops-to-be-firm-but-polite/articleshow/79818272.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||At 3.9°C, Delhi hit lowest on Saturday||NEW DELHI: As cold wave conditions continued, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, dipped to 3.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday — the lowest minimum recorded so far this season. Other parts of the capital recorded even lower temperature, with minimum falling to 3.3 and 3.4 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road and Aya Nagar, respectively. India Meteorological Department (IMD), however, has forecast a temporary relief over the next 48 hours. “Temperatures, both maximum and minimum, may rise by a couple of degrees over the next few days. By Monday, the minimum could be around 7 degrees before it starts to drop again,” said a Met official. Previously, the lowest minimum at Safdarjung this season was 4.1 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. On Friday, it was 4.4 degrees. There was some respite in terms of the day-time temperature, with the maximum recorded at 21.8 degrees Celsius — one degree below normal, which IMD said could be around 22 degrees on Sunday. In comparison, Delhi had recorded the season’s lowest maximum on Thursday, when the mercury dropped to 15.2 degrees — seven notches below normal — making it a “severe cold day”. According to IMD, a “cold day’ is classified when the maximum temperature is four or more degrees below normal, while the minimum is below 10 degrees. A “severe cold day” is when the temperature is six degrees or more below normal. A “cold wave” is recorded when the minimum temperature is four or more degrees below normal. A low maximum is more impactful during the day, while a low minimum is reflective of a cold night. In terms of maximum temperature, the coldest location in Delhi on Saturday was Palam, which recorded a day-time temperature of 19.3 degrees, followed by Jafarpur (20.1). IMD said moderate to dense fog was likely to return to the region from December 22, which might again lead to a drop in the minimum temperature. With an overall AQI reading of 290 on CPCB’s daily index, Delhi’s air quality remained in the “poor” category. Good wind speed has been helping disperse pollutants, despite low temperatures, which generally leads to an increase in pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-3-9c-city-hits-lowest/articleshow/79818301.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Beggar-free Jaipur: 700-800 paupers to be trained by RSLDC||JAIPUR: As a part of beggar-free Jaipur scheme, around 700-800 beggars will be given skill development training by the Rajasthan Skill and Livelihoods Development Corporation (RSLDC), and later they will be provided jobs. Meanwhile, the corporation is in the process of identifying transgenders so that could also be trained and provided jobs. “The preparation is going on. We have already identified the training partner (for skill development of beggars). It will start in a couple of weeks. We have spoken to their president (on the issue of providing training to the transgenders). They have agreed to the proposal,” said Neeraj K Pawan, chairman, RSLDC. “The beggars will also be provided jobs after skill development training. So far, 1214 beggars have been identified in Jaipur. Of the total, 700-800 people will be provided training,” he added. The process of providing training to the transgenders in in the pipeline, said an official. “We are in the final stage of preparation as far as starting training of the beggars is concerned. After the survey by the police, we found out that some beggars were educated, qualified and able-bodied. It will begin as a pilot project and later it could be expanded. The training of the beggars will start by the end of this month or first week of January,” said the official. “It is a special project which has been designed for the beggars. Live counselling, food, hygiene and stay will be ensured for them. As a part of the project, they will be trained and given stipends by opening bank accounts. We will also request the industries to provide them jobs. We will not allow them or create a scope for them to go back to begging. As far as transgenders are concerned, we have identified the community. But, we are looking for a good training partner,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/beggar-free-jaipur-700-800-paupers-to-be-trained-by-rsldc/articleshow/79818288.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cyber crooks cheat woman of Rs 99k||Ahmedabad: A 65-year-old woman from Navrangpura, Nutan Vij, lodged a complaint of cyber cheating on Friday. Vij stated that on she ordered three kurtas online and paid using a credit card. She got the kurtas but as they did not fit well she asked the e-commerce portal to take them back. “The portal only refunded the price of one kurta so she messaged them about the remainder. On December 16, a man who identified himself as Rahulraj from the portal, called her and told her to click on a link he sent her on WhatsApp. She filled in her credit card details in the form sent through the link and also gave the OTP (one-time password). In a little while, she purchases worth Rs 99,000 were made using her card,” said a Navrangpura police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cyber-crooks-cheat-woman-of-rs-99k/articleshow/79818298.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||One-year-old feline rescued from 70-foot well in Junnar tehsil||PUNE: A one-year-old male leopard was successfully rescued from a 70-foot-deep well in Ballalwadi village in Junnar tehsil, about 110km from the city, on Saturday morning. The rescue operation was carried out by forest officials of the Junnar division and experts of Wildlife SOS, an NGO. A farmer of Ballalwadi village first spotted the animal near a field in the early hours of Saturday, followed by a frantic roar echoing from a nearby well. When checked, it was found that the animal had fallen into the well and was struggling to stay afloat. The matter was immediately reported to the forest department and the Wildlife SOS team from the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre. A three-member rescue team led by Wildlife SOS veterinary officer Nikhil Bangar accompanied the forest officials with rescue equipment. A trap cage was then lowered into the well. After a few attempts, the leopard climbed into the cage and was rescued. The animal was then transferred to the centre for medical examination. Bangar said, “The animal is exhausted from the ordeal and will be kept under observation for a few days till it is deemed fit for release.” Jayaramegowda R, deputy conservator of forests, Junnar, said, “Rescue operations involving leopards can be dangerous and need careful planning for the safety of the animal as well as the people involved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-year-old-feline-rescued-from-70-foot-well-in-junnar-tehsil/articleshow/79818292.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 20, 2020||Business||Maharashtra: Property registrations from Sept to Nov highest for these months in 4 years||PUNE: Property registrations in the state in three months from September to November this year was highest in comparison to the figures for the corresponding period in the past four years and a record 17,000 documents were registered on Friday — the highest single day number after the Covid-19 outbreak, sending a positive vibe to the economy. A total of 7,96,617 documents were registered from September to November this year. The distant second for the corresponding period in the past four years is the figures of 2018, when a total of 5,71,326 properties were registered from September to November. The number of documents registered till December 17 this year is also encouraging. As many as 2,36,414 properties have been registered this month so far in comparison to 2,39,292 in the entire December 2019 — the second highest for the month in the past four years. Data reveals that there was a 30% surge in registrations in September this year compared to 2019, followed by over 40% in October and 20% in November against the figures in the corresponding period last year. Attributing the surge in registrations to the stamp duty cut, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Even as transactions have increased, the revenue has suffered a bit. But we expect to make up for it by the end of the financial year.” The state has so far mopped up a revenue of Rs11,463.85 crore, achieving almost 76% of the target of Rs15,000 crore. In a bid to revive the real estate economy, the state government had cut the stamp duty payable on all transactions executed and registered between September 1 and December 31 this year by 3% and by 2% for the transactions registered between January 1 and March 31 next year. Several experts claimed that the duty cut pushed the number of registrations to the north in the past four months. There has been a sharp rise in property transactions across Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik and Nagpur following the move, snowballing into record 17,000 registrations in the state on Friday. The average number of single day registrations is around 9,000 in Maharashtra in a normal period. State inspector-general of registrations and stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said, “This (Friday’s figures) is a record and I believe that with two more weeks to go for the end of the month, another record may be set.” Credai vice-president Shantilal Kataria said the Friday’s record was a combined effect of low interest rates and the upfront concession on stamp duty. The fear of realtors passing on the increasing construction cost onto the buyers in near future might have given impetus to the registrations, a real estate expert said. “As income streams are coming back to normal, we believe that more buyers will come to the market before the end of the financial year to make the most of this opportune time to buy their dream homes,” added a realtor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sept-nov-property-registrations-highest-in-past-four-years/articleshow/79832852.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Property registrations from Sept to Nov highest for these months in 4 years||PUNE: Property registrations in the state in three months from September to November this year was highest in comparison to the figures for the corresponding period in the past four years and a record 17,000 documents were registered on Friday — the highest single day number after the Covid-19 outbreak, sending a positive vibe to the economy. A total of 7,96,617 documents were registered from September to November this year. The distant second for the corresponding period in the past four years is the figures of 2018, when a total of 5,71,326 properties were registered from September to November. The number of documents registered till December 17 this year is also encouraging. As many as 2,36,414 properties have been registered this month so far in comparison to 2,39,292 in the entire December 2019 — the second highest for the month in the past four years. Data reveals that there was a 30% surge in registrations in September this year compared to 2019, followed by over 40% in October and 20% in November against the figures in the corresponding period last year. Attributing the surge in registrations to the stamp duty cut, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Even as transactions have increased, the revenue has suffered a bit. But we expect to make up for it by the end of the financial year.” The state has so far mopped up a revenue of Rs11,463.85 crore, achieving almost 76% of the target of Rs15,000 crore. In a bid to revive the real estate economy, the state government had cut the stamp duty payable on all transactions executed and registered between September 1 and December 31 this year by 3% and by 2% for the transactions registered between January 1 and March 31 next year. Several experts claimed that the duty cut pushed the number of registrations to the north in the past four months. There has been a sharp rise in property transactions across Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik and Nagpur following the move, snowballing into record 17,000 registrations in the state on Friday. The average number of single day registrations is around 9,000 in Maharashtra in a normal period. State inspector-general of registrations and stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said, “This (Friday’s figures) is a record and I believe that with two more weeks to go for the end of the month, another record may be set.” Credai vice-president Shantilal Kataria said the Friday’s record was a combined effect of low interest rates and the upfront concession on stamp duty. The fear of realtors passing on the increasing construction cost onto the buyers in near future might have given impetus to the registrations, a real estate expert said. “As income streams are coming back to normal, we believe that more buyers will come to the market before the end of the financial year to make the most of this opportune time to buy their dream homes,” added a realtor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sept-nov-property-registrations-highest-in-past-four-years/articleshow/79818308.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 20, 2020||Goa||Leopard sighting spreads panic among Poinguinim locals||Poinguinim: An adult leopard sighting at Gotcamolem in Poinguinim panchayat of Canacona over the last eight days has created panic amongst locals who have reported seeing the wild cat close to their homes. Arliston Fernandes, a resident said that he sighted the wild cat at 7.15am in the vicinity of a house five days back and alerted locals through WhatsApp. Another resident also reported seeing the leopard on Thursday around 9pm at a distance of five meters from where he was standing in his compound while the wild cat was chasing a dog. Residents said that they fear moving out of their houses late in the evening and early morning, while some have also confirmed the leopard moving about during the night hours. There are around 30-35 houses in this area which is close to the forest. Range forest officer (territory) Anand Velip told TOI that several residents have informed him of the leopard sighting and said that his team will visit the area soon to mount a watch. It may be recalled that a leopard was trapped by forest officials some months ago but the new sighting has renewed fear among the locals, who said that the leopard has attacked domestic pigs and dogs. Phot0graphs of carcasses were even forwarded to the Forest department for compensation by a local, Peter Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/leopard-sighting-spreads-panic-among-poinguinim-locals/articleshow/79819378.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Great Conjunction’ to be seen on Mon||Ahmedabad: December 21 will see a ‘meeting’ after four centuries, when the two gas giants, Jupiter and Saturn, will appear close to each other from the Earth on December 21. Experts have named it ‘the Great Conjunction’ and appealed to the astronomy enthusiasts not to miss the opportunity. Dr Narottam Sahoo, advisor to Gujarat Council on Science and Technology (GUJCOST), said a conjunction of the two celestial bodies take place when they appear close to each other from the Earth — despite them separated by millions of kilometres in space. “On Monday evening, we will be able to see the two planets very close — about the space of a fifth of the diameter of the full moon. They may even appear to be touching each other and form one large, brilliant star,” said Sahoo. Dhananjay Raval, a city-based science communicator, said one such conjunction was in 1923, but even then, there was some distance between the two planets. “Thus, many experts believe that it will be after 400 years that this opportunity has arisen,” he said. GUJCOST has organized an outreach event at 4pm on Sunday where experts will discuss different aspects of the event. Various community science centres (CSCs) will also organize viewing events, said officials. Raval said they have organized a viewing session with social distancing at Abhirath Complex near the Sardar Patel statue from 6pm to 8.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/great-conjunction-to-be-seen-on-mon/articleshow/79818314.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||BSF jawan hangs self in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A BSF jawan committed suicide by hanging himself in the battalion campus in Jaisalmer on Saturday. Sadar police reached the spot and took the body to the mortuary. Later, the body was handed over to BSF after the postmortem. Sadar police station SHO Kapooraram Choudhary said that constable Narendra Kumar Verma (30), a resident of Nalaur (Sikar district), was deployed in the 46th battalion. On Saturday morning, he committed suicide in the bathroom. When a jawan reached the barrack, he found the body hanging. He said that the deceased jawan had returned on December 9 and was in quarantine. No suicide note was found. He had joined BSF in 2012. Police and BSF have started an investigation. They have seized the mobile phone of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-jawan-hangs-self-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79818307.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Are you more likely to get COPD?||NEW DELHI: The risk of getting Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases (COPD) is about 1.9 times higher for you if you have migrated to the capital over the last 10 years as compared to someone who has been living in Delhi their whole life. People who may have recently quit smoking are at a higher risk of getting COPD (3.9 times) as compared to a current smoker (about 2.7 times), a new study has found. The research, which has been carried out by University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS), the Department of Health Research (DHR), National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and the Department of Environmental Sciences at Delhi University, also finds that people commuting for more than 10 minutes each day are 12.2 times more likely to get COPD as compared to someone whose commuting time is less than 10 minutes. This risk increases to 28 times if one is travelling for more than 30 minutes, the study has found. The study took a sample space of over 8,000 households, sampling 28,000 people and measuring the level of daily exposure. Other factors, such as how much time is spent outdoors, pollution levels at the workplace, whether the person is a smoker or non-smoker and whether the person has migrated to Delhi or was born here, were considered. Arun Sharma, professor-director, UCMS and the lead researcher of the study, said clusters of high COPD cases were found across different parts of the city, irrespective of it being a high-income or a low-income group. “In certain parts of the housing societies and neighbourhoods where we collected the samples, you could find clusters in one particular area and almost no cases in another part. Jahangirpuri, for instance, had high COPD cases in one portion, while the other side had very few cases. This shows that localised impact is also important and the sources at each place may be contributing to that,” said Sharma. People living in the national capital for over 30 years, irrespective of migration, become prone to such diseases, the researcher added. The study also finds a majority of the places where the samples were collected were using LPG for at least 10 years, however, they still had COPD cases, eliminating it as a primary source. Those who worked outdoors were also found to be about 2.3 times at a higher risk of getting COPD as someone indoors. Of the COPD patients selected, 64% were non-smokers, 18% were past smokers and only 17.5% were current smokers. Around 89% also did not have any smoker in their family, clearly indicating that smoking was not a significant contributor in these COPD cases. NEERI director Dr Rakesh Kumar said sources of pollution and the background emissions in Delhi were quite different to European countries, making it even more important to find local factors and causes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/are-you-more-likely-to-get-copd/articleshow/79818328.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya mosque complex structure likely to be ready in two years||AYODHYA: Work on the proposed mosque in Dhannipur will begin once the blueprint gets a nod from the board of Faizabad zila panchayat though January 26 has been selected for the start of construction. The construction work is likely to be completed in two years. The mosque to be built on five-acre land as mandated by the Supreme Court, has a cosmic design resembling the spherical earth cushioned in space and powered by solar energy. It will be four-time bigger than the Babri Masjid. The rectangular layout of the complex in Dhannipur village also includes a super-specialty hospital, community kitchen and museum housed in multi-storied vertical structure, metres away from the mosque with the century-old Sufi shrine in between. Zero carbon footprint will be the defining theme of the mosque complex, keeping in mind global climate change, said Athar Hussain, secretary of IICF, adding “Saplings from forests across the globe, including the dense Amazon forests, will be brought to Dhannipur and planted along the mosque to send a green message along with tidings of peace, harmony and communal amity,” he added. Prof S M Akhtar, who has designed the mosque complex, told TOI that it would be an architectural wonder without domes, minarets or arches, which have stereotyped Islamic structures in India,, adding “We are also laying emphasis on the hospital, library and other facilities to serve society.” Talking to TOI, former faculty of international relations at JNU, Prof Pushpesh Pant, who is the curator for the museum and archives said: “The true spirit of India lies in multicultural society, which we call Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. We will develop a centre that will heal and feed humanity in true spirit of Islam. The first step for mankind is providing healthy food and the community kitchen will begin serve Awadhi cuisine, which may include ‘gosht-roti’ ‘tehri’ and ‘puri-sabzi’, an amalgamation of the tastes of Awadh from Lucknow to Faizabad and Jaunpur to Banaras.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mosque-complex-structure-likely-to-be-ready-in-2-yrs/articleshow/79819726.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 20, 2020||Pune||PMC panel nod to free left turn plan||PUNE: The city improvement committee of the civic body has approved the proposal seeking free left turn at junctions without having to wait for the signal to turn green. “Turning left should be allowed without any restrictions. All big metro cities in the country have free left turns at junctions. It helps reduce the traffic congestion. The same practice should be followed in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits,” said Prasanna Jagtap, the chief of city improvement committee. The final nod to the proposal from the general body is awaited. After that, it will be sent to the traffic department for consideration and approval. “This initiative will ease a major concern pertaining to traffic congestion. An experiment was carried out in Koregaon Park, which proved to be successful. This can be replicated in other parts of the city too,” said corporator Bhaiyyasaheb Jadhav, who tabled the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-panel-nod-to-free-left-turn-plan/articleshow/79818303.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Polls for chairpersons in 45 local bodies today||JAIPUR: The elections for the posts of chairpersons in 45 municipal bodies of 12 districts will be held on Sunday. The chairpersons for five municipal bodies have been elected unopposed and for the remaining 45 bodies, 101 candidates are in the fray. The voting will be held from 10 am to 2 pm on Sunday and the counting will take place immediately after the elections. The voting for the posts of deputy chairpersons will be held on Monday. While Congress won 619 of the 1775 wards in 12 districts, independents won 595 wards and BJP secured 549 wards. Congress party is likely to form boards in 41 municipal bodies with the support of the independents. Among the other parties, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 7 wards, Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) and Communist Party of India (CPI) won two wards each. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) secured one ward. Rajasthan Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra had earlier said that his party was set to form its boards in 41 municipal bodies, while BJP will form the board in nine municipal bodies. “BJP’s blatant lies of sweeping local body polls have been exposed yet again. In the municipal body polls, our party has won 619 seats, while BJP managed to win only 549 seats. In 17 bodies, we are forming boards without any support and in the remaining 24 bodies, we will form the boards with the support of independents,” Dotasra had said. Of the total municipal bodies, 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils went to polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/polls-for-chairpersons-in-45-local-bodies-today/articleshow/79818322.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: RSS veteran MG Vaidya who witnessed the reign of all Sangh chiefs dies at 97||NAGPUR: An era came to an end for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with the demise of its senior ideologue Madhav Govind Vaidya on Saturday. The 97-year-old former editor of ‘Tarun Bharat’ — a newspaper with RSS leanings — wasn’t keeping well for the last few days and breathed his last at around 3.30pm. Vaidya had recovered from Covid a month ago. Though he had reported negative in the second RT-PCR test, he succumbed to an old-age-related illness, his family members said. He is survived by wife Sunanda, 3 daughters and 5 sons, one of whom Manmohan, is a senior RSS functionary. Fondly called ‘Baburao’ in RSS’ inner circles, Vaidya, who was older than the RSS itself, also outlived all the Sarsanghchalaks. Born in 1923, two years before the RSS was established, he joined the Sangh at the age of 8. Tributes and condolences poured in from all the senior Sangh Parivar members, BJP leaders and well-wishers as soon as news of his death went viral over social media and news channels. Micro-blogging site Twitter and WhatsApp were flooded with condolence messages for the eminent writer who mentored and inspired generations of journalists. “We at the Sangh have lost an elder brother. He was not only an eminent journalist but a multi-talented personality who excelled in all fields and tasks he undertook. He was a witness to Sangh’s work across all spheres and its rise across the socio-political forums over the years,” said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Suresh Joshi in a statement. Known to be a supporter of smaller states like Vidarbha, Vaidya in one of his speeches had mooted the idea of carving four states out of Maharashtra, for which he drew flak from the Shiv Sena. He had also put forward the idea of Jammu and Kashmir’s trifurcation; last year, the Narendra Modi government bifurcated J&K while defanging Article 370. Terming Vaidya as a distinguished writer and journalist, PM Modi tweeted that he had contributed extensively to the RSS for decades. “He also worked to strengthen the BJP. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” the PM said. Describing him as a thinker, editor, fearless writer and fierce nationalist, Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari said Vidarbha had lost a scholar and ideologue. “Through his insightful writings, Vaidya awakened and enlightened the society on several issues of national and international importance,” said the governor. Hailing him as a Sanskrit scholar, former CM and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the RSS rank and file had lost a senior mentor who used to explain any complicated subject in simple words. “We were confident he would reach the centenary of his life. He dedicated his life to propagating Sangh’s thoughts,” said Fadnavis. Union minister Nitin Gadkari said Vaidya got an opportunity to work with all RSS Sarsanghchalaks. “His tenure as Maharashtra Legislative Council member would always remain an ideal for all politicians. I was associated with him since childhood and he always blessed and guided me.” Vaidya rose to prominence during the days of Balasaheb Deoras as the Sarsanghchalak. When Deoras had difficulty in speaking, Vaidya used to deliver speeches on his behalf. He was also part of the think tank during Deoras’ time, said a senior RSS functionary. “I remember Baburao saying he had seen Hedgewar, though he did not get a chance to work with him,” said Shankar Tatvavadi, an associate from Hindu Seva Sangh. Terming Vaidya a friend and witness of a nearly century-long history of contemporary India, Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit said he offered the nation a fresh perspective on socio-political matters. After his appointment as the first official spokesperson of the RSS in 2000, Vaidya always regretted seeing many younger than him die, in reference to former RSS chiefs. Last seen at a public function at the Suresh Bhatt Hall when a book on his life was released, Vaidya had expressed the hope that he would live for 101 years. The funeral procession will begin from his residence in Pratap Nagar and the last rites would be performed at Ambazari Ghat at 9.30am on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rss-veteran-mg-vaidya-who-witnessed-the-reign-of-all-sangh-chiefs-dies-at-97/articleshow/79817610.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19, lockdown overshadowed development work||From sanitization to distribution of ration the year 2020 saw civic officials in different roles Exodus Of Labourers Hit Progress Of Projects Ludhiana: Though development works almost always exceed deadlines, what happened in 2020 was unprecedented — both Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown hit most of the projects. The civic officials claimed the two to three months of complete lockdown had created setbacks that are yet to be set right. The projects work could not gather pace even after everything was ‘unlocked’, as workers, most of whom were migrants, had gone away and many took time to come back. Even routine development works were hit hard and councillors, not only from opposition parties but also from the ruling party, cried foul over the non-development in their respective wards. If the development works moved at snail’s pace, the civic body found itself caught in performing different roles in helping the district administration and health department in handling the Covid-19 situation. Though it faced criticism for failing to meet the expectations of residents in distributing ration and cooked food among for the needy. The officials also helped the migrant workers to reach their native places and handled the pick-up and drop facility for the workers. Role reversal Civic body carried out sanitisation drive in city As soon as the coronavirus started spreading its wings in the city, the civic officials started sanitisation drives in the city, though there were several complaints among the residents that there localities were not covered well in time. Earlier, it was being done with the help of big machines and then small machines were bought and those were distributed among the councillors for doing sanitisation in the inner areas at their level. Apart from this, the sanitisation was being done at the households of Covid-19 patients. Ration and cooked food distribution The civic body also handled the responsibility of distributing the ration among the needy people. The district administration used to hand over the lists of needy people to the civic officials who were further reaching out to those people in the list and provide them ration kits. Similarly, the civic body had tied up with various NGOs in the city for providing the cooked food to the poor people. However, even in the distribution of ration and cooked food the civic officials had to face criticism at the hands of opposition parties who alleged that pick and choose was done in the distribution of ration among the needy. But the authorities kept on maintaining that there was no foul play in the distribution of ration. Exodus of migrant workers When coronavirus cases peaked, the migrant workers started moving towards their native places. They were moving on foot, in bikes and bicycles. Seeing their plight, the administration arranged trains and buses for them. The civic officials were asked to call those migrant workers who had registered for returning to their homes and then pick them up from designated places to Guru Nanak stadium from where they were being taken to railway station to catch trains. Projects Jagraon bridge completion The much awaited completion of one side of Jagraon bridge was a major relief for the city residents. People who were stuck in traffic jam at flyover for hours in the last four years finally heaved a sigh of relief when this project came to end in September. Though increase in the cost of bridge remained in news but people were happy after the bridge became operational. Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project Another year went in hiring the agency for the rejuvenation project of Buddha Nullah but on ground the work is yet to take off. Contrary to previous times, the civic authorities organised an open discussion on this project where civic officials, Punjab Pollution Control Board officials, MC councillors, activists and industrialists gathered under one roof. The project work is yet to start at ground. Canal based water supply Another ambitious project for the city is canal-based water supply to replace the groundwater supply system and civic officials spent one more year in only paper work. The authorities are yet to reach any conclusion on finalisation of land for this project where water treatment plants are to be set up and after that project will kick off. Supported with funding through World Bank, canal-based water supply is very important for the industrial town because of the fast depleting groundwater level in the city. Carcass utilisation plant Whereas the carcass utilisation plant was expected to see completion in September or October, the project deadline is now extended to January 2021. This plant is being installed at Noorpur Bet and will help in disposing off the dead animals in scientific manner. At present, the dead animals are being disposed off at the bank of Satluj for which National Green Tribunal has also raised objections against illegal hada rodhi at banks of water body. The civic officials were instructed to take care of the disposal of dead animals properly. Malhar Road and Sarabha Nagar market beautification project The much awaited projects Malhar Road, the smart road and the beautification of Sarabha Nagar market under smart city mission were expected to get completed earlier this year, but the work was stalled for more than two months so deadlines were extended. The Sarabha Nagar market though was declared completed on Diwali but undergrounding of wires and some small works are still incomplete. Similarly, work at Malhar Road is also going on and now both projects are expected to get completed in next year. LED street lights project The LED street lights project that remained in controversy for long time is still incomplete and even after jumping too many deadlines, work is still going on. The project was started in October 2018 and it was expected to see completion in nine months. The civic body has issued completion for zones B and D while for A and C it is still incomplete. The councillors complained about contracted company’s lackadaisical attitude. The authorities have imposed penalty on the company for not completing the work in time, but work is still pending. Sterilisation of stray dogs hampered thrice Due to coronavirus, the sterilisation of stray dogs project was also hampered thrice this year. Earlier, the officials stopped operating on the dogs instead they started feeding the stray dogs and then due to exodus of labourers they were forced to stop twice. It is still not fully streamlined. Modern slaughter house completed but yet to become operational The modern slaughter house was completed after a long gap but this project is yet to become operational. The Punjab Pollution Control Board pulled up officials as rendering plant was missing and now it is being installed and in the next two months, it is expected to be completed. Only one house meeting this year Due to Covid-19, large gatherings were banned so this year only one house meeting was held, that too when opposition parties raised hue and cry and threatened to stage protest if mayor Balkar Sandhu will not call the meeting. The meeting was called on November 10 and remained a stormy affair and MC house approved some important resolutions for the city, including the revision of water and sewerage tariff. Before imposition of curfew, due to pandemic one meeting took place for discussion of MC budget and it did not give much time to the councillors for raising any other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-lockdown-overshadowed-development-work/articleshow/79817587.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 25 stolen bikes worth Rs 10 lakh recovered in Kota, 3 held||KOTA: Kota city police arrested three persons and recovered at least 25 stolen motorbikes from their possession on Saturday which are worth around Rs 10 lakh in the market. Amid rising cases of motorbike thefts here, a special team led by circle inspector of Gumanpura police station and RPS (prob.) Shankar Lal busted a gang of motorbike thieves and arrested the three persons and recovered 25 motorbikes,” said Kota SP Vikas Phatak. The special team carried out checking of vehicles at Chawani Ramchandra bridge on Thursday and stopped a motorbike with two youths who could not produce the papers of the vehicle. On investigation, the motorbike was found to be stolen following which the youths were taken to the police station and were booked under relevant sections of IPC, he added. “During interrogation, the two youths, identified as Narendra Nagar (35), a resident of Kanwas area of Kota, and Khushraj Meena (19) of Jhalawar, revealed having stolen at least 25 motorbikes from various places in Kota city,” the SP said. Police went to the the location revealed by the two accused and recovered 25 motorbikes from Suket town of Kota on Saturday and also arrested the third accused, identified as Mohan Banjara (25), from there, he further said. Investigation also revealed that Narender Nagar and Mohan Banjara were already booked in several cases of motorbike lifting in separate police stations of the district, he added. Narender Nagar is a very clever bike lifter and is suspected to have lifted at least 100 bikes from various places. The accused would sell the stolen motorbikes at a low price of Rs 6,000-7,000 claiming that they had purchased them from auction and would produce the vehicle papers later after full payment, Shankar Lal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/25-stolen-bikes-worth-rs-10l-recovered-in-kota-3-held/articleshow/79818319.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Have your fill of art & food at this new gallery in Koregaon Park||By: Anjali JhangianPUNE: Vida Heydari Contemporary Art Gallery was recently launched in one of the quiet bylanes of Koregaon Park to celebrate all things that are artistic. Speaking about opening an art gallery when most businesses were facing economic headwinds, founder Vida Heydari said, “I wanted to create a space to inspire artists and art lovers to come together. Even though the pandemic slowed down things, it gave us ample time to reflect and make changes to perfect the space.” Heydari, of Iranian-Canadian origin, has been working in the art industry for around 14 years. This is her first gallery in Pune. The gallery is attached to a restaurant where visitors can enjoy a meal. “The idea of having a restaurant attached to a gallery came from popular museums across the world, such as In Situ housed inside the SF Museum of Modern Art in San Francisco, the Odette at the National Gallery in Singapore and The Modern at The Museum for Modern Art, New York City, among others. It took us five months to come up with a carefully curated menu complimenting the art inside,” she said. The arts space was launched with a show called Origins of a Perennial Bouquet curated by Bose Krishnamachari. The show will go on till February 14. “The show features works by Indian contemporary artists. We have put up collage work by Sumedh Rajendran depicting life in urban India during the lockdown, a time capsule by Benitha Perciyal featuring antique medicinal viles, assemblage of things, carved in wood, people from different economic classes keep on shelves in their homes by Sudarshan Shetty, pieces of walls from demolished structures showing multiple layers of paints by Tanya Goel, and 3D mixed media work bringing together old and new mediums by Manish Nai and Sumedh Rajendran, among other projects by these artists. The work of these artists need to be experienced by visitors by being present physically. It cannot be a virtual show,” said Krishnamachari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/have-your-fill-of-art-food-at-this-new-gallery-in-koregaon-park/articleshow/79818317.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Swargate Metro tunnel work likely to start next month||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) is likely to press a third tunnel-boring machine (TBM) into service — at the Swargate end — next month. The TBM will excavate a tunnel from Swargate towards Mahatma Phule Mandai. Two other TBMs are digging tunnels in the Range Hills-Shivajinagar direction and have reached the Civil Court station site, an official said. “The other two TBMs will next dig the tunnel towards Budhwar Peth in a few days. We expect all three machines to start work simultaneously in January,” the official said. Another official said preparations to lower the TBM at the Swargate were in the final stages — a vertical shaft is ready for this purpose. The official added that they were excavating a tunnel the ‘New Austrian Tunnelling Method (NATM)’ to allow the TBM to excavate further. “If all parameters are met, we will begin the tunnelling work in January,” the official said, adding that the work was progressing as expected. The serpentine machines will dig tunnels till the Mandai area, where they would be extracted. “We did not face many hurdles in the first phase of the excavation between Range Hills and Civil Court. The task gets more challenging now as the TBMs will dig a tunnel through the city’s core, densely populated areas,” the official said. Swargate is the culminating station in the underground section of the Pimpri-Swargate corridor. The line will be elevated from Pimpri to Range Hills, where it will go underground till Swargate, where the station is being developed as a multimodal hub aimed at providing commuters a seamless transition from the Metro to the bus services offered by Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited and Mahashtra State Road Transport Corporation. MahaMetro has already started constructing an underpass to enable easy access to the bus terminus from the Metro station. “The hub will also cater to the movement of private vehicles and autorickshaws. The work is underway near Jedhe Chowk,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swargate-metro-tunnel-work-likely-to-start-next-month/articleshow/79818329.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Crumbling houses of civic staffers to be redeveloped||PUNE: The dilapidated houses of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) employees at Ambil Odha will be redeveloped soon. The civic standing committee has diverted Rs6.2 crore from other works to redevelop the properties. The civic body has planned to redevelop 11 buildings and six small housing schemes in the area. “The issue had been pending for long. The availability of funds can help speed up the project,” said Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee. Corporator Dheeraj Ghate said it was the need of the hour to redevelop the properties as they are proving to be life threatening. “Some of these properties are more than 50 years old. They are in danger of crumbling. The situation worsens during the monsoon and any untoward incident could cause serious damage,” he said. The buildings are in Sane Guruji Vasahat near Dandekar bridge. Nearly 450 houses are located here and a majority of them are dilapidated.  “Either the present buildings will be redeveloped or the space will be used to construct a separate building. At least 100 houses will be built. The shifting will be done on need basis. Residents from the most dilapidated properties will be shifted on priority,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crumbling-houses-of-civic-staffers-to-be-redeveloped/articleshow/79818333.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Study: Heavy metal in air more in monsoon||NEW DELHI: While you may associate winter season as the most polluted season of the year, the study by University College of Medical Sciences, NEERI, Delhi University and the Department of Health Research finds that exposure to heavy metals in the air is highest during the monsoon season. Exposure was also found to be highest indoors as compared to outdoors, the study highlights. Out of 20 heavy metals analysed through the year, the research found almost all heavy metals were recording higher readings in the monsoon season (July and August) as compared to summers, winter and spring. The metals analysed were aluminium, arsenic, boron, barium, beryllium, bismuth, cadmium, chromium, copper, cobalt, iron, lithium, magnesium, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, lead, selenium, vanadium and zinc. “It is tough to identify why monsoon season has recorded an increase in almost all heavy metal parameters and a separate study may be initiated with the help of NEERI to identify those reasons. The same heavy metals will be tested next monsoon too to identify causes,” said Arun Sharma, professor-director at UCMS. The heavy metal exposure also found 47.5% of the exposure to heavy metals was at home, followed by 21.7% through a bicycle. Sharma says nickel levels were found to be high in almost all locations in Delhi, while lead levels were low in almost all locations. Arsenic was also found to be high everywhere, barring offices. The study also used a device to assess the approximate amount of metals being inhaled each hour, finding heavy metal exposure was just around 1 to 1.2 micrograms at homes in summers, winters and spring, however, it was 512.6 micrograms during the monsoon season. Inhalation of heavy metals per hour was 282.9 in cars and 235.9 in buses, the study further found. “While we tend to focus on the impact of PM 2.5 and PM 10, we do not look at the impact these heavy metals may be having on us,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/study-heavy-metal-in-air-more-in-monsoon/articleshow/79818340.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: 30-year-old man stabbed to death||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A 30-year-old man has been stabbed to death allegedly by his friend when the former’s alleged closeness to the latter’s sister created a rift between the two. The incident happened at Chembakamangalam near Korani under Mangalapuram police station limits on Friday night. Vishnu, son of Kunjukrishnan, Chembakamangalam near Korani, is the deceased and his friend Vimal is the suspect in the case. Vimal too has sustained injuries in the fight and is undergoing treatment. Police have kept him under surveillance in the hospital. His arrest is yet to be recorded. According to police, the incident that led to the alleged murder took place around 9.30pm. Vimal allegedly called Vishnu out of his house and they broke into a fight around 50 metres away from the house, in front of KIMS College of Nursing. In the melee, Vimal pulled out a knife and stabbed Vishnu on his throat. Though neighbours rushed to the spot and took Vishnu to CSI Mission Hospital at Kazhakootam, the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Meanwhile, Vimal, who escaped from the crime scene, got himself admitted to Gokulam Medical College Hospital at Venjarammood as he too was injured in the counter attack by Vishnu. “It is Vishnu’s alleged closeness with Vimal’s sister that is suspected to be the reason for their enmity,’’ said Attingal DSP S Y Suresh. Vimal recently found out that Vishnu used to regularly chat with his sister, which he found objectionable. He had gone to Vishnu’s residence to question him about it and also to reprimand him for repeating it. The DSP said the neighbours had gathered as soon as the two broke into a fight. Though they tried to separate them, they did not succeed. It is also learned that another friend was accompanying Vimal when he called Vishnu out of the house. Vimal was a mason by profession and Vishnu was working as a driver. His body was released to the family on Saturday after conducting postmortem. Vishnu’s parents are not alive and he was living with his sister, according to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/30-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/79817615.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||More than 8k students to appear for NMMS, NTSE today||Ludhiana: A total 4,379 candidates will appear for National Means and Merit Scholarship (NMMS), and 4,376 candidates for National Talent Search Exam (NTSE) stage 1 on Sunday. NTSE is a national level scholarship exam conducted for Class X students, and NMMS is a centrally sponsored scheme for Class VIII students. The exams will held between 10am and 1pm. Students who qualify for the NTSE become eligible for an annual scholarship of Rs 15,000 (Rs 1,250 per month) for classes XI to XII , and Rs 2,000 per month at the undergraduate level. The students who qualify NMMS exam become eligible for Rs 12,000 per annum (Rs 1,000 per month) scholarship for four years from classes IX to XII. District education officer Rajinder Kaur said, “Covid-19 safety measures will be strictly adhered to. The school principal has been asked to make the necessary arrangements. We had got the rooms sanitised and had made proper seating plans to ensure social distancing. As per instructions, 18 to 20 students can be accommodated in a room, depending on the size, and it must be ensured that social distancing measures are strictly adhered to. School heads have been asked to coordinate with each other if they require extra staff or furniture to conduct the exams.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-than-8k-students-to-appear-for-nmms-ntse-today/articleshow/79817604.cms||Mehak Jain
December 20, 2020||Goa||Theatre students perform street play on Covid||Panaji: Physical classes being suspended for students owing to the pandemic didn’t deter 16 students from stepping up to practice and perform a street play on Covid ‘dos and don’ts’. Kala Academy’s College of Theatre Arts in association with North Goa collector disaster management cell performed the street play at various places in Sattari, Bicholim and Tiswadi talukas. The performance also busted various myths and misconceptions about the virus, besides urging onlookers to avoid large gatherings. The street play was directed by Satish Narvekar who was appointed as nodal officer for the street play by North Goa collector. The responsibility of performance in different places was given to Sidharth Halankar from the district collector’s office. “There was an enthusiastic response for the street play from the people. The play highlighted measures to be taken to prevent Covid-19,” principal of College of Theatre Arts, Ramrao Wagh, said. “Even though regular classes are been held online, the students willingly came forward to perform the street play for the sake of combating the Covid situation. The audience at various places appreciated the efforts by students and the college staging the street play.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/theatre-students-perform-street-play-on-covid/articleshow/79819399.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludh chapter of ISRS adjudged best in country||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana chapter of Indian Society of Remote Sensing (ISRS-LC) received the best chapter award at the national convention and symposium hosted online. Ludhiana chapter is housed at Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC). This is the second time Ludhiana chapter is being adjudged the best in five years. Brijendra Pateriya, director of PRSC and patron of ISRS-LC congratulated the team. P K Kingra, professor of agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, and chairperson of ISRS-LC said the award consists of a citation, a medal and a cash award of Rs 50,000. R K Setia, senior scientist and vice-president of the Ludhiana chapter, organised the events. S K Sahoo, scientist-SD, PRSC and secretary of ISRS-LC said the chapter organised various remote sensing and GIS awareness workshops and educational events in various parts of the state, particularly in rural areas of Punjab. The award is significant for ISRS-LCas it is working on advance technological suits such as artificial intelligence, data science and analytics, spatial modelling since satellite remote sensing play a vital role in Digital India programmes and other government schemes as well as providing citizen centric solutions and services for better living standards and environmental management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-chapter-of-isrs-adjudged-best-in-country/articleshow/79817616.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Delhi||On the same page: Farmers get a newspaper of their own||NEW DELHI: The farmers at Singhu Border have started publishing their own bi-weekly newspaper called Trolley Times, the first edition of which came out on Saturday. The issue had three long-form articles in Gurmukhi, features, photos, illustrations and a Hindi section for agitators from states other than Punjab. The frontpage headline said, “Judaange, ladaange, jeetange! (United, we will fight and win).” Another quoted Bhagat Singh: “Inquilaab di talwar vichaaran di saan tey tez hondi ae (The sword of revolution is sharpened at the whetstone of ideas).” Born of a late-night conversation less than a week ago among some artists on a tractor-trolley at Singhu border, its aim is to ensure that the message from the dais, the latest developments in talks with the government and other details about the protest are easily accessible for the agitating farmers. With an estimated three lakh people now gathered on the Delhi borders, it has become important for the protestor to all be on the same page about the agitation and the government’s response. “There have been times when people have called us names, even terrorists. That angers us because we are here to fight for coming generations. Since we didn’t want wrong news floating around, we started this newspaper,” explained Hoshiar Singh, a protestor. “This newspaper will not just do the rounds at Singhu border, but go past borders so everyone learns what is happening where.” The first edition of Trolley Times was printed in Gurgaon. The printing cost for 2,000 copies came to Rs 11,000. Of these, 1,200 are meant for distribution at Singhu border and 800 at Tikri. “You will find a copy of the newspaper in every second trolley and we will increase the number of copies printed,” said Kattar Singh, who has been at Singhu since the first day of the protest on November 27. Rahul Singh of Chandigarh added, “We have ensured the newspaper is not just in Gurmukhi but also in Hindi so more people understand the content. We were quite quick in deciding the headlines, editing the content and making the masthead.” While this edition could not get any inputs from Ghazipur, where at least 500 people have stayed put in protest, the farmers are hoping to get a story from that border point in the next edition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-the-same-page-farmers-get-a-newspaper-of-their-own/articleshow/79818361.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Twin thrusts push economy back on track||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s economy is on the mend after the heavy blow dealt to it by the novel coronavirus pandemic, particularly the lockdown. The revival is due to consistent rise in demand and business activities resuming, leading to a rise in collection across sectors of goods and services tax, state excise, vehicle tax and stamps and registration duty. The largest component of Delhi government’s revenue, state GST, rose steadily in April-July and continues to remain above Rs 1,200 crore every month since August. Since GST is a consumption-based tax, the growth reflects a rise in spending in the capital. The sale of vehicles is also increasing strongly, and in July and November vehicle tax collected was higher than in the corresponding period last year. This growth is reflected also in the improving overall revenue collection, which was down 84% in April against the previous financial year. Delhi government kept pushing for permission for more economic activities in the city after the lockdown and got Delhi Metro services resumed, markets opened and hotels and gyms reopening. In September, the total revenue collection was 5 per cent higher than in the corresponding period in 2019. This was before the third coronavirus wave in the capital and new single-day Covid cases reached 8,500. Through multiple interventions, the spread of infection now appears to be in check. April, following the national lockdown, was a disaster in revenue terms, with the collection at Rs 525.5 crore against Rs 3,249.8 crore in April last year. But after more business activities resumed, May recorded a total revenue collection of Rs 1,479.6 crore, which then increased to Rs 1,852.3 crore in June and Rs 2,424.7 crore in July. There was a slight decline in August, with the revenue dipping slightly to Rs 2,341.6 crore. It then rose to Rs 2,417 crore in September and reached the highest of the current financial year of Rs 2,768.7 crore in October. The November figure was Rs 2,570.7 crore. The good October-November collection was fuelled by festive sales, when shoppers crowded the markets, but the October collection was still 15.7% lower than in the same month last year and the November figure 19.7% lower than in November 2019. State GST was very low in April due to the complete lockdown, logging just Rs 307.5 crore against Rs 2,031.2 crore in the same month last year. It grew to Rs 1,079.6 crore in May (Rs 1,211.4 crore in 2019), Rs 1,087.6 crore in June (Rs 1,425.6 crore), Rs 1,335.7 crore in July (Rs 1,206.4 crore), Rs 1,204.8 crore in August (Rs 2,218.9 crore), Rs 1,225.5 crore in September (Rs 998.8 crore), Rs 1,390.1 crore in October (Rs 1,542.1 crore) and Rs 1,255.9 crore in November (Rs 1,748.2 crore). A government official said that while the figures prove that consumption had been lower every month than last year except in September, purchases were slowly and consistently picking up now, indicating economic revival. A major reason in the decline of demand is being attributed to financial distress caused by job losses and the economic disruption due to the lockdown. Liquor consumption, however, has been down all eight months compared with last year. This, plus the closure of bars and restrictions on alcohol in restaurants, saw excise slipping, the figures for April and May being just Rs 8.6 crore and Rs 199.9 crore, respectively, against Rs 320.16 crore and Rs 425.2 crore in the two months last year. Sales tax similarly was down because of the decline in sale of petroleum products. However, there’s been an upward trend since May. Tax from stamps and registration, reflecting property transactions, has been rising after an all-time low in April. From Rs 17.4 crore in April, the collection has jumped to Rs 395 crore in October and Rs 325.2 crore in November. In fact, September recorded a higher collection at Rs 283.7 crore than the Rs 274.8 crore of September last year. Understandably, the overall tax collection under all heads is lower this year till November. SGST collection in April-November was Rs 8,886.9 crore (Rs 12,382.8 crore in 2019 for the same period), sales tax Rs 2,349.5 crore (Rs 3,538.7 crore), excise Rs 2,369.5 crore (Rs 3,238.7 crore), stamp and registration tax Rs 1,860.5 crore (Rs 3,258.4 crore) and vehicular tax collection was Rs 912.8 crore compared with Rs 1,330 crore last year. According to a government source, the projected tax revenue for the full financial year 2020-2021 is Rs 44,100 crore. Accordingly, the average collection for the eight months from April to November should have been Rs 29,400 crore. However, against these projections, the actual collection has only been Rs 16,380.5 crore, which is 44.3% lower than the estimated revenue for the period. Delhi government has taken a loan of Rs 5,339.4 crore from the National Small Savings Fund up to November to meet expenses due to the shortfall in revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/twin-thrusts-push-economy-back-on-track/articleshow/79818349.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 20, 2020||Madurai||MLA inaugurates Amma mini clinic in Madurai||Madurai: Madurai North MLA VV Rajan Chellappa inaugurated an Amma mini clinic in Sourashtrapuram near Vandiyur in Madurai on Saturday. The MLA said that there will be a doctor, a nurse and a health worker available in the clinic. It will open between 8 am and 12 pm between 4 pm and 6 pm. Rajan Chellappa said that residents of Sourashtrapuram, a heavily congested residential area where mostly poor and middle class people reside, will benefit from the clinic. Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan and city health officer Dr P Kumaragurubaran were present during the inauguration. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mla-inaugurates-amma-mini-clinic-in-madurai/articleshow/79819393.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh records 4 deaths, 479 new Covid cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 479 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,78,285. The toll increased to 7,074 as four more patients succumbed to the novel coronavirus pandemic. The four deceased are from Chittoor, Guntur, Krishna and West Godavari districts. As many as 497 patients were declared cured. There are currently 4,355 active cases, with 8,66,856 cumulative recoveries and 7,074 fatalities. Krishna reported 92 new infections on Saturday, followed by Chittoor (87) and Guntur (62). The remaining 10 districts recorded less than 50 new cases. East Godavari has the highest caseload among all districts with 1,23,267 cumulative infections. West Godavari is a distant second with 93,631 infections. Vizianagaram registered 40,958 cumulative cases, the lowest among all districts. All these three districts achieved a 99 per cent recovery rate, while it has been at least 95 per cent for the remaining districts. Chittoor alone contributed 837 deaths, followed by Guntur (660) and Krishna (657). Nine districts witnessed at least 500 Covid-related deaths as of Saturday since the beginning of the outbreak in the state in March. Andhra Pradesh tested 62,215 Covid-19 samples to detected the 479 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.8%. The overall case positivity rate stood at 7.8 per cent. The state’s average mortality rate is 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-records-4-deaths-479-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79817738.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: 2 on bike killed as truck snags overhead wires||VIJAYAWADA: In a freak accident, two persons died on the spot after a truck cut a high tension electricity cable while passing which resulted in a two-wheeler and the truck catching fire at Gollapalli-Ponasanapalli road under Nuzvid rural police station limits in Krishna district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sheikh Mastan (64), native of Mirijapuram village and Penumaka Joji (45) from Hanuman Junction. According to Nuzvid rural police sub-inspector Ch Ranjith Kumar, the incident happened at around 11.30 am in the morning when the parcel truck heading towards Vijayawada from Hanuman Junction snagged the overhead electricity cables. The cable then fell on a two-wheeler where both the pillion and the rider were electrocuted and caught fire resulting in their deaths on the spot. Also, cops said that the truck too caught fire by the driver managed to escape just in time. A fire tender, revenue officials and electricity officials reached the spot and doused the flames and fixed the cables. Cops said that they have registered a case and sent the deceased to Nuzvid Government Hospital for post-mortem. A similar incident took place near Swamy Vinayaka Temple at Katuru village where a truck carrying dry grass caught fire after it snagged a low-lying overhead cable resulting the heavy vehicle catching fire. The driver managed to escape the truck and a vigilant local youth swung into action, and drove the vehicle into a pond before the fire could spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-on-bike-killed-as-truck-snags-overhead-wires/articleshow/79817749.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Heritage enthusiasts object, halt film shoot at Town Hall in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: A film shoot at the heritage Town Hall building in the city was stalled by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) on Saturday following a furore by heritage enthusiasts. The management of the film unit had procured permission from the GVMC stating they were making a film on road safety awareness, for which they required to shoot in the Town Hall premises and at Bheemili beach for a day. However, when some heritage enthusiasts reached the spot this morning, they found an elaborate Western set resembling a bank robbery being set up in the main hall, with little connection to road safety as claimed by the filmmakers. “When I reached the Town Hall on Saturday morning, I found a horse, photographs carrying rewards on heads, bank manager’s desk, ladders to the under-renovation wooden roof, lamps lit up on the wooden structures and a crowd of around 40-50 people. The permission for shooting was given while the 1904 heritage building was getting a facelift. Tiles, woods and other conservation items are all lying all around the place for the ongoing restoration works,” said heritage narrator Jayshree Hatangadi. Letters from the director of Sekhu Movie Service state that permission was sought from the GVMC to “shoot a road safety awareness concept film (highlighting the uses of wearing helmet) at town hall premises and beach shore” between December 18 to December 20. The GVMC commissioner had approved the shoot believing it to be on road safety. However, after Hatangadi raised the matter with civic body officials and locals took to social media to highlight the issue, the team was asked to leave the venue and its permission revoked. Currently, the Town Hall is undergoing restoration work worth Rs 6 crore and the project is supposed to be completed by January, according to GVMC officials. A top GVMC official told STOI, “We were misinformed by the film crew that it would be a film on road safety and helmet awareness but later we realised it is not so and their shooting was hampering our restoration works. So, we stopped it.” “To prevent misuse of our iconic heritage buildings, it is important to have a committee of, for and by the people together with the municipal corporation to decide how best to utilise the Town Hall, generate revenue while upholding its sanctity and respect rather than giving it for any film shoot,” said heritage activist Sohan Hatangadi. The 116-year-old Town Hall had been witness to visits from freedom fighters, leaders and several luminaries, including Mahatma Gandhi, Rabindranath Tagore, C Rajagopalachari, S Radhakrishnan and CV Raman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/heritage-enthusiasts-object-halt-film-shoot-at-town-hall/articleshow/79817797.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kalingapatnam beach gets ready for revamp||VISAKHAPATNAM: Kalingapatnam beach in Srikakulam district is set for a revamp and stakeholders have been asked to come up with a detailed project report (DPR). While discussions on said revamp were on for a while, the project gained in priority after chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced Andhra Pradesh’s tourism policy for 2020-25 aimed at building a robust tourism infrastructure in AP. The Kalingapatnam beach is the only beach bordering Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. It is the confluence of river Vamsadhara and the Bay of Bengal. Free of pollution, the beach is regarded as much safer that others, especially the beaches in Vizag city. Srikakulam district tourism and cultural officer N Narayana Rao said, “The development of Kalingapatnam beach is under consideration on priority basis. The architect consultancy from the secretariat level may prepare the project report.” According to Narayana Rao, the beach sees visitors during auspicious months such as Kartheeka Masam when people come to take holy bath at the confluence. A roads and buildings department official said road connectivity from Kalingapatnam bus stand to beachfront is already developed. Resorts with sea facing cottages with world-class facilities are likely to be part of the revamp. “The government may give the beach under the operations and maintenance policy. Interested players may take the beach for its safety and pleasant weather. The beach will support locals with employment opportunities,” said an official from the revenue department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kalingapatnam-beach-gets-ready-for-revamp/articleshow/79817766.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Washim reports only 1 new case for first time since July||NAGPUR: In what could be termed as an encouraging sign for Vidarbha region, Washim district reported only 1 new case of Covid-19 on Saturday. The 11 districts together reported 873 new cases, while 832 patients recovered. With 2.27 lakh patients recovered out of 2.43 lakh reported cases, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is steady at 93.1%. Though improving, the recovery rate is still lower than state’s 94.1% and the national average, which is above 95%. Number of new cases has gone down significantly in the last ten days. Except Nagpur, all 10 districts in Vidarbha reported less than 100 cases, while Nagpur reported 398. Buldhana, Yavatmal, Akola, Gadchiroli and Gondia reported less than 50 cases each, while Washim reported only 1 new case. Only 1 new case for a district has happened for the first time since July. The major cause of concern for Vidarbha is deaths due to Covid-19. On Saturday, 19 deaths were reported, including 9 from Nagpur and 4 from Akola. With Chandrapur (3), Bhandara (2), and Amravati (1), Vidarbha’s death toll reached 6,392. Case fatality rate of the region is at 2.6%, which is more than the state and national average. Bhandara: The district reported 2 deaths due to Covid-19, 79 new cases and 50 recoveries on Saturday. Now, Bhandara has 11,906 cases, 11,021 recoveries and 282 deaths due to Covid-19. Number of patients under treatment are 603. Buldhana: The district received 463 reports on Saturday, out of which 49 tested positive. This took total number of Covid-19 cases in Buldhana to 12,087. Out of them, 11,622 have recovered, with 29 recovering on Saturday. Now, the district has 320 patients under treatment. No death was reported on December 19, so the death toll remained at 145. Washim: Only 1 new case of Covid-19 was reported in Washim, for the first time since July. The total cases from the district went to 6,493. On the other hand, 17 patients recovered in a day. This took total number of recovered patients to 6,112. Washim has reported no death since December 3. The district has 232 patients under treatment. Akola: The district witnessed 37 new cases, 14 recoveries and 4 deaths on Saturday. All deceased were senior citizens between 65 and 87 years of age. This took the death toll of Akola to 310. The district has reported 4 deaths in a day for the first time in December. Now, Akola has 10,116 cases, 9,050 recoveries and 310 deaths. Total 756 patients are under treatment. Gondia: 37 new corona positive cases surfaced, while 23 patients recovered in the district today. A 66-year-old patient from Amgaon succumbed to the virus. 477 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, which include 179 RT-PCR and 298 Rapid Antigen Tests. This took the total cases in Gondia to 13,326. Gadchiroli: With 26 new cases and 48 recoveries, the number of cases in Gadchiroli reached 8,762 on Saturday. These include 8,325 recoveries and 96 deaths. No death was reported on Saturday in the district. Now, 341 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/washim-reports-only-1-new-case-for-first-time-since-july/articleshow/79817645.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 20, 2020||Madurai||South, central regions report 105 fresh Covid-19 cases each||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state on Saturday reported 105 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death, the lowest in the region in six months. Ramanathapuram has reported zero cases for the first time in more than six months. Meanwhile in the central region, the number of fresh cases crossed 100 for the third consecutive day on Saturday. The eight districts also registered 105 fresh cases taking the tally to 72,709, which include 725 active cases. The region registered no casualties maintaining the toll at 909. Ramanathapuram became the first district in the southern region to record zero fresh cases in more than five months. Madurai recorded 20 cases, the highest in the region, followed by Kanyakumari (19), Tirunelveli (16), Dindigul (13), Virudhunagar (12), Theni (8), Sivagangai (7), Tuticorin (7) and Tenkasi (3). Active cases in the region have dropped to 1,192 with Madurai (305) recording the highest. The lone death in the region is in Madurai. The central region had been recording cases below 100 for several weeks except for a few days recently. However, the public health department officials advised people to keep the safety measures followed by them. Thanjavur remained on top with 32 fresh cases on Saturday taking the district tally to 16,870, the highest in the region. Trichy came next with 24 fresh cases pushing the tally to 13,881. Nagappattinam and Tiruvarur district registered 17 and 15 fresh cases. Perambalur reported zero cases on Saturday after recording cases in single digits for a few days. Ariyalur recorded a single fresh case, while it is eight in Pudukottai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-central-regions-report-105-fresh-covid-19-cases-each/articleshow/79819394.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||30-year-old event dancer ends life in Vijayawada, kin allege foul play||VIJAYAWADA: A 30-year-old woman committed suicide by hanging herself at her residence in Vambay colony under Nunna police station limits in the city on Saturday. Police said the woman is believed to have taken the extreme step on Saturday afternoon following a quarrel with her friend, who reportedly barged into the deceased’s house and admonished her over her alleged extramarital affair with her husband. Feeling upset and humiliated, she hanged herself from the ceiling when her husband and kids were out. The deceased used to dance at local events, while her friend’s husband was her co-dancer. The issue of an extramarital affair cropped up when her friend found some pictures on social media in which the deceased was seen posing with her co-dancer. The pictures infuriated the co-dancer’s wife, resulting in the confrontation, police said. However, the victim’s family is now alleging foul play and want the police to make a thorough probe. Cops have registered a case under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) at Nunna police station. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-year-old-event-dancer-ends-life-kin-allege-foul-play/articleshow/79817849.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pandemic gives fuel saving breather to Andhra Pradesh transport corporation||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 outbreak has resulted in fuel savings for the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). A comparison of the corporation’s operations show that between December 1 and 18, RTC Visakhapatnam division saved 3,649 litres of diesel this year, compared to the corresponding period last year. Altogether, RTC operated 850 buses, including city and buses on longer routes such as Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam-Vijayawada under Visakhapatnam division. The buses consumed 64,377 litres of diesel last year against 60,728 litres of diesel this year, while operating the same number of buses. This is attributed to several reasons, such as non-operation of AC buses, maintenance of buses during the lockdown and training drivers during the lockdown. Further, since the outbreak, passengers prefer maintaining physical distance and choose not to travel in crowded buses. Compared to last year, those travelling longer distances prefer non-AC buses while fewer passengers have been requesting RTC staff to halt at non-designated stops. Speaking to STOI, RTC Visakhapatnam division chief mechanical engineer B Appala Naidu said the corporation achieved a mileage of 4.94 kilometres per litre (km/l) against targeted mileage of 4.66 km/l. “The pandemic helped us in some ways like taking up maintenance works of the buses. The passengers are also now not giving priority to travel or standing inside the buses and hanging from the buses. This has reduced the weight of the bus, thus helping us save fuel apart from training the drivers,” Naidu added. Naidu said a specialised team from Petroleum Conservation Research Association and Tata Motors imparted training to the drivers. The RTC operated nearly 44 AC buses last December, while this year the number fell to below 30. The new buses are all BS-IV compliant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pandemic-gives-fuel-saving-breather-to-transport-corp/articleshow/79817759.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Team of five try to revive Ponduru khadi glory||SRIKAKULAM: A team of five engineering graduates have come to the aid of weavers who produce the renowned Ponduru khadi, which of late had been losing sheen. The team is now preparing a project report for a complete business model which the government will take up instead of those by private groups. The team comprising Pogiri Jaswant Naidu of Vandrangi village in Ponduru mandal, P Suraj, Bhardwaj, Sailendra, Roopank, plan to submit this report to the government within the next two weeks. The report will have a model of a traditional boutique with complete live production. The model is being designed on the lines of ‘One District-One Product’ which has been a successful in Japan. Back home, this model has been implemented by government of Uttar Pradesh to boost its home-grown industries. Under this concept, all the weavers would produce the same product. “This means weavers in villages in and around Ponduru should produce the same product and the government would promote it in sales and marketing, besides providing necessary material. Government should also take up the promotion including branding name and logo like other big products in the market,” Jaswant Naidu told STOI. Naidu added that at present, sales of Ponduru khadi are direct and most customers fall in the 45 to 50 age group. He said that targeting the right customer demographics is a key factor in their model. The five-member team had approached former district collector Dhanujay Reddy three years ago and launched a website ‘loom2home’ with logo to introduce younger generations to Ponduru khadi. The team even supported weavers by introducing linen fabric to weavers of Ponduru khadi, which had only two varieties earlier, to produce more varieties and colours for new trends. The team had also created a WhatsApp group after identifying 200 potential customers in Srikakulam district. “If each customer can purchase Rs 10,000 per year then the weavers can sustain. We approached a Telugu organisation in the US, Silicon Andhra, which gave us a sales boost of around Rs 10 lakh. With available resources, we supported Ponduru weavers by supplying them linen trained them to incorporate changes to Ponduru khadi in order to attract customers by offering new colours and new trends,” Naidu said. Ponduru is well known as a khadi village which used to house thousands of weavers once. However, their numbers are dwindling as they are not getting reasonable prices and lack necessary marketing nous. This, along with a dwindling demand for khadi has led many to take up alternative courses of employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/team-of-five-try-to-revive-ponduru-khadi-glory/articleshow/79817822.cms||Siva G
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: To push revenues to pre-Covid levels, RTC to resume all services from January 1||VIJAYAWADA: In a bid to bring revenues back to pre-pandemic levels, the Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is planning to operate all buses, including hired ones, from January 1, 2021. The APSRTC has also announced that it was going to operate over 3,600 special services for Sankranti. While bringing about normalcy is the prime focus in their efforts to reclaim revenue, the RTC is also planning to scale up other revenue generation operations such as its cargo service, developing commercial spaces at bus stations under the Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) mode and opening fuel stations across the state. While the APSRTC has resumed bus operations in a graded manner following the issuance of unlock guidelines, it is yet to reach full capacity in terms of bus operations. Giving priority to its own buses, the transport corporation had kept hired bus operations on hold due to poor occupancy. However after unlock 5, occupancy rates started improving and has already 60% at present. The new inter-state agreement with Telangana has also affected the RTC’s resumption plans. With over one lakh kilometres of operations to Telangana have been reduced, the APSRTC had deployed excess buses on other routes where hired buses were operating as part of a cost-optimisation process. The APSRTC is now pinning its hopes on festive demand to launch all its bus operations. With the demand for buses rising every year during Sankranti as many travel back to their native places to celebrate the harvest festival, the APSRTC is planning to take advantage by offering an increased number of buses across the state and also from neighbouring states. The special services are set to commence on January 8 and will continue till demand lasts after the festival. Special services are being planned from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai. This year, the APSRTC is planning more services within the state between all major destinations. According to operations executive director (ED) KS Brahmananda Reddy, besides resuming all its bus services, the RTC will also focus on other streams of additional revenue generation. One such area which has been growing consistently is the RTC’s cargo services. “Though the cargo revenues are very little when compared to revenue from regular operations, we see a great potential in this area. Another area that APSRTC is focussing on is to utilise its land bank at various places by opening up fuel stations. While two fuel stations have already been launched, the APSRTC is planning to open 29 more fuel stations across the state,” Brahmananda Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/to-push-revenues-to-pre-covid-levels-rtc-to-resume-all-services-from-jan-1/articleshow/79817733.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Loose oil: Food safety dept to crack the whip||Madurai: Food safety officials have decided to crack the whip on traders selling cooking oil in loose after the Madras high court order restrained its sale. Traders should start selling only oils only in packets adhering to packaging and labelling regulations under the Food Safety and Standards Act, officials said. They said that the label should consist information including name of the product, name of the manufacturer, address, date of packing and expiry. These information will not be available in oil sold in loose and hence it would be difficult to test the oil for quality and take action accordingly. Once traders started selling in packets, it would be easy to ensure that quality oil is available for consumers. Designated officer for food safety, Madurai district, Dr M Somasundaram said: “We will immediately start implementing the court order without wasting any time. Traders should stop selling oil in loose at once. Otherwise, appropriate action will be taken.” He said that traders have been already been sensitized on the Food Safety and Standards Act and packaging and labelling regulations. It would not take much time to get packing material and printed label to start selling packed oils. Hence, there is no need to provide any extra time. Earlier, the traders had refused to stop oil sales in loose and instead got six months extension from the food safety department, thrice. V Krishnamoorthy of Madurai Oil and Oil Seeds Association said that they have asked their members to stop selling oil in loose at once. They have also been asked to take a printout of the court order published in newspapers and stick it in prominent place in the shop to sensitize customers. However, he said that they are discussing with legal experts on whether to pursue further legal course of action. “If we do not seek legal course of action, it would amount to admission that cashew nut shell oil is adulterated in oil. In my knowledge, there is no possibility of doing it,” he said. On Friday, the Madras high court had restraining the sale of edible oils in loose on the ground that they are mostly adulterated and would have a serious consequences on the consumers’ health. The court had also suggested that the state government should bring an amendment to book people who are involved in adulteration of food products under the Goondas Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/loose-oil-food-safety-dept-to-crack-the-whip/articleshow/79819396.cms||V Devanathan
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||TVM Spinning Mills on path to revival||Thiruvananthapuram: Trivandrum Spinning Mills Limited (TSM), which was hit by the lockdown induced by Covid-19 pandemic, is on a path to revival. It has resumed the exportation of yarn. The first batch of 19,200 kilograms of yarn to Thailand was despatched from the spinning mill at Balaramapuram on Friday. The consignment will be shipped to Thailand from Thoothukudi port in Tamil Nadu. The consignment was flagged off by spinning mill chairman M M Basheer and managing director K T Jayaraj. MD Jayaraj said though the mill started its operations post the lockdown a few months ago, it was only catering to buyers within the country. For two months, the mill’s utilisation of machinery was only between 20 and 30%. Now, it has been increased to more than 60%, increasing the quantity of production and thereby being able to meet the demand from overseas. “Lack of availability of sufficient raw materials is the key factor that has affected the quantity of production. The raw material used in TSM is the waste cotton sourced from all other mills in the state. Post the lockdown, the mills are yet to reach their maximum productivity and it has proportionally affected the production at TSM,” Jayaraj said. Besides Thailand, TSM had been exporting yarn materials to China and Indonesia. Industries minister E P Jayarajan said on Friday that the LDF government had undertaken massive renovation works in TSM after coming to power, spending Rs 4.5 crore. Defunct machines were repaired and made operational again. Worn-out machine parts were replaced with new ones. An additional fund of Rs 7.5 crore was announced in the last budget. All this helped the mill in increasing its production and also improving the quality. It was following this, they started getting orders from oversees. With Friday’s despatch, the total number of loads exported from TSM during the current LDF government’s tenure has become 44.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tvm-spinning-mills-on-path-to-revival/articleshow/79817654.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Suspended Canacona PI, constable reinstated||Poinguinim: Canacona police inspector Tukaram Chawan and police constable Jayprakash R Pagi have been reinstated to their postings at Canacona. The duo were suspended after the video of an obscene clip shot at Chapoli dam, Canacona in the first week of November went viral. The locals had demanded action against the police officials for alleged delay in registering an FIR against model and actress Poonam Pandey, who featured in the video. Owing to the protests, Chawan and Pagi were asked to report to the police headquarters in Panaji during the period of their suspension. On December 16, an order lifting the suspension was signed by deputy inspector general of police, Paramaditya. Canacona citizens under the banner of Canacona Jagrut Samiti had met the Canacona deputy collector Satish Prabhu and had put forth their three demands, including the suspension of Canacona police inspector, to ensure free and fair investigation into the case of the obsene video featuring Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/suspended-canacona-pi-constable-reinstated/articleshow/79819420.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Meerut||Two killed, one injured after group led by village pradhan opens fire in Shamli||MEERUT: Two men in their 30s succumbed to bullet shot wounds while another is stated to be in a critical condition after a group led by the village pradhan opened indiscriminate fire at them in Shamli district. According to police, the incident happened in Khandrawali village within the Khandala police station limits. A meeting of a women self help group (SHG) was going on when local residents assembled to attend another meeting of sugarcane surveyor. The village pradhan then suggested that the sugarcane surveyor meeting be held at his residence to which some objected. “The dispute soon turned into a brawl and miscreants from the pradhan group opened fire, killing two men- Rahul and Karamveer- while another got injured and was rushed to a nearby hospital,” police said. An FIR based on the complaint of the family of the deceased was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against the accused at Kandla police station. Senior police officers, including Shamli superintendent of police Sukirti Madhav, have reached the spot to take stock of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-killed-one-injured-after-group-led-by-village-pradhan-opens-fire-in-shamli/articleshow/79817006.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Awareness rally on saving bird habitats||Tirunelveli: District collector V Vishnu was among the participants of ‘Pedal for Birds’ bicycle rally organized here on Saturday to create awareness on conserving bird habitats in the region. Covering four important irrigation tanks – Nainarkulam, Rajavallipuram, Palamadai and Kalkurichi – the event was organised by ATREE’s Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre along with a few other organisations. Senior research associate at the centre M Mathivanan said that the Tamirabarani River that originates from Pothigai Hills symbolises a unique biodiversity. The river and its nearly 700 well-connected irrigation tanks have not only made Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts cultivable but also attract a large number of water birds in the winter. “In the 2011 water bird census we documented more than 100 species in the Tamirabarani wetland complex,” he said. Many of them migrate from northern Europe and Russia and help provide important ecosystem services such as pest control. Their droppings support good fish yield and increases crop productivity, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/awareness-rally-on-saving-bird-habitats/articleshow/79819407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Following ACB trap, CP orders inspection of headquarters||Aurangabad: After a recent trap in which a reserve police sub-inspector was nabbed by the anti-corruption bureau, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta ordered a joint inspection by deputy commissioner of police for finding out loopholes in the system before they are addressed once and for all. Not taking any chance, Gupta has ordered deputy commissioner of police (zone-I) Nikesh Khatmode-Patil instead of DCP (headquarters) to carry out the inspection. In addition to this, an inspector has also been appointed to assist the DCP in the inspection and audit purpose. When contacted, Gupta said, “We have ordered an inspection-cum-audit of the headquarters by DCP rank officer and are awaiting a detailed report in this regard. We intend to make the entire system transparent for which we will also computerize things that have remained manual.” Police headquarters keep a considerable number of policemen as reserve force and utilize it as backup force for law and order bandobast, VIP bandobast, liasoning, court guard duty, election duty, remand duty, orderly at the police officers’ bungalows, gunmen for VIPs, officers as well as peoples’ representatives, to name a few. Police authorities said that there have been mounting allegations of ‘favouritism’ at the police headquarters after policemen are left disgruntled over some of their colleagues simply marking attendance and remaining absent from duty. “There are many constables who never get any kind of duty, including night or general bandobast. It has been the system for long and nobody has ever changed or challenged it,” said an officer who has served at Aurangabad police headquarters. A constable has even claimed that there are some constables who have got themselves attached to the police headquarters for the sole reason that they can spare time for their businesses being run outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/following-acb-trap-cp-orders-inspection-of-headquarters/articleshow/79817004.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 20, 2020||Bareilly||Two persons booked for illegally felling 21 teak trees||PILIBHIT: Two persons have been booked for illegally felling 21 teak trees worth Rs 15 lakh in village Chandupur under Madhotanda police station. The incident came to light after a video made by wildlife photographer Bilal Khan went viral on social media. The forest and wildlife division ensured punitive action against the two accused. Meanwhile, Khan alleged that this could not have been possible without the collusion between forest personnel and the two accused. The Bareilly-based chief conservator of forest Lalit Verma has ordered an investigation in the matter. SHO of Madhotanda police station Ram Sevak said that following a written complaint filed by a forest inspector, Ajmer Singh, the police have booked two persons, identified as Ram Bharose of village Chandupur, and Shanukha of Madhotanda under section 4, 10 of Uttar Pradesh Protection of Trees Act in Rural and Hill Areas, 1976.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-persons-booked-for-illegally-felling-21-teak-trees/articleshow/79817014.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Govt school headmaster gets jail term for molesting girl students in Tirunelveli||TIRUNELVELI: A government middle school headmaster was sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment for molesting and sexually harassing eight girl students. The convict was also slapped with Rs 1.5 lakh fine. C Nambirajan, 52, of Thirukurungudi was the headmaster of a panchayat union school in a village under the jurisdiction of Valliyoor all women police station. Public prosecutor Jeba Jeeva Raja said Nambirajan had molested and misbehaved with the girls for a while. It came to light when the district child protection unit (DCPU) received a complaint. The Valliyoor all women police began inquiries based on the complaint received from the DCPU in March 2017. Inquiries conducted on March 16 and 17, 2017 revealed that he had molested and harassed at least eight girls studying in classes VII and VIII. Nambirajan even made a few girls sit on his lap and touched them inappropriately during a tour. He was booked under sections 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) read with 9(f) (member of management or staff of educational institution commits sexual assault on a child in that institution), 9(m) (sexual assault on a child below 12 years) and 9(l) (sexual assault on child more than once) and section 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) read with 11(iv) (entices a child for pornographic purposes or gives gratification) of the Pocso Act. He was arrested and remanded for 14 days, before he was released on bail. On completion of the trial, special court judge P Indhirani sentenced him to three counts of seven years each as he was found guilty under Section 10 and three counts of three years each under Section 12, all to be served concurrently. A total fine of Rs 1.5 lakh was also slapped on him, the prosecution said. Following his arrest, Nambirajan was placed under suspension. A copy of the verdict would be sent to the school education department to dismiss him from service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-school-headmaster-gets-jail-term-for-molesting-girl-students-in-tirunelveli/articleshow/79819411.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Centuries-old fortification wall to be conserved & beautified||Aurangabad: For the first time, the centuries-old fortification wall connecting the historical gates of Kala Darwaza and Naubat Darwaza are all set to be strengthened, conserved and beautified. Directives in this regard have been issued by Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd. (ASCDCL) administrator Astik Kumar Pandey who has been in the forefront of carrying out the conservation work of nine existing city-based historical gates. In addition, the work for restoration and beautification of Shahgunj-based clock tower is also under way. To begin with, ASCDCL aims at conserving, strengthening, and beautification of the wall that has never been repaired earlier. Moreover, the wall is also set to get glossy finish and art installations, making it yet another point of tourist attraction. ASCDCL assistant project manager Sneha Bakshi said, “After the strengthening of the arches on the wall, conventional material like lime will be used for plastering. The plaster will comprise marble powder which will give glaze effect. The stones will be cleaned and only the brick work will be painted with traditional method during the process.” This will be followed by installation of art work. Authorities said that through these initiatives are aimed at bringing development to the city. ASCDCL deputy CEO Shivam Pushkal said that through the heritage projects, the ASCDCL not only wants to inculcate a sense of pride, responsibility and belongingness about the rich heritage of the city among the citizens, but also make them a tourist attraction and eventually boost city’s economy and generate employment. Senior historian Shaikh Ramzan said that Kala Darwaza and Naubat Darwaza are part of the seven gates of Qila-E-Arak which is one of the five forts within the city, including the ones situated in Begumpura, Baijipura and Navkhanda. These two gates were constructed around 1682. Naubat Darwaza remained one of the most important gates and was used by emperor Aurangzeb and his generals for entering the fort. The name was derived from Naubat which means playing of drums, shehnai and showering of flowers. Kala Darwaza was meant for citizens to enter and exit Qila-E-Arak which was the most important fort of Aurangzeb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centuries-old-fortification-wall-to-be-conserved-beautified/articleshow/79817015.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Spl event for rare celestial sighting||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Science Forum, is organising a planet gazing event on Sunday, to help people witness a rare celestial event - the conjunction of the Jupiter and Saturn, the biggest stars in the milky way galaxy. President Tamil Nadu Science Forum, Madurai M Rajesh, said that it was a once in a lifetime opportunity to see such rare event as it would next appear in the skies only in 2080. The TNSF is organising the event near the Annamalai theater in Simmakkal on December 21 between 6pm and 8pm. People can be relieved to watch the sky to see the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. It became known as the ‘Christmas Star’ in the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. Planets regularly appear to pass each other in the solar system, with the positions of Jupiter and Saturn being aligned in the sky about once every 20 years. But, what makes it very special this year is that it is 400 years since the planets came so close to each other. “What we will see on coming December 21, is the celestial spectacle occurring after 800 years in the night, which makes it visible to almost everybody in the world,” he said. It will be visible southwest, after sunset to the naked eye. A binocular would help in a better viewing of the two giant stars. What people should do is select a spot where they can see the expanse of the sky without any obstruction, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spl-event-for-rare-celestial-sighting/articleshow/79819417.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Professor show-caused for sharing VB VC’s comment on Amartya Sen||SANTINIKETAN: Visva-Bharati University has show-caused a professor for sharing vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakraborty’s comments on economist Amartya Sen with the Nobel laureate and others. During an online address to the faculty, the VC had criticised Sen for his stand on the issue of hawker eviction from the campus. Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the president of Visva-Bharati University Faculty Association (VBUFA), had written to Sen to apprise him of the allegations that had been made against him, following which he wrote back from Harvard, terming the VC’s statements as absurd. Chakraborty has been particularly pro-active in removing encroachments and demolishing illegal shops. The VC has already identified five-action points, including removal of encroachments, building boundary wall and collection of rent. In his reply to Bhattacharyya’s mail, Sen had remarked: “I do think that V-B often interferes too much with the normal life of ordinary people, of which setting up walls to interfere with ways and passages of people is a good example.” The comments come against the backdrop of the controversy that had erupted earlier this year over fencing the ground where Pous Mela was held. Apart from show-causing Bhattacharyya on why his actions should not be treated as indiscipline, insubordination and violation of service conditions and conduct rules, V-B has also issued a notification to faculty members, seeking a disclosure about their association with VBUFA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/prof-show-caused-for-sharing-vb-vcs-comment-on-amartya/articleshow/79818476.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||BJP eyes 2 standing panels, CPM may go for young faces||Thiruvananthapuram: As BJP heads to corporation council with a formidable presence of experienced councillors and prominent leaders, LDF is likely to face a stiff challenge in election to heads of standing committees. Four head positions, exempting chairman of finance standing committee, may be reserved for women in the corporation where position of deputy mayor is not reserved for women, as per norms. Standing committees for health, education, development and town planning will be reserved for women for this tenure of the council. CPM has always taken care not to give away head position of public works standing committee and health standing committee even to its allies. During 2010-15, when women headed four standing committees, health, education and development belonged to CPM councillors while UDF had then managed to win the chairperson position of town- planning standing committee. CPM councillors Shajida Nazar and Gopakumar are likely to be considered for development and works committees, respectively. Palayam Rajan, who has experience leading welfare committee, may be given another chance. As for other committees, CPM is likely to pick from the pool of young women councillors. Former deputy mayor Rakhi Ravikumar, who is unlikely to be considered for mayor post, may also find a slot in standing committees. As for BJP, there is a problem of plenty. Simi Jyothish, Manju, Karamana Ajith, Girikumar, V V Rajesh, Ashok Kumar and Anil Kumar stand equal chances of contesting in election to heads of standing committees. A meeting will be held on Sunday to finalise the candidature. In 2015, BJP had foiled the chance of winning two head positions of standing committees despite having a strength of 35 councillors and that LDF didn’t even have absolute majority in the council. BJP, which was relatively new to the system of proportionary election in standing committees, paid for its inexperience as it ended up with just one committee — tax appeal which is regarded as the most insignificant of all the committees. With a strength of 35 members, BJP had every chance of bagging two committees. LDF had manoeuvred its 44 members in such a way that it could head seven of the eight committees. While the opposition presumed that LDF would scatter the members uniformly and will let go of two committees, the LDF had other plans. It had decided to forego tax appeal at the onset, considering its inconsequential nature at a time when people assessed their own tax and the relevance of the committee was being questioned. When BJP thought LDF would nominate seven members for finance standing committee, LDF planted just three members. This was done to spare members for an extra committee which would otherwise have gone to BJP. In the next phase, LDF nominated seven members for development and welfare committees with a total strength of 13 and six members for health, works and town planning which had a total strength of 12 members. In the least significant tax appeal committee, LDF proved its disinterest by nominating one member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bjp-eyes-2-standing-panels-cpm-may-go-for-young-faces/articleshow/79817670.cms||Aswin J Kumar
December 20, 2020||Goa||State govt trying hard to make Goa garbage-free: Lobo||Saligao: Stating that the Cacora waste treatment plant will be ready by November 2021 and Rs 104 crore work order has been issued for improvement of Saligao Waste Treatment Plant, minister for waste management Michael Lobo, on Saturday said that the government is striving hard to make Goa garbage-free. “We are constantly improving the waste management facilities and bringing them to global standards,” he said at the Liberation Day function at the deputy collector’s office at Mapusa. The process of setting up waste management plant at Bainguinim is in the final stages, he said. “The improvement to existing Saligao plant is in progress. Within six months, waste generated in Mapusa town will also be collected to be processed into energy at the Saligao-Calangute plant,” Lobo added. Lobo said he has instructed the department of science and technology to focus on innovation and said that it is in the process of strengthening the innovation council.  Mapusa MLA Joshua D’Souza said that youth of Goa should not be afraid to ‘get your hands dirty and to take up entrepreneurship’. Police personnel and students from various schools across Mapusa and also the lifeguards who are on a hunger strike at Mapusa demanding regularisation of their services also took part took part in the liberation day function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-govt-trying-hard-to-make-goa-garbage-free-lobo/articleshow/79819479.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Elderly man duped of Rs 2.46 lakh||AURANGABAD: An 85-year-old businessman was cheated of over Rs 2.46 lakh by an unidentified person after the latter exchanged the victim’s ATM card with a duplicate one. The incident took place between December 4 and December 18, stated the complainant Shripad Patni of Friends Colony. Police said that the suspect has been caught in CCTV camera installed in the ATM center. Using his picture, police have launched a manhunt to nab the victim. Police inspector Rameshwar Rodge said that a case has been registered at Vedant Nagar police station. He said said that the victim had gone to Canara Bank’s ATM located on railway station road at around 3 pm on December 4 to check the amount in the his savings account. The elderly man was struggling while accessing the ATM machine. The suspect present there, on the pretext of helping him with checking the balance, took his debit card. The suspect then checked the balance, handed over another card to Patni and left the premises. It was on December 18 that Patni noticed that the ATM card had been exchanged. However, by then, the suspect had been withdrawn Rs 2.46L from his account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/elderly-man-duped-of-rs-2-46-l/articleshow/79817016.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Agra||Property dealer shot dead in Agra||AGRA: A 46-year-old property dealer was allegedly shot dead by two unidentified bike-borne men in Agra’s Sadar area on Saturday. According to police, the property dealer, Harish Pauchauri, was shot when he was waiting on a road, just 3 km away from his house, to meet someone. The assailants fired three shots from close range in Pauchauri’s head, said police. His body has been sent for post mortem. Talking to TOI, SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said that preliminary investigations revealed that the crime is related to some land dispute. He said that an FIR has been registered under section 302 (murder) of the IPC. “Five teams have been formed to nab the suspects,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/property-dealer-shot-dead-in-agra/articleshow/79817017.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Madurai||‘Allow purchase of pollution equipment from open market’||Madurai: The Motor Vehicle Emission Testing Centre Association on Saturday urged the Tamil Nadu government to allow them to purchase equipment used for pollution tests from any approved company.Association officials said officials from the transport department have been insisting them on purchasing equipment only from three players, while the central government has approved 23 companies after due diligence. They are forced to shell out Rs 1.5- Rs 2 lakh to purchase equipment from the three companies insisted by the department. State president of the association R Ramakrishnan said there was an oral instruction to the motor vehicles inspectors and RTOs in the state not to process applications where the equipment is bought from other companies.“We installed new equipment only a year back based on instruction from the central government. We are now being forced to purchase and install new equipment, without any justification,” he said.He added that there are around 350 pollution testing centres in the state. The department has set a target of increasing testing centres to 3,000 by encouraging all petrol bunks and vehicle sales centres. At a time when existing centres are getting only 10-20 tests a day, increasing them would not serve any purpose, he said. The association will support the truck owners’ association that has announced a strike on December 27 to condemn the transport department’s persuasion to purchase GPS, speed governors and reflective stickers from certain companies’ overpriced products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/allow-purchase-of-pollution-equipment-from-open-market/articleshow/79819423.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Meerut||UP khaps block Delhi-Saharanpur NH with tents & food reserves in Baghpat||MEERUT: In support of the ongoing massive farmers' agitation against the three contentious farm laws, several members of the powerful khap panchayats from western Uttar Pradesh blocked the Delhi-Saharanpur National Highway [NH 709B] in Baghpat on Saturday. They even arrived with tents and food reserves. The khaps from the state's predominantly agricultural belt had earlier "unanimously" pledged to back the agitating farmers at the Delhi-NCR and the Delhi-Haryana borders. "We will sit here till the government takes back the controversial laws," Surender Chaudhary, head of Desh Khap, said. "And it's a unanimous decision." The NH 709B is a crucial UP highway to the national capital. Long queues of buses and trucks could be seen stuck. Heavy security force was also deployed in the entire area. Additional district magistrate Amit Singh told TOI, "We are in continuous talks with the farmer leaders and trying to convince them to call off the stir. Things are progressing in that direction as a complete blockade of this road will put travellers to a lot of inconvenience." "We hope to clear the highway soon," the ADM said. Led by BKU president and head of Balyan Khap Naresh Tikait, some of the members started from Muzaffarnagar and reached Baghpat on Thursday. He was joined by many more leaders, such as Desh Khap head Surendra Chaudhary. Chaudhary later moved towards the Delhi border. "This government is stubborn, which is not good. They should roll back these laws," Tikait said. Notably, khap panchayat leaders held a meeting in Soram village on Monday and decided to move towards Delhi in support of the farmers' agitation. On Thursday, as many as 10 chiefs of khaps such as Balyan Khap, Nirwal Khap, Battisa Khap, Hudda Khap, Beniwal Khap, Deshwal Khap, Lathiyan Khap, Gathwala Khap, assembled in Sisauli and started their journey towards the Delhi-UP border. Several khap panchayats in Haryana have already announced their support to the farmers movement against the three new farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-khaps-block-delhi-saharanpur-nhwith-tents-food-reserves-in-baghpat/articleshow/79817023.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 20, 2020||Chennai||Jumbo problem: Living with the elephants||This December is turning out to be a nightmare for villagers living along the forest fringes inoimbatore and Nilgiris. On December 12, 75-year-old P Arumugam of Vanjiamman Nagar near Thondamuthur in rural Coimbatore stepped out of his house around 6.30am and was knocked down by a tusker. The same elephant went on to chase two youths from the village who managed to escape. Within a week, a 65-year-old woman was trampled to death on Pannimadai-Varapalayam Road in the district. During the same period, Nilgiris district saw four deaths including that of a father-son duo in elephant attacks. Even as the forest officials intensified patrolling in the villages adjoining forests areas of Coimbatore and sent a team to tranquilise and capture the tusker that killed two in Gudalur, reports came in that two forest personnel involved in wildlife census in Sathayamangalam-Nilgiris border were killed in an elephant attack.If villagers and forest staff appear to be at the receiving end, the plight of the jumbos are not any better. Elephants straying out of forests in Coimbatore were chased away using crackers, while the tusker in Gudalur was cornered by kumkis and remained petrified by the attempts to tranquilise and capture it. And yet another year is about to end evading workable and long-lasting solutions to man-animal conflict.This year there were more than two dozen elephant attacks leading to 18 deaths – one less than last year - so far in Coimbatore, while Nilgiris recorded 13 deaths. Elephant intrusion into human habitations continued throughout the year despite good rain increasing fodder in the jungle. According to data from the forest department, instances of elephants entering human habitations continue to increase. Digging of elephant proof trenches, creating water ponds inside forests and increased vigil by forest staff as well villagers hasn’t helped in preventing animal attacks. "We can prevent wild elephant intrusion into human habitation wherever possible and whenever possible. But intrusions cannot be prevented at all places and all times,’’ he said. "Its time we learn to live with them,’’ said environmentalist Osai Kalidas.Nineteen elephant deaths were reported in Coimbatore forest division this year, of which one was shot dead and three electrocuted because of illegal electric fences. Environmentalists say unless the issues faced by elephants are addressed, the problems faced by humans cannot be solved. For instance, elephants stray out of forests because their traditional corridors are blocked, such as the Sigur and Kallar elephant corridors that were blocked due to rampant constructions. Also, the conflicts are area specific where causes might differ and so would mitigation measures.If the pachyderms entering human habitats in Thondamuthur or Thadagam in Coimbatore is a recent phenomena, the jumbos marching through Gudalur has been happening for ages. In Gudalur, where four people were killed this month, acres of forest land were converted into tea gardens decades ago. Gudalur is home to a lot of swamps which are ideal habitats for elephants. Gudalur connects Nilambur in Kerala to Mudumalai through which elephants migrate. Downhill too, a large number of resorts, brick kilns, educational institutions, religious places, and farms have mushroomed, blocking their age-old corridors aggravating the conflict. But this connectivity has been broken and their habitat has been narrowed down. Coimbatore-Nilgiris region is now among the places recording the highest number of man-animal conflicts in the country.Worldwide Fund landscape coordinator Boominathan said some years, especially when there are droughts there could be more such incidents. He pointed out that since people have stopped cultivation in some areas where attacks happened, elephants have moved to newer areas where there are no barriers but crops are available. "Villagers say in some parts of Thondamuthur they are spotting elephants of late,’’ he said. But long term comprehensive data has to be analysed to see if there is a pattern, he said. "Elephants used to be in Boluvampatti forests. But for the past few years they have started entering the village,’’ says S K Jegannathan, a farmer from Devrayapuram near Thondamuthur.Environmentalists say there needs to be a multi-pronged approach. First, structures blocking elephant corridors should be removed and reforested. "In places like Gudalur where removal of all encroachments on forest land would be difficult, those in specific places should be removed to ensure smooth passage for elephants,’’ Kalidas said. Elephant proof trenches are effective only if they are continuous. Digging trenches with gaps in between serves no purpose as elephants would use that stretch to cross over. To ensure people are protected, settlements should be well-lit and tribals and those living in tea estates and forest fringes should be provided toilets close to their houses so that they don’t venture out in the dark to answer nature’s call as most attacks happen then. Villagers point out that not all elephants are problematic. Though dozens frequent villages it was only few like Arisi Raja in Coimbatore which is fond of rice or the single tusk Shankar in Gudalur which became aggressive. Such elephants can be identified, monitored and the villagers alerted through early warning systems if they are close to human habitations. "People farming close to forests should change their cultivation patterns. Instead of plantain, farmers can cultivate lemons or chillies, crops which elephants dislike. People should understand that we are the ones living close to their habitat and change accordingly,’’ said Coimbatore district forest officer D Venkateshm, adding that the forest department should be provided with more manpower and gadgets to ensure a peaceful coexistence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jumbo-problem-living-with-the-elephants/articleshow/79814992.cms||Mayilvaganan
December 20, 2020||Agra||SNMC raises objection over metro station in hospital premises||Agra: SN Medical College administration has raised objection over construction of an underground metro rail station in the premises of the hospital. The college administration has demanded UP metro rail corporation to shift the proposed station somewhere else to avoid congestion in the hospital premises. In a letter sent to divisional commissioner, the SNMC principal has proposed to develop the metro station nearby the gate of senior boys’ hostel.One of the two corridors of the Agra metro rail project is planned to be developed from east gate of Taj Mahal to Sikandra. One of the stations on this corridor is proposed to be developed near matron office of the college.According to the SNMC administration, the proposed metro station will create congestion in the college premises. Patients, caretakers, doctors and medical staffers will have to suffer much inconvenience because of the metro station as several departments of the college and the newly developed super-specialty building is nearby.Earlier, the former principal of the SNMC Dr GK Aneja had also raised objection over plan to develop the metro station in middle of the medical college. A team of metro rail corporation had conducted an inspection last year but no change in the plan was made. On December 6, PM Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated construction of theAgra metro rail project. SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “An underground metro rail station is proposed to be developed near the matron office. It will cause congestion in centre of the college premises. It will cause a lot of inconvenience to the patients. The metro station can be developed at vacant ground near the boys’ hostel. A meeting will be held by the divisional commissioner to sort out the matter very soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/snmc-raises-objection-over-metro-station-in-hospital-premises/articleshow/79817021.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Agra||95% Covid patients cured of infection in Agra district||AGRA: About 95.6% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra, out of the 10,028 cases reported in the district. And, the number of active Covid cases decreased from 283 on Friday, to 273 on Saturday. Moreover, at least 33 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Saturday evening. The patients included one staffer of the SN Medical College and a patient of the district hospital. Besides, there were three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and one kidney patient. Also, 43 Covid patients were discharged on Saturday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.5%. So far 9,586 people have been cured of the infection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/95-covid-patients-cured-of-infection-in-agra-district/articleshow/79817026.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heroin boat: 6 Pak nationals named in NIA chargesheet||AHMEDABAD: The NIA (National Investigation Agency) has filed a chargesheet against six Pakistanis and an Indian in the case involving the seizure of 237kg of narcotics from a boat off the Jakhau coast in May 2019. The heroin found on the boat was estimated to be worth Rs 600 crore. The chargesheet was filed at the special NIA court in Ahmedabad on Friday. Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act have been invoked. According to the NIA, the Pakistanis in the chargesheet are Sardar Ali Sheikh, Alahi Daad Angiyara Shaikh, Azim Khan Baloch, Abdul Aziz Mohammed Zuma, Abdul Gafur Angariya, and Moahmmed Malah Mohammed Urs. They are all said to be from Karachi. The Indian charged with offences in this case is Ramzan Gani Palani of Bet Dwarka of Gujarat, who was apparently the intended receiver of the drug consignment. The case relates to the seizure of heroin from a Pakistani vessel called Al-Madina. According to the NIA, the accused had conspired to bring 337kg of drugs into Gujarat but dumped some part of the consignment when confronted by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). “The boat was eventually intercepted by the ICG,” an NIA source said. “The operation resulted in the recovery of the cache of drugs and Pakistani currency notes, among other incriminating material.” The NIA said investigation against nine absconding Pakistanis is continuing in the case. “The Pakistani boat attempted evasive manoeuvres but it was intercepted after a hot pursuit,” a Coast Guard source said. “However, the crew members threw some bags into the sea before they were apprehended.” In all, 196 packets containing heroin were seized from the boat. The case was later handed over to the NIA for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heroin-boat-6-pak-nationals-named-in-nia-chargesheet/articleshow/79817671.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘AI business shaping world into new tomorrow’||NAGPUR: Replete with insights on the future role of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) in society, a two-day virtual workshop has been organized by Nagpur First Foundation (NFF) in partnership with ‘StartOnAI’, a US-based student-initiated learning organization, as part of Global Nagpur Summit 2020. Experts from StartOnAI will be interacting with students through videoconferencing platform Zoom on Saturday and Sunday. The inaugural session on Saturday morning featured Oxford scholar and technology entrepreneur Phil Mui as the chief guest and keynote speaker. Mui’s presentation included various examples on artificial intelligence. His speech was quite interactive and thought provoking. Mui talked about the 4th industrial revolution (which we are in currently) and how it has changed the world from what it was, at least a decade back. He said, “The growing technology is now more convenient for the world than what it was, years back. The business of AI and IT are shaping the world into a new tomorrow. The impact of AI on security is also huge.” Students and participants took great interest in joining his points of view and learning more about how a clear perception matters in AI. The inaugural was conducted by Rizwan Ahmad, digital connect initiatives, NFF, who also presented the welcome address and an introduction to Mui. NFF co-founder Shashank Roy, in his address, gave a background to the workshop and its benefits. StartOnAI vice-president Anaiy Somalwar hosted the workshop from California. Day 1 of the workshop consisted of three more sessions. Mui’s talk was followed by an introduction to AI and ML by Sonnet Xu, a member of StartOnAI from Michigan. The next one was an introduction to supervised learning by Keshav Shah from Texas and Sauman Das from Virginia and the concluding session on classification theory was conducted by Navein Suresh from Pennsylvania. Day 2 of the workshop has several challenges and activities scheduled for the participants, and will end with announcing the winners of the workshop, who will get the opportunity to learn and intern with StartOnAI. Other members from NFF like founder and president Dinesh Jain, joint secretary Aniket Jha, treasurer Sachin Jahagirdar and executive secretary Ayush Singh are also playing their parts in making the workshop a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ai-biz-shaping-world-into-new-tomorrow/articleshow/79818524.cms||Anchal Bhatia
December 20, 2020||Madurai||2,200 take online exam for research admissions at MKU||Madurai: Around 2,200 candidates attended the online common entrance exam on Saturday for admissions to PhD, M Phil courses at Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) for the academic year 2020-2021. Previously, the common entrance exam was held at examination centres, but this time, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the exam was held as an artificial intelligence-proctored online exam which candidates could attend from their homes. “Despite few technical issues, the exam was conducted successfully. Out of the 2,200 candidates, three were withdrawn after warnings were issued to them. Invigilators were monitoring a batch of 30 students each to ensure there was no malpractice,” said M Krishnan, MKU vice-chancellor. The VC said that the system for online exams was capable of detecting even minute changes in the candidates’ surroundings. Video and audio of the candidates were recorded live through camera and microphone of their devices during the exam. The system for the online exam made use of artificial intelligence to detect and record face emotions, pupil movement or any other activities, like presence of another person. The exam was for two hours and candidates had to answer 100 multiple choice questions (MCQs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2200-take-online-exam-for-research-admissions-at-mku/articleshow/79819430.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Awareness workshop on child rights||Madurai: Around 80 adolescent girls from 20 villages in Madurai are taking part in a five-day awareness workshop aimed at empowering girl children, especially amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While the inaugural function was held in Madurai city on Saturday, the girl students will attend the rest of the workshop in their native villages. The workshop held on the theme, ‘Walk with Dignity: Stand up for our rights’ was organised by the Madurai chapter of Justice Shivaraj V Patil Foundation, Action Aid and John Lewis Foundation. The workshop was inaugurated by T K Lilly Grace, assistant commissioner of police, Anna Nagar. The ACP encouraged the girls to make their voice heard. Dr J Jebasingh, oncologist spoke on stress management and cancer awareness. “The girls will have sessions on child rights, mental health, cybercrime, violence and sexual abuse of women and children, human trafficking, gender justice and more,” said S Selva Gomathi, managing trustee, Justice Shivaraj V Patil Foundation. Apart from sessions with experts, games and other fun activities are also scheduled to be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/awareness-workshop-on-child-rights/articleshow/79819453.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Chennai||‘TN’s tree cover spread of 8% to 17% alarming’||Despite having a national park in the heart of the city, the green cover in Chennai is just 10% of its total metropolitan area. Among the five major municipal corporations in Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore has 17.5% of tree cover that is spread over 4,514 hectares (ha), according to a forest department study funded by the State Development Policy Council (SDPC).The government is taking consistent action to increase green cover and had spent `191.8 crore last year to plant 71 lakh tree saplings, said C Ponnaiyan, vice-chairman of SDPC, while presenting the study at an internal meeting on Tuesday.Stressing on the importance of the types of trees being planted, G Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal, an environmental organisation, said, "After repeated requests, only now the government has started planting native species in some areas. In coastal cities like Chennai, only native trees like pungai (beech) or veppamaram (neem) can withstand a cyclone. Exotic species get uprooted easily. This was evident during Cyclone Vardah during which we lost a massive green cover". According to global standards, any urban area should have at least 33% green cover. London has aimed at 50% by 2040. So Chennai, particularly with a national park, should look at 50% in the next two or three decades. Presently the tree cover of 8% to 17% in Tamil Nadu is alarming, he said.The attitude of residents towards nature reflects on a city, believes D Kamatchi, a National Green Tribunal (NGT) advocate. "It is not surprising that Coimbatore topped the list as people, who moved to the city from surrounding villages, were from agricultural backgrounds and wealthy. So they ensured the green cover wasn’t disturbed". Also the city hasn’t witnessed major cyclones.Though people from similar backgrounds arrived at Madurai city, the green cover remained the same. Instead, they focussed on agriculture in their native villages. At present acres of barren land along the road, connecting the city to the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, are being converted into commercial plots. So it is the right time to plant tree saplings here, she said.Environmentalists are hopeful for the future. They say that contrary to the 1980s when residents would fight over insects or protruding branches from neighbouring houses, there is better awareness now, especially the way in which youngsters team up to rejuvenate lakes and plant trees around them.Email your feedback tosouthpole.toi@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tns-tree-cover-spread-of-8-to-17-alarming/articleshow/79815014.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kilimanoor royal family head dies||Thiruvananthapuram: Kilimanoor palace head Uthruttathi Thirunal R Keralvarma Valya Koil Thampuran has died aged 104. He died at his residence in Richmond Road, Bengaluru, at 8:50am on Friday. Born as the son of the Vedic scholar Pulyadu Manackal Vasudevan Nampoothirippadu and Makayiram Thirunal Cherutti Thampuratti of Kilimanoor Palace, he had his early education at Kilimanoor and Thiruvananthapuram. He graduated from H.H. Maharaja’s College (University College, Thiruvananthapuram). He married Princess Uthram Thirunal Lalithambika Thampuratti, the eldest daughter of Pooradam Thirunal Sethu Lakshmi Bayi, the Regent Maharani (Painter Prince Raja Ravi Varma’s grand daughter) who ruled Travancore for seven years. He was an artist himself and a scholar. He had a passionate interest in music. He was also active in the social and cultural realms. The family members and the members of Palace Trust of Kilimanoor said they were deeply saddened by his demise. “We will be eternally indebted to our Valya Thampuran for everything he has done for the welfare of the palace, keeping its tradition and reputation alive all these years with his strong leadership. We bow before his revered memory and pay respectful homage to the departed soul,” the family said in their condolence message. He is survived by his son and five daughters, including renowned artist Rukmini Varma. Other children are Uma Varma, Lekshmi Varma, Ambika Varma, Balagopala Varma, Devika Varma and late Parvathy Varma. The cremation was held in Bengaluru on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kilimanoor-royal-family-head-dies/articleshow/79817678.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Archaeology, revenue officials visit ancient Jain sites, move to declare them protected||Madurai: The state archaeology department has initiated steps to protect Jain sites on the outskirts of the city in Arittapatti and Vikramangalam in Usilampatti taluk. Officials of the archaeology and revenue departments visited the sites on Friday. The deputy director, archaeology, Dr R Sivanantham, assistant executive engineer K Oli Malik, and RDO Ramesh and other revenue officials inspected the sites. The Tamil Brahmi inscriptions at the sites are said to be 2,300 years old and there is also a Jain Tirthankara sculpture with 8th century vattezhuthu inspections. Arittapatti is a major heritage attraction as the cave in the hillock has Jain beds. Brahmi inscriptions are found on the wall and on a rock a few feet away. Discovered in the early 1970s, these inscriptions were deciphered by epigraphists much later. The 33 letters engraved in a single line run to just over three meters. It was deciphered to say, ‘ilanjiyi vel mapparavan, makan emayavan nalmuzhaukai kotupithavan,’ which means the Emayavan son of chief of Ilanji, Mapparavan, made this carving in this cave. ‘Ilanji’ is the name of a place and ‘vel’ means chief. Archeologists say that the names Ilanji Imayavan and Nelvazhi Silivan refer to two important people who provided shelter to Jain monks in the village and helped them. The team of officials also visited Vikramangalam in Usilampatti taluk, which has five ancient Tamil Brahmi inscriptions and more than ten Jain beds. These inscriptions are of historical significance since they are among the oldest to be discovered in the state and the Jain beds are found within naturally formed caves in the hillock. Both these sites have temples date back to the Pandiya and Chola periods, with intricately designed pillars and walls. The team of officials will submit a report to Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan, which will be further forwarded to the state government to declare them as protected sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/archaeology-revenue-officials-visit-ancient-jain-sites-move-to-declare-them-protected/articleshow/79819472.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Meerut||Homeless boy with dog was abandoned by parents, lived in shelter homes: Cops||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A week after he was found sleeping on a pavement with a dog by his side and taken to a shelter home by the police, the child welfare committee (CWC) succeeded in tracing his whereabouts. Initially identified as Ankit, 10, the boy belongs to Meerut and was just two when his mother abandoned him for another man. His real name is Adnan. His father, a labourer, remarried and was later sent to jail for some petty crime. In the meanwhile, Adnan left home and was admitted to a government home by someone in Meerut. Since then, he has been in and out of shelter homes in several districts. Read AlsoUttar Pradesh: Dad in jail &amp; abandoned by mom, homeless kid living with dog melts many heartsAnkit doesn’t remember where he belongs to, except the fact that his father is in jail, and mother has abandoned him. He knows no one and survives by selling balloons or working at tea stalls. He sleeps on footpaths with his only friend, Danny, a dog, who stays with him always. Life had been likeOn Saturday, when the CWC sent him to the children’s home in Meerut, he was immediately identified by other children. According to district probation officer Mohammad Mushfakeen, “Now, we will counsel his father and stepmother. If we feel they can take care of the boy, then he will be handed over to them.” A fortnight ago, a local photo journalist who passed by the boy when he was sleeping in the open with his dog by side clicked his picture and uploaded it on social media. The picture went viral. Local police later launched a search for the boy. Adnan, who survived by selling balloons or working at tea stalls, was eventually found earlier this week. According to police, a local school has agreed to give free education to him after the police placed a request with the school management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/homeless-boy-with-dog-was-abandoned-by-parents-lived-mostly-in-shelter-homes-cops/articleshow/79817050.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 20, 2020||India||None from Didi's family wants to be CM: TMC||KOLKATA: Nobody from Mamata Banerjee’s family wants to be chief minister, Trinamool Congress said on Saturday, hurling the nepotism barb back at BJP and its recruit Suvendu Adhikari. “Adhikari-tantra ki paribar-tantra na (Are the Adhikaris not guilty of promoting inheritance politics)? What quality does the BCCI secretary (Jay Shah) have other than being the Union home minister’s son?” TMC’s Lok Sabha chief whip Kalyan Banerjee said, reacting to BJP’s criticism of his party allegedly promoting Diamond Harbour MP and CM Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee “at the expense of other leaders”. Banerjee’s remarks were part of Trinamool’s first formal rebuttal of BJP and Adhikari’s refrain that “dynastic politics” has taken root in Mamata’s party. “Mamata Banerjee is Bengal CM because of people’s love. She has been on the streets for four-and-a-half decades, speaking for people’s rights, fighting for them. She did not become CM overnight. And neither can anyone else. The people of Bengal made her CM,” he said. “BJP is trying to weave a narrative of falsehood and lies. That is what they are adept at. Lies will help them deviate the narrative from work and development. They have failed voters in every sector.” Describing Adhikari as “a traitor”, the Serampore MP alluded to the former’s family as one promoting the same dynastic politics he has accused Trinamool of. Adhikari’s father, Sisir Adhikari, and one brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, are MPs. Another brother, Soumendu Adhikari, is a municipality chairman. “He (Adhikari) himself has said that he has been in touch with Shah for several years. He touched Shah’s feet today; throughout the last decade, he touched Mamata Banerjee’s feet. What does one make of such a person? He himself said Shah called him twice when his mother was hospitalised. He himself said he met Shah and spoke to him several times, even during the UP elections,” Banerjee said. “It is easy to talk. But what is he without Mamata Banerjee? Why did he lose polls in 1996 and 2001? He even lost the 2004 Lok Sabha polls to Laxman Seth (CPM). We would urge him to contest from Nandigram again. Let him come in his bulletproof car with a retinue of 30-40 paramilitary personnel. It will be a public political fight, let us see.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/none-from-didis-family-wants-to-be-cm-tmc/articleshow/79819929.cms||Saibal Sen
December 20, 2020||Meerut||104 turtles released into Ganga||BIJNOR: One hundrend and four turtles were released into Ganga on Saturday morning. According to forest officials, 453 eggs were hatched in the summer this year in Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Bijnor districts. Out of them, 104 are in Bijnor. These eggs were collected from Daranagar Ganj area. There are three species among baby turtles. The release is a part of ongoing biodiversity conservation started in 2012. So far more than 3,000 turtles have been released into Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary. The conservation is a joint effort by UP government and World Wide Fund for nature (WWF-India). Bijnor divisional forest officer M Semmaran, said "We had set up a temporary hatchery in Ganj Daranagar area last year in November. At least 121 eggs were collected from Ganga belt in Bijnor area in summer. Out of them, 104 eggs were hatched successfully. Among them, there are three species of turtles, including Brown Roofed turtle, Indian Tent turtle and three striped roofed turtle. There are 37 Brown Roofed turtle, 32 Indian Tent turtle and 35 Three Striped Roofed turtle." Bijnor district magistrate Ramakant Pandey, forest and WWF officials released turtle babies in Ganges on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/104-turtles-released-into-ganga/articleshow/79817054.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 20, 2020||Madurai||GRH workers on Covid duty seek continuance of quarantine at hotels||Madurai: Hospital workers posted on duty in the Covid-19 wards at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Saturday petitioned the district collector, T Anbalagan, to allow them to continue their quarantining in hotels during the course of their duty. The workers sought the collector’s intervention after they were asked by the hospital management to go to their homes after duty beginning Sunday.The petition to the collector was submitted by members of Tamil Nadu government health department employees, sanitary workers and nursing assistants’ association, working at GRH. “We are suddenly being asked to directly go to our homes after duty putting the lives of elderly parents and children at risk. There is also stigma and family members are not even allowing us inside our houses since we are on Covid-19 duty. This is grave injustice to us when we are already working for long hours, risking our lives while on Covid-19 duty,” said a worker.With their pleas going unheard by hospital authorities, the workers requested the collector to direct hospital authorities to continue their quarantining in hotels for the safety and welfare of their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-workers-on-covid-duty-seek-continuance-of-quarantine-at-hotels/articleshow/79819485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Goa||Dust pollution at Dudhsagar exceeds limits: Govt report||PANAJI: An analysis of the ambient air quality at the Dudhsagar waterfalls has shown that dust pollution there exceeded the PM10 parameter due to the increased movement of all-terrain vehicles to ferry tourists to the falls. The Goa State Pollution Control Board’s (GSPCB) report, which was part of a publication released by the state environment ministry on Saturday, has recommended paving of the mud roads with a natural material to stop re-suspension of the dust particles. Ambient air quality monitoring at Dudhsagar in Collem was conducted from May 6-8 last year to check dust pollution on the waterfalls route due to vehicles there that ferry tourists to and from the location. The vehicles run on diesel fuel on untarred roads towards the popular waterfalls. “The ambient air quality monitoring reports indicate that PM10 parameter was exceeded on both days of monitoring near the Dudhsagar entry gate, Collem, on May 6, 2019 and May 8, 2019 and also on one day near near Dudhsagar temple, Collem, on May 6, 2019. All other parameters are within limits, but the AQI at both locations indicate moderate pollution,” the report states. While noise monitoring at the vehicle parking area for the Dudhsagar waterfalls was also conducted, reports suggest that the noise measured at all the live locations along the vehicle transportation routes were within the stipulated standard.  About 10km from Collem, hidden away in an evergreen valley in the Western Ghats, is a trekking paradise that leads to the milky Dudhsagar waterfalls that cascade down 306 metres in two segments. But over the years, the popularity of the falls is on the rise, leading to increase in the number of all-terrain vehicles operating there to transport tourists to the spot. At present, 431 such vehicles are authorised to ply to and from the falls. Prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, the tourist footfall at Dudhsagar was around 2,000 a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dust-pollution-at-dudhsagar-exceeds-limits-govt-report/articleshow/79819507.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Restaurants seek extension of closing deadline till 1.30am in Maharashtra||PUNE: Restaurants across the city and even state have demanded that eateries be allowed to operate until 1.30am. The clamour for deadline extension to pre-Covid times stems from the fact that business has still not bounced back to normal. Currently, the closing deadline for restaurants is 11.30pm. Sherry Bhatia, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), said, “Restaurants usually receive customers post-8pm, especially in cities. Closing within three hours of prime business time has a major downside. If the deadline is extended, it would help maintain social distancing norms as the crowd would be spread over a few more hours.” Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA), added, “Peak hours in the evening and weekends is when restaurants have to grapple with excessive waiting time. Peak hours during the evening are between 8.30-9.30pm currently. However, restaurants cannot accommodate all customers during peak hours as they are still operating on 50% seating capacity. If the deadline is extended, then some customers can come at a later time, say 10pm, instead of at 9pm and having to wait.” Pradeep Shetty, senior vice president of HRAWI, said, “At present, diners have to be at the restaurant before 9.30pm to ensure they have a table. The last order is taken latest by 10.30pm so that the restaurant can close by 11.30pm. Restaurants have to turn customers away because of this and most diners arrive only after 9pm. Despite having the space and empty tables, restaurants can’t accommodate patrons because of the 50% limit on capacity. The restricted deadline has also been causing long queues and a rush of those awaiting their turn to be seated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restaurants-seek-extension-of-closing-deadline-till-1-30am/articleshow/79818558.cms||Neha Madaan
December 20, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Unregistered pet shops to be shut down soon||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Animal Welfare Board (SAWB) under the animal husbandry department has ordered immediate closure of all pet shops and dog breeding centres without valid licences in the state via a notification dated December 18. The establishments had to register with SAWB to continue operations. Dhananjay Parkale, state additional commissioner of animal husbandry and member secretary of Maharashtra SAWB said, “After Unlock 1.0, markets and shops began operating from June 5. Pet shops, dog breeding and marketing centres in the state should have thus obtained registrations from SAWB in August as per our previous intimations but many have not even applied to the board yet continue to operate their shops.” He said that Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shop) Rules, 2018, require the concerned SAWB to register and issue certificates of registration to each pet shop and prohibits the operation of pet shops without such registration. “Dog Breeding and Marketing Rules, 2017, prohibits the breeding of dogs without a certificate of registration from the SAWB. Hence, the closure order for those who haven’t registered under SAWB yet,” Parkale said. Animals in pet shops and dog breeding centres to be sealed will be transferred to NGOs and orphanages registered under the Animal Welfare Board of India. Neha Panchamiya, managing committee member of Pune district SPCA, said, “I want to assure pet shop and breeders, who are hesitant, that it will be a very objective and fair inspection. It is going to be a challenge dealing with implementation but the order was much-awaited because the sector is largely unwilling to comply.” Shitalkumar Mukane, member secretary of district SPCA, said, “Unregistered pet shops and breeding centres will be sealed and a case will be registered against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unregistered-pet-shops-to-be-shut-down-soon/articleshow/79818573.cms||Neha Madaan
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Apur Sansar, Prof Shonku parks in New Town soon||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is planning to set up a number of theme parks in the township. “Already, there are a few theme parks in New Town — Sonar Kella Park, Alice in Wonderland Park, Sensory Park and Vivek Tirtha Park. We are planning to come up with Professor Shonku Park, Apur Sansar Park and a Five Senses Park,” said Hidco and NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. NKDA had recently floated expression of interest to engage design consultants for the upcoming theme parks. “As for Apur Sansar and Professor Shonku theme parks, the idea is to have 3D images, graphic projections or cutout images along with developing a landscape that will bring upon an overall reflection and feel of Apur Sansar and Professor Shonku,” an NKDA official said. At Sonar Kella Park, there are cutout images of the film, along with recreated models of various scenes of the film in which Soumitra Chatterjee had played the iconic character of Feluda. “It is a wonderful initiative to develop such theme parks. It will be a blend of fun and knowledge,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a New Town resident. “It is a wonderful idea to come up with such theme parks. Not only will children love it, they will also come to know about these unique characters,” said Kaustav Dey, an IT executive and resident of the township. NKDA is also taking up landscape renovation work inside the Bagjola canalside park and biodiversity garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/apur-sansar-prof-shonku-parks-in-new-town-soon/articleshow/79817719.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Police bust illegal telephone exchange in Howrah||KOLKATA: The Special Task Force (STF) along with Kasba police, Howrah police and the department of telecommunications raided a house at Beni Madhab Mukherjee Lane in Howrah on Saturday and arrested one Sunil Shaw (38) for allegedly using unlicenced SIM boxes that help in running illegal telephone exchanges. Police have seized three SIM boxes having 32 slots, one box having 16 slots, two with 64 slots, adaptors and cables, two laptops, three mobile phones and 175 SIM cards, all belonging to one service provider. The SIM box fraud is a set-up where fraudsters team up with partners abroad to route international calls through the internet using voice over internet protocol (VoIP) and terminate those calls through a local phone number to make it appear as if the call is local. The fraudulent activity creates unnecessary high traffic for local calls, causing congestion that affects the network’s performance. A case in this regard pertaining to cheating and fraud and sections 4, 20 and 21 of the Indian Telegraph Act has been registered at Kasba police station. “The raid was a result of an almost eight months long analysis of inputs (that was shared by military intelligence units regarding illegal telephone exchange operating with the use of SIM boxes,” said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-bust-illegal-telephone-exchange/articleshow/79817721.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Get products at affordable rate at Supplyco Xmas fairs||Thiruvananthapuram: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has inaugurated Supplyco Christmas Metro Fair 2020 which has been set up across the state. Inaugurating the fair over videoconference on Friday, the chief minister said the public-distribution system in the state was able to find a place in the minds of people. “The fairs are organised for effective market intervention so that price of essential commodities would remain affordable to the people. Series of market interventions by Supplyco during the Covid-19 crisis have come as a major relief to every section in the society. More items have been included in the free-grocery kit being distributed through ration shops in view of the Christmas season,” he said. Special Christmas fairs were set up only in Thiruvananthauram, Kottayam and Alappuzha. Supplyco supermarkets, hypermarkets and people bazars would function as Christmas fairs in other places. The fairs would function adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Products of Horticorp, MPI, poultry development corporation and co-operative societies would be available at the fair, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/get-products-at-affordable-rate-at-supplyco-xmas-fairs/articleshow/79817717.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Lockdown, good rains offset impact of CRB||VIJAYAWADA: With harvesting for the kharif season underway, crop residue burning (CRB) is once again set to become a regional source of pollution across rural parts of Krishna district and the rest of the state. Even as the lockdown and a good monsoon till September has meant that overall pollution is relatively lower in comparison to previous winters, experts warn that CRB contributes between 12 to 60% of particulate matter (PM) concentration, as per various source apportionment studies. Apart from air pollution, consistent burning of agricultural biomass leads to loss of vital components such as nitrogen, phosphorus, sulphur and potassium from the topsoil in agricultural land. While states such has Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been coming up with crop residue management initiatives, Andhra Pradesh still lags when it comes to controlling CRB. When CRB began from the harvesting of the kharif crop in October, Air Quality Index (AQI) levels dipped to ‘satisfactory’ from ‘good’ across 15 out of 20 towns/cities in Andhra Pradesh. Speaking to STOI, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) scientist BV Prasad notes that the good monsoon helped prolong good air quality. “The monsoon rains definitely play a role in dust suppression and the overall pollution levels were much better compared to previous years. Our assessment is that crop burning plays a lesser role compared to vehicular and dust pollution at least in the urban areas,” Prasad told STOI. Officials said they are yet to check November and December pollution levels that would show the real picture of CRB pollution. Officials, however, noted that CRB affects air quality, increasing PM 10 and PM 2.5 levels. Farmers, on the other hand, say the process of removing paddy stalk from the field is a labour intensive one that would cost any where between Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per acre if they hire farm labourers. “Sometimes we find paying the fine for crop burning is much cheaper than hiring labourers as we either need access to equipment to remove the paddy stalk which we don’t have nor a solid market where we can sell paddy stalk,” R Narayana Raju, a paddy farmer in Kankipadu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lockdown-good-rains-offset-impact-of-crb/articleshow/79817087.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Patient count up by 90% as PM2.5 level rises 13 times since lockdown||KOLKATA: The number of patients with breathing distress jumped by 60%-90% at city hospitals since the unlocking started. These cases had dropped to an all-time low during the lockdown months, when the city’s air quality was at its best. On Saturday, health experts linked all major ailments with deteriorating air quality in no uncertain terms at a webinar organised by the Bengal Clean Air Network (Bengal CAN) and SwitchON Foundation. Significantly, the average level of PM2.5 jumped 13 times from the cleanest week of August to the most polluted weeks of December in Kolkata. In Howrah, it rose 11 times. Winter air turned dramatically toxic as the share of PM2.5 increased substantially. Senior pulmonologist Arup Haldar found a 90% spike in the number of patients with breathing distress compared to June-July-August in the outpatient department of private hospitals. Same is the opinion of Kautabh Chowdhuy, a paediatrician. According to Sanjukta Dutta, an emergency medicine expert, there was an increase of at least 60% in the number of patients compared to those during the clean air days. “Patients with asthma, COPD, upper-respiratory tract infection, allergic bronchitis and unexplained cough are queueing up in OPD everyday. They said they were so well during the lockdown that they thought they were cured of the disease and even stopped medication,” said Haldar of Woodlands Hospital. “We initially thought that many patients were not coming to hospitals fearing Covid-19. But breathing distress and other ailments triggered by air pollution are such that they often need an emergency support system, which they cannot get at home. The lockdown is an example of how clean air can accelerate healing and allow us to live healthily,” said Dutta. Suman Mallik, a radiation oncologist with Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, said the increase in the number of non-smokers falling prey to head and neck and lung cancer clearly shows the dangerous role of air pollution. Oncologist MV Chandrakanth added that the spectrum of malignancy vastly changes in cancer patients depending on the air quality of the area where they reside. As per the survey conducted by Bengal CAN and SwitchON Foundation, 95% doctors perceived that the current air pollution status of the city and state was a health emergency. Around 37% believe the air quality in the state has shown no improvement over the last couple of years. Around 10% believe that it had turned for the worse. The impact of air pollution, according to the doctors surveyed, are is worse among newborns and senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patient-count-up-by-90-as-pm2-5-level-rises-13-times-since-lockdown/articleshow/79817713.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man killed in US accident||HYDERABAD: A 31-year-old man from the city, Mohd Moizuddin, died in a road accident in Chicago, in the US, on Saturday. Moizuddin’s car was hit by another car, which reportedly was coming in the wrong direction. According to his uncle Tajuddin, an advocate, Moizuddin had gone to the US seven years ago for his higher education and started working there later. He was driving a cab at the time of the accident. MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan told STOI that Moizuddin’s family had sought the intervention of the government to send the body from Chicago to India. He said he had brought the matter to the notice of officials of the Telangana government and was trying to get in touch with the Indian embassy in US and the consulate in Chicago. Moizuddin’s family at Tappachaputra in Karwan is also seeking an emergency visa to travel to the US in the wake of the tragedy. Moizuddin had come to Hyderabad in September 2019 to get married. The couple have a child. Watch Shocking: 31-year-old Hyderabad man killed in US road accident||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-man-killed-in-us-accident/articleshow/79818576.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 20, 2020||Meerut||HC notice to two IAS officers, UP govt on Shabbirpur clash compensation||MEERUT: Allahabad high court has issued notice to two IAS officers, former district magistrate of Saharanpur Alok Pandey and UP ex-chief secretary of the social welfare development department Manoj Singh, and the UP government for allegedly ignoring SC/ST Act provisions while providing monetary help to the victims of 2017 clash at Shabbirpur village. On May 5, 2017 clashes had broken out between Thakurs and Dalits which left one dead and scores injured in Saharanpur’s Shabbirpur village. The violence erupted over playing of loud music while a procession was being taken out to mark Maharana Pratap Jayanti. Later, 56 Dalit homes were torched. Giving details of the case, Raj Kumar, lawyer representing Dalits, said in October, the special SC/ST court of VK Lal had made some scathing observations about failure to implement the law by the two senior officials. “This contempt is a matter of treason and calls for sedition charge,” he had observed. He had also ordered registration of a complaint on the issue. However, it was challenged by Dalits’ lawyer. He said, “There is no provision of registration of complaint case in SC/ST Act but special court did so instead of ordering sedition FIR against the two IAS officials. We had challenged this order in Allahabad HC. The latter accepted our petition and has issued notice to the two officials.” He said Dalit victims were given Rs 3 lakh by the district social welfare department. Under the SC/ST Act, victims of dacoity, attempt to murder, rape and other serious crimes should be paid monetary compensation of Rs 8.20 lakh. The chargesheet filed by police in court too said the clash accused were booked under IPC sections 395 (dacoity) and 307 (attempt to murder) besides relevant sections of the SC/ST Act, said Dalits’ lawyer. But the officials ignored these provisions and as many as 90 victims got just Rs 3 lakh each as compensation, he said. “Besides, a monthly pension of Rs 5,000 was also supposed to be arranged by the district magistrate, which has not been done till date,” Raj Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hc-notice-to-2-ias-officers-up-govt-on-shabbirpur-clash-compensation/articleshow/79817078.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Bakeries in Kolkata stir & toss new ways to stay afloat||KOLKATA: The pandemic has left bakeries across Kolkata facing a stark choice this Christmas — adapt or put out the oven fire. Bakery owners across the city are taking special measures — from providing accommodation to their workers to allotting time slots to customers — to remain in business even as orders witness a dip. In thousands of Christian families in the city, it is a tradition to carry their own ingredients to local bakeries and get customized cakes made. Many other directly purchase the specialities some of these bakeries are known for. “These are challenging times for our business but we are taking all possible steps so that our customers, some of whom have been associated with us for decades, are content with the safety measures and can enjoy the delicacies without any apprehensions,” said Debra Alexander, owner of the iconic Saldanha Bakery, famous for its walnut cakes, lemon drops, lemon tarts and chicken patties. The owners of this bakery established in 1931 have made arrangements for all the workers to stay within the premises till the season lasts. “We have imposed a lockdown on ourselves,” smiled Debra. “All of us are staying within the premises to prevent any sort of infection. For the customers, it is mandatory to wear masks and sanitize their hands before entering,’ said Debra. At Nahoum’s in New Market, only a few people are being allowed inside the shop to purchase while the rest stand in a queue outside. Only takeaways are permitted. Sheikh Nuruddin, the owner of Kanchan Bakery on Taltala Lane, is permitting only seven customers every hour to come with ingredients. “Families come with the ingredients and we bake it for them. From the first week of December, the bakery is filled with people. But this year, we have decided to allow only seven people every hour. Our workers are wearing masks and other safety gear and customers are being sanitized before they enter,” said Nuruddin. The demand has dipped this year due to Covid, says Nuruddin. “We are having at least 50% less customers this year,” he added. It is a similar story at Kajal Bakery a few meters away. Third generation owner Kaziruhul Amin said they were hoping to salvage their losses during Christmas but dip in the demand has dashed their hopes. “We were shut during the lockdown and even after reopening, demand for locally baked biscuits, tiffin cakes, patties and nan khatais was very low. Now, orders during Christmas have also disappointed us. But there is still one week to go for the festival and we are hoping it brings some cheer to all of us,” said Amin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bakeries-stir-toss-new-ways-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/79817724.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 20, 2020||Pune||PMC action against 136 stores, 80 restro-bars for violation of rules||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has initiated action against 136 shops, 80 restaurants-cum-bars and hotels in the city for violation of social distancing norms and compulsory mask rule. The administration had formed 15 teams in the last week of November to carry out a drive against restaurants, bars, malls and shops after it was observed that some establishments were not following the norms diligently. The administration also asked the establishments to make proper arrangements to avoid overcrowding and implement social distancing norms. A team comprising four officials was constituted in every civic ward for carrying out the drive. These teams were supported by personnel from the local police stations. An official from the civic administration said that the teams were supposed to check use of masks by visitors as well as staff members and ensure that the establishments display instruction boards at entry points informing visitors about precautions to be taken during their visits. The latest data released by the civic administration stated that the teams checked over 1,500 establishments and imposed on-the-spot fines for violations. The officials said that the checks will continue ahead of the New Year. An official attached to the Dhankwadi-Sahakarnagar ward said that the drive was not intended only to initiate action and impose fines. “Our teams initially established communications with the restaurants and shops in their areas and asked them to ensure stricter measures pertaining to Covid-19 norms. Social media groups were also formed to communicate with the establishments. visits started a few days later during which officials found that many establishments were largely following the norms. Those violating rules were booked,” the official added. Altogether 607 shops were checked, of which 136 faced action for not following social distancing norms and the compulsory mask rule. Among the food establishments, 80 restaurants-hotels and eight bars faced action, while 24 cases were registered at malls for violation of guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-action-against-136-stores-80-restro-bars-for-violation-of-rules/articleshow/79818583.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Miscreants dump industrial waste in Pernem’s quarry pits||MAPUSA: As state authorities are yet to decide on a remediation method for abandoned stone quarry pits, villagers of Tuem in Pernem taluka have been left shocked to see waste by an industrial unit dumped in one such laterite quarry pit. Tuem villagers found huge loads of fibre waste, allegedly from a factory in the Tuem industrial estate, dumped in a pit in the village. The villagers along with the local panch member foiled attempts to dump more waste in the quarry. They stopped the earth moving machinery in use by the culprits. The matter of nine such illegal stone quarries, where the pits have been abandoned after mining laterite stones, had reached the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The NGT had asked state authorities to decide a way for remediation of these pits which are a hazard to environment and danger to humans moving around it. But state officials are yet to decide on a method for remediation. “Huge waste has been dumped here in the quarries near Don Bosco School. We stopped the excavator from pushing the waste in the quarries. We immediately called up the police and reported the incident. No garbage can be used to fill the quarry pits, only soil can be used. We demand that the sarpanch and other authorities act and clear the waste,” local panch member Margaret Lobo said. Local Anil Harmalkar said when villagers questioned the excavator’s operator, he only responded by saying that he was doing it on behest of a person named ‘Ajay’. He said that similar dumping of waste dump is also under way in quarries in another ward of the village. “The sarpanch and police should act and initiate inquiry to identify the culprit and take stringent action against him,” said panch member Kishore Naik. Four boarders of Don Bosco High School in Tuem, Pernem drowned in an abandoned stone quarry pit in September 2019. In October 2020, NGT directed Goa government (department of mines) to compensate Rs 16 lakh each to the families of the four young students who lost their lives. NGT has directed the state to ensure that the negligence is not repeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/miscreants-dump-industrial-waste-in-pernems-quarry-pits/articleshow/79819514.cms||Keshav Naik
December 20, 2020||Bareilly||Forest team sets up trap for stray PTR tiger||Pilibhit: Four field teams of the forest and wildlife division are camping at Karnapur village in Pilibhit’s Puranpur tehsil to monitor the movement of a three-year-old tiger staying amid the agricultural fields of Shahgarh government farm for the past five days. A cage with a live bait was placed in the area on Saturday afternoon to trap the big cat that strayed out of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve’s Barahi forest range. Initially, it was spotted near Madhotanda village on November 29. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer, said so far the tiger has shown no inclination to retreat to the forest. The area has abundant prey -- both wild and livestock -- water from nearby river Khannaut and plenty of places to hide in the agricultural fields. He said the teams would stay in the area till the tiger retreated to the forest, 8 km away, or was trapped. Then, the decision on where to release it would be taken by Sunil Pandey, chief wildlife warden of UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-team-sets-up-trap-for-stray-ptr-tiger/articleshow/79969512.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Rohith Vemula’s brother, now a lawyer, wants to fight for people’s rights||HYDERABAD: Almost five years after the suicide of Rohith Vemula, his younger brother Raja Vemula has now become an advocate, giving a ray of hope to the family that has been fighting for justice ever since. The mother of Rohith Vemula, Radhika Vemula took to Twitter to express her joy. “Raja Vemula, my younger son, is now an advocate. After five years, it’s one of the major changes happened in our lives since Rohith Vemula. Adv. Raja Vemula will now work/fight for the people & their rights in the court of law and it’s my ‘payback to society’. Bless him,” she tweeted. Before Vemula’s death, Raja had aimed to become a scientist after pursuing masters in science in Applied Geology from Puducherry University. After Vemula’s death, Raja was also offered government jobs, including one by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. However, he had denied the job offers, and even drove a goods autorickshaw between Guntur and Tenali in 2017 to make ends meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rohiths-bro-now-a-lawyer-wants-to-fight-for-peoples-rights/articleshow/79818587.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||One month from December 25 most crucial: Task force members||PUNE: The state Covid-19 task force stressed that the period from December 25 to January 26 next year would be very crucial and there could be a surge in Covid-19 cases because of cold winter weather. The task force members stated that the local administrations would have to ensure strict implementation of the Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. They also called for strict monitoring on any gatherings ahead of Christmas and New Year. The task force has recommended avoiding gatherings, ensuring social distance and increasing testing in the state. “The state has been registering less than 5,000 cases per day in the last two weeks, but there is a need to ensure that there is no surge in cases as seen in Delhi,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Covid task force, after submitting the recommendations. He said the numbers were a bit relieving now, but there was a need to observe restraint considering that there would be social gatherings in the festive season ahead. “The situation may be better now but the next one month is crucial, especially from December 25 onwards. We cannot wait for cases to explode as it did in the UK and the US,” he iterated. “We do not want any kind of curfew or lockdown now. Existing rules should be implemented effectively, and it is up to the administration to ensure that people follow the social distancing rules. We should cross the last hurdle well with the vaccines still away,” Dr Joshi said. The expert said it would take three to six months to vaccinate the frontline workers, followed by the general population. On a positive note, Dr Joshi said there was a possibility of herd immunity being achieved in some geographical pockets of Pune and Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-month-from-dec-25-most-crucial-task-force-members/articleshow/79818589.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||SIs, inspectors can be posted for 8 yrs in plain districts & for 4 yrs in hills||Dehradun: The Police Establishment Committee, which was presided over by Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar, on Saturday decided that inspector and sub-inspectors, in one stretch, can be posted for a maximum period of eight years in the plain districts of Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital. Similarly, the maximum term for SIs and inspectors for the remaining nine hill districts has been capped at four years. It was also decided that the head constable can be posted in the plains for a maximum of 12 years while a posting for a constable cannot extend beyond 16 years. A head constable can be posted in hills for a maximum of six years and a constable for eight years. The panel also agreed that all the transfer-related works would be completed by March 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sis-inspectors-can-be-posted-for-8-yrs-in-plain-districts-for-4-yrs-in-hills/articleshow/79817103.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Rope in retired judges to clear case backlog: PIL to Centre||HYDERABAD: Stating that it is impossible for the current 14 judges in Telangana high court to resolve the 2.2 lakh pending cases, senior advocate S Satyam Reddy filed a PIL urging the Centre, the Supreme Court, the high court, and the state government to rope in retired HC judges to clear the pendency. Article 224-A allows the authorities to do so, he said. While raising a grievance about the non-filling of even the sanctioned posts, the senior counsel said that it is imperative to bring in the retired expertise because even the sanctioned strength is not enough to deal with the ever-mounting problem of pendency. “Advocates are finding it difficult to get their matters listed and people are suffering on account of the lack of a sufficient number of judges,” he said. Explaining the content of Article 224-A, Satyam Reddy said that this provision enables the chief justice of a high court, with the previous consent of the President, to request any retired judge to come and function as a judge in his high court. There is no justification whatsoever for the authorities in not making use of this provision, he said. “There are only 14 judges working now in the high court though the sanctioned strength is 24. There were official letters written by the CJs asking the central authorities to increase this sanctioned strength also. Leave alone raising the sanctioned strength, even half of the existing sanctioned strength could not be filled. I do not want to go into the details of why it is not happening, the authorities can do what is there in their hands to meet the challenges posed by the huge pendency,” the senior advocate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rope-in-retd-judges-to-clear-case-backlog-pil-to-centre/articleshow/79818592.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nashik||Nashik schools can reopen for classes IX-XII from January 4||NASHIK: Schools in Nashik district will be allowed to reopen for the students of classes IX to XII from January 4 as the number of active Covid-19 cases has fallen considerably, said district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Saturday. A decision in this regard was taken during the weekly review meeting on Covid-19 pandemic at the district collectorate. The state government had allowed reopening of schools on November 23 on the condition that parents’ consent letter was obtained. However, a large number of parents opposed the idea amid apprehensions of a fresh wave of Covid-19 post Diwali. Bhujbal said while the zilla parishad can start operating schools from January 4, the Nashik Municipal Corporation may take a call next week. “The NMC can take feedback from the parties concerned and also take cue from major cities like Mumbai, Pune and Thane to ramp up its infrastructure,” he said. Bhujbal made it clear that it will be mandatory for every school to ensure sanitization and cleanliness in rural as well as urban areas besides ensuring physical distancing of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-schools-can-reopen-for-classes-ix-xii-from-january-4/articleshow/79819796.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 20, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region infection tally swells to 3.55 lakh, 12 more dead||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 recoveries continued to remain above new infections in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) for the second consecutive day on Saturday, though the gap between the two narrowed to a great extent. The region recorded 671 recoveries as against 668 new cases. With this, PMR’s total discharges increased above 3.38 lakh, while its positive caseload rose above 3.55 lakh. Health officials said they had been monitoring the cases and have initiated steps for rigorous tracing in areas with positive cases. The suspected patients have been asked to undergo tests, they added. A report released by district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 12 more patients died due to Covid-19 on Saturday. The region’s total deaths reached 8,695. A report released by PMC stated that 830 patients were on oxygen support at various hospitals, while 328 patients were at critical stage in its limits. The active caseload in the region reached 8,857 on Saturday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-infection-tally-swells-to-3-55-lakh-12-more-dead/articleshow/79818594.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Film that relives Mother’s days starts Kolkata leg of shooting||KOLKATA: Filming of the first movie to be shot in Kolkata with international actors during the pandemic began on Banamali Sarkar Street on Saturday. Titled ‘Kavita & Teresa’, the film by Swiss-Indian director Kamal Musale and starring Banita Sandhu, Jacqueline Fritschi-Cornaz and Deepti Naval is about love and compassion inspired by the life of Mother Teresa. The film traces the life of Kavita — a spoilt modern young woman of Indian origin living in Toronto. She is caught between an unsatisfying romantic relationship, her parents’ plans to get her married according to Indian tradition and an unexpected pregnancy. She decides to return to her birthplace and seek solace in the arms of her old nanny – who had taken care of her as a child. Incidentally, this nanny (played by Deepti Naval) had been adopted as a child by Mother Teresa when she started working in the slums in 1948. As she narrates the stories from her past, Kavita starts to relive Mother Teresa’s life in the slums of Kolkata. Filming had begun at the Mumbai studios in January this year. At least 65% of the film was shot there before the pandemic-induced global lockdown changed the narrative. There are local theatre actors in the cast, including Debashree Chakraborty. “We shot in London before coming to Kolkata. We will be shooting here till the end of this year. We believe in women’s empowerment and hence, have a number of women in our crew,” line producer Nupoor Kajbaje Battin. Shooting during the pandemic has been challenging, she said. “We are shooting in a bubble and have done Covid-19 tests for everyone in the unit. Masks are compulsory. We have shot most of the scenes, including the ones with Deepti Naval, in the Mumbai studio itself. Only those portions that can’t be filmed there are being shot in Kolkata,” Battin added. On being asked if the unit has got in touch with Missionaries of Charity, Battin said, “I can’t reveal that.” In his note on the film’s website, Musale has mentioned that through extensive research, he has developed the character not as “Mother Teresa”, but as “Teresa”. What’s interesting is his reference to Mother Teresa’s letters that were made public years after her death in 1997. The letters had made some startling revelations about her spiritual pain. “I narrowed the timeframe from the moment Teresa hears her calling from Jesus to her initial years working in the slum. During this approximate 12-year period, Teresa goes through a complete change, from the intensity of her epiphany to the disillusionment and the realization that her connection with God is lost,” the note mentions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/film-that-relives-mothers-days-starts-kolkata-leg-of-shooting/articleshow/79817727.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 20, 2020||Erode||Tusker electrocuted in Erode; female elephant falls to death from hillock in Krishnagiri district||Erode/Krishnagiri: Two elephants, one of them a tusker, were found dead in two different forest locations in Krishnagiri and Erode districts on Saturday. While one was electrocuted, the other one died after falling off a hillock.An officer attached to the Thalavadi forest division said an eight-year-old tusker was electrocuted in the Jeerahalli forest range in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve after the animal came in contact with live wires of an electrical fence that was illegally erected around a farmland.When alerted by local residents, forest officials held an inquiry with farmland owner V Kalaiyaa, 47, of Jeerahalli village. “He hadn’t obtained any permission from the forest department for erecting the electrical fence. We have registered the case against him for killing the tusker, which was electrocuted while attempting to raid his farmland,” the officer said.Forest officials chopped off the pair of tusks and buried the carcass of the tusker in the forest, after conducting an autopsy.Meanwhile in Krishnagairi, a 25-year-old female elephant fell off a hillock in Ulipenda forest in the Jawalagiri forest range near Denkanikottai and succumbed to its grave injuries on the spot.Murugesan, Jawalagiri forest range officer, said the elephant might have fallen off the hillock at least three days ago. “But the carcass was spotted only on Saturday.”Veterinary doctors from the forest department conducted an autopsy and left the carcass in the forest for the scavengers to feed on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tusker-electrocuted-in-erode-female-elephant-falls-to-death-from-hillock-in-krishnagiri-district/articleshow/79818590.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to install 4 lakh LED streetlights across villages||VISAKHAPATNAM: The government is determined to building a sustainable, secure and affordable energy sector by promoting energy efficiency initiatives, said chief executive officer of AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) A Chandrasekhar Reddy. The APSECM conducted a seminar on the ‘Impact of energy efficiency for enhancement of the economy of the state’ at SDM Mahila Kalasala in Vijayawada on Saturday, as part of national energy conservation week. Speaking on this occasion, Chandrasekhar Reddy said the state had initiated the world’s largest rural LED street lighting programme under which 23.29 lakh LED lights have been installed in 11,749 gram panchayats. “The state government has decided to install another four lakh LED street lights at the request of gram panchayats. The APSECM had successfully introduced IoT-enabled power monitoring device in an MSME industry of East Godavari district on a pilot basis, which saved energy bills to the tune of Rs 80,000,” said Reddy. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-to-install-4-lakh-led-streetlights-across-villages/articleshow/79817101.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani not to harm STs’ interests in Agency areas, Telangana govt tells high court||HYDERABAD: The state government said Dharani land portal will not interfere with the constitutional protection accorded to the Scheduled Tribes in Agency areas. Christina Z Chongthu, secretary, tribal welfare, informed the same to Telangana high court and filed an affidavit to this effect in response to the court’s direction to respond to the apprehensions expressed by two tribals — K Veeramallu and Soyam Kanna Raju — from Warangal and Khammam districts. They alleged in their petition that Dharani removes the safeguards available to tribals in respect of holding properties. “These safeguards are aimed at stopping indiscriminate transfer of land from the hands of tribals into non-tribals. Any such transfers, even if made under the garb of a sale, were declared null and void previously. Dharani takes away all such protections,” they said. Making it clear that the government will not do anything that harms the interests of STs, the tribal welfare secretary said these safeguards were introduced by the British during the pre-constitutional era. “They came into force in 1924. The framers of the Constitution kept them intact and we have also incorporated them in the new Pattadar Passbook Act, 2020,” she said. According to her, the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, applies to the whole of the state, including the scheduled areas. “This new law recognised the protection available to tribals in respect of land in scheduled areas. The government had issued a memo on Oct 22 wherein it was made clear that the regulation of layouts and plots in V Schedule areas shall be taken up strictly in accordance with 1/70 Act,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-not-to-harm-sts-interests-in-agency-areas-govt-tells-high-court/articleshow/79818595.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nashik||Robbers decamp with articles worth Rs 3.3L||Nashik: Three unidentified suspects decamped with cash and jewellery worth Rs 3.3 lakh after threatening a woman and her two children with sharp weapons and forcing them to give away all the jewellery in their house in Lasalgaon in the early hours of Wednesday. The Lasalgaon police said that they have registered an offence against three people and have formed teams to trace them. According to the complainant, the robbers were around 25-years-old and spoke Marathi. The 42-year-old complainant told police that around 2.30 am, three unidentified burglars opened the inner latch of her house and entered inside. Later, they brandished their weapons in front of the complainant and her children. One of the three suspects told the complainant’s daughter that there was no need to be afraid of them. He then asked the girl to bring all jewellery kept inside the house. The suspects then gathered all the jewellery after and escaped from the scene. Police said that the complainant’s husband was not at home at the time of incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/robbers-decamp-with-articles-worth-rs-3-3l/articleshow/79817093.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||South Goa reporting more Covid-19 cases than North||PANAJI: With 127 new Covid-19 infections and 110 recoveries, state’s tally of active cases was at 978 on Saturday. However, no casualties were reported. Since the last few days, some centres are seeing a slight rise in infections. Health centres in South Goa have higher cases than in North Goa with Margao urban health centre at the top of the list. Of total 978 active cases, 615 cases are from South Goa. On Saturday, Margao urban health centre reported a slight dip in cases after a consistent rise in the last few days. Its tally dipped to 154 as against 171 cases on Friday. Caseload of Quepem health centre, which has been reporting a slight rise in the last few days, rose to 87 on Saturday. Other health centres that reported a marginal rise in cases were Porvorim and Chimbel in North Goa and Loutolim, Marcaim, Ponda and Navelim in South Goa. With 1,609 swab samples tested, the case positivity rate of Goa rose to 8%, a rise in one point than that of Friday. As many as 29 patients were hospitalised and 25 chose to be in home isolation on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-reporting-more-covid-19-cases-than-north/articleshow/79819517.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nashik||Eight criminals externed from Nashik||NASHIK: Eight people with criminal records were externed by the city police in a bid to improve their behaviour and also to maintain law and order in the city. The criminals have been identified as Satish Mane (23), Raju alias Rajesh Kachru Adhangale (31), Ajay Athawale (25) and his brother Akshay (21). All of them were externed by the Ambad police. While Hussain Firoz Shaikh (18) and Ganesh alias Chhakulya Madhukar Waghmare (19) were externed by the Nashik Road police, Parag, alias Gotya Rajendra Gaidhani (27), was externed by the Upnagar police and Ajay More (26) of Satpur was externed by the Satpur police, said senior police officers. The aim of externing these criminal elements is to put a stop to illegal activities and to secure the life and property of citizens from such elements. Senior officers said that quite a few externed criminals are found roaming in the city during their externment period, following which they have put up posters of externed criminals near several police stations and chowkies so that alert citizens can inform when they are spotted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-criminals-externed-from-nashik/articleshow/79819798.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: No +ve case in Velhe tehsil for 26 days||PUNE: Velhe tehsil of the district has not reported a single fresh Covid-19 case in the last 26 days, a Pune Zilla Parishad official said. The first Covid-19 case in rural Pune was reported in Borawadi village in Velhe on March 21, when an Anganwadi worker had tested positive. Now, it has become the first Covid-free tehsil, said Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of ZP. “Health officials have been collecting at least 20 samples per day for the last 26 days and all of them have tested negative. We didn’t notice this trend in any other thesil of the district,” Prasad said.. According to Velhe health department records, it has reported a total of 656 Covid-19 cases. Of them, 635 recovered and 21 succumbed to the virus, so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-ve-case-in-velhe-tehsil-for-26-days/articleshow/79818596.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||LPG price hike condemned||Coimbatore: Several demonstrations were held across the city on Saturday condemning the central government for increasing the price of LPG cylinders. K Ramakrishnan, general secretary of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK), said that even though the price of crude oil is stable, LPG price has been increasing gradually for the last few years. “Until about half-a-decade ago, cylinders would be sold to the public on subsidized price. But in the last few years, the central government asked consumers to open bank accounts to get the subsidy amount ranging from Rs 100 to Rs 150. About three months ago, the government stopped giving the subsidy,” he said. The government should reduce the price of the cylinders immediately, said District treasurer of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) C Jothimani. “The cylinders have become an inevitable part of life. Not many people will be able to buy them now. If the situation persists, the consumers would be forced to use kerosene stoves or firewood.” “Since May, the government increased the cylinder price five times and in the last 15 days, it was increased twice – by Rs 50 each time. This has been done while people are left with no jobs and are facing pay cuts due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said DMK MLA N Karthik. DMK women’s wing has decided to stage a protest in the city on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lpg-price-hike-condemned/articleshow/79818609.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Firing incident fallout: AIMIM dissolves Adilabad unit||Hyderabad: A day after AIMIM leader Mohammed Farooq Ahmed fired at two persons and inflicted a knife injury on another person in Adilabad, the party Adilabad unit was dissolved on Saturday. “On the instructions of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, the Adilabad AIMIM unit has been dissolved with immediate effect. A new unit will be constituted soon,” Ahmed Pasha Quadri, general secretary of AIMIM and Yakutpura MLA, said. Farooq is AIMIM’s Adilabad district president. Police took Farooq into custody after he shot at two persons with his firearm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firing-incident-fallout-aimim-dissolves-adilabad-unit/articleshow/79818597.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Obscene video shot in gym goes viral, FIR lodged||Haridwar: The owner of a gymnasium in Haridwar was booked by a Jwalapur police team on Saturday after an obscene video shot in his commercial establishment went viral on social media platforms. The gym owner can be seen with a woman in the video. A case has been registered in the matter under section 67 of Information Technology Act and the video is being examined by cyber experts. SHO Jwalapur police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI, “An obscene video shot in the gym falling under Jwalapur police station went viral on different social platforms. We registered a case against the gym owner Abdul Kadir and further investigation is underway. The police are also looking for the girl in the video so as to get her statement on record.” According to police, the owner of the gym wanted to share the video with the girl but accidently sent it to a WhatsApp group. Meanwhile, members of a right-wing outfit staged a protest against the incident and termed it “communal”. Notably, this is the second instance in the past few months where an obscene video, shot in a gym, has gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/obscene-video-shot-in-gym-goes-viral-fir-lodged/articleshow/79817111.cms||MS Nawaz
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Maoists raise call for bandh on December 21||VISAKHAPATNAM: CPI Maoists along the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB) have given a call for bandh in the AOB on December 21 in protest against recent alleged fake encounters, illegal arrests, surrenders and campaigns against them by the police. The bandh call has given an exemption to medical and fire services even as the outfit urged businesses and other establishments to remain closed on Monday. A press note was released by the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) in which official spokesperson Kailasam urged the public to observe the bandh and alleged that the governments of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha have been implementing oppressive methods such as illegal arrests, forcible surrenders and fake encounters. He said two party cadre, Mallal and Santi, were brutally killed by security forces in Singavaram village of Nakkamamidi panchayat when they were unarmed and sleeping. Security forces also killed a girl of the same village.  “All these tactics are nothing but terrorising people. Enhanced security camps or oppression methods would not stop the people’s movement,” Kailasam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoists-raise-call-for-bandh-tomorrow/articleshow/79817109.cms||Siva G
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, WII scientists to assess ecology of Ganga & its tributaries||Dehradun: In a bid to assess the ecology of Ganga and its tributary rivers and conserve them, a team of researchers of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) have started closely studying the 2,500-kilometre-long river, revered by millions of people, that cuts across several states. According to experts, the Ganga tributaries under scanner – Ramganga, Kosi, Gomti, Ghaghara, Gandak, Yamuna, Chambal, Sone, Ajay, and Rupnarayan — have undergone vast change due to increased pollution and anthropogenic pressure. This will be the first-of-its-kind initiative by scientists to evaluate these rivers inch by inch through their habitat features, aquatic species assessment, and anthropogenic influences. Interestingly, WII teams have found the assessment of some of the rivers to be encouraging and species like Lesser Flamingo and Indian Skimmer were spotted at the most unexpected stretches. “Six teams are carrying out the assessment travelling on boat and also on-foot. They are likely to complete the work in two months despite the Covid-19 threat and extreme weather conditions. So far, we have got very encouraging results as we observed the presence of ‘several threatened species’ in many rivers like Ghagra, Gandak, and Rupnarayan,” said Dr SA Hussain and Dr Ruchi Badola, senior scientists of WII and team leaders of the Biodiversity Conservation & Ganga Rejuvenation project phase II. The entire project, being undertaken under the aegis of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), will be executed at an estimated cost of Rs 113 crore. It is worth mentioning that the researchers of WII are being given assistance by Ganga Praharis in the monitoring works. The Ganga Praharis are the villagers who were trained to identify and assess aquatic lives for their conservation by WII scientists in the first phase of this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-wii-scientists-to-assess-ecology-of-ganga-its-tributaries/articleshow/79817116.cms||Shivani Azad
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Cantonment residents yearn for basic amenities, want GHMC merger||SECUNDERABAD: British-era bye-laws have lead to a plethora of hardships for Cantonment residents in terms of civic amenities when compared to municipal bodies in Telangana. Reason: Army’s inordinate delay in taking a decision on excision of civil areas of the Cantonment and converting military pockets into military stations. When a question was raised in the Rajya Sabha regarding the excision, the ministry of defence (MoD), on behalf of the Army, replied: “No decision has been taken in this matter.” The dream of residents of several Cantonments across the country, who raised the issue of merger of civilian areas into civic bodies by repealing the Cantonment Act 2006, may remain unfulfilled for now. “The Cantonments by their nature cater to the needs of military establishment. They are unequipped to serve the needs of large settlements as that of Secunderabad Cantonment,” V Nagi Reddy, a retired IAS officer, told TOI. Reddy said: “SCB has 4,017 hectares in its jurisdiction. Defence personnel, who account for less than 1% population, occupy 2,272 hectares (56%), cramming the remaining 99% of the civilian population in just 1,745 hectares (44%).” Due to inadequate organizational capability in major departments, the civic amenities in the Cantonment is very weak. For instance, SCB does not have town planning department as GHMC does. For final approval of buildings plans, the Cantonment has to depend on principal director, defence estates, but in GHMC, municipal commissioner is the competent authority. “Engineering department with less than 20 personnel is tackling issues related to buildings, roads, drinking water and sewerage network besides attending other duties like demolitions and inspections,” Vishnu Vardhan, a resident of Trimulgherry, said. Regarding potable water, Cantonment residents have been getting 37.5 litre per capita per day (lpcd) than normal 135 lpcd. In GHMC area, the consumer gets 135 lpcd, the RWA member added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cantt-residents-yearn-for-basic-amenities-want-ghmc-merger/articleshow/79819520.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 20, 2020||Nashik||5 killed in separate road accidents in rural parts||Nashik: Five people were killed in separate road accidents in different parts of the rural areas of Nashik on Thursday and Friday.Senior officials of the rural police said they will be analysing the causes of the fatal accidents in the rural areas and instruct officials to take up necessary preventive measures.Krishna Aher (18), who was riding pillion on a bike, was knocked down by another bike on the road from Malegaon to Manmad on Thursday around 5 pm. He succumbed to his injuries.On the same day, at 9 pm, a truck turned turtle on the road between Kasare and Jategaon in Nandgaon taluka. Devchand Bidgar (25), who was the assistant of the truck driver, suffered serious injuries and succumbed to the same.In a case registered with the MIDC Sinnar police on Friday, Gopal Sanvaskar (23) was riding his bike when another vehicle hit him from behind on the road between Panchale and Somthane. Meanwhile, on Friday morning a 63-year-old man died when he was crushed by a luxury bus which turned turtle after colliding with a truck on the Mumbai Agra highway in Chandwad. A 58-year-old man from Jail Road, died after the car which he was driving fell into a nullah at Pachore Wani in Pimpalgaon on Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-rural-parts/articleshow/79819799.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 20, 2020||Ludhiana||22-yr-old man succumbs to injuries||Ludhiana: After battling for his life for over a month, a 22-year-old man succumbed to his injuries at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, late on Friday. He was stabbed by his neighbour on Divali when they had indulged in a verbal spat over bursting of crackers. The kin of the deceased have refused to cremate the body until the arrest of the accused. In this matter, the Daresi police on Saturday have added the murder section in the case. The victim, Monu of New Madhopuri, was a factory worker. Monu, along with his family, was living in an accommodation in a factory at Daresi. Dinesh Kumar, father of the victim, stated that his son was bursting crackers outside the factory on November 14, i.e. Divali. Meanwhile, their neighbour Rohit turned up there and started abusing Monu for bursting crackers. Rohit and Monu indulged in a verbal spat after which Rohit went to his home and returned with a sharp-edged knife. The accused stabbed Monu in his stomach, chest and arms with the knife and fled. Thereafter, the family rushed Monu to the civil hospital here. From there, the doctors had referred him to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he succumbed to the injuries on Friday night. Dinesh Kumar also alleged that the condition of Monu was critical as he had got severe injuries but the Daresi police had lodged the FIR under smaller sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC on November 17. Moreover, the accused was roaming freely but the police did not arrest him. He added, “We will not cremate the body of Monu until the police arrest the accused.” Sub-inspector Davinder Singh, SHO at police station, Daresi, the police had conducted many raids for the arrest of the accused, but he managed to flee after locking his house. After the death of Monu, the police have now added Section 302 (murder) of the IPC in the FIR. The police say they will be arresting the accused soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/22-yr-old-man-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/79817745.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 vaccine: Many pvt hospitals yet to give details||Trichy: Even though the process of collecting data of frontline health workers to provide the Covid-19 vaccination commenced in November this year, several private hospitals in Trichy are yet to submit the same prompting the authorities to make it clear that the vaccine can be given to those registered only.In a statement, Trichy district collector S Sivarasu said, an instruction on submitting the list had been given to all the government and private hospitals and ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy (Ayush) registered under the clinical establishment Act on November 2. All of them have been asked to provide particulars of frontline workers which includes doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, drivers and sanitary workers.While all the government hospitals including Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) and other government hospitals have submitted the details of around 3,000 eligible people, the collector and the public health department on Saturday have tightened the grip over the private hospitals to complete the process immediately.As of Saturday, only 370 private hospitals and clinics out of 1,389 centres have submitted the details to the office of the joint director of health services and deputy director of health services (DDHS). Around 1,000 private hospitals delayed the process. “They could have easily provided the numbers but it has not been done by several of them so far. The list is must for the frontline workers to get the vaccine on a priority basis,” deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr A Subramani told TOI on Saturday. They should download a prescribed form from http://hmis.nhp.gov.in and mail the filled-in form to JDHS at trichy.jdhs@gmail.com and to DDHS at dphtry.nic.in before December 22. The collector underlined that those listed on the website will only be allotted the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-vaccine-many-pvt-hospitals-yet-to-give-details/articleshow/79818607.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Auditor accuses doctor of charging her Rs 1.5 crore for fake cancer treatment||PUNE: The Wanowrie police have launched an investigation after a central government auditor recently accused a naturopathic doctor of falsely diagnosing her with cancer and cheating her of nearly Rs1.5 crore over treatment. Police said they have yet to arrest the doctor as her husband filed a plea stating she was unwell. As per the FIR, the 58-year-old complainant first met the suspect in 2017, when she sought treatment for minor ailments. In October 2019, she approached the doctor complaining of dizziness; the suspect diagnosed her with ‘ascites’, a condition sometimes caused by cancer. In September this year, the suspect told her that a cancerous lump had formed on her liver and that she was going to die unless treated. The FIR stated that the doctor started prescribing pills from June 17. Between then and December 2, the auditor emptied her savings accounts, liquidated fixed deposits and borrowed money from her husband for the “treatment”. Over 54 transactions via cheque, cash, and online transfers, the complainant paid the suspect Rs1.47 crore and never got any medical reports or payment receipts, stated the FIR. The complainant’s husband said she didn’t apply for benefits under her government health insurance scheme, opting to pay for the treatment herself. “My wife showed no symptoms and we never considered seeking a second medical opinion,” he told TOI. He said they became suspicious when the doctor did not give him a satisfactory explanation on his wife’s illness or treatment. “She said she made the diagnosis after microscanning a photo of my wife’s navel and ‘checked her nerves’, but I was not convinced,” he said. Senior inspector Krantisinh Patil said the complainant also accused the doctor of hypnosis in the name of treatment. “A preliminary probe showed the doctor transfered the money to a bank account in Canada. We will know more once she is arrested,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auditor-accuses-doc-of-charging-her-rs-1-5-crore-for-fake-cancer-treatment/articleshow/79818606.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid, lockdown & WFH have little impact on accidents in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The impact of Covid-19 was felt on almost all fields. However, despite the imposition of the 77-day lockdown and a large number of people staying away from commuting for a long time post-lockdown, the number of road accidents did not see a a major drop. Cyberabad police commissionerate has reported 2,691 road accidents till November 9, 2020, while it was 3,313 till December 31, 2019. In Hyderabad, 1,750 accidents were recorded till November 30 against 2,493 in 2019. This despite a large number of companies starting work from home (WFH) option for its employees, no schools and colleges, patronage for taxis for a long time was significantly low and other reasons. In April, when imposition of lockdown was total, the number of fatal cases reported were low in both the commissionerates. In Hyderabad, it was just six deaths, whereas in Cyberabad it was 11 deaths. Traffic police feel that as the roads were empty or with hardly any traffic for several days post-lockdown, many motorists, who came on to the roads, indulged in speeding, rash driving and travelling on wrong side, which led to many accidents since April. Hyderabad has logged 226 fatal cases till November 30, while in Cyberabad it is 605 deaths till November 9. Last week five youngsters had died in a road accident at Wipro junction after the car driver jumped the signal and a crashed inot an oncoming tipper. During the lockdown too, several accidents, including one on ORR at Shamshabad took place in which eight persons died, were recorded. “We feel the number of accidents reported this year is significantly low compared to last year. In the reported cases too, human error is the main cause of road accidents in the city,’’ Hyderabad additional police commissioner (Traffic) Anil Kumar told TOI. Cyberabad police feel that as traffic was less for a long time post-lockdown, speeding and negligent driving were the primary reasons for accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-lockdown-wfh-have-little-impact-on-accidents/articleshow/79819522.cms||Srinath Vudali
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Journalists seek action against AIADMK cadre||Trichy: A group of journalists filed a complaint with the Trichy city commissioner of police J Loganathan demanding action against AIADMK cadre who “manhandled” a news agency reporter here on Saturday.The reporter, identified as S Sam Pradeep, was covering an AIADMK meeting near TVS toll gate where the party’s Rajya Sabha member R Vaithilingam and state minister and Trichy urban district secretary Vellamandi N Natarajan participated.Some AIADMK cadre thrashed a man outside the meeting venue. Pradeep recorded it with his mobile phone. The AIADMK cadre turned towards him and grabbed his mobile phone. They deleted the videos recorded by the reporter and verbally abused him, according to the complaint filed by the journalists.The journalists also alleged that the police officers posted on the spot had remained mute spectators to the incident. “I complained to a police officer on duty. Instead of questioning the attackers, he remained tight-lipped. A police constable told me that he could not take action against the AIADMK cadre,” Pradeep told TOI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/journalists-seek-action-against-aiadmk-cadre/articleshow/79818610.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Travellers book staycations closer home for New Year||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: Since New Year parties with the usual fanfare are not allowed this year because of the pandemic, staycations seem to be the next best bet for citizens. Instead of taking the risk to travel to holiday destinations, people are deciding to stay at a property in the city to get the feel of being on a vacation. Abhir Agarwal, owner of RA Residence in Baner, said, “Each room we have is themed on a different country or region to give you the vibe of the place. We have rooms themed on Africa, Australia, Morocco, France as well as themes where patrons can get the ambience of local cultures such as the Peshwa room or the Kerala Boat-themed room. There has been a rush for bookings for New Years and we are 80% full at the moment, with most customers being from Pune.” Apart from service apartments, bookings at farmhouses and cottages on the outskirts are also up. “With seniors at home, it is difficult to call friends over so we have booked a farmhouse in Malavali for our group of nine friends, who will be spending New Year’s Eve together. We will bring our own food and cook it ourselves. We have been assured about full sanitization of the property twice a day. We were told that the caretaker will also be taking our temperature and only allow those with normal readings. We will also be bringing our pets as there is a lot of space for them to play together,” said Sumaiya Bhadri, a working professional. MNC employee Akash Sharma added, “We didn’t want to go to tourist locations that would be crowded at this time. After staying home for most part of the year, people want to go out and celebrate a little. We want to avoid getting caught up in that crowd as the risk of catching an infection would be relatively higher. We have booked a cottage in Watunde, so we can escape the crowd at Lonavala. Some of our friends from Mumbai will be coming along with their families and we will be joining them from Pune. The owners have assured us that sanitization and thorough cleaning will be undertaken and we will not be using the pool.” Madhur Kawade, owner of a duplex in Karjat that he gives out for stays and parties, said that his property has bookings till the end of January, “After every stay, we thoroughly clean and sanitize the premises before the next set of guests arrive. All the linen is replaced, including curtains and sofa covers. We have also added sanitizers to the toiletries for guests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travellers-book-staycations-closer-home-for-new-year/articleshow/79818613.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Aurangabad||WHO team trains Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani, Hingoli, Buldhana officials||AURANGABAD: A World Health Organisation (WHO) health team trained and counselled government and private health officials on the Covid-19 vaccination programming on Saturday in an event coordinated by the civic body in Aurangabad. WHO consultant Dr Sayyed Mujib — who is responsible for providing technical support to the vaccination programme in the five districts of Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani, Hingoli and Buldhana — imparted the training to the various medical officers and doctors. “The standard operating procedure (SOP) is aimed at ensuring clarity on the entire process, so that there is flawless coordination amongst different government and private agencies during the implementation of the vaccination programme,” Dr Mujib said Explaining the scale of the programme, he said that 22 ministries will be actively playing specific roles for the successful implementation of this programme. During the session, it was clarified that only those who are registered will be given a vaccine and multiple checks and balances have been introduced to ensure the same. In phase-one of the drive, all the health workers across the hierarchy, including the private practitioners, will be given a vaccine. In the second phase, frontline workers including police and defence personnel, homeguards, and sanitation workers will be covered. The third phase will vaccinate those above the age of 50 years, while the fourth phase will be for the general public. The WHO consultant clarified that only those who are registered for the vaccine will receive a text alert with a unique identification number and the booth they need to visit. Once a person reaches the booth, his/her name will be checked against the available record by the police and health workers. The recipient will be let in only after that. After vaccination, the person will have to wait for 30 minutes before he or she is allowed to step out. The person will then get another text message with a link using which, s/he may get an online certificate. The second shot of the vaccine will be given after 28 days following a similar procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/who-team-trains-aurangabad-jalna-parbhani-hingoli-buldhana-officials/articleshow/79817114.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 20, 2020||Nashik||History-sheeter killed with sharp weapons in Maharashtra's Igatpuri||NASHIK: A 45-year-old history-sheeter was murdered in Igatpuri on Friday night by four-five suspects with sharp weapons. The Igatpuri police said they have detained one person in connection with the murder and prima facie, it appears to be a fallout of a previous feud between the victim and the killers. The victim has been identified as Sanjay Baban Dhamne, a resident of the Deolali Gaon area in Nashik city. The police said he has cases registered against him at various police stations. According to the Igatpuri police, Sanjay was on his way to the residence of his second wife in Igatpuri, when he was attacked with sharp weapons by a group of four to five men. The police said Dhamne died on the spot. The police said while one person has been detained on suspicion, a search has been launched to trace the killers. As per the complaint registered by his relative, Sanjay’s brother is lodged at the Taloja jail in connection with a murder case. During the court hearings, Sanjay would often be confronted by the family members of the victim. The two parties would often end up fighting and issued threats of eliminating one another. The police said Sanjay’s relative, in his complaint, has accused five people in the murder case on the basis of which the case is being investigated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/history-sheeterkilled-with-sharp-weapons-in-igatpuri/articleshow/79819800.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||AAP’s CM face, declared well in advance, will command respect: Sisodia in U'khand||Dehradun: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will announce its chief ministerial candidate for 2022 Uttarakhand assembly elections “well in advance” and it will be someone who people of the state respect, said Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in Dehradun on Saturday. Sisodia arrived in the state on Friday and is on a two-day visit to Garhwal. He had visited Kumaon just last week to take stock of the political atmosphere in the state. “We will make the declaration well in time. Our CM face will be a person who commands people's respect. Local residents will be proud of our CM candidate. A leader is born out of a party worker and AAP has a dedicated base of workers (in Uttarakhand),” Sisodia said. Calling Trivendra Singh Rawat a "zero-work" CM, Sisodia reiterated that he wanted to challenge the CM to list five development works he had done for the state. “I am ready for a debate with him on those claims,” he declared. During his earlier visit, Sisodia had said that Congress has lost relevance in the hill state and that the 2022 elections will be a direct contest between the AAP and the BJP, a party, which in his opinion, has “failed to carry out development in the state”. “It is unfortunate. Be it education, health, roads or any other sector, people have been deprived of good facilities. According to the feedback I have received, people are wondering if the Kejriwal-led AAP government can do wonders in education, health, electricity, etc. in Delhi, why have both BJP and Congress failed Uttarakhand? People want change, they want a replication of the Kejriwal model of Delhi in Uttarakhand. We are confident of forming the government and taking the Himalayan state on the right path of development,” Sisodia said on Saturday, adding that the AAP’s polls planks will be “transparency, better education, health, electricity and proper infrastructure”. Speaking of infrastructure, Sisodia said that the state was rich in resources but revenue wasn’t being used in the right direction to develop these. “Like Uttarakhand, many countries have tough geographical locations. Rather than seeing it as a weakness, they have developed it into a strength. The result is that people from across the globe visit these countries, enjoy the weather and natural beauty,” he said. Sisodia also weighed in on the long-standing demand of making Gairsain the state capital. “If that’s what people want, Gairsain will be made the capital. As I said, we need to improve all sectors and move in the right direction,” he said. The BJP government declared Gairsain the state’s summer capital in June this year. Over the course of this year, AAP has seen an influx of some influential people. While several members of the Uttarakhand Kranti Dal (UKD) joined AAP in March, former state election commissioner Suvardhan Shah and former inspector general (IG) of Uttarakhand police Anantram Chauhan joined the party earlier this month. Shah had joined BJP only a year ago and said he shifted to AAP because he wanted the “tremendous development” of Delhi replicated in Uttarakhand. AAP state in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya, who is also the MLA of Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, said, “We welcome honest people to our party. Our policy is a straightforward one – we won’t accept anyone who is corrupt, communal or a criminal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aaps-cm-face-declared-well-in-advance-will-command-respect-sisodia-in-ukhand/articleshow/79817133.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 20, 2020||Goa||Govt will endeavour to provide freshest air possible: Cabral||Margao: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Saturday said that it would be the endeavour of the government to have “the freshest air possible” in Goa by shifting over to power generation from renewable resources of energy like solar, wind and tidal forms. “We want to keep Goa as clean as possible… It’s our commitment (that we will take steps) to liberate Goa from its dependence on burning of fossil fuel for power generation,” Cabral said while laying of the foundation stone for a 100MW decentralised solar power project and a dedicated 1MW solar power plant at Cuncolim. He also said that charging stations for electric vehicles will be set up shortly across the state to promote the use of electric vehicles. Stating that electric vehicles will be used in government departments too, Cabral said schemes will also be introduced for replacement of existing vehicles with electric ones. The 100MW project will be implemented by Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL). The first-ever “convergence project” integrates the delivery of clean renewable decentralised energy with energy efficient pump sets and LED lamps for rural homes. CESL will also deliver the pumps and lights as part of the power purchase agreement with the government. “The total investment of Rs 450 crores will be borne by CESL and will result in saving Rs 2,500 crore for Goa over the life of the project. Approximately 4 lakh households will benefit from this project and 1.4 lakh tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions will be avoided, CESL said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-will-endeavour-to-provide-freshest-air-possible-cabral/articleshow/79819523.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Five held in Trichyfor pedding ganja||Trichy: In a crackdown against the ganja peddlers, the city police raided five locations and seized 560g from five people in the city on Friday. Edamalaipattipudhur police conducted raids at three locations while Palakkarai and Srirangam police raided a place each in their jurisdiction on Thursday. In Edamalaipattipudhur, the police seized 450g from three locations in Mill colony. The police arrested S Balu alias Boobalan of Mill colony, B Madhan alias Madhubalan, 29, of Chinnakothamangalam in the area, and M Lakshmanan, 41 of Mill colony. The Palakkarai police conducted a raid and found K Subramaniayan, 43, of Pirattiyur in Trichy, in possession of 100g of ganja near the railway gate in Palakkarai. In the raid carried out by the Srirangam police, the police found P Karthik alias Mahamuni, 27, of Srirangamm in possession of 10g near Azahigiripuram check-post. Police sources said that the sudden raids in five locations in the city were taken based on the instructions from higher officials following inputs on sale of Ganja in the city limits. All the five were booked under the narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and released on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/five-held-in-trichyfor-pedding-ganja/articleshow/79818615.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Property owner alleges tenants abducted him||PUNE: The Khadak police have launched an investigation after a property owner accused 20 people of abducting him at gunpoint on February 19 this year. The complainant, Yogesh Satav (50), alleged that he was abducted by his tenants, who refused to vacate his property in Lilawada in Shukruwar Peth, which Satav had purchased earlier this year. Police said the suspects had rented the property before Satav purchased it. Satav alleged that while some tenants vacated the property premises immediately, a few picked up a dispute with him. The complainant, in his FIR, stated that he had planned to demolish the structure and construct a new building in its place. “Satav said on February 19, two tenants had told him to sign a blank stamp paper and transfer the possession of the property to them for free. Satav said the tenants threatened him, claiming to have connections with a local gangster who goes by the moniker ‘daddy’. They allegedly told Satav that if he refused to sign the documen, the gangsters aides would harm him,” an officer from the Khadak police said. The officer said when Satav refused to sign the paper; the tenants forced him into a car and drove him to Pune-Mumbai expressway. “They forced Satav to sign the blank documents at the Urse toll checkpoint and later released him,” police said. Police said Satav then visited the property again in August. “This time, the tenants allegedly told Satav that if he did not allow them to live on the property, they would transfer the deed to themselves using the blank stamp paper,” the officer said. “Satav has named many persons in his complaint, but we have yet to ascertain how many of them were actually involved in the crime,” senior inspector Shrihari Bairath from the Khadak police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-owner-alleges-tenants-abducted-him/articleshow/79818617.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nashik||Admin seeks more equipment for vaccine storage & transport||NASHIK: The Nandurbar district administration has sought additional equipment for proper storage and transportation of Covid vaccines. District collector Rajendra Bharud told TOI the administration will need one insulated van to carry the vaccines doses to the locations where they will be stored. The insulated van will ensure the temperature is maintained in the vehicle. “Moreover, we will need three solar refrigerators to store the vaccine, 73 cold boxes, 6,500 ice packs and around 15 deep refrigerators,” said Bharud. He had a series of meetings with the district health authorities to draw up the plan for the Covid vaccination programme. According to Bharud, Nandurbar district has sufficient equipment for the storage. “We have sought the additional equipment to further strengthen the cold chain system,” he said. “We will be using the network that we have in place for other immunization programmes. We have proper road connectivity to transport the vaccine in the interiors of the district,” said the collector. The district administration has so far drawn up a list of over 9,800 frontline Covid workers, including over 7,300 from government institutions, who will be vaccinated initially. This number will increase as some of the private hospitals are yet to submit the list of their health workers. District health officials said there are some locations in remote parts of the district, where power is drawn from the solar panels. “We have primary health centres where solar refrigerators are used to store vaccines. These refrigerators will be used to store the Covid vaccine,” added health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-seeks-more-equipment-for-vaccine-storage-transport/articleshow/79819801.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Saplings planted in protest on damaged roads||Trichy/Madurai: Condemning Trichy Corporation for not repairing the roads damaged in the recent rains, the residents of Thiruverumbur locality in Ponmalai zone planted banana saplings on the damaged roads on Saturday. A similar protest was also held in Rajapalayam.The Trichy Corporation had only partially completed the underground drainage (UGD) work in peripheral wards of the civic body including Thiruverumbur. The locals complained that the trenches established for these works were not properly covered. In the recent rainfall, the potholes formed over the portion of the roads where UGD chambers and pipelines were established have been persistently witnessing water stagnation, giving a tough time for motorists. The protesters condemning the civic body planted dozens of banana saplings in the potholes in VIN Nagar main road in Kattur.Demanding the roads be reworked at the earliest, DYFI and Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration. “Anticipating the monsoon, the civic body could have relaid the roads months ago. But, such preparedness is missing from the authorities even now,” P Lenin, district secretary, DYFI said. The CPM cadres sought the Trichy corporation to inspect the roads and fill the potholes.While a proper bituminous road for the areas encompassing the recently developed neighbourhoods like SAS Nagar, Amman Nagar and Balaji Nagar will not be established anytime soon citing the pending UGD work, residents opined that the civic body must at least carry out levelling work with gravel.Meanwhile, members of the CPI(M) resorted to the same mode of protest in Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district by planting banana saplings on a damaged road which had become become unmotorable after the recent rains.The roads in Rajapalayam were dug up for the Thamirabarini comprehensive drinking water scheme and underground drainage works. But these roads were not relaid after the works were completed. Even a temporary arrangement was not made before the monsoon started and the roads have become really bad. Vehicles are getting damaged frequently when they ply on these roads. Pedestrians also find it difficult to walk on it.One such road that is badly damaged is the road going from Rajapalayam court complex to Madasamy temple. The members of the CPI(M) planted banana saplings on the road to bring the plight to the attention of the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/saplings-planted-in-protest-on-damaged-roads/articleshow/79818618.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||HNBGU inks pact with MoEFCC||Dehradun: The Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University (HNBGU) has signed an MoU with the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), which is an autonomous body under the ministry of environment, forest, and climate change, Government of India. The MoU has been signed in order to share their expertise especially in regards to forestry and natural-resources related sectors. Apart from this, both the institutions will hold workshops, conferences to draw lessons on various practices and approaches in regards to forestry. The MoU will help in the facilitation of research, education projects and programs. Also, with this, the students of HNBGU will get a chance to be part of various exchange programs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hnbgu-inks-pact-with-moefcc/articleshow/79817149.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No curb on doctors’ year-end holidays||KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata have refrained from barring their doctors and nurses from going on leave during Christmas-New Year, pointing out that the flow of Covid patients, which had shot up in October, had ebbed and no longer demanded emergency deployment of medical personnel. None of the private facilities is issuing any directive to healthcare workers, asking them to “be available” in the last week of the year. Most hospitals had cancelled Puja holidays, fearing a transmission surge during and after the festival that eventually did not happen. Peerless Hospital had cancelled all leaves during the Pujas and asked doctors to be available round-the-clock. There is no such directive for the year-end period. “Our Covid general ward has vacancies and the flow of patients has slowed down. Even if a few go on leave now, we can comfortably manage with the rest,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. On Christmas day, the hospital plans to suspend its Covid tests. Of the 150 non-critical Covid beds at Peerless, around 50 are now vacant. If vacancies rose further, the unit could be squeezed, said the authorities. “We have never had so many vacancies since March, so the pressure has eased. All doctors and nurses have, however, been asked to intimate their departmental heads about leaves,” said Mitra, adding since most outstation nurses had quit during the pandemic, few of the rest had sought leave so far. Working at a stretch had been stressful for healthcare workers, he said. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has taken a similar policy, allowing its healthcare workers to go on leave in the wake of a “sharp drop in the number of Covid patients”. It had also cancelled all leaves during the Puja but the slowdown in the flow of Covid patients over the past two weeks has allowed the hospital to work with fewer staff. “Unlike the pre-Puja period, when there had been a surge and a further rise in numbers was apprehended, it seems unlikely now,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. Though the hospital has not cancelled any leave, few have applied for it. R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), too, decided against cancelling leaves after a meeting with doctors. The hospital had not issued any directive during Pujas and a similar approach would be adopted for the Christmas-New Year week, said zonal director R Venkatesh. “All our doctors are committed to address the needs of the community by ensuring clinical coverage on all days. We anticipate a number of nurses taking leave, but that happens every year. We are prepared with sufficient back-up to offer seamless services,” said Venkatesh. Charnock Hospital said it wouldn’t be difficult to manage as the number of Covid patients had slid. “With good rostering, we can comfortably handle the patient load now. Many apply for leave this time of the year and it has not been barred,” said Charnock managing director Prashant Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-curb-on-docs-year-end-holidays/articleshow/79817763.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu elections: BJP national leadership will decide on CM candidate, alliance, says L Murugan||TRICHY: The decision on the chief minister candidate for the assembly election in the state will be made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national leadership, party state president L Murugan has said. “The present NDA coalition will continue. However, it is the BJP national leadership that will decide on the chief minister candidate and who will lead the election,” he said, while addressing reporters at T Pazhur in Ariyalur district after inaugurating a campaign here on Saturday. Matters relating to alliance and seat-sharing will only be decided by the national leadership, he said. The BJP has launched the campaign, ‘Modi is farmer’s best friend’, to meet farmers in the central region of the state. The campaign that began in Ariyalur here on Saturday will cover Perambalur, Thanjavur on the first day. The campaign will continue in some other parts of Thanjavur on Sunday and Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam on Monday. Addressing farmers at Thippirajapuram in Thanjavur, Murugan said that for the last 50 years, farmers have been demanding the right to fix prices for the farm produce. The Congress and the DMK did not comply with their demand. The agriculture laws brought by Prime Minister Narendra Modi have helped farmers buy inputs, including seeds with the money issued under the PM Kisan scheme. Around 41 lakh farmers have been benefited by the scheme. Opposition parties are spreading false propaganda to tarnish the name of Modi, he alleged. Minister of state for road transport and highways, V K Singh will participate in the campaign and interact with farmers on Sunday in Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-national-leadership-will-decide-on-cm-candidate-alliance-l-murugan/articleshow/79818628.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Trichy||‘EC will announce TN poll date on March 1’||Trichy: AIADMK Rajya Sabha member R Vaithilingam on Saturday said the Election Commission of India (ECI) will announce on March 1 the date for Tamil Nadu assembly election.Vaithilingam was speaking at an AIADMK youth brigade meeting in Trichy. He asked the cadre to stay focussed and work tirelessly for the victory of the party in the assembly election.“On March 1, the Election Commission will announce the date. We have two months left. Every cadre should work towards the target -- to make the party win. That (electoral success) will be the gratitude we show to Puratchi Thalaivar (MGR) and Puratchi Thalaivi (Jayalalithaa),” Vaithilingam said.Incidentally, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday had released an advisory for transfer and posting of officers connected to the conduct of the election in four states, including Tamil Nadu. The advisory stated that the existing legislative assembly of the state expires on May 24, 2021. “Law says that the election can be conducted at any time within the six months before the particular legislative assembly expires. There is no specific period to announce the date of the conduct of the election,” N Gopalaswami, former chief election commissioner of India told TOI. He added that the result of the assembly election must be announced before the date of the state assembly expires while the list of newly-elected candidates should be submitted to the governor within the expiring date. Earlier, Vaithilingam during the meeting claimed that the only mistake former chief minister J Jayalalithaa committed was to conduct the marriage of her foster son in 1996 which cost the party the government. He asked the youth brigade and women wing workers to form committees within a week for examining booth-wise voter lists as corrections were made on the electoral roll recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ec-will-announce-tn-poll-date-on-march-1/articleshow/79818624.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Man held for extorting Rs 20 lakh from businessman in Pune||PUNE: The city crime branch officials on Friday arrested a 28-year-old criminal on police records for extorting Rs20 lakh from a businessman by issuing threats of filing a fabricated rape complaint against him. Police said that the suspect took the money from the businessman between December 2018 and December 2020. He issued similar threat to the businessman last month, demanding Rs 50lakh from him. A team led by assistant commissioner of police (crime) Laxman Boratelaid a trap at a hotel on Sinhagad Road on Friday night and arrested the suspect. The man’s wife was employed in the electronics company owned by the businessman. “In December 2018, he called the businessman alleging he was having an affair with his wife. Jadhav demanded Rs20 lakh from him, issuing threats of filing a fabricated rape complaint against him. The businessman paid the money to him in the last two years,” Borate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-for-extorting-rs-20l-from-businessman/articleshow/79818619.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Pune: Bomb found; police suspect it can be from British era||PUNE: The workers of a construction site at Punawale near Hinjewadi found a bomb during digging on Saturday morning, which police suspect is from the British era. The Hinjewadi police, and the bomb detection and disposal squad took possession of the bomb safely. Senior inspector Balkrushna Sawant of the Hinjewadi police said, “We took a close look at the bomb and prima facie it is suspected that it is a British era bomb shell. We dug up a safe area at the site and kept it there safely.” He said, “We have informed the Army officers about the shell. They will take it away soon for further disposal. Till then, we shall protect the site.” The police said it was not known if it was a live bomb. According to sources, a local farmer is constructing a building at the site where the bomb was found. His workers were digging the ground on Saturday morning. Around 10.45am, they stumbled upon the bomb shell. The farmer immediately called the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bomb-found-police-suspect-it-can-be-from-british-era/articleshow/79818627.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||25-yr-old Man electrocuted||Coimbatore: A 25-year-old man was electrocuted while erecting an AIADMK flag near the Amma Mini Clinic at Ramapalayam in Mettupalayam on Saturday. The deceased was identified as D Rahul Gandhi of Ganapathy Nagar at Dhasanur in Karamadai. He was a labourer and a member of AIADMK. “He was killed when the metal pipe attached to the flag came in contact with a live wire. He died on the spot,” a police officer said.The body was sent to the Government Hospital in Mettupalayam for postmortem. It was later handed over to the family. The Mettupalayam police have registered a case.The inauguration of the clinic, scheduled for 4pm on Friday, was postponed following the death, party sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/25-yr-old-man-electrocuted/articleshow/79818633.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Trichy airport bldg to be ready in Dec ’22||Trichy: Around 50% works on integrated terminal building at the Trichy airport have been completed and would be completed by December 2022, said AAI executive director (engineering-southern region) Sanjeev Jindal here on Saturday. The work on establishing apron at the new terminal will be completed by March, he added.After reviewing the work progress at the Trichy International Airport, Jindal said that Trichy is one of the most respected and worshipped places in the country that is visited by millions every year both from India and abroad. “ Our objective is to build a terminal that can capture the essence of sentiments and spirituality of the place and at the same time offer the best infrastructure.”“We have taken into account the potential growth of the region for the next 10 years and this infrastructure will be able to take care of the needs,” he said.“The new terminal building is expected to handle around 2,900 passengers during peak hours. The new two-level air-conditioned modular integrated terminal building is has an area of 61,634 sqm. The building will be positioned parallel to the runway for smooth and efficient aircraft movements,” he added. Replying to questions on the acquisition of land for runway expansion, airport director S Dharmaraj said the state government has so far acquired 38.7 acres and handed them over to the AAI. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-airport-bldg-to-be-ready-in-dec-22/articleshow/79818636.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Air India to reintroduce Chennai flight||Coimbatore: The Air India has decided to reintroduce its afternoon flight to the city from Chennai from Wednesday (Dec 23). The flight, which was popular with the families and people planning to fly to Europe and the USA from Chennai, was suspended after the lockdown.It is to be noted that the flight originates from New Delhi with first stop in Chennai at 1pm. It would then depart from the state capital at 1.45pm and land in the city at 2.20pm. From the city, the flight would leave for Chennai at 3.10pm and reach there by 4.40pm.Since it originates from New Delhi, a source says, people landing there from abroad have an easy option to fly into the city.“While we have given a flying time of 90 minutes, the travel time would be anywhere between 55 minutes and 60 minutes,” said an Air India official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/air-india-to-reintroduce-chennai-flight/articleshow/79818637.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Five held for conspiring to rob contractor, guns & cartridges recovered||Roorkee: Five men were held by Roorkee police on Saturday for conspiring to rob a Bhagwanpur-based labour contractor. The police also recovered two country-made firearms and some live cartridges from the possession of the accused. According to the police, they all had been living in a rented accomodation in Bhagwanpur for a month. “The contractor distributes salaries to its employees in the first week of every month. He brings in the amount in cash. The miscreants, all belonging to Gujjar community, have confessed that they were planning to rob that money from the contractor at gun-point,” said superintendent of police (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh. Delighted with police action, the Bhagwanpur Vyapar Mandal felicitated the police team, which nabbed the miscreants, with a cash reward of Rs 11,000 for their commendable job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-held-for-conspiring-to-rob-contractor-guns-cartridges-recovered/articleshow/79817177.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 20, 2020||Goa||Work on research centre in industrial automation at IIT Goa takes off||Panaji: A centre of excellence in industrial automation is being established at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, at an estimated cost of Rs 48 crore. Besides allowing the faculty and research scholars at IIT Goa to pursue high-end research, the centre is also expected to help local industries. A MoU was signed by IIT Goa with Siemens Industry Software (India) and Corel Technologies on December 17 for establishment of the centre, where the areas of research to be carried out will include product design, advanced simulation, digital manufacturing and robotics and automation. “The actual cost of this centre is pegged at Rs 48 crore, which will be quite unique to this region. It will also give a boost to our ongoing Atmanirbhar Bharat programme which is currently underway in partnership with Goa Shipyard,” said IIT director BK Mishra. The ‘Digital Twins’ facility at the centre will allow one to virtually analyse how a product would perform under various conditions and make adjustments in the virtual world to ensure that the next physical product will perform exactly as planned in the field. Similarly, additive manufacturing tools will facilitate reimagining products and even rethink business models around various indigenous products. The advanced simulation package will enable engineers to solve problems involving noise, vibration, acoustics, durability, dynamics, performance, and control. “A production digital twin can help validate how well a manufacturing process will work on the shop floor before producing it. By simulating the process using a digital twin and analysing why things are happening using the digital thread, we hope to propose efficient production methodologies,” IIT Goa has said, in a statement. The robotics and automation package will provide scope to optimise robotic and automated production systems using 3D robotic work cell design, and simulation. “IIT Goa is hopeful that the centre will cater to the local industries by providing state-of-the-art services and building partnerships to take automation to an entire new level. IIT Goa is looking forward to partner with industries toward innovation and co-creation,” said Mishra. IIT Goa is involved in providing consultancy services to Goa Shipyard in several areas and the proposed centre is expected to provide an array of opportunities in realizing the research and development projects of marine industries, including Goa Shipyard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/work-on-research-centre-in-industrial-automation-at-iit-goa-takes-off/articleshow/79819527.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Trichy||Rail users seek more trains to Velankanni||Trichy: Even 10 years after the inauguration of a railway line between Nagapattinam and Velankanni, the number of train services to Velankanni is not enough to cater to the needs of thousands of pilgrims who visit the shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health, rail users said. They urged the railway authorities to operate regular day train services to Velankanni from Chennai, Nagercoil, Bengaluru and Odisha.The late chief minister of Tamil Nadu M Karunanidhi inaugurated the new broad gauge line and flagged off train services between Nagapattinam and Velankanni in the presence of E Ahamed, the then Union minister of state for railways on December 20, 2010. The church authorities provided Rs 1 crore to the railways. The new station helped pilgrims reach Velankanni without getting down at Nagapattinam.The first train service on the new section was the Velankanni-Karaikal passenger, followed by Velankanni-Vasco Da Gama (Goa) weekly express. Covid-19 has forced railways to stop these services. Kamban express was operated to Chennai from Velankanni with five slip coaches. Kamban express has been restored without Velankanni slip coaches. Long ago, a special train was operated from Ernakulam. There is a possibility of restoring Karaikal passenger and weekly express. Except for the two trains, no new trains were operated to connect the shrine with other parts of the country during the 10-year period, rail users said.Users from Thanjavur have been demanding a day train between Velankanni and Kanyakumari via Pattukottai. When rail users and church authorities have been demanding to operate a train to Chennai, the railway authorities have dropped the existing slip coaches, A Giri, member of Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee, Trichy division, said.Rev Father A M A Prabakar, rector of the basilica, told TOI that they have been demanding to operate separate train services from various parts of the country for the pilgrims. “We had requested former minister Pon Radhakrishnan to operate a night train from Kanyakumari to Velankanni. The demand for a day train to Chennai is also pending. If there is a train from Odisha it will be very helpful for people coming from Kolkota, Andhra Pradesh,” the rector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rail-users-seek-more-trains-to-velankanni/articleshow/79818629.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||South India’s 1st monkey rescue centre on the anvil||HYDERABAD: To address the issue of monkey menace in urban areas and provide medical care to the primates that become victims of road accidents and other ailments, the Telangana State Forest Department is all set to inaugurate South India’s first monkey rescue and rehabilitation center at Gandi Ramanna Haritha Vanam on the outskirts of Nirmal town on Sunday. The pilot project, which is being established with a budget of Rs 2.5 crore, was allocated 10 acres for the centre besides four staff, including a veterinary doctor. Nirmal forest range officer Jaipal Reddy, who is in-charge of the rescue and rehabilitation centre, said, “The primates will be brought here for a medical assessment whenever the need arises and will be treated and cared for their injuries or ailments as per the diagnosis. They will be released back into their habitat once they recover.” According to the officials, the veterinary staff deployed at the centre underwent special training in monkey rescue and rehabilitation centre at Himachal Pradesh for a week. On trial basis, the veterinarian also conducted medical services including laproscopy surgeries on 30 monkeys recently. Arrangements are also in place to perform sterilisation to control the monkey population in urban areas. As of now, close to 75 monkeys can be rehabilitated at the centre at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/south-indias-1st-monkey-rescue-centre-on-the-anvil/articleshow/79819526.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Pune||Driver booked on charge of killing dog in Pune||PUNE: A car driver was booked for rash and negligent driving and causing the death of a stray dog under the Mother Teresa flyover in Chinchwad on Thursday. The Chinchwad police said there were four stray dogs at the spot, who were attempting to cross the road. But, the car driver did not stop or slow down. Police said the car hit one of the dogs and killed it, while another dog suffered injuries. Schoolteacher Vandana Mishra (55) of Chinchwad filed a complaint with the Chinchwad police on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/driver-booked-on-charge-of-killing-dog/articleshow/79818630.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Combined court building & alternate dispute resolution centre inaugurated||Coimbatore: Madras high court chief justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi inaugurated the combined court building and alternate dispute resolution (ADR) centre in Tirupur via videoconferencing at an event held on Saturday.The three-storeyed building was constructed at a cost of Rs 37.74 crore. There are eight courts on the ground floor and nine on the first floor, while the second floor is allocated for trainee judges.The inaugural ceremony was attended by animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan and high court justices S Vaidyanathan and D Krishnakumar, among others.In his address, Sahi suggested the subordinate courts to offer e-library services. “I believe that books and libraries are a source of knowledge and libraries have to be well-equipped. Instead of just purchasing more journals, I recommend subordinate courts to set up e-libraries. I hope the government can provide funds for the same.”He said the high court had requested the state government to increase the budget allocation for libraries to Rs 1.5 crore this year from the existing Rs 1 crore. If the government accepts the request, Sahi said libraries in subordinate courts too could be turned into well-equipped ones. “E-libraries would also held address the issue of space constraints.”High court justice Vineet Kothari, who is also the executive chairman of Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority, meanwhile, underlined the importance of the alternate dispute resolution centres. He said the one that was inaugurated in Tirupur was the 31st ADR centre in the state. “They are an essential part of the judicial system to take some load off the courts and could be used by litigants in civil cases, victims and offenders in criminal cases, and corporate and other entities in commercial cases. It provides amicable solutions without stress, strain and pinching the pocket.”He said they had disposed of 10,131 pre-litigation cases and 88,548 pending cases across the state through lok adalat as on December 12, despite the pandemic situation.Madras high court judge and portfolio judge for Tirupur district G R Swaminathan also stressed on the importance of libraries in courts. He said libraries should not only contain court files and legal books, but also general books on topics like philosophy, politics and history. “And they should be accessible to lawyers and judicial officers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/combined-court-building-alternate-dispute-resolution-centre-inaugurated/articleshow/79818664.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||15 youths fined for trespassing into Nellithurai reserve forest||Coimbatore: Forest department officials have imposed a fine of Rs 1,000 each on 15 youths for trespassing into the Nellithurai reserve forest in Mettupalayam division on Friday.C Palaniraja, Mettupalayam forest range officer, said most of them were college students from Sirumugai. “They first visited Vanabadrakaliamman temple at Mettupalayam and proceeded to Nellithurai area, from where they trespassed into the reserve forest. Our frontline staff caught them and brought them to my office.”The 15 were fined and let off with a stern warning. Palaniraja also warned the public against trespassing into the reserve forest. “Offenders will be fined under the Tamil Nadu Forest Act.”The officer also warned workers at Kallar fruit garden against throwing stones at monkeys that come to raid fruits. “When we visited the fruit garden today (Saturday), we found some of the workers chasing away monkeys by slingshots and throwing stones at them. We advised the workers not to harm the animals and burst firecrackers instead to chase them away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15-youths-fined-for-trespassing-into-nellithurai-reserve-forest/articleshow/79818644.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Christmas cheer in Kolkata malls as footfall, sales bounce back||KOLKATA: The chill in the air has turned city malls into hot destinations this winter, driving up footfall and sales in the run-up to the year-end festivities. Mall managers said they expected to end the year with at least 70%-75% of last year’s business in July-December after losing out on sales between April and June owing to the lockdown. South City mall vice-president Manmohan Singh admitted that in spite of the pandemic, business had bounced back better than expected and it had sparked hope of bumper sales next year, surpassing 2019 revenues. “December began on a dull note but footfall and sales have now picked up. We are now at 70% of previous December. Much of the virus fear has dissipated. Once the vaccine arrives, it will be the booster shot to economy. We expect normal sales by mid-2021 and steady growth thereafter,” said Singh. Quest mall vice-president Sanjeev Mehra, too, believes vaccine would bring people back to cinemas and restaurants. “Footfall is back and so is business. But once the vaccine is out, people will return to normal life. That should drive huge growth because many haven’t stepped out and there is huge pent-up demand,” he said, explaining home shopping was about necessity, while mall shopping was about buying what one desires. Acropolis has witnessed footfall grow from 40% in June against June 2019 to 104% in November against the corresponding month previous year. “Sales in December is down to 74% of previous December but we expect the next year to be as good or better than that in 2019,” said mall general manager K Vijayan. The twin City Centre malls recorded a 15% growth in footfall this month against the previous December, while sales of most retailers are either as good as last year or the recovery is close to 85%. “The crowd on weekdays indicates life is back to normal from new normal. The situation will only improve from here on,” said Ramesh Pandey, wholetime director of Ambuja Neotia that operates the two malls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/christmas-cheer-in-malls-as-footfall-sales-bounce-back/articleshow/79817828.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Small foundries to reopen tomorrow||Coimbatore: Three days after they went into indefinite shutdown to protest the soaring prices of raw materials such as pig iron and stainless steel and scrap, small-scale foundries in the district on Saturday decided to resume operations from Monday at a meeting that was convened by the Coimbatore Tiny and Small Foundry Owners’ Association (Cosmafan). More than 400 small-scale foundries had stopped production on Wednesday after prices of raw materials had gone up by 26% on an average since November. Speaking to TOI, A Sivashanmuga Kumar, president, Cosmafan, said the decision to resume production was taken after most of their customers agreed to the price revision by at least 25% and to retain labourers. He said they were hopeful that the Union government would take necessary measures to control the price rise. “After the Centre imposed lockdown to contain the pandemic, most of the guest workers had returned to their hometowns and a lot of difficulties were involved in bringing them back. After the shutdown, they were planning to return once again. If they leave again, we would face severe manpower shortage when we resume operations,” he said. Pointing out that foundries were functioning only with 50% to 60% workforce, Kumar said the same hadn’t affected them much for the time being as the production had dropped to 70%. “If the manpower drops further, it will be difficult to run the business.” He said even after the proposed price revision their profit margin would be less than 5%. “At this rate, it would take at least 20 years to repay the loan amount. We have requested the government to increase the repayment period for the micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-foundries-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/79818680.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Road shrunk by smart city project work: Residents||Coimbatore: Though residents of Poosaripalayam, Sathya Nagar, Veerakeralam and Vadavalli are excited about the projects undertaken under the smart cities mission to rejuvenate and beautify Krishnampathi and Kumaraswamy lakes, they are worried about the Sundapalayam Road getting narrower because of the works.The residents were relieved when corporation officials removed the stalls selling fish, meat and vegetable along Krishnampathi lake to launch the project. They cheered when lake beautification work began on the lake bund. But when the workers dug shallow pits to construct cycling and jogging tracks, the excitement turned into worry, said a Vedapatti-based techie. “Even though the two-lane bitumen road was not wide enough, there was enough space to park vehicles or to overtake others,” he said.The road became narrow after work began to lay cycling tracks, said R Manoranjitham, a public library employee and a resident of Sathya Nagar.The road should be widened slightly, taking into consideration the population growth, said the residents. “Traffic on this road is increasing every year as several housing projects are coming up along the Sundapalayam road, Vedapatti and Kurumbapalayam. Authorities should have widened the road by 2ft before laying the tracks,” said K S Aravind, a resident of Veerakeralam. “The stretch witnesses heavy traffic from 8am to 10.30am and from 5pm to 7.30pm. Sometimes, it takes 25 minutes to drive across the 5km stretch. It will only get worse,” said a commuter.But smart city project manager Subhash Chandra said the two-lane road is still 7m wide. “We have not reduced the width for laying cycling tracks and are not planning to do so,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/road-shrunk-by-smart-city-project-work-residents/articleshow/79818645.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||‘Withdraw cases against Mopa ryots’||Saligao: People affected by the Mopa airport project have written to President Ram Nath Kovind to withdraw the criminal cases filed against the agitating farmers and have also urged him to provide relief to the farmers affected by the project. In the letter, the farmers have pointed out that they have lost their land and resources due to the international airport project. They said that those who lost their houses should be rehabilitated in new houses in the vicinity free of cost. The affected farmers have also said that the government should release a white paper on the Mopa airport project. Several organisation have also demanded that excess land acquired for the project should be released and that no additional land should be acquired to construct a highway near the airport. Mopa locals also said they should be given government jobs as was promised at the time of land acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-cases-against-mopa-ryots/articleshow/79818631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||ICSI signs MoU with BU||Coimbatore: The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Bharathiar University for academic collaboration. Under the initiative, ICSI will conduct seminars, workshops, faculty meetings and teachers’ conferences for the students and teachers of the university and its affiliated colleges. ICSI is a leading institution and its syllabus will be upgraded with each amendment in the Acts, a source said. “The students will learn about corporate governance and companies Act. The MoU aims to bring together the efforts of the institutions to impart knowledge and hone the skills of students, academicians and professionals of both the institutions.” Emphasizing the need for such collaborations, ICSI president C S Ashish Garg said the undertaking would not just help in fostering the relationship between the institutions, but also would promote executive education programmes. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/icsi-signs-mou-with-bu/articleshow/79818651.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||300kg gutka worth Rs 6L seized, 2 held||Coimbatore: Two people were arrested in Tirupur in as many separate incidents on Saturday for possession of 300kg banned tobacco products worth Rs 6 lakh.It is to be noted that Tirupur city police commissioner G Karthikeyan had earlier formed a special team to crack down on the illegal sale of gutka.The team arrested Y Jebasingh Philip, 37, a native of Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district, for stocking 269kg banned tobacco products at his rental house at VGV Garden on Kangeyam Road in Tirupur, where he was residing along with his family.They also conducted a surprise check at a grocery shop that falls under the Tirupur South police station limits and seized 31kg gukta on the day. The grocery shop owner, V Dhinakaran, 42, a native of Alangulam in Tenkasi district, was also arrested. A police source said Dhinakaran was residing at Cheran Colony at K Chettipalayam along with his family.“The duo told us that they used to smuggle tobacco products into the city from Erode in trucks. They were remanded in judicial custody,” the source said.Police said parcel services firms would lose their licences, if they were found handling tobacco products. “We will also cancel the licences of grocery shops that sell gutka.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/300kg-gutka-worth-rs-6l-seized-2-held/articleshow/79818657.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Endangered Himalayan musk deer clicked in Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary; forest department to conduct its population estimation in 2021||Dehradun: After a small site-specific survey on it in the early 1990s by a Wildlife Institute of India (WII) scientist, not much research has been done on the musk deer, an “endangered species” that falls in the IUCN red list and is Uttarakhand’s state animal. Currently, there is no estimate to tell if its numbers in the state are stable or dwindling. So after one was clicked inside Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary by the DFO at an altitude of around 11,000 ft on Friday morning, for the first time in years, the forest department set afoot a plan to conserve the shy nibbler. “Our first priority is to count the numbers. Back in the early 1990s, a small study was conducted by a WII scientist on this rare species of deer but nothing has been done since. We plan to start a whole new project early next year to save this species in a systematic manner,” said Amit Kanwar, DFO, Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary, who chanced upon the animal at Sau Kharak area of the forest. The Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary is also called the Kedarnath Musk Deer Sanctuary and was named after the rare breed of deer, endemic to the Himalayas of Nepal, China, Bhutan, India and Pakistan. They are found at altitudes between 2,500m and 4,000m. The Kedarnath wildlife sanctuary is spread over 975 sq km but the deer is found in just around 300 sq km area. For forest officials, Friday’s sighting came as a “pleasant surprise”. “It was feared that the deer no longer inhabited the sanctuary. A captive breeding programme was started in 1982 but the project was riddled with high mortality. A doe, believed to be the last surviving member of the species, was translocated to Darjeeling Zoo in 2019. Even though the scientist who conducted the survey in 1991 said that there were 600-800 musk deer in the sanctuary at that time, we won’t know how many survive until there’s a fresh population estimation,” officials said. They added that lack of lichens, moss, herbs and scrub forest have affected the small herbivore, which loves and lives in dense forest and emerges only at dawn and dusk. Apart from habitat destruction, the ‘solitary forest ruminant’ is also at risk from poachers. Its musk pod, found around its navel and tusk-like teeth, is priced at $65 - $75 (Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000) per gram in the international market. Speaking to TOI, S Sathyakumar, the senior WII scientist who studied the animal back in 1991, explained that its habitat is under stress due to factors ranging from “grazing of animals, anthropogenic pressure (exploitation of resources and pollution) and climate change”. “Even though according to our internal estimation, Uttarakhand has a promising population of musk deer vis-à-vis other Himalayan states like Himachal Pradesh, it needs special care. Musk deer are found in ranges of Govind Wildlife Sanctuary, Gangotri National Park, Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary, Valley of Flowers and Nanda Devi Biosphere,” he said. Sathyakumar also revealed that WII has sent a proposal for population estimation of all animals found in the Himalayan belt of Uttarakhand. “We expect to start the project as soon as we get a go-ahead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/endangered-himalayan-musk-deer-clicked-in-kedarnath-wildlife-sanctuary-forest-department-to-conduct-its-population-estimation-in-2021/articleshow/79817197.cms||Shivani Azad
December 20, 2020||Madurai||MP writes to education minister on quota in IITs||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has demanded the Centre to reject the report of the committee constituted for suggesting measures for effective implementation of the Central Educational Institution (CEI) reservation in Admissions Act 2006 and the CEI Reservation in Teachers Cadre Act 2019. In a letter to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, the MP said that the report proposes to completely scrap reservation in appointment of faculty to IITs. “Other recommendations are also retrograde in nature negating principles of social justice and social obligations of the state for the uplifting of the oppressed. I wish to point out core recommendations of the report which deserves to be rejected,” he said. Venkatesan pointed out that some of the other recommendations and suggestions by the committee, including on backlog vacancies and research front were also against reservation. “With there being many reports of low representation from marginalised communities in IITs, the claims of the committee lacks credence and raise doubts about its intentions. There are 7,000 teachers’ vacancies to be filled in by IITs. At this stage, the proposal of committee to dismantle reservation is nothing but gross injustice to the oppressed communities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-writes-to-education-minister-on-quota-in-iits/articleshow/79819528.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Goa||Vasco police roll up sleeves to streamline year-end traffic||Vasco: Although there has been no traffic rush yet at the arterial Cortalim junction, the Vasco traffic police is gearing up to handle heightened traffic volume during the Christmas-New Year week and will even seek help from its south division if the need arises. Vasco traffic cell PI Sudesh Narvekar told TOI that traffic jams along the route occur only in the event of an accident or a vehicle breakdown. “However, traffic movement is expected to increase during the end of the month as several tourists are likely to visit the state over the Christmas and New Year holidays,” he said. The Vasco traffic cell presently has 41 personnel. Twenty are posted at the Cortalim junction in two shifts while the rest are deployed at various locations in Vasco. Besides the 20 personnel at the Cortalim junction area — from Santrem, Verna, to Agasaim — 10 more are deployed on a rotational basis from other police stations such as Canacona, Margao, Colva and Quepem. Four IRB personnel also man the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-police-roll-up-sleeves-to-streamline-year-end-traffic/articleshow/79819532.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 20, 2020||Goa||GFP calls for liberation from BJP govt||Panaji: Paying respects to Goa’s martyrs at Margao’s Lohia Maidan, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai said that it was time for Goa to show the door to the Pramod Sawant-led government. Sardesai highlighted the sacrifices made by Goa’s freedom fighters and said that the policies taken by the government only serve to undo what the freedom fighters fought for. “If the chief minister had a vision for Goa, he would not have gone ahead with double-tracking, coal transporation and Mollem forest destruction by suppressing the voice of goemkars,” Sardesai said. “The time has come to liberate ourselves from the anti-goemkar Pramod Sawant government.” Sardesai paid floral tributes at Lohia Maidan along with student representatives from various colleges. GFP MLA Vinod Palyekar, party functionaries and others were present. Sardesai also expressed displeasure over the dilapidated state of Lohia Maidan, a symbol of the revolution that led to Goa’s Liberation. Sardesai said that the beautification work initiated by him as deputy chief minister has been stalled by the present government and bribes are being sought. “Therefore, the work order for beautification of Lohia Maidan is pending,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-calls-for-liberation-from-bjp-govt/articleshow/79818638.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven IAS officers in Telangana set to retire in 2021||HYDERABAD: The state government on Saturday issued a notification on the number of IAS officers who will be retiring in 2021. As many as seven IAS officers will attain the age of superannuation and retire from service. They include 1985 batch officers Suresh Chanda and Chitra Ramachandran, who will retire on March 31 and April 30 respectively. T Chiranjeevulu, a 2002 batch officer, would attain the age of superannuation on April 30. MV Reddy, a 2007 batch officer, will retire from service on May 31, followed by I Shashidhar (1996 batch) on September 24. Rajiv Ranjan Mishra (1987 batch) and D Venkateshwara Rao (2007 batch) will also be retiring from service on December 31, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-ias-officers-in-t-set-to-retire-in-2021/articleshow/79819531.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Police detain youth for ‘protesting’ near Prez event||PANAJI: Goa Police detained several youth on Saturday while on their to way to draw President Ram Nath Kovind’s attention to the three infrastructure projects coming up in Mollem and to convince him that the projects are against Goa’s interests. The protesters, mainly college students, were on their way to the Panaji Church Square even as Kovind was set to pay tribute to Goa’s martyrs and freedom fighters. Some of the youth claimed that they were picked up even though they were not part of the protest. “I was detained for talking to a priest on the side of the road and not regarding any protests,” said Zidane D’Souza. In view of the president’s visit, a heavy police cordon was laid around the state capital, with senior police officials overseeing security arrangements and traffic movement. The youth were detained at the outskirts of the city and from the steps of Immaculate Conception church, a short distance away from where Kovind was to lay a wreath. “The police took away some of our licences. When we asked one of the police officers under what section they were detaining us, he told us that there are 500 sections and that we are being detained on one of those sections,” said a girl who was part of the protest. The President is on two-day visit to the state to celebrate 60 years of Goa’s Liberation from Portuguese rule. Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai condemned the government’s move to detain the students and said that the chief minister was behaving like the Portuguese colonial rulers and trying to quash dissent. The youth wanted to submit a petition to the president and draw attention to their concerns regarding the three infrastructure projects being taken up in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. “We have not done anything wrong. We are well within out rights to protest,” said a student. Police officials said that the protesters were detained and taken to the Agassaim and Ponda police stations and were released later in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/police-detain-youth-for-protesting-near-prez-event/articleshow/79818635.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Dengue cases in Madurai witness a steady rise in December||Madurai: The number of dengue cases is witnessing a steady rise in December with as many as 22 cases having been recorded till Friday. The rise has been attributed to intermittent There were only 14 cases in November.“Though dengue cases this year have been consistently less compared to last year, we are seeing a marginal rise now. In December, there is usually a rise in cases as there is stagnation of water due to rains, which can promote mosquito breeding,” said a senior health official. This year, so far, after the onset of the monsoon season, only nine dengue cases were reported in Madurai district. However, in November, the total cases rose to 14 and now the number has already reached 22 in December.Health officials said that there are no clusters as such so far and that preventive measures have also been carried out in affected areas. Dengue cases are turning up in both rural and corporation areas. Among the cases reported, there are a few cases of children getting affected as well. In case of children, risk of developing serious and fatal conditions due to the disease is higher. “There is a need to be vigilant and public are also urged to ensure that possible sources of mosquito breeding in and around their residences and offices are removed or cleaned,” said a health official. There have been no deaths due to dengue in Madurai, both last year and this year.As many as 1,086 DBCs are engaged in dengue preventive measures across the district. Spraying of abate solution and sprinkling of bleach powder is also carried out. Fogging is being done periodically once in 15 days to cover all areas. Fever surveillance is also actively on for both dengue and Covid-19. Those with symptoms of dengue, which include high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain etc., are urged to immediately consult a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dengue-cases-in-madurai-witness-a-steady-rise-in-december/articleshow/79819524.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribesman killed by neighbour||Coimbatore: The Pillur Dam police have arrested a labourer for killing a 50-year-old tribesman.Police identified the victim as S Kali of Ansur near Velliyankadu on the city outskirts. “Kali belonged to a scheduled tribe community and was working as a labourer. He was staying with his wife Vijaya and four children. He was in a relationship with his neighbour P Dharmar’s wife Kavitha. Dharmar had asked Kali to end the relationship, but he persisted. On Friday, Dharmar returned home from work to find Kavitha with Kali. An enraged Dharmar took an iron road and hit Kali on his head. Kali suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. Dharmar also attacked Kavitha,” a police officer said. Neighbours rushed to the spot and took Kavitha to a government hospital. Her condition is stable. The Pillur Dam police registered a case against Dharmar under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded him in judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribesman-killed-by-neighbour/articleshow/79818677.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||500 more from Nagpur to get Covaxin trial shots||NAGPUR: Looking at the overwhelming response to the phase III trial of Covaxin, a Made-in-India vaccine for Covid-19, its manufacturer Bharat Biotech Ltd has increased volunteer enrolment by 500 for the city. Instead of earlier 1,000 volunteers, now a total of 1,500 from city will get Covaxin shots. The trial site is Dr Rahate’s hospital where more than 550 slots for volunteers are still vacant, as per trial coordinator Dr Ashish Tajane. “We are administering Covaxin to nearly 50 volunteers per day. Our target was to complete 1,000 volunteers by December 31. But due to overwhelming response in Nagpur, we are going to complete the same by December 21. Now, the company has allotted 500 more volunteer slots to us,” said Dr Tajane. The competition to get emergency use authorization has intensified in the last two weeks. Bharat Biotech is targeting Phase III trials on 25,800 participants across the country. According to doctors, medical tests for Phase III trials are not as tough for those of first two phases. “In phase I trial, it was mandatory for participants to be completely healthy. So, they underwent many tests. In Phase II, age limit was extended and senior citizens as well as adolescents were added into the trials, but health parameters were same. “In phase III, people with comorbid conditions, and elderly people are also allowed. So, health related tests are less,” said Dr Tajane. Only RT-PCR and antibody tests are conducted on people interested to becoming volunteers. As soon as both results come negative, they are called for administering vaccine. Those who got placebo to get vaccine for free Phase III trial of Covaxin is randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multicentre study. Placebo-controlled trials are widely considered the gold standard for evaluating the safety and efficacy of a new vaccine In these trials, participants are randomized to receive either the vaccine under investigation or a placebo (i.e. an inert substance, such as a saline injection). In Nagpur, nearly 50% participants who have volunteered for Phase III trial will receive placebo which means they will not get real vaccine. So, the company, Bharat Biotech, has decided to administer them the original vaccine for free once it gets emergency use approval. For this, a record is maintained for participants who have received placebo during the trial. “Such participants will be called later and vaccinated for free because they had volunteered for our trials,” said Dr Tajane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/500-more-from-city-to-get-covaxin-trial-shots/articleshow/79818709.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Govt plans to improve online NEET coaching||Madurai: By introducing online sessions through video conferencing, providing additional study materials and online tests, education department officials and government school teachers in Madurai district are trying to improve learning through online NEET coaching classes for students. So far, around 800 students from government and government aided schools in Madurai have registered for the classes. A meeting was conducted by Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan with coordinators and government school teachers involved in NEET coaching on Wednesday, briefing them about the government’s online E-box programme and how it can be improved. Currently, through E-box students are accessing study materials including video lessons and attending mock tests. “We have planned to hold online video conferencing sessions with expert teachers to clear doubts, explain a particular topic or go through previous question papers. Further, we already have WhatsApp groups through which extra tests developed by expert teachers are given regularly through Google Forms,” said S Vennila Devi, district NEET co-ordinator. She added that more than 700 students had attended the recent mock test. Teachers said that it will easier for Class XI students to pick up from video lessons. “If students are given proper training, they can really do well. From the mock tests we are able to gauge their abilities to an extent. But we can fully prepare them only when schools reopen,” said a government school teacher. Officials said that for the E-box course, official attendance recorded shows only around 300 students logging in per day. However, they said that attendance is marked only if they log in at the scheduled time given for the day, while students who log in later to view and study from the uploaded video lessons are not counted. As some students are facing internet connectivity issues, it has been planned to allow students to come to their respective schools where labs with computers are available. As only few students in one school are a part of the course, social distancing is also not an issue. Furthermore, it has been planned to make available copies of books for all students as far as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-plans-to-improve-online-neet-coaching/articleshow/79819530.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 20, 2020||Goa||Govt notifies lower raw water rates for industrial units||Panaji: Giving finality to Verna Industrial Estate’s long pending demand for cheaper water tariffs, particularly for the pharmaceutical sector, the state government notified lower raw water rates for industrial units with effect from November 1. “A flat rate of Rs 120 for every 10,000 litres of water drawn or part there of shall be levied for the units at Verna Industrial Estate,” said chief engineer of water resources department S D Patil. While announcing that raw water will be priced at Rs 12 per cubic meter or Rs 120 for 10,000 litres, the water resources department said that the rate will be applicable only for those industrial units which clear pending dues. Prior to this, industrial units were paying Rs 25 per cubic meter of water of which Rs 20 would go to the water resources department while Rs 5 was paid to Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC). With the revision of rates, industrial units will have to pay Rs 15 per cubic meter, with Rs 12 being paid to the water resources department and the balance being pocketed by GIDC. Speaking to TOI, Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kochkar said that the lower rates could help step the depletion of ground water. Kochkar, who has persistently pursued the issue since former chief minister Manohar Parrikar promised to lower the tariffs, said that many industrial units are drawing water through bore wells or through water tankers which are priced much lower at Rs 6-10 per cubic meter. “Instead of utilising surface water that is being pumped by WRD, many units were pumping groundwater, which caused many wells in the vicinity to dry up,” Kochkar said. However, the government’s decision to increase the raw water rates by 10% every two years left some sting in the proposal. In September, GIDC had threatened to cut off raw water supply to the Verna Industrial Estate if industrial units did not pay up Rs 3.04 crores as payment for raw water supply. Many units continued to pay Rs 10 per cubic meter for raw water based on the promise made by Parrikar in 2018. “The rate is applicable to only those units who shall clear their outstanding dues either in installment or in lumpsum before March 31,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-notifies-lower-raw-water-rates-for-industrial-units/articleshow/79819534.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Gowaris to seek review of apex court judgement||NAGPUR: After over two years of celebrating a protracted legal victory at the high court, the Gowari community suffered a setback on Friday at the Supreme Court. The apex court reversed the 2018 judgement by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court which had held that Gowaris are an independent community and paved the way for them to claim constitutional status as Scheduled Tribe. Advocate Ram Parsodkar, who represented the petitioners in the 2018 case, and was part of the legal team at the SC, said a review of the judgement is imminent. “We will definitely be going ahead with the legal remedy available to us, and that’s of praying for a review of the SC judgement,” said Parsodkar. In the Centre’s Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) order, there is no separate entry for Gowaris. The only time the community is mentioned is through an entry called “Gond Gowari”. It was included in the list in 1956 and this meant that Gowaris were considered a sub-tribe/caste of the Gond community. Any Gowari community member who wanted to get an ST certificate had to prove his affinity with Gonds to the authorities. But does such a community called ‘Gond Gowari’ even exist? Shalik Neware, coordinator of the umbrella group of various Gowari organizations in Maharashtra, says no. “The tribe Gond Gowari ceased to exist in 1911 and that’s proven through government records. Somehow, it lands up in government documents in 1956 and that’s how the entry in the constitutional list appears. Gond-Gowari as mentioned in the Centre’s list is basically Gowari,” said Neware, who is also one of the petitioners in the case. Adivasi Gowari Jamaat Sanghatan Samanvay Samiti (Maharashtra) has been trying to get the ‘Gowari’ word as a separate entry in the Centre’s list. There was a time, when it almost happened. Parsodkar said, “In 1967, the proposal was cleared by the state government and was due to come up in Parliament. Unfortunately, the session got prorogued and the bill lapsed. Since then, the Gowaris have been fighting for their rights. The Gowari stampede tragedy, which happened in Nagpur in the 90s, was one of the dark moments in their history.” He added that the SC relied on a 2000 judgement which held that the constitutional list is sacrosanct. “Actually, there were two previous conflicting judgements and under one of those, we felt that this Gond Gowari issue could have been explored. The SC went with the latest one, and said that the list has to be read as it is,” said Parsodkar. Neware says his phone has been ringing incessantly since the SC judgement. “Since 2018, many of our people have been able to avail benefits meant for the ST category. So, many poor people have got homes in villages under the Gharkul scheme along with the other benefits. Now, it’s back to square one,” said Neware.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gowaris-to-seek-review-of-apex-court-judgement/articleshow/79818715.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Treat at old-age home for K-Pop boy’s birthday bash||KOLKATA: Mamata Ghorai, who lives in an old-age home in Behala, has never heard of K-Pop boy band, BTS, but she and her fellow boarders will be in for a treat later this week as part of the 25th birthday celebration of one of the band members, V. The fanbase of V (Kim Taehyung) have raised almost Rs 20,000 in a matter of a few days for the global birthday celebration of the singing sensation. “We are the Indian fanbase of V, whose full name is Kim Taehyung and he is a member of the South Korean boy band, BTS. We are associated with Inner Wheel Club of Calcutta Metropolitan East for the global birthday bash of V and raised almost Rs 20,000. We will buy essential kits for the residents of Apna Ghar in Behala with that money,” said a member of the Taehyung Fanbase, India. They have also posted on Twitter, inviting contributions from citizens. K-Pop videos, most of which are a mash-up of English and Korean, are vibrant and known for their choreography and lively music. Fans in India get access to K-Pop music mostly through social media. Gangnam Style, which became an international hit in 2012, was sung by South Korean singer Psy. SuperM, Big Bang, Girls’ Generation and Blackpink are some of the other popular bands. K-Pop singers have become such an icon that such birthday fundraiser events are conducted globally by the fanbase, who promotes the music and even translates them for those who don’t understand Korean. The popularity of K-Pop music in India has also given rise to a network of dedicated volunteer translators for the fandom known as the BTS Army. “K-Pop seems especially popular among the youngsters in the Northeast. But there are numerous fans in other parts of the country, too,” said a member of the fanbase of V. In several cities, such as Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, fans organise K-Pop concerts and dance competitions. “K-pop videos are full of colour and very addictive. You cannot stop watching and listening to them,” said Adrija Bose, a third-year student at Jadavpur University who stumbled upon K-Pop videos on social media sites in 2017 and has been a fan ever since. “The tunes are catchy, and the choreography is beautiful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/treat-at-old-age-home-for-k-pop-boys-birthday-bash/articleshow/79817899.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||No confidence motion against SCB VP||SECUNDERABAD: As expected, a no confidence motion was passed against vice president of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) J Rama Krishna, at the special board meeting held on Saturday here. All the seven elected SCB ward members, who attended the meeting, unanimously supported the no confidence motion, moved against Rama Krishna. Among seven members, one member will be elected as vice-president of SCB within four days. J Maheshwar Reddy, representing from ward no-I, is in the forefront in the vice president’s race.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-confidence-motion-against-sc-vp/articleshow/79818720.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Two of family die as car rams tanker in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 75-year-old man and his son, belonging to a family of five who were returning to city after going to Tirupati for pilgrim trip, died and three others escaped with injuries at Kothur on NH-44 late on Friday night after their car hit an oil tanker, which was taking a U-turn. Kothur inspector M Bhoopal Sridhar said that Kalyan Chakravarthy, 50, who was driving the car and his father Satyanarayana, who was sitting next to him, died. Kalyan’s wife Sharada and their two children, aged 13-years and 10 years, escaped with injuries and are undergoing treatment. “The mishap took place at 2am on Saturday. When the oil tanker was taking U-turn on the highway at Kothur, the family were coming from behind and the Kalyan suspectedly could not control the speed and hit the lorry. The car went underneath the lorry.,” Sridhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-of-family-die-as-car-rams-tanker/articleshow/79818725.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Dismal state of health infrastructure: HC takes cognisance, says it intends to constitute panel to keep vigil||Nainital: Taking suo motu cognisance of the ‘dismal state of health infrastructure’ in the state, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) has said that it intends to constitute a judicial committee to keep a ‘vigil’ on the medical facilities being provided in all the government hospitals of the state, especially the ones located in the hinterland. The order came on Monday (December 14) from the bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma who had been hearing a contempt petition against state health secretary Amit Negi. Earlier, the court had directed the state government to fill up the posts of doctors and other medical officers so that sufficient numbers of doctors are available to treat patients in times of a pandemic. Broadening the scope of the petition, Justice Sharma called all the chief medical superintendents of the state as well as the health secretary through video conferencing “requesting them to take all care and precaution in providing the medical service to the public at large, particularly, the poor people residing in the interior hill areas”. The court order read, “This Court intends to constitute a Committee on judicial side, which will be keeping a vigil over all the Government Hospitals on the medical facilities, which are being provided in the Government Hospitals in each respective District, including Community Health Centres and Primary Health Centres, which are located in the interior areas.” The court added that this committee would furnish its report regularly to the court and if it finds any anomaly or dereliction of duty, the court will take action against the officer. However before taking any action, the court will take the medical secretary in confidence. Meanwhile, in the contempt petition over health infrastructure, the court issued contempt notice to the health secretary giving him three weeks to respond. The court will now hear the petitions on January 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dismal-state-of-health-infrastructure-hc-takes-cognisance-says-it-intends-to-constitute-panel-to-keep-vigil/articleshow/79817273.cms||Prashant Jha
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Dispute over strays, pets in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A case and a counter case have been lodged by residents of a condominium off EM Bypass in Survey Park area after some objected to the treatment meted out to stray dogs as well as pets in the complex. The first case was recorded, based on a complaint lodged by a woman on August 16 after five persons allegedly restrained her and her acquaintance. “They committed an offence punishable U/S-11 (I) Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960,” the FIR stated. A counter case was lodged by another woman who claimed it was she, who was restrained and threatened. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dispute-over-strays-pets/articleshow/79817942.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to prepare district-wise action plan for road safety||HYDERABAD: The state government has issued orders to constitute a team to study various aspects related to the outer ring road (ORR) with focus on fencing, crossings, signages, illumination and automatic number plate registration cameras-based speed enforcement at vulnerable locations to minimise accidents. The government has also taken up the task of preparing district-wise action plans for road safety to bring down the number of fatalities and extend emergency care during the golden hour. On the directions of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday held a high-level review meeting and directed the officials concerned from the traffic, transport, police, medical and health among other departments to prepare the framework for action plan on road safety for every district in the state. The chief secretary discussed the unified action plan on emergency care and mapping of ambulance services, hospitals and trauma care centres aimed at bringing down the fatalities and extending health services within the golden hour. He directed the officials to arrange training programmes in emergency medicine and care from the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) to the health care workers of the trauma care centres. Health department officials were told to identify staff for taking master training on “active bleeding control” to reduce the rate of mortality and morbidity in road accidents in the state. He asked the officials to make arrangements for conducting one-day training to drivers of government vehicles for safe driving and maintenance of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-prepare-dist-wise-action-plan-for-road-safety/articleshow/79818744.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Over 70,000 posts vacant at govt’s CBDT, CBIC depts: RTI query||NAGPUR: Two of the union finance ministry’s biggest departments — central board of indirect taxes and customs (CBIC) and central board of direct taxes (CBDT) — are facing a massive crisis with over 70,000 posts collectively lying vacant in its branches across the country. These facts came to the fore through an RTI application filed by activist Sanjay Thul. Officials said that CBIC has over 40,000 vacancies while CBDT’s 30,000 posts are yet to be filled up. The respective websites of both organizations have information about vacancies. City-based Thul, also the national president of All India Federation for Customs, Central Excise, and GST, SC/ST Employees’ Welfare Organisations, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to fill up all these vacancies at the earliest. According to Thul, the staff shortage has led to a big burden on the existing employees and is affecting their efficiency. “Lots of citizens have lost their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. The country is facing a massive problem of unemployment due to the pandemic like never before. This shortage has a direct impact on goods and service tax (GST) collections,” said Thul. In some ranges, where only one superintendent and inspector are working, the number of allotted taxpayers was running into thousands, making monitoring work effectively meaningless. “Important work such as maintaining database for the purpose of reports, correspondence with erring taxpayers, issuance of demand notices and compliance of objections is not being properly done due to manpower shortage. Unscrupulous elements are taking advantage of this situation and it’s the main reason for shortfall in estimated GST collections,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-70k-posts-vacant-at-govts-cbdt-cbic-depts-rti-query/articleshow/79818729.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 20, 2020||Madurai||Long forgotten waterbody revived in Madurai||Madurai: Efforts from the corporation and an NGO have helped identify and rejuvenate a waterbody that was long forgotten in Ulaganeri village. The land on which Nila oorani, a waterbody located in ward 28 under Madurai Corporation opposite Elcot’s IT park campus in Madurai, used to be an agricultural land, which was turned into housing plots. The work was taken up under Dhan Foundation’s project revival with CSR funds from HCL Foundation. “Nila oorani was one which was in the corporation records, but it was missing in reality,” said Elamuhil, a programme coordinator. It had required some extra effort rather than just revival as they had needed to identify people who belonged to Ulaganeri village to which this tank originally belonged. Ulaganeri is currently urbanised and finding old people was a problem but they found some people who told them that there had been a waterbody in which they bathed and was a drinking spot for their cattle. They used the differential global positioning system (DGPS) and geographical information system (GIS), and identified the tank with the help of the corporation officials. The boundaries of the 1.9 acre tank was marked. Silt was removed and the capacity of the tank, which was less than one million litres before work began, was enhanced to 10 million litres. The bund was strengthened and native trees planted along it to prevent future encroachments and also maintain it. Residents here were unaware of it. “We used to think that water was stagnating there because it was low. We were surprised when the people from the Centre for Urban Water Resources (CURE) of Dhan Foundation told us that it was an oorani and started working on it,” said S Ramakrishnan, a resident of Valar Nagar. People said that they can already see the benefits of the well maintained tank as their ground water level has increased and hope it will help them tide over the coming summers. Madurai Corporation has been roping in NGOs to revive waterbodies in its limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/long-forgotten-waterbody-revived-in-madurai/articleshow/79819533.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman’s body found in drum in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: An unknown woman’s body was found in a drum under Jeedimetla police station on Friday night. There were no external injuries on the body. The body was sent for post-mortem and the report is awaited. Police said that they suspect that the woman, who might be around 50 years, may have gotten into the drum, kept on the road side, to protect herself from the cold. There was a cloth, which covering her. On hearing a dog barking near the drum, a security guard Harbhajan Singh and his brother discovered the body. A case of suspicious death was registered by police based on the complaint given by Singh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womans-body-found-in-drum/articleshow/79819554.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Arossim’s railway tracks glow from dissenters’ candles||Vasco: Activists and citizens protesting against the three linear projects planned through Mollem’s forests managed to draw attention to their demands once again. In a reminder of the November 2 night vigil at Chandor, the protesters camped on railway tracks at Arossim till the morning of Goa’s Liberation Day on Saturday. The night vigil began with hundreds gathering at the tracks near St Lawrence Chapel at 10.30pm on Friday night. Heavy police force was deployed along with railway police to monitor the law and order situation, but the protest, under the banner of Goyant Kollso Naka, saw those protesting sitting peacefully on the tracks. However, midway through the demonstration, there was some tussle between the police and protesters, when the police asked the latter to leave the tracks and protest by its sides. The protesters refused to budge. The police pointed out that a goods train is set to arrive. Heated arguments broke out and protesters and police were seen pushing one another. The train was stopped as the tracks were still filled by people. Mormugao mamlatdar Dhiren Banaulikar had to then rush to the site to reason with those protesting.  Finally, at about 3.30am, those occupying the tracks left the site, to shout slogans standing on the road nearby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arossims-railway-tracks-glow-from-dissenters-candles/articleshow/79818724.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Second ‘superspreader’ wedding in a month in Dehradun, 28 test Covid-19 positive||DEHRADUN: Less than a month after a wedding in Dehradun led to the death of two elderly and at least seven people contracting Covid-19, another ‘super spreader’ nuptial ceremony in the district’s Doiwala town, which is the chief minister’s constituency, has come to light. According to the health department, as many as 28 people, including the groom, have so far tested positive for the virus and the officials are trying to trace nearly 100 primary contacts of those found infected to check further spread of the virus. Talking to TOI, Dr RK Dixit, additional chief medical officer and district surveillance officer, said that the matter came to the fore when one of the attendees of the wedding showed Covid-like symptoms and got himself tested. “We started testing the family members of the person who showed coronavirus-like symptoms and three among them tested positive for the virus. Later, we learned that these people had attended a wedding reception in Lachhiwala (Doiwala) on December 10. We then tested the groom’s family and other attendees. When the reports came in, it was revealed that almost everyone in the groom’s family, except the bride, is Covid-19 positive,” said Dr Dixit. He added that contact tracing is underway and a few more people may test Covid-19 positive in the days to come. Notably, the parents, sister, uncle, aunt (former village pradhan), two cousins, and the grandmother (90-year-old) of the groom have tested positive for the virus so far. “There was a guest who had come to the wedding from a hospital. He might have been the source,” said the uncle of the groom. Meanwhile, Manish Dhiman, corporator of Ward Number 1 in Doiwala, said that the entire lane where the groom’s family lives has been sealed. “Sanitisation was also carried out here by the civic body,” added Dhiman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2nd-superspreader-wedding-in-a-month-in-doon-28-guests-test-covid-ve/articleshow/79817285.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 1kg drug parcel to Australia seized||HYDERABAD: Directorate Revenue Intelligence officials on Saturday intercepted a parcel in city, bound for Australia and seized 1kg of crystalline methamphetamine. DRI officials said the value of the seized drug is Rs 3 crore. “The consignment was intercepted on Friday in Hyderabad. After carefully removing the packets containing food items which were used to cover the contraband, a false bottom was noticed. A transparent plastic cover wrapped with thick black colour paper was found,’’ officials said.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1kg-drug-parcel-to-aus-seized/articleshow/79819566.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Health dept on alert against Shigella infection||KOZHIKODE: Health authorities are on high alert after 15 more suspected cases of Shigella infection were identified during a special medical camp held at Kottamparamba near Mayanad in Kozhikode corporation limits on Saturday. The rising number of suspected Shigella cases has spread panic in the affected areas and health authorities have swung into action to curb the spread. A 11-year-old boy had died of the disease last week at Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital (KGMCH) where he was admitted following diarrhoea. Six confirmed cases and 19 suspected cases had been reported from the area recently following which the department had decided to conduct a medical camp at Kottamparamba. According to health department, most of the suspected cases had attended the funeral of the deceased child or had taken food from the house. Shigella infection is an intestinal infection caused by Shigella bacteria. The main symptoms include diarrhoea, often with traces of blood and mucus in the stool, stomach pain and fever. The symptoms may appear within seven days after exposure. Children under five years are more susceptible to contract the infection, though elders too can catch it. “Two children who were among the 15 suspected cases identified in the camp today have been admitted to KGMCH. The symptoms of the other newly-identified suspected cases are mild and does not require hospitalization and they have been provided antibiotics,” district medical officer Dr Jayasree V said. As many as 119 persons attended the medical camp. Meanwhile, the health department has not been able to identify the source of the infection. Dr Jayasree said that the community medicine department at KGMCH has been asked to conduct an investigation to ascertain the source of infection and submit a report. According to KGMCH sources, contaminated drinking water could be the possible cause for the infection. Water samples from five wells in the area have been sent for detailed examination and 108 wells have been super chlorinated. On Saturday, food safety officials conducted inspections at six food outlets and collected samples for testing. District collector Sambasiva Rao visited the camp and the affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/health-dept-on-alert-against-shigella-infection/articleshow/79817286.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chennai||HC initiates contempt action against labour commissioner||Chennai: The Madras high court has initiated suo motu contempt proceedings against Tamil Nadu labour commissioner for willful disobedience of a court order. Though the commissioner tendered an apology, Justice V Parthiban refused to accept it and said, “Apologies of this nature are usually not more than skip-deep and have been always used as a well-protected shield from being taken to task in contempt proceedings. Courts have also been very fairly gracious in accepting such empty apologies in overlooking contemptuous actions of the officials.” The judge then gave the commissioner another opportunity to put forth his explanation, if any, other than what is already stated by him in the affidavit filed. The court also warned that if no explanation is received, further orders would be passed in the matter. The issue pertains to transfer of an assistant inspector of labour from Coimbatore to Kanyakumari in 2019. Aggrieved over the transfer, the assistant inspector moved the high court. On March 3, 2019, the court granted an interim stay against the transfer and subsequently on April 9, 2019, extended it until further orders. While the interim stay was in operation, the commissioner passed an order on November 4, 2020, instructed the assistant inspector to join duty as per the transfer order. The commissioner justified his action citing a Supreme Court order, which said trial courts shall not stay civil or criminal proceedings beyond six months without passing a speaking order explaining the need for such extension of the stay. Taking exception to the inference made by the commissioner, the court suo motu initiated the contempt proceeding. “The reference to the apex court order rendered in context of criminal investigation/ trial and pitchforking the same in the present context relating to service jurisprudence amounts to clever misreading,” Justice Parthiban said. Even assuming it was unwittingly done, the larger issue is whether it is open to the officials of the government to defy the subsisting interim order of a constitutional court on the pretext of following the principle laid down by the Supreme Court in relating to a different set of facts, the court added. The bench then posted the matter to December 22 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-initiates-contempt-action-against-labour-commissioner/articleshow/79817964.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chennai||Addl chief secy slapped with contempt notice||Chennai: The Madras high court has issued statutory notice to the additional chief secretary of Tamil Nadu on a contempt of court proceeding for failing to comply with a court order passed in 2019. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice P T Asha passed the order while admitting the contempt plea moved by V K Surendranath, an additional deputy superintendent of police. The bench, however, made it clear that the additional chief secretary S K Prabakar need not appear before the court if the order is complied with in the meanwhile. The issue pertains to a plea moved by Surendranath, who is due for retirement in June 2021. He was placed under disciplinary proceedings in 2012 with imposition of censure by the additional chief secretary till 2017. In the meantime, all his juniors were promoted, and he was made to work under his juniors due to the disciplinary proceedings. Aggrieved Surendranath moved the court. Allowing his plea, a division bench of the court quashed the order of the additional chief secretary in 2019. “.... a mere perusal of the impugned order, namely the order of the authority, would itself demonstrate that the evidence let in on the side of the department does not categorically impute any misconduct against the petitioner.” The department was also directed to consider promoting the petitioner. Since the order was not complied with by the authorities even after reminders, the petitioner moved the present plea for contempt action against the additional chief secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/addl-chief-secy-slapped-with-contempt-notice/articleshow/79817967.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Agra||Woman shot dead, husband injured in Mathura||Agra: A woman was shot dead and her husband got injured after three unidentified bike-borne assailants opened fire at them in Mathura on Saturday night. According to police, the couple hail from Faridabad. They were returning home after performing prayers at Shanidevi temple. The deceased has been identified as Preeti. While Preeti died on the spot after bullet hit her in the head, her husband Suneel sustained injuries on his left arm. Kosikala police station’s inspector Pramod Pawar said that no complaint has been received so far and investigations are on. The woman’s body has been sent for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-shot-dead-husband-injured-in-mathura/articleshow/79817291.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||Brother-sister duo run over by unidentified vehicle||Rudrapur: A brother-sister duo was killed on Friday night when the scooty they were riding on was hit by an unidentified vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Vibha Passi (19) and Hemant Passi (18), both residents of Preet Nagar Malsi village, located at Kichha road. According to the police, Hemant was riding the scooty and Vibha was riding pillion as they were heading towards Rudrapur railway station from their village. Vibha had to catch a train for Delhi. As they reached the trenching ground near Indira Chowk in the city at 9:30 pm, their scooty was hit by an unidentified vehicle. The impact was so such that both of them died on the spot. Subsequently, commuters informed the police and their bodies were sent for postmortem. A case has been registered against the unidentified driver, said the police officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/brother-sister-duo-run-over-by-unidentified-vehicle/articleshow/79817293.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 20, 2020||Goa||Kamat: Take care of freedom fighters||Panaji: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that people of the state should take care of freedom fighters and theirfamilies who have fought for Goa’s freedom struggle. Speaking at the Liberation Day function at Campal, Kamat said that the government should ensure that no Goan remains unhappy and that there is no financial burden on citizens. He also said that opportunities should be provided to those going abroad in search of livelihood. “Every government must work for the state’s development,” the ex-chief minister said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-take-care-of-freedom-fighters/articleshow/79818736.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Guv: Goa can be top state for happiness||Panaji: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday said that Goa can become the top state in India on the happiness index. “Bhutan is a small country, and in terms of happiness they are ahead of everyone. Goa is one state in India where we can work together toward’s the state’s development. I feel that one day Goa can climb to the top of the country’s happiness index,” Koshyari said, while urging everyone to work in this direction. “We will work day and night to make Goa the number one state in India,” he said. Addressing the event organised to celebrate Goa 60th Liberation Day, Koshyari said that Goans have to fulfill the dreams of its freedom fighters. The governor also said that fighting Covid-19 was much more difficult than battling with the Portuguese to get Goa liberated. He also appreciated chief minister Pramod Sawant for the Sawayampurna Goa initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-goa-can-be-top-state-for-happiness/articleshow/79818754.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Drums with toxic waste found buried in factory compound||SURAT: The Gujarat Pollution Control Board’s (GPCB) sleuths raided a chemical manufacturing company in Sarigam GIDC and found three drums filled with hazardous chemical waste buried in open ground in the factory premises on Saturday. Official sources said that acting on the information received, a team of GPCB officials raided Survival Technologies Pvt Ltd in Sarigam GIDC. The officials found three drums containing toxic chemical buried in the ground. GPCB officials said that they were going to digging the entire compound of the factory and their entire team of the Sarigam GPCB was on the spot. Talking with TOI, BR Gajjar, regional officer, GPCB said, “Three drums with toxic waste were buried in the ground at the Survival Technologies.” Gajjar added, “When we visited the spot and started digging the ground, we saw smoke coming out from the ground. That was an indication of the toxic waste buried in the ground. Our operation is continuing and we believe that more drums would be found till Sunday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/drums-with-toxic-waste-found-buried-in-factory-compound/articleshow/79817300.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||Reforms helped change image of India, says PM Modi||NEW DELHI: The spate of reforms unveiled by the government has helped change the perception about India on the global stage and investors who were sceptical about the country are taking a renewed interest, PM Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he mounted a strong defence of the changes undertaken across a raft of sectors ranging from manufacturing, farming, taxation and labour. “There was a situation in the past when investors would question ‘why India’?. With reforms (of past six years) and their effects, its proposition has changed to ‘why not India’,” Modi said in his address at the foundation week ceremony of industry lobby group Assocham. The PM’s strong backing of reforms comes against the backdrop of the farmers’ protest to repeal the reforms undertaken in the farm sector. “The world trusts the Indian economy. Record FDI and FPI during the pandemic is a testimony of that,” said Modi, adding that 1,500 archaic and obsolete laws and framing new changes to keep pace with the changing investment order was an example of the government’s outlook. He urged the industry to increase domestic investment in line with the increased confidence of the world. “From a non-existent culture for innovation to a new ecosystem promoting and nurturing start-ups has given the world confidence to say ‘why not India’,” Modi said. The PM said India is also capable of helping the world while meeting its needs. Even during the pandemic, India has taken the responsibility of being the pharmacy of the world and delivered essential medicines across the globe. “Now even in the case of vaccines, India will fulfil its needs and also meet the expectations of many countries,” said Modi. He urged industry to provide a global platform for showcasing the products of rural artisans. He said this would help bridge the rural-urban divide. The PM also stressed the need for the Centre to work together with state governments, farm organisations and industry associations for better promotion of the country’s organic farm products, better infrastructure and better market. “ If our farm sector gets properly promoted, gets proper infrastructure, gets better markets, then the entire rural economy can scale new heights,” the PM said. He urged the industry to make all efforts to make India self-reliant and said investment in research and development must be stepped up. This came even as Modi urged people to read and share widely an e-booklet issued by the government highlighting how the recent agri-reforms help farmers, PTI reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reforms-helped-change-image-of-india-says-pm-modi/articleshow/79819940.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Goa||Youth should join armed forces: Naik||Panaji: Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik on Saturday urged the youth of the state to join the Armed forces. “We cannot depend on jobs. We have to focus on business. If we go by the alternatives before us, then the youth should join the Army, Navy and Air Force to serve the country,” he said. Speaking at the Liberation Day function at Campal on Saturday, Naik said that people in the state are opposing every development project and appealed to the agitators to put aside their political differences and work for development. He said that Goa has the potential to become a medical tourism hub in India. “We should sit across the table and resolve all issues to carry forward development,” he said. The Union minister also said that the government should include the history of Goa’s freedom struggle in the school syllabus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youth-should-join-armed-forces-naik/articleshow/79818793.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chennai||NGT stay lifted, work on Rs 200 crore tuna fishing harbour resumes after 6 months||Chennai: Work on the Rs 200 crore harbour exclusively for tuna fishing coming up near Tiruvottiyur Kuppam on Ennore expressway has picked up pace after a six-month break. Originally scheduled to be completed by October 2021, the harbour is planned to hold 800 vessels – deep sea trawlers, mechanized boats and smaller boats. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had stayed construction for about six months after a petition had been filed against the harbour. Fisheries officials said the NGT had lifted the stay after they explained the need for the harbour. At present, construction of the two breakwaters were on in full swing and would take a month to be completed. Wharfs, jetties, net mending shed, auction hall, boat repair shed, administrative block and rest rooms are planned. There were also plans for a retail market if there was space left over. Fisheries officials said an exclusive harbour for the high-value tuna fishing, which involved larger vessels, was planned as the Kasimedu harbour had become congested. The new harbour is 3.5km north of Kasimedu. Fishing boat owner A Raghupathy said the Kasimedu fishing harbour is situated in an ideal location, with the Chennai port acting as protection. At present, around 300 boats put out to sea exclusively to catch tuna and bring in around 1,000 tonnes a month, according to government estimates. The two breakwaters – 852m long on the north side and 1,088m long – will create a 30-odd hectare protected bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-stay-lifted-work-on-rs-200-crore-tuna-fishing-harbour-resumes-after-6-months/articleshow/79818001.cms||P Oppili
December 20, 2020||Dehradun||584 new Covid-19 cases surface, CM reaches Doon Hosp for testing||Dehradun: With 584 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the state on Saturday, the tally of the virus reached 85,853 in Uttarakhand. Also, nine more fatalities took the coronavirus toll to 1,408 in the state. According to the latest official data, the recovery rate and the case mortality rate in Uttarakhand is poorer than the national average. Meanwhile, after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat tested positive for coronavirus, his wife and daughter were also found infected. Their reports arrived late night on Friday night. The chief minister along with his family visited Government Doon Medical College and Hospital on Saturday to get some tests done as a precautionary measure. “We have conducted a CT scan, ECG, X-ray, and some other tests of the CM. He is asymptomatic and is doing fine,” said Dr NS Khatri from Doon Hospital. Anoop Nautiyal, member from Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that the national recovery rate of Covid-19 patients is 95.4% while the death rate pan India is 1.4 percent. “In Uttarakhand, the recovery rate is 90% while the death rate is 1.64%. This is worrisome as Covid-19 is spreading in the hills as well,” added Nautiyal. According to official data, Dehradun, with 789 deaths, has the highest case mortality rate at 3.1%, followed by 1.8 % in Nainital where 192 Covid patients have died so far. In comparison, Haridwar (with 145 deaths) and Udham Singh Nagar (with 105 deaths) have case mortality rates of 1.1 % and 0.9% respectively. Among the 584 new cases found on Saturday, the maximum of 199 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 125 in Nainital, 40 in Udham Singh Nagar, 35 cases each in Tehri and Pauri, 33 in Uttarkashi, 18 cases each in Almora, Champawat and Rudraprayag, 15 in Pithoragarh, 14 in Chamoli, and five in Bageshwar. “Among the nine deaths on Saturday, eight took place in various hospitals of Dehradun while one person died in Haldwani,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Apart from deaths and fresh cases, 556 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Saturday, taking the tally of cured cases in the state to 77,326.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/584-new-covid-19-cases-surface-cm-reaches-doon-hosp-for-testing/articleshow/79817307.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 20, 2020||Goa||Govt to focus on farming: Dy CM||Margao: Deputy CM Chandrakant Kavalekar on Saturday said that the government’s focus was to make Goa self-sufficient in agriculture, and that setting up a farmer producer organisation in every taluka with emphasis on organic production will help farmers double their income. “Relaxation in the requirement of Krishi cards has helped 60,000 cashew farmers take the benefits of various schemes,” he said after unfurling the tricolor at Mathany Saldanha Complex, Margao. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-focus-on-farming-dy-cm/articleshow/79818805.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Surat||Flight to Belgavi, Kishangar to begin from Dec 21||Surat: Star Air, a regional commuter airline, will connect Surat with Belagavi (Belgaum) in Karnataka and Kishangarh in Ajmer, Rajasthan. Officials from Star Air stated that the Surat-Belagavi-Kishangarh flight will start from December 21. Star Air, which had won the bid for the route under the UDAN-3 scheme, will operate on this route for three days a week (Monday, Wednesday and Friday) At present, the Surat airport is catered with about 20 departures and arrivals to various destinations including Delhi, Mumbai, Goa, Jaipur, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Goa and Kolkata. A Star Air spokesperson told TOI, “The booking for Belgavi and Kishangarh has already started. There is a very good response from the travellers in Surat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/flight-to-belgavi-kishangar-to-begin-from-dec-21/articleshow/79817308.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||New year's gift: 9 lakh households in Hyderabad to get free water||HYDERABAD: Come January, Telangana will become only the second state — after Delhi — in the country to supply free water to consumers. Announcing this here on Saturday, municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao said the free water supply scheme, a promise chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had made during the GHMC election campaign, will be launched in the first week of January. Sources in HMWS&SB told STOI that nearly nine lakh consumers out of 12 lakh in Greater Hyderabad will benefit from the scheme. The water board is set to incur Rs 70 crore expenditure a month to implement the scheme. While Delhi state government pays Delhi Jal Board to compensate the loss, it is not clear if Telangana government is ready to foot the bill of the HMWS&SB. But, there is a catch. The scheme will be applicable to only those consumers whose daily consumption is less than 20,000 litres. “Consumption in high-rises, apartment blocks and commercial establishments is way above 20,000 litres a day and this scheme will not be applicable to them. They will have to pay the water bills as per the water usage,” a water board official told STOI. KTR said no water charges will be collected from the beneficiaries from this month itself. “Officials will also upgrade the software so that bills won’t go to the consumers whose daily usage is less than 20,000 litres,” he said. Asking water board MD M Dana Kishore to make the necessary arrangements to ensure free water supply to every beneficiary, the minister asked the officials to prepare contingency plans to meet the summer demand. A senior official said, “Once the government issues a GO on the free water supply scheme, the water board will have to rejig its water bills issuing process.” Presently, the board supplies 530 million gallons of water in a day to the consumers in the city. The board spends Rs 40 per kilo litre towards electricity charges for pumping raw water and purify it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ny-gift-9l-households-in-city-to-get-free-water/articleshow/79818834.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 20, 2020||Surat||Activists up ante against SMC HQ at Chowpaty garden||Surat: While the Surat civic body is firming up plans to build its 25-storied iconic headquarters at the sprawling Chowpaty garden in posh Athwalines, the environmental activists and various non-government organisations (NGOs) are up in arms to thwart the move citing environmental concerns. The lush green Chowpaty garden is the only green lungs Athwalines enjoys in the middle of the city, which the environmentalists decry will be totally destroyed if Surat municipal corporation (SMC) is permitted to construct the 105 metre high rise.Environment activists said that about 15 colleges and schools, Surat Citizen Council Trust (SCCT), Love Tapi, morning walkers Nature Club Surat (NCS), cancer hospital among many others have jointly chalked out protest programmes to protect the Chowpaty garden. The NCS has decided a signature campaign among citizens before it submits its petition to the central and state governments. It will also hold dharna at the SMC headquarters, meet the municipal councillors of the respective area and put up ‘save Chowpaty’ banners across the city for mass mobilization. Volunteers said that the proposed SMC headquarters will house its own offices and other government offices and is touting the building to be a prestigious and first of its kind project to be undertaken by any municipal corporation in the country. O December 12, CM Vijay Rupani stated that SMC will become the first municipal corporation in the country to have its own iconic headquarters in the middle of the city. The state government has also approved construction of the Tapi riverfront on the lines of Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati riverfront. According to the NCS, the diamond city is running out of green spaces due to rampant construction activities including the BRTS and other infrastructure developments. The city has the lowest tree cover in the state compared to other cities, while the city desperately requires more than 14 per cent green cover in order to combat future problems like pollution and environmental damages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/activists-up-ante-against-smc-hq-at-chowpaty-garden/articleshow/79817331.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC raps IAS officer for taking court procedure ‘too lightly’||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has reprimanded an IAS officer of Haryana cadre for taking the judicial proceedings “too lightly” in a contempt of court case. While refraining itself from issuing bailable warrants against the officer, the HC has given him last opportunity to comply with the directions of the court and to remain present on the next date of hearing. HC has also warned the bureaucrat that if he failed to appear before the HC on January 14, the court would impose a cost of Rs 30,000 on him. The matter is from 2017, when J Ganeshan was Huda chief administrator. The IAS officer is at present posted as director general of secondary education in Haryana. “At this stage, just when this court was out to issue bailable warrants for his appearance, learned counsel appearing on his (Ganeshan) behalf pleaded that one last opportunity be granted to comply. The argument that there is delay does not help because the order requires to be complied with, as the same is a continuous loss. In case, the needful is not done by the next date of hearing, respondent No.1 (J Ganeshan) shall be liable to Rs 30,000 as costs by way of demand draft in the name of the petitioners,” observed the HC in its orders. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur passed these orders while hearing an ongoing petition filed by Sarita Mehta, who had won a case to get a plot in a Huda developed sector in Panchkula under the oustees quota. However, despite order in her favour, Huda (which was later renamed as Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran) had failed to execute the order. As Ganeshan was Huda chief administrator at that time, the petitioner had filed a contempt of court petition in 2017 against him for compliance of the order and to allot her the plot. On November 5, the HC had directed Huda authorities to comply with court order and directed Ganeshan to appear before the HC on December 16. When the matter came up for hearing on December 16 through videoconferencing, the court was informed that till date, no plot had been allotted to the petitioner and the bureaucrat was also not present despite specific directions. On this, the counsel appearing for Ganeshan submitted that the officer shall appear for hearing from his office, which, according to the HC, was not in the spirit of the previous order. However, he was not available from his office when the matter was called. “The matter is being taken too lightly,” observed the HC, while reprimanding him for his absence and directing him to remain present on the next date of hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-reprimands-ias-officer-for-taking-court-proceedings-too-lightly/articleshow/79818850.cms||Ajay Sura
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||No patient at govt Covid centres as cases dip in Bokaro||BOKARO: The government-run-Covid care centres in the district are without any patients for the past two days as the number of new cases dipped. Though new Covid-19 cases are still surfacing, the daily figure is less than 25. Meanwhile, only a few positive patients were admitted to the Bokaro General Hospital (BGH). the only designated Covid hospital in the district. District health department officials said they have shifted their focus on preparations for the vaccination instead of testing people. Around 4,000 health professionals and workers from government hospitals, clinics and pathological laboratories have been selected for the vaccination in the first phase, they added. Civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, “The number of positive cases has decreased but we are still testing around one thousand samples daily. At present, there are only 99 active cases in the district. Of them, 17 are in BGH and there are no patients in the Covid care centres Majority of patients in BGH are above 50 years of age.” Hospital sources said two of the patients who are above 70 years are in the critical care unit. Dr Pathak added that patients, who are symptomatic or serious were treated at BGH while asymptomatic patients are admitted at the ANM hostel near the sadar hospital. Since March, 6,349 persons have tested positive of whom 59 have died and 6,185 were cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-patient-at-govt-covid-centres-as-cases-dip-in-bokaro/articleshow/79818995.cms||Divy Khare
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||3 private hospitals in Bokaro sealed & penalised ‘for operating illegally’||BOKARO: The district health department on Saturday sealed three private hospitals here and slapped fines on them for operating without registration and proper doctors or trained staff, civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said. Dr Pathak said, “We have slapped a fine of Rs 50,000 on Mother Teresa Memorial Hospital in Chas and Sundaram Hospital and Monu Hospital – both located in City Centre — have been fined Rs 25,000 each for operating without registration under the Clinical Establishments Act. These hospitals have been instructed to remain shut until they get themselves registered.” This comes after a four-member team from the district health department conducted a surprise inspection on December 14 and found these hospitals admitting patients despite not having trained staff. Moreover, the patients were referred from the government-run sadar hospital. When asked if the health department had identified and taken action against those who referred these patients, Dr Pathak said, “We haven’t been able to track those people down yet.” Sources said that sadar hospital frequently refers patients to private facilities. For example, the inspection team found a patient admitted at Mother Teresa Hospital with a fractured leg. He had earlier gone to sadar hospital after he broke his leg in a road accident but the doctors there referred him to the private facility. Similarly, a woman patient was found admitted at Sundaram Hospital after she underwent a C-section in sadar hospital. However, her baby was not referred to the private facility from sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-pvt-hosps-in-bokaro-sealed-penalised-for-operating-illegally/articleshow/79818967.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||Severe cold wave grips Jharkhand, temperature to dip further, says weather office||RANCHI: Jharkhand is in the grip of a severe cold wave with the minimum temperature plummeting to up to four degrees below normal. Kanke, which is considered rural Ranchi recorded a low of 2.2°C on Saturday morning and ground frost covered the region. The minimum in Ranchi city was 7°C, which is 2.6 degrees below normal. However, according to the automated weather system (AWS) of IMD (Ranchi), Daltonganj is the coldest among all 24 districts at 6.3°C and the maximum deviation from the normal was noticed in Bokaro where the minimum temperature was 8.2°C which 4.1 degrees below the normal. Talking to TOI, agro-meteorologist at the Birsa Agriculture University, Dr A Wadood, said for better understanding of local weather, the university has installed an AWS at Kanke and reflects the daily weather condition of rural Ranchi but not taken into account in the IMD forecast. “Earlier, the difference in urban and rural Ranchi ranges between one to two degrees but during the last two years, it has become more distinct and the gap is as big as four to five degrees,” Wadood said. He further said 2020 is the El-Nina year which is known to be colder than normal years. “El Nina triggers more of western disturbances which result in a lot of activities at the upper layers of the atmosphere bringing cold winds from the north,” the scientist said. Meanwhile, the IMD in its daily bulletin said there was no significant synoptic system over Jharkhand but a steady flow of northwesterly winds at the lower layers, which is bringing the chill from north India. Though the weather is likely to remain dry with bright sunshine in the days to come, the morning temperature is likely to further recede due to the snowfall in north India. Weathermen at the IMD Ranchi office also said once the cloud cover disappeared, the night temperature dropped suddenly as expected. Despite the drop, the shiver is not much pronounced in the absence of wind. Wadood said at present, the wind is blowing at a speed of 1.5 kmph, which is negligible. “In the days to come when the wind starts blowing at 4-5 kmph, the feel would be even lower than the actual minimum,” he said. Talking about the ill-effects of low temperature on tender Rabi crops like wheat and mustard, Wadood said consistent minimum temperature around 4°C often results in frosting which damages the plant cells. “If the 4°C prevails for around a week, which is very likely this year, there would be substantial damage to the crops, so, we advise the farmers to go for one round of evening irrigation or burn stubble at night to create a smoke envelope,” Wadood said, explaining that water or smoke creates an envelope near the crop canopy preventing a fall in the temperature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/severe-cold-wave-grips-jkhand-temp-to-dip-further-says-weather-office/articleshow/79818940.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||128 new cases in Ranchi, highest in 45 days||RANCHI: Ranchi recorded new Covid cases in three digits for the first time since November 4 as the state capital accounted for 128 of the 247 fresh infections detected in the state on Saturday. The number of active cases in Jharkhand increased for the fifth straight day with 234 recoveries. Two patients — one each in Dhanbad and Gumla -- succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 1,010. RANCHIThe state’s cumulative stood at 1,12,853 of which 1,10,125 (97.58%) have recovered. The mortality rate continues to remain at 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/128-new-cases-in-ranchi-highest-in-45-days/articleshow/79818912.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||Tejas opposes ‘privatization’ of agriculture, blasts Centre||Ranchi: For the first time after the Bihar assembly election, RJD working president Tejashwi Yadav met his ailing father and party president Lalu Prasad at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) here on Saturday. Talking to media persons outside the hospital after meeting his father, the leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly expressed concern over Lalu’s health and criticised the BJP-led government at the Centre over various issues, particularly the new farm laws and the minimum support prices to the farmers. He said, “I have met my father after a gap of around five months and we are all very concerned about his health. His kidney is functioning at 25% which is alarming. We are not only in touch with the Rims doctors but also with specialists of AIIMS in Delhi and other institutions. A request has been made to them to visit here and conduct check-ups of my father. There is a need for precaution to prevent his health from deteriorating.” State RJD president Abhay Singh said it is not only Tejashwi but also the masses of Bihar and Jharkhand who are concerned over Lalu’s health. On political issues, Tejashwi claimed that after the privatization of various public sector undertakings, the BJP government has now set its eye on the agriculture sector as well and said the Centre should shed ts “autocratic” stand and try to concede to the genuine demand of the protesting farmers. He said, “You have to respect the farmers who comprise 70% of the country's population. The farming community would be a weakened lot if they do not get an adequate return for their produce.” Stating that farmers in Bihar are also suffering and slowly turning into labourers, Tejashwi said they are not getting Rs 1,800 MSP under the Nitish Kumar government and are selling their produce at Rs 800 to Rs 900 per quintal. Singh added, “RJD has prepared a blueprint of its future activities in 14 districts of Jharkhand which would be discussed with the working president later on. We will also invite Tejashwi to Jharkhand for the party programme.” Meanwhile, Jharkhand ministers Badal Patralekh (Congress) and Satyanand Bhokta (RJD) were not allowed to meet Lalu as the maximum quota of three visitors were already over. However, Patralekh said, “We are lawmakers and cannot break them. I could meet Lalu next Saturday as well.” Bhokta added, “We will follow the directions given by our leader to strengthen the party.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tejas-opposes-privatization-of-agriculture-blasts-centre/articleshow/79818892.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Pharma unit assured it won’t pollute area’||Rajahmundry: East Godavari collector D Muralidhara Reddy said on Friday that the management of Divis Laboratories has assured in writing that the upcoming pharma unit in Thondangi mandal will not pollute the area. In a statement, he said a meeting was held with representatives of Divis Laboratories in the presence of local legislator Dadisetty Raja. During the meeting a review of the precautions the management proposed to take to keep the environment free of pollutants was carried out. The management assured that it will take all measures to keep the area free of pollutants. It said it will spend funds on the development of the area in the vicinity of the plant, besides providing employment.  The district collector said the management also assured that there will be no threat to aqua or fishing units and hatcheries in the area. Reddy appealed to people not to panic and maintain law and order.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pharma-unit-assured-it-wont-pollute-area/articleshow/79803687.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||SEC moves contempt petition against chief secy||Vijayawada: The state election commission moved a contempt petition on Friday against chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and principal secretary (panchayat raj department) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi for not complying with the orders of the high court. State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, in his petition, alleged that both officials have wilfully and deliberately disobeyed the directions of the high court and are liable to be punished under sections 10 and 12 of the Contempt of Courts Act. He further stated that the AP high court had on November 3 directed that the SEC shall submit a comprehensive representation to the state government stating all required cooperation, and assistance with regard to financial and non-financial support permitted under the law to discharge its constitutional obligations. The high court had further directed the state government that on receipt of the representation from the SEC, the chief secretary and the principal secretary of panchayat raj department should provide all necessary support and a status report has to be filed by the chief secretary within 15 days. Ramesh Kumar said pursuant to the orders of the high court, a detailed representation was sent to the state government seeking financial and non-financial support, publication of electoral rolls, and instructions to collectors and superintendents of police to be available for consultations with the SEC for conducting elections to local bodies in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-moves-contempt-petition-against-chief-secy/articleshow/79803724.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Land survey in 3 phases, starts on December 22||Visakhapatnam: The comprehensive land survey scheduled in the state will be conducted in three phases in Visakhapatnam. The survey would be taken up in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits in the second or third phase. It will begin at Ramajogi Agraharam in Nidigattu panchayat of Bheemili mandal. Village revenue officers (VROs), village revenue assistants (VRAs), mandal and village surveyors will partake in the survey process. Visakhapatnam may also see drones being used for the survey. According to district joint collector M Venugopal Reddy, for the survey, landowners will be informed of survey teams visiting in advance. Owners will be expected to keep necessary documents pertaining to ownership rights and produce them upon being asked. The survey will be done across 3,040 villages in the 965 panchayats in Visakhapatnam district, including 2,040 villages in the Agency area. “This is a big exercise. Every village will be surveyed. The (last) comprehensive survey was conducted by the British 100 years ago. Then, after the Estate Abolition Act was introduced, a settlement survey was done in those lands,” Venugopal Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/land-survey-in-3-phases-starts-on-december-22/articleshow/79803774.cms||Siva G
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||2015 cop abuse case: 2 acquitted by Mumbai court as police, witnesses did not know what accused uttered in Tamil||MUMBAI: Two persons, including a 57-year-old woman, accused of assaulting and abusing a police constable at Sion in 2015 were recently let off after, among other reasons, a sessions court found the alleged profanities were uttered in Tamil, a language neither the cop nor the witnesses understood. "Considering this piece of evidence brought on record, the witnesses are not acquainted with the Tamil language, do not understand it and have not specifically stated the words uttered by the accused persons at the time of the alleged incident. Therefore, the evidence on this point itself is vague and not up to the mark. As such, it cannot be said the accused persons have insulted the informant and witnesses by abusing them in a filthy language," the court said. Selvi Devendra and her son Nitya Devendra (25) were booked in the case in August 2015. While Selvi was subsequently granted bail, Nitya, who has a history of criminal cases, remained in jail. His bail plea on grounds of Covid-19 pandemic was rejected earlier this year. Six witnesses, including the "injured" cop and three others who came to the spot, deposed during the trial. The court found discrepancies in their statements though. Acquitting the accused on charges of using criminal force with an intent to deter cops from discharging their duty, the court observed the spot where the alleged assault took place had not been proved. "It has not been concurrently established by the prosecution as to whether the informant was assaulted by accused number one or two and discrepancy in the evidence of all the police constables itself creates doubt in my mind as to whether really the informant was assaulted by the accused or not and, if yes, by which accused," the court said. It was the prosecution's case that on August 15, 2015, the constable, Vitthal Ghule, was on patrolling duty along with other constables. It was further submitted that at about 6.15pm when they were near Sion Koliwada Bridge, they received information about an ongoing fight at a nearby bakery. The prosecution told the court that Ghule and another constable went there and saw Nitya and another man fighting. Nitya was being accused of stealing. It was alleged that Ghule's attempts to pacify the two failed. Ghule and the other constable then attempted to take Nitya to the police station. The prosecution alleged at that time, Selvi and her other son arrived at the spot, argued with Ghule and abused him. It said when Ghule told them to stop, Nitya got into a scuffle with him and pushed him to the ground. Ghule allegedly sustained injuries on his right knee and thumb. An FIR was registered against the accused at Antop Hill police station. The court said the person with whom Nitya was allegedly fighting was neither brought before the court nor identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cop-abuse-case-falls-flat-as-he-did-not-know-language-used/articleshow/79819943.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 20, 2020||India||60+ people account for 53% of Covid deaths, says govt||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 case fatality rate is highest at 24.6% among those above 60 with pre-existing health conditions, even as people in this age group make up for only around 19% percent of infected patients. Overall — with and without co-morbidities — those above 60 account for 53% of deaths from Covid, official data shows. The case fatality rate, indicating the share of deaths among infected cases, is lowest at 8.8% among people less than 45 years of age but with co-morbidities, whereas those in the same age band but without any pre-existing disease or disorder is merely 0.2%. However, the incidence of the infection is higher among people under 45 years of age — who accounted for 60% of all Covid-19 infections in the country, but constituted only 12% of total deaths. Officials say the analysis of case fatality data forms the basis for the priority age group population outlined in the Covid-19 immunisation plan. “Our aim is to reduce the mortality in the first phase of immunisation and build herd immunity in the second phase by vaccinating a certain percentage of population. So, apart from the healthcare and frontline workers who are most vulnerable because of the nature of their jobs, when we look at age groups the above 50 population will cover almost 75% with co-morbidities where the case fatality rate is highest currently. Then, we address the infection among younger population but with pre-existing conditions because such people are at higher risk of mortality than those without comorbidities,” an official said. Overall, case fatality rate among people with co-morbidities is estimated at 17.9%, whereas that in those without any such conditions is only 1.2%. So far, 1,45,136 deaths due to Covid-19 have been registered in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/60-people-account-for-53-of-covid-deaths-says-govt/articleshow/79819947.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four of family walk along tracks, 3 later found dead||MUMBAI: Three members of a family from Virardied while a 10-year-old girl was severely injured after being knocked down by a goods train between Nalasopara and Vasaistations on Saturday morning. The railway police said they are probing if they were run over or committed suicide. Residents of Sainath Nagar locality, the deceased persons were identified as Nanda Jangam (55), her son Somnath (35), daughter Pramila Phadtare (31). Pramila's daughter Samiksha was lying along the tracks with head injuries. The incident was reported around 7 am. The girl has been undergoing treatment at Alliance Hospital, Nalasopara. Nanda's husband, Popat, who was looking for his family was informed about the bodies being found on the tracks. He reached the police station and identified them. Popat told the police that his wife, children and granddaughter had stepped out of home around 5.30am to go for a walk. The police said he had stayed back as he was unwell. He told the police that Nanda had handed him Rs 2,000 before leaving and had promised to return soon. He said he had falled asleep again after they left the house. When he woke up around 8am and found that they still had not returned, he went out to look for them. That is when he was told of some bodies being found on the tracks. He told the police that he had no idea as to how and why they landed on the railway tracks. The railway police said that they are assuming that the four had walked along the tracks from Virar. They said that they will record the statement of the driver of the goods train to find out if the four were crossing the track when they were run over. No belongings were found around the spot where the four were found, said railway police officials. An accidental death report has been filed at the Government Railway Police's Vasai station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-four-of-family-walk-along-tracks-3-later-found-dead/articleshow/79819953.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 20, 2020||India||Pregnant women may not get shots||While the country is gearing up for the vaccine roll out sometime next year, some groups may have to wait longer. Experts from across the country feel there is not much clarity on whether the vaccines will be safe for pregnant women. ICMR epidemiologist Dr Samiran Panda told TOI pregnant women cannot risk the child by taking the vaccine, as trials did not include this group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pregnant-women-may-not-get-shots/articleshow/79819954.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Five-time Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai Mohan Rawle passes away||MUMBAI: Mohan Rawle, the former Shiv Sena MP from Mumbai South Central, passed away on Saturday at age 72. Rawle was reportedly on a visit to Goa where he suffered a cardiac arrest. CM Uddhav Thackeray visited the Sena's Parel 'shakha' to pay his last respects. A personal aide of Balasaheb Thackeray, Rawle started off as an activist of the Bharatiya Vidyarthi Sena (BVS), the Sena's campus wing. As BVS chief, he imparted a fresh touch to the Sena, said party watchers. Son of a mill worker, Rawle spent his formative years in Parel amid the textile strike of the 1980s, which nearly wiped out Girangaon. Soon, Rawle joined Sena's Team A. He was handpicked by Thackeray to contest the 1989 Lok Sabha election from Mumbai South Central. Rawle retained the seat for five consecutive terms. But incurred Thackeray's wrath when he remained absent -- he reported ill -- when a no-trust motion against P V Narasimha Rao was put to vote. Rawle contested the 2004 Lok Sabha election from Mumbai South following delimitation of the constituency, but lost to Congressman Milind Deora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-time-shiv-sena-mp-from-mumbai-mohan-rawle-passes-away/articleshow/79819955.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||Poll cash: EC order puts MP govt in a bind||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government is in a fix over the course of action on Election Commission’s recommendation to file criminal cases against everyone named in the CBDT report on the alleged ‘cash in poll’ row as some of the names are directly associated with the ruling party. The probe will be handed over to Economic Offences Wing on Monday, but it’s yet to be decided where an FIR or a preliminary enquiry will be registered, sources say. State chief electoral officer Veera Rana has sent CBDT’s report to general administration department for further proceedings. The 904-page report hints at the role of many individuals in the “widespread and well-organised racket of collection and transaction of unaccounted cash of about Rs 281 crore in MP during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls”. Some of them are now BJP ministers. The clamour over CBDT’s report has created a divide within the state BJP. While one fraction is pressing for immediate FIRs against those named, the other seeks a formal inquiry first, alluding to the three-decade-old hawala scandal in which Supreme Court ruled that entries in loose sheets are irrelevant and inadmissible as evidence under section 34 of Indian Evidence Act. On April 8 last year, CBDT had said in a statement that tax officers recovered Rs 14.6 crore “unaccounted” cash in raids, and seized diaries and computer files of suspect payments. It also detected a trail of Rs 20 crore suspect cash allegedly being moved to the “headquarters of a major political party in Delhi” from the residence of a senior functionary at Tughlaq Road in Delhi. “CBDT’s report is largely based on Prateek Joshi’s diaries, loose papers, computer files, WhatsApp messages between Prateek and Lalit Challani among others, and geotagged locations of individuals. Even, establishing identities will be a big challenge. Why couldn’t CBDT summon 90% of those they have named in the report? Why did CBI refuse to take up EC’s recommendation? They all know how it went with the Hawala scandal,” said a senior officer at the secretariat. “An FIR is possible if entries are supported by independent evidence. We have to dig up more crucial evidence for any criminal case against them,” he pointed out. EC’s move seems to have taken many by surprise. Recommendations for criminal cases on CBDT’s report were made to the MP government after CBI’s refusal, say sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/poll-cash-ec-order-puts-mp-govt-in-a-bind/articleshow/79819957.cms||P Naveen
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||After much delay, Congress appoints trade union leader Bhai Jagtap as Mumbai chief||MUMBAI: Ahead of the 2022 BMC elections, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday appointed trade union leader Bhai Jagtap (62) as chief of the Mumbai Congress in place ofex-MP Eknath Gaikwad, who had been holding additional charge. Charan Singh Sapra, who was among the contenders for the city chief's post, has been appointed working president. The fact that Jagtap is a Maharashtrian weighed in his favour in view of the coming battle for the BMC. The big challenge before Jagtap will be to revive a crisis-ridden Mumbai Congress, which is engulfed by large-scale groupism and factionalism. Jagtap will have to lead the party in the civic elections at a time when the Congress' presence in the city is relatively insignificant. The appointment of the Mumbai Congress president had got delayed despite the fact that both the Shiv Sena and BJP had almost completed their basic exercise for the BMC elections scheduled for February 2022. Jagtap is currently a member of the state legislative council. He was earlier a member of the legislative assembly but lost the 2019 assembly elections. He is said to be acceptable to the rank and file of the party because of his openness and accessibility. Along with Jagtap, former legislator Charan Singh Sapra, former corporator Amarjit Singh Manhas and former ministers Naseem Khan, Suresh Shetty and Madhu Chavan were in the zone of consideration for the post of city Congress president. AICC secretary H K Patil had several rounds of talks with warring factions. Ultimately, it was decided to accommodate all the contenders for the Mumbai president's post. Several new posts have been created. While Sapra has been appointed working president, former minister Naseem Khan will lead the campaign committee, Manhas will head the coordination committee, and former minister Suresh Shetty will lead the manifesto committee. The MPCC in-charge for the Mumbai Congress will be Chandrakant Handore, while former MP Priya Dutt, legislator Amin Patel and Upendra Joshi will be among the members of the MRCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-much-delay-congress-appoints-trade-union-leader-bhai-jagtap-as-mumbai-chief/articleshow/79819961.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 20, 2020||Business||Put on notice by Apple, Wistron sacks top official||BENGALURU: Apple put its contract manufacturer Wistron on probation on Saturday, while the latter sacked a top official, a week after large-scale violence and destruction of company property by employees at its Narasapura facility near Bengaluru. Apple said in a statement that it was very disappointed with what happened and its preliminary findings indicate violations by Wistron of its Supplier Code of Conduct. Wistron, it said, failed to implement proper working hour management processes. “We have placed Wistron on probation and they will not receive any new business from Apple before they complete corrective actions,” it said. In a statement, Wistron said it is taking immediate action to correct the problems. “We are removing the vice president who oversees our business in India,” it said. Wistron, Apple acknowledge lapses"We are also enhancing our processes and restructuring our teams to ensure these issues cannot happen again,” the Wistron statement added. Sources told TOI that Wistron has sacked Vincent Lee, vice-president of the innovation business group in Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing India. Lee, who is based in Taiwan, had called upon Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa earlier this month when he visited Bengaluru. Both Apple and Wistron acknowledged that there were lapses in payments to the workers in October and November. The facility employs 12,000 people. A large number of these workers went on a rampage on December 12, damaging equipment and vehicles, breaking office infrastructure, and taking away a large number of iPhones. The facility is a major assembler of iPhones. Wistron has estimated the total damage to be between Rs 40 and Rs 50 crore. Wistron said the Narasapura facility is new “and we recognise that we made mistakes as we expanded”. It said that some of the processes put in place to manage labour agencies and payments need to be strengthened and upgraded. Wistron, in a statement sent to TOI, said: “Since the unfortunate events at our Narasapura facility we have been investigating and have found that some workers were not paid correctly, or on time. We deeply regret this and apologise to all of our workers.” Apple said it was taking immediate steps to address all issues. Watch Apple puts Wistron on probation, new businesses suspended||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/put-on-notice-by-apple-wistron-sacks-top-official/articleshow/79819962.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Height curbs for buildings only within 2km of Mumbai airport again||MUMBAI: A recent notification says height curbs for building projects will now span a radius of just 2km from the airport against the earlier 20km. The real estate industry in Mumbai had strongly objected to the 20km rule, stating it was an "error" because prior to the 2015 notification, the height restriction radius had been just 2km from the airport. "It took us five years to convince the ministry to rectify the mistake," property industry sources said. After the 2015 notification was issued, builders who sought civil aviation permission for their towers on certain plots in central Mumbai were shocked when approvals were given with curtailed heights. Kunal Chheda, chairman of Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (CREDAI)'s technical committee on civil aviation, told TOI after 2015, heights of many buildings reduced by as much as 25% in these areas. Builders who applied for permissions after 2015 were getting 10% to 25% reduced height in Mahim, Worli and Prabhadevi, depending on the location of the plot. This belt was the most affected,'' he said. A real estate expert cited the example of a tower in Worli which was cleared to rise to 225 metres prior to 2015. Another building in the vicinity, whose developer applied for permission after the 2015 notification, found the sanction restricted to 198m. "The latest notification will lead to substantial enhancement of building heights in projects in south-central Mumbai to pre-'15 levels," said a developer. Soon after the 2015 notification, a working group was formed and it comprised representatives of developers, the civil aviation ministry, Airports Authority of India and technical experts to investigate complaints. "We studied global regulations and appointed international consultants and found the ADS-B height restrictions are only for a radius of 2km," said Chheda. The new ministry notification said a height no-objection certificate (NOC) granted to a developer will now be valid for up to 12 years. Earlier, it was only up to eight years. "Many developers with old NOCs with larger heights would find building heights reduced when they wanted to validate the NOC. This will not happen now," said sources. Architect Vilas Nagalkar said the relaxation in height restrictions should be extended to Andheri East and Chembur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/height-curbs-for-buildings-only-within-2km-of-mumbai-airport-again/articleshow/79819966.cms||Clara Lewis
December 20, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh explores ways to revive cooperative sugar factories||AMARAVATI: In an attempt to revive cooperative sugar factories that have closed down, a cabinet sub-committee is exploring the possibility of the civil supplies and endowments departments procuring the entire stock produced by cooperative mills. The civil supplies department can make use of the stock for supplies through the Public Distribution System (PDS) and the endowments department utilise it for prasadam. In fact, all major temple committees are purchasing large stocks from private players for making prasadam. At a meeting on Friday, the cabinet sub-committee explored various options to reopen the factories. The committee has decided to summon the secretaries of the civil supplies and finance departments to the next meeting to take a final call on the issue. Municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana, agriculture minister K Kannababu and industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy attended the meeting at the CRDA office in Vijayawada. Agriculture minister Kannababu observed it would be better to take an early decision on the long-pending issue as a new crop season is approaching. He said reviving the factories, if feasible, should be done before the crop season. Cane commissioner Venkata Rao urged the cabinet sub-committee to examine whether it would be possible to ask the civil supplies and endowments departments to procure stocks from cooperative sugar mills for their own consumption. “Temple committees are procuring huge quantities of sugar from private players while the civil supplies department is getting sugar from Centre for supplies under PDS. Cooperative sugar factories will survive if good quantities of stocks are procured by the endowments and civil supplies departments,” explained Venkata Rao, adding that the Tamil Nadu government is procuring the entire stock produced in the state for its own requirements, helping factories and cane producers. Industries minister Mekapati said the focus should be on revival of factories in north-coastal districts as cane production is high in the region. He said some investors from Japan are keen on entering the food processing sector in the state, a move that would also benefit cane producers. Cabinet ministers asked special chief secretary Poonam Malakondaiah to advise the secretaries of civil supplies, endowments and finance departments to attend the next meeting. The committee also discussed pending salaries and wages of permanent and contract workers in cooperative sugar factories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-explores-ways-to-revive-cooperative-sugar-factories/articleshow/79817583.cms||Samdani MN
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||People with vested interests instigated violence: MLA||KAKINADA: Tuni MLA Datisetty Raja visited Kothapakala village on Saturday, amid a tense atmosphere in the area in the wake of cases of arson booked against 160 persons who allegedly entered a Divi’s Laboratory plant site and damaged property. Pointing out that persons with vested interests had instigated the violence on December 17, the MLA appealed to the people to not trust rumours. The MLA said while Divi’s Laboratories had assured the chief minister it would operate the plant with zero discharge and no pollution, representatives of the company told him and the district collector that there would be some discharge from the plant. Addressing the residents of Kothapakala, Raja said the plant will not be constructed at the present place at any cost. However, the plant may be set up 10 to 20 kilometres from the proposed site if necessary, he said, adding the government is committed to stand by the people. Speaking to STOI, Raja said the company’s representatives had said they would use chimneys to curb air pollution. Meanwhile, an uneasy calm prevails in Kothapakala and its surrounding villages. Farmers and fishermen are preparing to go on protest against the under-construction plant. Thirty-six protesters who were arrested were remanded and sent to Kakinada sub-jail on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/people-with-vested-interests-instigated-violence-mla/articleshow/79817592.cms||Samson Raj
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Coronavirus set to dampen New Year frolic||VIJAYAWADA: Organisers of New Year parties in Vijayawada are brainstorming on ways to host events amid the pandemic in adherence to Covid-19 norms. Vijayawada sees grand celebrations every year welcoming the New Year. However, as with everything else, the pandemic has dampened spirits. Physical distancing has become the new normal and people remain hesitant to party in large groups. Adding to worries, health wing authorities are suspecting a possible second wave of Covid-19. Consequently, the government is thinking of imposing restrictions on celebrations that involve large gatherings. However, making the best of a bad situation, event organisers are coming up with novel ways to celebrate the New Year. “2020 will remain a painful memory for us with Covid-19. But people are eagerly waiting to welcome 2021 with hope. We are not in a position to host huge parties as it will increase the risk of infection. So we have decided to host small parties,” said M Raju, a city-based event organiser, while adding that this will not be viable. Most residents are planning to celebrate the New Year in the safety of their homes. “We can stay happy avoiding large gatherings and parties this year. May be we will be able to enjoy parties next year,” said N Manjusha, a city-based techie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/virus-set-to-dampen-new-year-frolic/articleshow/79817605.cms||Venu Lanka
December 20, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rs 200 crore restart package to revive tourism in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao (Avanthi) on Saturday spoke about the need to focus on restart packages in the wake of Covid-19, investment policies and infrastructure development in tourism. The minister also released the draft Andhra Pradesh Tourism Policy 2020-25. Addressing the media on the new policy, he said a Rs 200 crore restart package to revive the sector will be given, which is expected to benefit small hotels, restaurants and tour operators. The government will also pay 4.5% of loans taken out on their business. Meanwhile, infrastructure development at resorts, hotels, connectivity and communication would be ensured to attract domestic and foreign tourists. The minister said the government drafted the tourism policy, consulting experts and officials to encourage investment in the sector. Under mega-tourism projects, the government is trying to provide land and incentives to investors and has enhanced the lease period from 66 years to 99 years. Stamp duty on property has been reduced from 2% to 1% while a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) will ensure safety and transparency in investment. Further, road shows will be conducted in Chennai and Mumbai to attract investors from other states. The minister said the government will develop the Rayalaseema, the Godavari region, north and coastal Andhra to attract visitors from other states. An investors’ meet will be held across various cities in the next two months and command control rooms have been establised to monitor boats and avoid mishaps in rivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-200-crore-restart-package-to-revive-tourism-in-state/articleshow/79817647.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Four labourers die in factory roof collapse||NEW DELHI: Three women and a man were killed while two others were injured after the roof of a motor stamping factory collapsed in Vishnu Garden area of west Delhi on Saturday morning. There was raw material stored on a loft that apparently caused it to collapse leading to the deaths. The owner of the three-storey building has been arrested. The three women who died were identified as 45-year-old Guddi, China Devi, 36, and Twinkle, 25, while the deceased man was identified as Ramesh, 35. The two men who were injured in the incident were Ravi, 20, and Guddu Kumar,18. While Guddi and Devi belonged to Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur, Twinkle and Ramesh were from Bihar, police said. According to police, all the six victims worked as labourers in the motor stamping factory. The collapse happened around 9.30 am when the workers had just arrived and started to work. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, said they received a call at their control room reporting the collapse soon after which four fire tenders were sent to the spot to initiate the rescue. The firefighters pulled out the six victims from under the debris with the help of local residents and the cops. “The factory, run from a 60 square yard building, is situated in a narrow lane because of which the fire tenders could not reach there. The building only had one entry, which was partially blocked with the metal items and debris. The injured were rescued and rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where four of them were declared brought dead. The building was also being used for storing metal items,” Garg said. A senior police officer said inspection revealed that there was a lot of material stashed on the loft in plastic sacks, the weight of which possibly led to the collapse of the roof. “The sub-divisional magistrate concerned was informed for further legal proceedings and a case of causing death due to negligence was registered at Khyala police station. The factory owner, Mahender Pal, 35, was arrested,” the officer added. South Delhi Municipal Corporation stated: “It was 20-25 years old building situated in a redevelopment area, which comes under jurisdiction of DSIIDC. Loft was made inside a room with red stones laid upon iron angles, which were laden heavily with material. Under the massive weight of material stored on the loft, iron angles bent and the whole material fell upon people seated in the room.” In the statement, it was also mentioned that a factory was running illegally on the premises. “The department had raised discrepancies when the building where the incident took place applied for Factory Licence earlier. Their application for factory licence was on hold and it was running illegally,” the south corporation stated. An SDMC official said that a factory licensing inspector was suspended after the incident. “But no new construction had happened at the building,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-four-labourers-die-in-factory-roof-collapse/articleshow/79819969.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||2.2 lakh Vaikunta Ekadasi darshan tickets sold out||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has made elaborate arrangements for smooth conduct of the 10-day Vaikunta Ekadasi festival, starting December 25. The temple body has already released 20,000 VIP darshan passes linked to Srivani trust online. The Rs 11,000 denomination passes were booked in no time, earning TTD a revenue of Rs 22 crore. In addition, 2 lakh special entry darshan tickets, 20,000 tickets per day costing Rs 300 each, were also released online, which earned the temple body a revenue of Rs 6 crore. To facilitate darshan for locals, TTD will issue about 1 lakh darshan tickets at five different locations in Tirupati on December 24. Devotees have been asked to plan their pilgrimage to Tirumala only after booking darshan tickets and making accommodation arrangements in advance. “Devotees arriving without darshan tickets will not be allowed to enter Tirumala for the 10 days of Vaikunta Ekadasi festival. Covid-19 guidelines would be strictly adhered to while facilitating darshan to devotees,” TTD additional EO A V Dharma Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-2-lakh-vaikunta-ekadasi-darshan-tickets-sold-out/articleshow/79817660.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Distribution of house site pattas starts December 25||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has zeroed in on December 25 for distribution of house site pattas. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to launch the distribution from Kakinada in East Godavari district. A total of 3,01,171 people in Krishna district will receive one cent land in layouts developed by the state government. Altogether, 98,007 beneficiaries from three assembly constituencies in Vijayawada city will get the land pattas. The government has developed 606 acres of government land and pooled another 1,386.87 acres private land. Meanwhile, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will distribute 6,000 house site pattas to women in Chittoor district on December 28, panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said on Saturday, after reviewing the arrangements for the CM’s programme at Uranduru village. Srikalahasti MLA Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy and senior district administration officials were also present. About 15,000 women are expected to attend the programme. As promised before the elections, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to construct homes for the poor after coming to power. The state government identified suitable land for construction of houses and developed roads and other infrastructure projects in the layouts. Revenue and village secretariat officials prepared the list of scheme beneficiaries simultaneously. The state government proposed to give land in April this year, but it kept getting postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/distribution-of-house-site-pattas-starts-dec-25/articleshow/79817664.cms||Venu Lanka
December 20, 2020||India||BJP ally Beniwal quits House panels, to lead farm protest||JAIPUR/NEW DELHI: A key NDA partner in Rajasthan, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal on Saturday resigned from three parliamentary committees in support of the farm agitation against the Centre’s farm laws and said he will lead a protest at the Rajasthan-Haryana border on December 26. The Nagaur MP, an important Jat leader from the state, said he continues to be part of NDA but will take a call on continuing his association soon. “I continue to be part of NDA so far. Decision about continuation in the alliance will be taken on December 28,” said Beniwal, whose party has three MLAs in the state. He had expressed concerns earlier as well, but held back after BJP functionaries spoke to him. Beniwal also announced he will contest the assembly elections due in 2023 and byelections for the three assembly seats next year on his own, indicating his ties with NDA have become tenuous. The leader’s decision to join NDA helped BJP score a clean sweep in the state during the Lok Sabha polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-ally-beniwal-quits-house-panels-to-lead-farm-protest/articleshow/79819991.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC to builder: Redevelopment not charity, lives matter||MUMBAI: While restraining a builder from selling or creating third-party rights in a redevelopment project that came to a standstill in 2015, a recent Bombay high court order said, "The mere fact that the developer has put money into the project cannot and does not create equity in and of itself. After all, the objective of the developer is not to do this for a charitable purpose. It is to make large financial gains." The original 28 residents had vacated their homes in 2013 after a March 2011 development agreement was signed. Justice Gautam Patel said, "On one side, money; on the other side, lives. It is clear to any court which matters more.'' He accepted a Borivli housing society's plea to appoint an arbitrator to resolve its dispute with the developer. The court also passed several other interim orders against the builder, including appointing a court receiver and one on not to interfere with possession of the society, pending arbitration. HC also did not accept the builder's submissions that it had invested a large amount in this project and, therefore, there should be a restraint against the society. Justice Patel said a builder puts money in a project for profit. "The expenditure on the project is not, therefore, a handout to the society members. It is very much in the nature of an investment. But that investment is clearly coupled with a contractual obligation that the developer is bound to discharge. Without discharging this obligation, it can claim no rights in equity or in law." The Borivli Anamika Niwas society had petitioned HC after terminating the development agreement last year. In February, HC sought final consent terms and asked the builder, Aditya Developers, to pay residents Rs 82 lakh in rent arrears. In its December 15 order, though, HC did not accept the builder's argument that he could not pay due to the lockdown. HC said "competing equities" of residents and builders are to be balanced. It added society members "are scattered throughout the city in temporary accommodation" for almost a decade. HC said it is a builder's pure money claim versus "a continually unfolding human tragedy of indescribable proportions".  Justice Patel said, "For a very long time, these society members have been expected to fend for themselves and not even been provided the contractually due transit rent or displacement compensation...non-payment of transit rent not only has the effect of leaving the society members twisting in the wind, but is a material breach of a core obligation under the development agreement."  An equitable relief is one where the court grants relief to an aggrieved party by directing the other side to do or not do certain actions, when ordinary legal remedies, including awarding damages, may be inadequate. The builder said only the "free-sale eighteenth floor remains and all the rest has been completed". HC said, "That may be inaccurate because a structure left partly built and incomplete for five years will undoubtedly have deteriorated. " The builder said money cannot be paid until consent terms are signed. The HC order said, "That seems to me to be putting the cart before the horse. The money must be paid at the time of filing the consent terms or before, and then there must be some agreement for the rest. It is always open to the developer to negotiate the instalments."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-to-builder-redevelopment-not-charity-lives-matter/articleshow/79820006.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid case count lower than 4,500 for past ten days||MUMBAI: The Covid curve in Maharashtra seems to have hit a plateau with the daily caseload remaining more or less constant over the last 10 days. The daily tally in Maharashtra was 3,994 on Saturday - 54 cases lower than on Friday. The tally has, in fact, been under 4,500 since December 9, when 4,981 cases were registered. The overall tally of cases since March is 18.9 lakh. Mumbai's declining curve dipped from 642 on Friday to 632 on Saturday. The city has consistently recorded less than 800 daily new cases for 15 days. The last time the city registered 800-plus (813) daily cases was on December 4. "The Covid cases are down and while we are working on vaccination plans, we haven't lowered our guard yet. The number of beds and facilities will not be reduced," said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. In the civic-run, 1,500-bed Sion Hospital, the 500-odd beds that were dedicated for Covid-19 patients at the height of the Covid crisis in May have reduced to less than 50 at present. "We have less than 50 Covid-19 patients in our hospital," said Sion Hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi. Of these, only 10 are in the intensive care unit. "As Covid has declined, the critical patients too are fewer in number," added Dr Joshi. Even mortality has reduced across the city and state. On Saturday, the city recorded 74 deaths, while Mumbai added 10 deaths. The overall toll in Maharashta is 48,648, while Mumbai has recorded 10,980 deaths so far. The only dark lining is the marginal rise in active cases in both the state and city. On Saturday, the state and city had 61,095 and 7,725 active cases respectively. The number of recovered patients, too, saw a reduction: 3,119 patients recovered across the state, while 256 recovered in the city, the second-lowest figure in the last eight days. On December 11, the state had recorded 2,774 recoveries and the city, 103. Minister of state for public health Rajesh Tope said the state's recovery rate has improved to 94.14%. Only two cities, Mumbai and Aurangabad, saw double-digit deaths on Saturday. However, Aurangabad reported 15 deaths and 106 new cases as against Mumbai's 632 cases and 10 deaths. According to state officials, of the 74 deaths added to the state toll on Saturday, 33 occurred in the last 48 hours and 15 in the last week. The remaining 26 deaths occurred more than a week ago, said an official. Of these 26 deaths, 14 took place in Aurangabad, three in Pune, two each in Sangli and Nashik, and one each in Amravati, Jalgaon, Thane, Raigad and Solapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtras-daily-covid-case-count-lower-than-4500-for-past-ten-days/articleshow/79820011.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Dist’s avg daily cases around 400, dip in Covid prevalence||Nagpur: For over two months, the district has been registering new cases in the range of 400 to 800. There have been a few exceptions like on November 15 when just 80 cases were detected. The upper limit has further dropped this month with daily reporting of an average 414 cases though number samples have varied from over 3,500 to 6,600 from December 1 to 18. Covid mortality too has thrown up a similar picture with daily deaths ranging from three to 15 in last 18 days. Experts feel the trend is in line with national dip in cases beside any indicator of drop in prevalence of the disease. Acting civil surgeon Dr Deepak Thete said there has been no relaxation in measures to test more number of people through high risk contact tracing, routine door-to-door survey and other awareness drives. The trend indicates the Covid infection chain is now mostly being restricted to people who have come in contact with confirmed cases, officials say. Also, those succumbing to the disease are said to be elderly and having comorbidities. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said lately those dying at their dedicated Covid hospital (DCH) are more than 60-year-olds and had comorbidities. “The Covid patients who died in last couple of days were cases of late diagnosis, diabetes, complications like fibrosis of lung,” he said. Dr Gawande added that the infection is seen among family members or those who come in contact with a patient. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said the prevalence of Covid infection has dipped in Nagpur urban. “The drop in infection prevalence is a good thing and in congruous with national trend. Already, a sizeable population has already been infected in July to September period of Covid peak. The sero positivity too has been found high. It is unlikely that we are seeing undertesting or underreporting of new cases. Those under hospitalization are from outside district while Nagpur residents are less,” he said. Dr Shinde preferred to call the ongoing trend as stable transmission where infection pattern is fixed without any surge or wave. “Irrespective of weather condition, the numbers remain in a particular range in this phase. Mortality should remain low. The answer to keep the situation under control is vaccination,” he added. An in charge of NMC testing centre said people have stopped getting tested. “Daily we keep around 300 RTPCR kits ready but only 40 to 50 people are turning up. Same is the case with other centres. Demand is low at private labs too,” the in charge said. Another centre official said those walking-in coming are people who have attended from marriage recently or have travel history. “But a major chunk is of people who go in for a repeat sample. Hence, in the day’s final count, around 100 repeat samples test positive,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dists-avg-daily-cases-around-400-dip-in-covid-prevalence/articleshow/79817142.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur div colleges at par with Pune & Mumbai, says joint dir||NAGPUR: Technical education joint director Ram Nibudey on Tuesday said the engineering department was witnessing a revival after the consistent drop in number of takers for different courses in the last decade. Supporting his claim, Nibudey presented an analysis of data comprising number of students appearing for common entrance test (CET), available seats, activities conducted by colleges, placements, pay packages, and recruiters in last one year. As per the data, over 27,000 students appeared for CET against 10,000 seats under Nagpur region of directorate of technical education (DTE). In a bid to contain brain drain, Nibudey invited industrialists, motivational speakers and top executives from Mihan and Butibori to address an online audience of over 2,000 on Tuesday. He said people from Vidarbha shouldn’t believe in myths that only Pune and Mumbai have good colleges. “Nagpur has equally good institutes like VNIT, LIT, Government College of Engineering (CoE). Not all colleges in big cities are good,” he said, appealing to students to prefer Nagpur for a Bachelor’s in engineering (BE). The data also includes Rs44 lakh salary package offered to a student of CoE, and claims that over 1,000 companies have conducted job drives on 44 campuses in Covid times. However, the overall percentage of students getting jobs is at an abysmal 44%, which officials blamed on the bleak scenario in the wake of lockdown. “Engineering is not losing its importance, though it may seem so. The graph is again going up. Some people have created myths about technical education from Nagpur. Citizens shouldn’t believe in them,” Nibudey said, during an awareness talk titled ‘Why I must study engineering’ at CoE campus in Mihan. “Engineering has become a multi-disciplinary field with involvement of medical science, power sector, communication and still has vast scope. We have numerous examples of Nagpur engineering students excelling academically as well as in their respective professions,” he added. Talking about the fall in number of colleges and seats, Nibudey said there had been a glut while the demand was not as much. Five years ago, the Nagpur region had 25,000 seats in 60 engineering colleges under Nagpur and Gondwana Universities. Lack of takers forced 16 colleges to file for closure, while many others reduced their shifts and intake. The official said this has rationalized the demand and supply ratio to a large extent. The numbers of takers would appear more promising once more colleges give up, even as reputed ones shift to the latest course. The closure is done in a phased manner and hence colleges continue to add numbers to the final tally. Nibudey said some colleges from Nagpur have applied for starting artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI & ML), and aeronautical engineering courses. “I won’t say which one is better as all branches are important. Civil is as good as mechanical or electronics. The highest package went to an electronics student only,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-div-colleges-at-par-with-pune-mumbai-says-joint-dir/articleshow/79817155.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 20, 2020||India||J&K DDC polls see higher voting in low-turnout areas||NEW DELHI: The district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu & Kashmir, which concluded on Saturday, saw higher polling in the traditional low-turnout areas such as Srinagar, Awantipora, Shopian and Anantnag, as compared to the parliamentary elections last year and even panchayat polls of 2018. This, a senior J&K government functionary pointed out, was despite these being the first polls to be held after abrogation of Article 370 and their timing in harsh winter. While Jammu region predictably saw brisk polling during all 8 phases of DDC poll to clock an overall 68.43% turnout, Kashmir division too saw voters lining up at the polling station in snow-covered, difficult areas and contributing to the overall 34.41% turnout. The surprise package in Kashmir were conventionally low-polling areas such as Srinagar, where 35.3% votes were polled, a big jump over 7.9% turnout in 2019 Lok Sabha poll and 14.50% in 2018 panchayat polls. Awantipora, which recorded 0.4% polling in panchayat polls of 2018 and 3% in 2019 parliamentary poll, saw 9.9% polling in DDC polls. Anantnag too saw 24.9% polling this time, a huge improvement over 9.3% polling in 2018 and 13.8% in last year’s general election. Even terror hotbeds like Pulwama and Shopian recorded 7.6% and 15.4% turnout respectively, which though low was way higher than 1.2% and 3.4% turnout recorded in 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Sopore witnessed 23.8% turnout, higher than the 7.6% Lok Sabha poll turnout but slightly lower than 26% polling seen during 2018 panchayat polls. “The significant increase in turnouts as compared to last year’s Lok Sabha poll and 2018 panchayat polls is significant for two reasons. Firstly, the DDC polls were the first electoral exercise to be held after the abrogation of Article 370 in J&K on August 5last year. Secondly, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) (an amalgam of multiple parties including PDP and NC, that fielded candidates in the DDC polls) leaders had initially claimed that no one would participate in these polls. The higher percentages counter the false narrative of PAGD and confirm Kashmiri people’s aspirations for a stronger grassroot democracy,” said a state functionary. Despite the terror threat in Kashmir, the DDC polls passed off relatively peacefully barring a few grenade strikes on the security forces and an attack on Apni Party candidate in South Kashmir. A personal security officer of an ex-PDP leader was also killed in Srinagar. Interestingly, a major terror plot of Jaish e Mohammad to carry out strikes coinciding with DDC polls was purportedly foiled after four terrorists who had freshly infiltrated from Pakistan were neutralized in Nagrota last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-ddc-polls-see-higher-voting-in-low-turnout-areas/articleshow/79820013.cms||Bharti Jain
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Getting reports from ground zero with mistaken identity||All of a sudden Satranjipura was a dreaded word for people living in areas still untouched by the novel coronavirus under lockdown. At the receiving end of bad press, the residents avoided speaking to journalists. While the administration was only revealing about non-cooperation from Satranjipura residents, the other side of the story completely went untold. Several attempts to prod residents to divulge information went abegging. The area was sealed with SRPF jawans deployed on all entry points. Journalists too were barred from entering the area.A source helped arrange the contact number of a man from the worst-hit family of Satranjipura. The family members, including their relatives living in other areas, and neighbours were quarantined and admitted to medical colleges following the death of city’s first Covid victim.Initially, the deceased’s relative was a bit reluctant to speak but as days went by he would call up several times a day to inform about alleged harassment, inconvenience and number of people testing positive in their clan.The real-time information made good Covid stories at a time when it mattered the most. Gradually, the man, a scrap dealer, started confiding more details and helped work out some more stories.The residents started returning home following prolonged stay in institutional quarantine and hospitalization after first round of aggressive tracing and testing by the civic body. In the second round, it planned to pick up another 500 residents. With Ramzan Eid a week away, the resident opposed and demanded that this diarist visit them. With all safety precautions, this diarist visited the people labelled as ‘mass spreaders’. The scrap dealer introduced this diarist as an officer from ‘Mewa’ (Mayo hospital) where the first city’s Covid victim had passed away on April 4. This diarist immediately clarified that he was a journalist for this newspaper. All had a good laugh when the scrap dealer said all this while they assumed this diarist to be a “health officer” deputed by the government to understand their issues and hence would frankly share all details.The revelation baffled the scrap dealer as he wondered how the problems would immediately get solved. It served as reinforcement that officials did take note of the news reports though they claimed they never read the Times of India. The civic body dropped the second round of quarantining due to policy revision but the residents continued to believe it was due to the meeting with this diarist.The mistaken identity kept working to the advantage of this diarist during the Covid peak from July to September. At times, it gave unhindered access to top level meetings as doctors mistook this diarist for another namesake doctor. At dedicated Covid hospitals, mortuaries and burial grounds, the same thing helped extract interesting stories.(A regular to the university campus, Sarfaraz Ahmed found a new calling after the pandemic struck)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/getting-reports-from-ground-zero-with-mistaken-identity/articleshow/79817194.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||‘Making body strong from within crucial’||Dr Sanjay Gadekar, a general and laparoscopic surgeon, is an innovator. His ‘Table top major mobile operation theatre’ was a big hit with the armed forces during the Kargil war and earned him a patent from the government of India. Dr Gadekar’s current theme of research is ‘Don’t be only disease-free, but healthy and stay healthy’. In an interview with TOI, he shared the nuances of his concept —‘universal health’ and ‘active regenerative treatment’. Excerpts... Q. What made you opt for research in an unconventional subject? A. As a student of modern medicine and a practicing surgeon, I kept on updating my knowledge about the latest treatment of diseases. With so much of progress in medical sciences and tremendous technological advances, we have succeeded in keeping ourselves disease-free. But we have failed in protecting ourselves from increasing various degenerative diseases. This is where the concept clicked in my mind. Mankind is persistently diseased in spite of progressing medical science. So, it’s time to think beyond all this. Q. What is the reason behind people remaining ill despite getting the latest treatment? A. With modern medicine, we achieve only a disease-free status, but not a healthy one. Health remains a destination because we mainly focus on passive treatment. The treatments that we have are with modalities outside our body. We need to augment our natural abilities and power of healing to maintain universal health from within our body. This could be achieved through active regenerative treatment. Q. What is active regeneration treatment? A. Regular tissue regeneration is a natural phenomenon where our old cells vanish after a specific period and get replaced with new ones to maintain our health. Active regenerative treatment strengthens this divine ability by keeping us under the universal circuit of body keeping. This is one of the factors I discovered during my research. Q. Please elaborate on the universal circuit of body keeping. A. Every phenomenon in the universe occurs under a specific circuit. We can call it auto execution of various integrated well-synchronized acts. For example, every life cycle consists of two circuits — a universal circuit of body making and a circuit of body keeping. The universal circuit of body making means gestational period pregnancy with child delivery. The universal circuit of body keeping means a well synchronized interactive physical, mental and physiological act pattern by the body. In most living beings, both these circuits are governed by innate and cognitive abilities. I observed that humans lack some innate abilities with abundance of cognitive abilities as compared to other living beings, especially when it comes to universal circuit of body keeping. This makes us more governed by human protocols than required the universal protocol making us more diseased. Our brain and mind can compensate this for us. Q. How can we achieve perfection in the body keeping circuit? A. By maintaining our regular tissue regenerative ability to the optimum level. Everybody can learn and imbibe this universal circuit of body keeping by exploring ways for broader natural universal health and also means to make medical therapies more complete and effective. We need to become health literate. As educational qualification is a must for a career, health qualification too is a must for health making and maintaining it. If done well, the next generation may come up with more prospering health and health awareness. Q. Is the research on universal health accessible to everyone? A. As far as my research and discoveries are concerned, I have made it accessible for all through my mobile application UMS HEALTH. It’s available on both android and IOS systems. For any disease, if passive treatment under modern medicine is accompanied with active regenerative treatment under universal science, then patients will not only become disease-free, but healthy as well. For cancer patients and survivors, this may prove beneficial. They can move on from cancer-free status to a confident healthy status, minimizing chances of cancer recurrences and promoting their confident healthy life. For dreadful pandemic infections, strengthening our body from within for augmented immunity is more important than any vaccines or treatments. It can be gained by persistent active regenerative treatment by us for us. Tuning with an often talked about whole body check-up is nothing but our persistent whole body treatment life long as every treatment is mostly focused on a diseased organ or a system. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/making-body-strong-from-within-crucial/articleshow/79817215.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 20, 2020||Nagpur||Learnathon™: Digital edition to unmask learning||Nagpur: Gurukul.education’s initiative Learnathon™, in association with The Times of India, a two-day learning marathon is being organized on December 26 and 27. With 84 workshops covering acting to zumba, the event has something to learn for every member, offering workshops from art, to business, curiosity and personal growth, dance forms and employability. Learnathon™, world’s only double marathon of learning which in its past 4 editions was being organized as a physical event attracting massive participation averaging 5,500 learners, was faced with the Covid-19 obstacle prohibiting mass gatherings. Gurukul.education and Learnathon International Foundation For Education (LIFE) co-founders Anup Dubey and Chitwan Tahalyani said that team Learnathon™ has chosen to convert the obstacle into an opportunity and in its 5th edition this year, it is being organised as a digital event. Dubey said, “The digital edition has allowed to bring in experts not just from the city but from across India to impart knowledge for learners of all age groups.” Tahalyani said, “Some of the workshops to look forward to this year include acting conducted by Thespo (Mumbai), Harshad Mehta and other financial frauds conducted by Udai Paliwal, dean of NIRMA University (Ahemdabad), hydroponics conducted by expert from Mysuru Yogesh Dubey, phone photography (Indian Institute of Photography), dealing with change by Dr Vivek Nanoti, ‘how to take your business local to global’ by chef Vishnu Manohar among others. The schedule can be checked on www.learnathon.co/workshops.” With the core objective to inculcate a culture of ageless and joyful learning, the proceeds from the event would go towards contributions for LIFE Scholarships, a non-profit foundation dedicated to enhance lives of underprivileged meritorious students. This cause has been supported by the Rotaract District 3030, where young Rotaractors across the district are contributing towards the event along with 200+ volunteers who drive and manage every aspect of the event. Bhaskar Ranjan Das, associate director (South Asia) of AICPA-CIMA, said, “Learnathon is a fantastic way to present our youth with snippets from different fields of learning and skill development. Youths from across the country can pick up not just technical and business skills but also finer skills such as communication, theatre etc which today are invaluable in our careers and social existence. Learnathon is truly a celebration of our learning journey.” “It will be instrumental in inculcating a culture of ageless learning along with generating funds for LIFE scholarships. Rotary district 3030 is happy to be part of this initiative and promote this cause through the network of our Rotractors in all the educational institutions,” said Rtn Shabbir Shakir, district governor, Rotary 3030. Instructor Tejinder Singh Rawal said, “I am happy to be a part of Learnathon since its inception. It’s a wonderful way of giving back to the society by mentoring them and passing on the learnable skills to them. The event is like a learning session on a steroid — you can learn as many skills in just a couple of days as you would in a month.” Passes can be bought online from www.learnathon.co/passes for further details contact: 91-4567-0606/7507510752.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/learnathon-digital-edition-to-unmask-learning/articleshow/79817251.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Post pandemic, many prefer ready-to-move-in flats||BENGALURU: People continue to choose ready-to-move-in flats over under-construction ones, as the country slowly emerges out of the pandemic. This is due to two reasons — customers don’t want to wait for many years considering the uncertainty and the pandemic has increased the urgency of getting a house of one’s own. Since sales are largely driven by end users, buyers of ready-to-move-in properties are completely aware of the product, finishing, quality, workmanship and know what they are buying. Also, the trust deficiency built over the years – since many under-construction projects failed to meet deadlines – has made customers prefer products with greater delivery predictability. Suhail Rehman, MD of CoEvolve Estates, said sales of such properties have increased in the past few years and more so now. “I have only limited stocks in all my projects,” he said. A survey by online property portal NoBroker shows 57% of buyers are looking for ready-to-move-in properties, compared to 16% who want under-construction ones, and 27% who are looking at resales. Kishore Jain, president of Credai Bengaluru, says the trend is growing post the pandemic as buyers are not in the mood to wait for three years. “There is also the regulatory risk, over which nobody has control. Previously, when people purchased at the launch stage, they experienced huge appreciation by the time the project was completed, almost by 30-40%. But in a stagnant market, such appreciations do not happen,” he said. Vaishnavi Group managing director CN Govindaraju said such properties, which have an occupancy certificate, have seen phenomenal sales, with growth of 15-20% this year. Puravankara managing director Ashish Puravankara said ready-to-move-in properties contributed to about 40% of the company’s sales in the second quarter this year, compared to 25% a few years ago. But he cautions that top builders have limited stock of such properties. This is because the number of launches has gone down in the past few years due to oversupply and because meeting the new regulatory requirements is tough. “In the next nine months, there won’t be too much stock of such properties,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/post-pandemic-many-prefer-ready-to-move-in-flats/articleshow/79817848.cms||Avik Das
December 20, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM gets human bomb threat, search on for culprit||CHENNAI: Police have launched a search for the suspect who sent a letter to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday threatening to turn into a human bomb and blow the leader up. The letter mentioned the name of the sender as Pravin Kumar, a resident of 10th Sector at KK Nagar. The letter was addressed to the chief minister's residence at Greenways Road at Raja Annamalai Puram. The personal security guards to the chief minister forwarded the letter to the Abiramapuram police station for further investigation. A police team led by inspector of police Shanmugavelan nabbed Pravin Kumar from his residence. During questioning, Pravin Kumar, an air-conditioner mechanic, claimed he was innocent. A native of Kumbakonam, he has been staying at a rented house at KK Nagar for the past few years. The investigation officer said, "The man seems to be innocent and someone who knew him had vindictively implicated his name in the bomb threat letter." Preliminary inquiries revealed that the letter was posted at the Anna Salai head post office. Police are searching for the suspect who posted the letter, and further investigations are on. Meanwhile, the city police have increased the security cover near the chief minister's house. Earlier on June 2, following a bomb threat, police protection at the CM's residence at Greenways Road and the state secretariat was beefed up. Police personnel verified and declared the threat as a prank. They tracked the prankster to Villupuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-cm-gets-human-bomb-threat-search-on-for-culprit/articleshow/79820033.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||Former convict shot at in broad daylight in Ranchi||Ranchi: A former convict was injured on Saturday when two bike-borne men fired at him in broad daylight while he was buying groceries at a shop near Chai Bagan under Namkum police station limits in the district, police said. The incident ended up injuring the shopkeeper and a passer-by. All three were taken to a nearby hospital and are currently out of danger. DSP Neeraj Kumar said, “Although the CCTV camera located near the crime scene is defunct and the other one is located far away from the spot, we are inquiring the matter based on some of the clues we have gathered so far.” Former criminal Mukesh Jha was at Praveen Kumar’s shop when the men opened fire. In order to avoid getting hit, Jha ducked and the bullet missed him and hit Praveen’s hand. The miscreants then fired three more rounds which injured Jha and passer-by Ranjit Singh. Police said that Jha was earlier associated with a criminal gang and was subsequently, arrested. After serving his jail term, he left the gang and went to Assam to look for a job. However, the lockdown made it difficult for him to find a job and he was forced to come back to Ranchi. He then decided to enter into the land trade and had even purchased a plot recently. When asked, Jha said that he has no enmity with anyone and no one had demanded money from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/former-convict-shot-at-in-broad-daylight-in-ranchi/articleshow/79817359.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari joins ‘elder brother’ Amit Shah’s team with 6 other TMC MLAs, 1 MP||MIDNAPORE: Rebel Trinamool Congress leader and former Mamata Banerjee cabinet minister Suvendu Adhikari started his new political innings in the BJP on Saturday along with two former ministers, one MP, nine other MLAs and 60 councillors, zilla parishad and panchayat samiti members in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah, who he referred to as “my elder brother”. An overwhelming majority of the BJP recruits — 7 of the 10 MLAs (including Adhikari, whose resignation has not yet been accepted by the assembly speaker) and the lone MP — were from Trinamool, prompting Shah to call it only “the beginning”. “You will be left alone by the time Bengal goes to polls,” he said, referring to Bengal CM Banerjee and indicating there was much more in store. The mass pre-poll induction of new recruits — some of whom were from the Congress (one MLA and other leaders) and Left Front (two MLAs and other leaders) — on a single day is unprecedented in the state and points to a new trend in Bengal politics. Adhikari travelled to Midnapore from Kolkata along with Shah on the latter’s chopper before calling him “my elder brother” at the rally and Shah visited Bengal icon Shahid Khudiram Bose’s family before reaching the Midnapore College rally ground, both moves indicating a resolve to shake off the “outsider” tag that Trinamool has put on the BJP’s national leaders in its effort to paint the national party as being over-dependent on its central leadership. Adhikari, after taking the BJP flag from Shah, stressed the need for Bengal to get away from the anti-centre narrative of the Left and the Trinamool and, instead, follow a politics of synergy with the centre. “I believe that both Kolkata and Delhi should have governments under Modiji’s party for the sake of Bengal’s development,” he said. The new BJP leader also wrote an “open letter” to Trinamool workers and the public, urging them to join him when Bengal was at a “crossroads” and complaining that “personal interests were getting precedence over public interest” in the Trinamool. Adhikari’s speech had special mention of Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee as he stressed on the need to remove the “tolabaj bhaipo (extortionist nephew)” . “Nobody from the party I served for 22 years called me when I was quarantined at home after contracting Covid. Shah called me twice. Mukulda used to tell me that I would not be able to stay in that party with self-respect,” he said. Shah threw his weight behind Adhikari to counter the Trinamool’s “traitor” tag for him. “Didi, what did you do when you quit the Congress to form the Trinamool?” he asked. Adhikari reminded his critics that the Trinamool could not have survived without BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s support: “The Trinamool was part of the NDA then.” Shah charged the Trinamool government with following “the politics of fear”. “More than 300 BJP workers have been killed. They threw stones at BJP national president JP Nadda’s convoy. Didi thought we would give up. We will not,” he added. Adhikari explained his change of political stance: “A Trinamool friend messaged me on Friday, pointing out that I have the ‘BJP hatao, desh bachao’ slogan before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. I have messaged him back, saying I work sincerely wherever I am. I was then with the Trinamool. Now, when I have joined the BJP, I will work 16 hours for the party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhikari-joins-elder-brother-shahs-team-with-6-other-tmc-mlas-1-mp/articleshow/79819630.cms||Sujoy Khanra
December 20, 2020||Noida||Noida to take action against six land sharks||GREATER NOIDA: District administration on Friday released a list of six individuals who have illegally grabbed private or government land and have refused to vacate it after being warned. In the meeting of anti bhu-mafia task force, district magistrate Suhas LY directed officials to initiate action against the group of six. In September, the administration had listed 15 individuals as bhu-mafia. FIR will be lodged against the six individuals and their property and assets will be seized by the administration and police department in joint operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-to-take-action-against-6-land-sharks/articleshow/79819060.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||It is my dream to see Allu Arjun groove to my music: Aastha Gill||Singer Aastha Gill loves performing in Hyderabad. The DJ Waley Babu singer says the energy and vibe of the crowd here is so infectious that she wants to make this city her home away from home. “I have been to Hyderabad a couple of times now and every time, I have fallen in love with the crowd of the city. The way they react and re-spond to my music makes me feel like I am among family members,” says the Delhi girl, who performed in the city recently. It was Aastha’s first live performance after the lockdown and the singer is thrilled to say the least. She says, “For any artiste, getting on stage in front of a crowd is an addiction and when I got the chance, I closed my eyes and couldn’t believe it was really happening. It felt like I was performing after ages.”           View this post on Instagram            A post shared by Hyderabad Times (@hyderabad_times)  The singer, of course couldn’t leave without relishing the famous biryani. “We were cruising around the city at around 1 am and I had this midnight craving for biryani. Me and my team, who are also a bunch of foodies, found this restaurant that was open and we ate so much biryani. It was so good that we have made it a point to try out new places to eat during everyone of our upcoming visits,” Aastha says, excitedly. The lockdown was the perfect opportunity for the singer to realise that the world needs more peppy songs and her friends have been encouraging her to try writing her own lyrics. “Right now, I am looking at reinvention, be it in terms of lyrics or music production. I am much more confident now and in 2021, I want to explore different genres of music, collaborate with new artistes and maybe even sing some Telugu songs,” she reveals. Ask her if she knows the language and Aastha adds, “I don’t know the language but I know I can manage. And if we are talking about making dreams come true, I hope I get to sing for an Allu Arjun-starrer so he can groove to my music.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-is-my-dream-to-see-allu-arjun-groove-to-my-music-aastha-gill/articleshow/79815102.cms||Neeshita Nyayapati
December 20, 2020||World||Biden introduces environment team to tackle 'existential threat'||WASHINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden on Saturday introduced key members of his environmental team and said his administration would make the fight against global warming a pillar of his drive to rebuild the pandemic-hit US economy. Biden said these nominees will "lead my Administration's ambitious plan to address an existential threat of our time -- climate change." "Folks, we're in a crisis," Biden said at the event in Wilmington, Delaware. "Just like we need to be a unified nation to respond to Covid-19, we need a unified national response to climate change." The nominees introduced Saturday include Representative Deb Haaland of New Mexico to be Interior Secretary. Overseeing America's natural resources that include national parks and wildlife refuges, if confirmed by the Senate, Haaland would be the first Native American to hold a Cabinet position. Biden said his administration will work to modernize water, transportation and energy infrastructure to make it better equipped to resist extreme weather conditions -- and create many jobs along the way. Biden also said he wants to build 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations and 1.5 million energy-efficient homes and public housing units. He also said his administration will create a quarter million jobs "right away" by hiring people to plug millions of abandoned oil and gas wells that are deemed a health and safety risk. Biden repeated that he will rejoin the Paris climate accord, which President Donald Trump abandoned, and restore a slew of Obama-era environmental regulations that Trump eliminated. For other jobs, Biden said he has picked Gina McCarthy, Obama's Environmental Protection Agency administrator, to lead a new White House Office of Climate Policy. Biden has also tapped Michael Regan, North Carolina's top environmental regulator, to run the Environmental Protection Agency and Brenda Mallory, an environmental attorney, to direct the Council on Environmental Quality. Regan and Mallory are Black. Biden said that with Saturday's announcements, his Cabinet will feature six African Americans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-introduces-environment-team-to-tackle-existential-threat/articleshow/79816935.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||Develop technologies keeping contemporary requirements in mind: Sivan||Jamshedpur: Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chairman Kailasavadivoo Sivan urged young engineers to work on developing technologies keeping contemporary requirements of the people in mind. “Young engineers should keep Mahatma Gandhi’s thoughts in mind who advocated for local solutions for local problems. Our education and knowledge should be utilised effectively in addressing the unresolved issues of sanitisation, health, drinking water and others,” Sivan said. The top Isro official was speaking as the chief guest at the 10th convocation of the National Institute of Technology (NIT-Jamshedpur) for the students of B Tech and M Tech of batches 2016-20 and 2018-20 on Saturday. Addressing students virtually, Sivan said India has a glorious history of engineers working towards developing science and technology for the larger good of the community. “Engineers should have the attitude of converting adversity into challenge to make a better place to live in for humans. Ethical thinking, problem solving, adaptability and ability to analyse situation helps in becoming a better professional,” he said. Lauding, the administration for its journey, Sivan said institutions such as NIT have contributed immensely in the scientific development of the country. Earlier, in his welcome address, NIT director Karunesh Kumar Shukla said organising the convocation in the physical mode was not possible during the pandemic. “Students who pass out from here are the ambassadors of the college. Surely, students going out from here would bring name to the institution by their actions in the world of professionals,” Shukla said. He also urged the students not to comprise on ethics. A total of 556 B Tech students, 186 M Tech students, 74 MCA students and 18 PhD students who joined the convocation virtually from different places, received the certificate of merit at the convocation. Besides, 27 toppers of each branch, overall toppers of undergraduate batch Siddhanth Gupta, metallurgical and material engineering and overall topper of postgraduate batch Ratnesh Kumar, structural engineering, received gold medals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/develop-technologies-keeping-contemporary-requirements-in-mind-sivan/articleshow/79817392.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||Rebels set vehicles on fire, exchange fire with security forces in Latehar||Daltonganj: Back-to-back incidents of Maoist violence in Latehar district kept security forces on their toes in the past two days. On Friday night, a rebel named Pradip Ganjhu, along with a few miscreants, set on fire four trucks and a bike near Tetariyakhar colliery under Balumath police station. The trucks were engaged in coal transportation. The incident left four truck cleaners injured, police said. SP Latehar Prashant Anand said a hand-written note signed by Ganjhu was found at the colliery site. “In the note, Ganjhu has warned all those associated with the colliery to first seek permission from gangster Sujit Boss for their activities,” he said, adding, “The purpose behind the attack is to create terror and to coerce the colliery management into working according to the demands of the Maoists and the gangsters.” He further said that Ganjhu works for both JJMP, which is a breakaway faction of the CPI Maoists, and TSPC as per his convenience. “He works for gangster Sujit Sinha as well,” he added. Those injured in the incident are being treated at a local government hospital. On Saturday, two Maoist encounters took place in Salaiya under Latehar police station and in Latdaag forest under Chandwa police station. At Salaiya, Jharkhand Jaguar and the local police fought with armed JJMP cadres, Anand said. At Latdaag forest, a contingent of the CRPF’s 133 battalion and the district police exchanged fire with TSPC rebels. Following the encounter, the security forces seized an AK-56 rifle, over 100 rounds of live ammunition, two magazines, a wire, switch boards and some mobile phones. No casualties were reported in either of the two encounters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rebels-set-vehicles-on-fire-exchange-fire-with-security-forces-in-latehar/articleshow/79817351.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||No one from Mamata Banerjee’s family wants to be Bengal CM: TMC||KOLKATA: No one from Mamata Banerjee’s family wants to be chief minister, the Trinamool Congress said on Saturday, hurling the nepotism barb back at the BJP, Union home minister Amit Shah and new BJP recruit Suvendu Adhikari. “Adhikari-tantra ki paribar-tantra na (Are the Adhikaris not guilty of promoting inheritance-politics)? What quality does the BCCI secretary have other than being the Union home minister’s son?” Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha chief whip Kalyan Banerjee asked, reacting to BJP’s constant barbs at “Trinamool’s promotion of Diamond Harbour MP and CM Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, at the expense of other leaders”. “Mamata Banerjee-r paribar-er keu chief minister hote chay na (No one from Mamata Banerjee’s family wants to be CM),” he added, seeking to tar the Adhikaris and Shah with the nepotism brush and alluding to the Adhikari family having multiple MPs (Suvendu Adhikari’s dad, Sisir Adhikari, and one brother, Dibyendu Adhikari, are MPs; another brother, Soumendu Adhikari, is a municipality chairman) and the Union home minister’s son being the BCCI secretary. This is Trinamool’s first formal rebuttal of BJP’s and Adhikari’s “dynastic politics” barbs. Trinamool leadership feels BJP’s constant reference to the Diamond Harbour MP is an attempt to distract from the Trinamool’s “development and governance narrative built around CM Banerjee”. “Mamata Banerjee is Bengal CM because of people’s love. She has been on the streets for four-and-a-half decades, speaking for people’s rights, fighting for them. She did not become CM overnight. And neither can anyone else. The people of Bengal made her CM,” the Trinamool LS chief whip said, adding: “BJP is trying to weave a narrative of falsehood and lies. That is what they are adept at. Lies will help them deviate the narrative from work and development. They have failed voters in every sector.” “He (Adhikari) is not just a deserter but also a traitor. He himself has said that he has been in touch with Shah for several years. He touched Shah’s feet today; throughout the last decade, he touched Mamata Banerjee’s feet. What does one make of such a person? He himself said Shah called him twice when his mother was hospitalised. He himself said he met Shah and spoke to him several times, even during the Uttar Pradesh elections,” the Serampore MP said. “It is easy to talk. But what is he without Mamata Banerjee? Why did he lose elections in 1996 and 2001? He even lost the 2004 Lok Sabha polls to Laxman Seth (CPM). We would urge him to contest from Nandigram again. Let him come in his bullet-proof car with a retinue of 30-40 paramilitary personnel. It will be a public political fight, let us see,” Banerjee said. “He now talks of ideology, nepotism, corruption. Wasn’t he a minister with three cabinet portfolios? Wasn’t he the party observer in four-five districts? Doesn’t everyone know of the contractor raj in Tamluk-Haldia-Contai? We, too, have a lot to say. Earlier, nothing moved in this belt without Laxman Seth’s nod, now it is someone else,” Banerjee said, adding: “The BJP, and now Suvendu, seem to have forgotten Bengal’s political history. Mamata Banerjee did not defect from the Congress. She left the Congress to form her own party. The same person who has been criticising Narendra Modi and Amit Shah for the last decade will now sing their praise. People do not forget that quickly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-one-from-mamatas-family-wants-to-be-cm-tmc/articleshow/79819634.cms||Saibal Sen
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||JEE Main 2021: New pattern beneficial but likely to lower seriousness||RANCHI/JAMSHEDPUR: Academicians, principals and coaching institutes heads have mixed reactions to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank’s announcement to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) four times from 2021. While some were of the opinion that the higher number of attempts would be beneficial to the students, others said it would make the candidates less serious on their attempts. Talking on the issue, Delhi Public School (Ranchi) principal Dr Ram Singh said, “Four options would be beneficial for the students in general as they would get more chances to improve on their ranking. Some well-prepared students may take only one or two attempts to get the qualifying marks for JEE (Advanced) to focus on the latter.” Paras Agrawal of Brother’s Academy said the new system would benefit the students as they would have additional chances in case they are not able to perform well in the earlier examinations due to various unforeseen reasons like sickness. He further said the candidates, irrespective of their preparations, are likely to appear for all the examinations. “If a student can get a much sought-after subject in a top NIT and a subject not in demand in IIT, he or she would naturally opt for the former,” Agrawal said. Both Singh and Agrawal believed that introducing more regional language as a mode of JEE will help only a limited number of students. Most of the students study with books in the English language and are more comfortable in taking the test in the same language, they said. S D Mishra, a chemistry teacher, said under the prevailing Covid-19 situation, it is good to give more chances to the students. The step will also help the students plan their preparation for JEE and the board examinations, which may witness a change in dates. Prabhat Ranjan, centre director of Miitjee Classes, Jamshedpur, said, “Conducting the main examination in four sessions is okay for the pandemic period but in the long run, it would have an adverse impact on the motivational level of the examinees.” Ranjan, who is an IIT-Kharagpur alumnus, said unlike in the present system where only one chance was available to the students, the option of four chances in the new system will make the students less serious as they would wait for the next round to improve on their percentile. The centre director of Narayana IIT and NEET Academy, Shyam Bhushan, said in the new system has the advantage to opt for one question out of the 10 numerical questions. “But yes, the seriousness and concentration level of a student will not be the same in the new system as the candidates would prepare for the main examination with a thought that they have four chances to improve the score,” Bhusan said. St Mary’s English School, spokesperson, A K Pandey, said in the new system candidates will have to answer 75 out of the 90 questions and this will give them time to focus on the questions that they are sure about the answer. “I accept the option of four sessions for the main examination will somewhat impact the preparations of the candidates but there are few things in the new pattern that benefits the candidates,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-jee-pattern-beneficial-but-likely-to-lower-seriousness/articleshow/79824167.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 20, 2020||Ranchi||Mysterious blast severs arm of youth, injures 2 minors in Mango||Jamshedpur: Three youths, including two minors, were injured in a mysterious blast at Dimna Basti in Ulidih police station area of Mango on Saturday. While all three sustained serious injuries, one among the group lost an arm in the blast. The trio was admitted to Tata Main Hospital. The three were identified as Bhubaneswar Kumar (21), Nakul Patel (15) and Viswanath Kumar (14). Not ruling out the possibility of a bomb explosion, police said all angles are being investigated. “The bomb disposal squad will investigate the spot to confirm whether it was a bomb explosion,” said deputy police superintendent of Patamda Vijay Mahato. Mahato said in the preliminary investigation, police could not find anything that suggests it was a bomb blast or a cooking gas cylinder blast. “It will be too early to conclude anything about the explosion and thus we are doing for a deeper investigation,” said Ulidih police station in-charge Dhananjay Baitha. Police said, “The injured will be interrogated about the explosion in details once they are in a position to speak. The family members of the injured have claimed that the three boys are employees of an electronic shop trader and they were repairing defunct electronic gadgets at the house of Pashupati Kumbhakar.” Sources added people questioned so far have not cooperated. “Vishwanath is the son of house owner Pashupati while the other two boys live in the neighbourhood,” said the elder brother of one of the injured on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mysterious-blast-severs-arm-of-youth-injures-2-minors-in-mango/articleshow/79817377.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Amit Shah meets NIA officials in Kolkata, seeks details of probe into terror modules||KOLKATA: Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with NIA officials at a city hotel on Saturday morning over the progress of investigations into terror modules in Bengal. He asked the NIA to trace the network of cross-border terrorist groups such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba and al Qaida. During the meeting with DIG Deepak Kumar with other NIA officials, Shah sought details of recent cases. In September, the NIA had busted a module of LeT operating from Baduria, North 24 Parganas. In November, the agency busted a “Pakistan-sponsored-module” of al Qaida. This led investigators to unearth a pan-Indian network the organisation had set up. Shah, sources said, also wanted to know about involvement of radical Islamic group Popular Front of India (PFI) in the recent developments. He asked NIA officials to keep tabs on the movement of PFI members in the state. Earlier this month, the Enforcement Directorate had conducted nationwide searches on the premises of PFI — an organization with alleged links to the Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) in the past. Its offices in Murshidabad and Kolkata were searched. While several states have asked the home ministry to ban PFI, it has not taken any decision yet. After the NIA meeting, Shah visited Swami Vivekananda’s birthplace in central Kolkata. “Swami Vivekananda connected spirituality with modernity. I pray that we are able to walk the path he showed us,” the minister said in his tribute. In East Midnapore, Shah had lunch at a farmer’s residence in Balijuri village before he addressed a rally that is part of the BJP’s outreach programme among peasants. Along with BJP’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya and state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, Shah reached the thatched house of Sanatan Singh. “He (Shah) had rice and dal along with vegetables,” the farmer said. In the evening, the minister met the party’s state functionaries along with the newly inducted members at a hotel in New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shah-meets-nia-officials-in-kol-seeks-details-of-probe-into-terror-modules/articleshow/79819500.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu in BJP, Adhikaris huddle at Contai home||CONTAI: When Suvendu Adhikari held hands with Union home minister Amit Shah at a BJP rally on Saturday, he missed the handholding of his family. Father Sisir Adhikari and brothers Dibyendu and Soumendu, who still owe allegiance to Trinamool Congress, locked themselves inside Shanti Kunj — the Adhikari mansion in Contai, 100km from the Midnapore rally grounds. Politics kept them apart, at least for the time being. A bunch of Suvendu loyalists had gathered in front of the residence in the morning to catch a glimpse of the leader heading for the rally. But, they left soon after Suvendu did around 11.30am. There have been no visitors since. Once the nerve centre of Trinamool politics, Shanti Kunj stood in isolation., Suvendu’s new innings has already made things difficult for the other members of the Adhikari family. Trinamool’s East Midnapore chairman Sisir has run into a trust deficit wall with party ranks even though he stopped attending public programmes to avoid controversy. The Yuva Trinamool is planning a rally in Contai minus him. It is likely to invite Trinamool seniors Saugata Roy and Firhad Hakim instead as speakers. Party supporters took control of Trinamool MP Dibyendu Adhikari’s office at Haldia’s Durgachak on Saturday. For the Adhikaris, things weren’t as grim in the past two decades. The once-undisputed chairman of Contai Municipality, Sisir brought son Suvendu to Congress politics. The latter was elected a Congress councillor when Sisir was the chairman of the municipality. Suvendu followed his father from Congress to Trinamool and eventually became the municipality chairman. When Sisir got elected to Parliament from Kanthi, Suvendu filled his shoes by winning the Dakshin Kanthi assembly seat on a Trinamool ticket. The family run continued when Suvendu became Tamluk MP and got brother Dibyendu to contest from Dakshin Kanthi. The graph was never linear. Suvendu put in hard work during the Nandigram stir in 2007, which helped Mamata Banerjee to power in 2011. Nandigram also helped Suvendu take forward the political assets his father had built for him. The Dakshin Kanthi seat went out of the Adhikari family in 2017 when the Trinamool chief fielded Chandrima Bhattacharya, denying a ticket to Suvendu’s younger brother Soumendu. The grudge that began then reached its culmination with Suvendu joining the BJP and the other Adhikaris staying home to fine-tune their future strategy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-in-bjp-adhikaris-huddle-at-contai-home/articleshow/79819506.cms||Suman Mandal
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||e-Abgari wins Digital India award for best practice||KOLKATA: A state government-led administrative reforms project that digitised excise collection under the finance ministry has won the prestigious Digital India Award for innovation in digital governance. The project, titled eAbgari, has been adjudged as a national best practice and adopted by seven states. “It gives me immense pleasure to inform that ‘eAbgari’ project of the Excise Directorate, under the finance department, has been declared as winner of the prestigious Digital India Award-2020 for exemplary and innovative initiatives in the realm of digital governance. I congratulate the entire team that worked on this for making WB proud,” CM Mamata Banerjee tweeted on Saturday. Banerjee pointed out that with an extensive IT-driven process re-engineering, e-Abgari had completely transformed the activities of the Excise Directorate. Further, this initiative had ensured efficiency and transparency, while safeguarding health and government revenue at the same time, the CM added. The President of India will confer this award to the West Bengal Team on December 30. The eAbgari project is crucial as annual excise collection of Rs 14,000 crore is the single-largest source of revenue after GST for the state government. The project has also enabled seamless online communication among all excise officials across the state and all licensees and administrative departments and other stakeholders through a workflow-based system. The excise project was an innovation during lockdown, which was later emulated by some other state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-abgari-wins-digital-india-award-for-best-practice/articleshow/79819515.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan CMs stand by Mamata Banerjee on IPS transfer issue||KOLKATA: After Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the CMs of Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, Bhupesh Baghel and Ashok Gehlot, on Saturday backed Mamata Banerjee’s stance on the IPS transfer issue. DMK president MK Stalin and former Union minister Yashwant Sinha have also lent their support to Banerjee. The Bengal chief minister has dubbed the Centre’s move to unilaterally transfer three Bengal-cadre IPS officers “an attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy”. Baghel posted on Twitter: “Federalism is at stake yet again. The BJP govt at Centre has encroached the state's area of administration and transferred officers. And that too before elections. Centre's interference is highly objectionable and condemnable.” Gehlot endorsed Baghel’s statement. Stalin also posted on Twitter, saying that the unilateral transfer of “three West Bengal IPS officers by the Union BJP Government is autocratic and anti-federal. The civil service of the country must not be dictated by the whims and fancies of the ruling party in Delhi. I urge the Prime Minister to immediately rescind the transfer order.” Sinha read more into the transfer move. He wrote, “BJP has launched its pre-election surgical strike in West Bengal already. Please be prepared for the post-election one. Nothing but a comprehensive win for TMC is the need of the hour.” Among CMs, Kejriwal was the first to back Banerjee on this issue. He had taken to Twitter on Friday to say, “I condemn the Centre’s blatant interference in the Bengal administration. Encroaching on the rights of states by attempting to transfer police officers to the Centre just before elections is an assault on federalism and an attempt to destabilise.” Banerjee dubbed the Centre’s move as “a deliberate attempt to encroach upon the State's jurisdiction and demoralise the serving officers in WB. This move, particularly before the elections, is against the basic tenets of the federal structure. It’s unconstitutional & completely unacceptable”. She added: “We wouldn’t allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow down in front of expansionist and undemocratic forces.” The Centre has turned down Bengal’s government’s objection to relieve the three IPS officers for central deputation. The Bengal government has indicated that if the Centre tries to force its hand on the issue, it will move the apex court. The Centre has used its overriding provisions in Rule 6(1) of IPS (Cadre) Rules, 1954 in case of a disagreement between the state and Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chgarh-and-raj-cms-stand-by-mamata-on-ips-transfer-issue/articleshow/79819513.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||BJP, JD(S) are natural partners: Basavaraj Horatti||Senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti on Saturday said his party’s alliance with the BJP will be stronger this time because they are natural partners. Horatti told mediapersons in Hubballi on Saturday that almost everyone in his party have shown interest in the alliance. “BJP also knows the value of our support,” he said. On opposition from former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda, Horatti said his thinking and style of politics won’t work in today’s politics. “We have asked him to stay quiet, we will handle everything.” Reacting to opposition leader Siddaramaiah’s statement of holding Congressmen responsible for his defeat in Chamundeshwari, Horatti said it’s clear JD(S) had no role to play in that. JD(S) must introspect, says Siddaramaiah“I don’t know how much truth is there in the merger reports but JD(S) must introspect how many seats it has lost after I left the party,’’ Siddaramaiah said in Mysuru. He refused to react to Kumaraswamy allegation that he is “the father of secret pact’’. In Madikeri, he retracted his statement that Kodavas eat beef saying it was misinterpreted. “We have various food traditions. Be it goat or sheep or chicken, pork or beef. I meant it is wrong to link religion and food habits. I never intended to say Kodavas eat beef. I have great respect for their culture,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-jds-are-natural-partners-basavaraj-horatti/articleshow/79820052.cms||---
December 20, 2020||World||Amid Ladakh standoff, Xi appoints new general for PLA’s western command||BEIJING: Chinese President Xi Jinping has appointed a new general as the commander of the People’s Liberation Army’s Western Theatre Command, which oversees the China-India border, amid the military standoff in eastern Ladakh. Xi, who heads the Central Military Commission (CMC), the overall high-command of the two million-strong PLA, appointed General Zhang Xudong as the Commander of the Western Theatre Command, state-run Xinhua news agency reported on Friday. Xi also promoted three other senior military and armed police officers. The others who were promoted include Guo Puxiao, political commissar of the logistic support department of the CMC; Li Wei, political commissar of the PLA strategic support force and Wang Chunning, commander. The new appointments come in the midst of the standoff between the Chinese and Indian military in eastern Ladakh since May. Not much is known about General Zhang, especially his association with Western Theatre Command, as he reportedly served mostly in other theatre commands of the PLA. He succeeds 65-year-old General Zhao Zongqi who headed the Western Theatre Command during the 2017 Doklam standoff. The Ladakh stand-off also happened under the watch of General Zhao. It began in May after China dispatched thousands of troops which were mobilised for military exercises to eastern Ladakh borders, sparking a new round of tensions with India. India and China have held several rounds of talks to resolve the stand-off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/amid-ladakh-standoff-xi-appoints-new-general-for-plas-western-command/articleshow/79820057.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Dubai flyer caught with gold hidden in cream cases||BENGALURU: A 27-year-old passenger from Dubai was caught at Kempegowda International Airport on Thursday with crude gold pieces worth Rs 21.7 lakh hidden inside a women’s handbag, cream cases, balm bottles and nail-cutters. Sources with the Air Intelligence Unit of Bangalore Customs said the suspect arrived on Emirates flight EK 564. During passenger profiling, he appeared nervous and was acting suspiciously. Officials inspected his check-in luggage and found 424 grams of crude gold. In another case, a 32-yearold passenger from Shivammoga landed at KIA from Dubai on Tuesday on an Emirates flight. He was caught with a gold ring, chain and bangle weighing 120 grams, estimated to be worth over Rs 6 lakh. They were rhodium-coated ornaments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-dubai-flyer-caught-with-gold-hidden-in-cream-cases/articleshow/79820059.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Business||H-1B ‘speciality’ visas can be granted to computer programmers: US court||A recent decision by the US appellate court (referred to as ninth circuit) is a resounding victory for IT companies that seek to sponsor computer programmers for H-1B visas. The ninth circuit has deemed as arbitrary and capricious a decision of the US citizenship and immigration services, which had held that computer programmers are not entitled to H-1B ‘speciality’ occupation visas. USCIS had in 2017 rescinded an earlier policy memo, which recognised the position of computer programmers as a ‘speciality’ occupation and thus eligible for H-1B visas. In this case, heard by the appellate court, Innova Solutions had sought to hire an Indian citizen to work as a computer programmer. The H-1B visa application was denied by USCIS. A US employer who wants to sponsor staffers under the H-1B programme has to show that the position requires “theoretical and practical application of a body of highly specialised knowledge”. USCIS relied on the department of labour’s occupational outlook handbook, which states that ‘most’ computer programmers have a bachelor’s degree and it describes that degree as the ‘typical level of education that most workers require’. It denied the H-1B application on the grounds that Innova Solutions had failed to show that a computer programmer qualified as a ‘speciality’ post. Cyrus D Mehta, New York-based founder of an immigration law firm, told TOI: “The decision is a refreshing rebuttal to USCIS’s longstanding practice of challenging computer programming on specialty occupation grounds. It reminds the USCIS that it can’t rely on the bureaucratic description... (for denials).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/h-1b-speciality-visas-can-be-granted-to-computer-programmers-us-court/articleshow/79820062.cms||Lubna Kably
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: College students can apply for bus pass online||BENGALURU: College-goers can apply online for BMTC student passes (2020-21) from Monday. “Online applications will be available on Sevasindhu portal and BMTC website (mybmtc.com). Degree/professional/ technical/ medical/ evening college students can apply for passes,” the transport utility said. SC/ST college students will have to pay Rs 200 and others between Rs 1,160 and Rs 1,600 for an annual pass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-college-students-can-apply-for-bus-pass-online/articleshow/79820066.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: MTC told to pay Rs 16 lakh to kin of accident victim||CHENNAI: A city accident claims tribunal directed the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to pay ₹16 lakh to the family of a software professional who was killed after a government bus rammed the two-wheeler, in which the victim was riding pillion. The accident happened on April 15, 2017 and the victim succumbed to his injuries a week later. According to a petition moved by mother of the victim C Vijaya, Rajesh was riding pillion in a motorcycle which was hit by a rashly driven government bus. The accident happened near Anna Salai and CIT Nagar 3rd Main Road junction. Rajesh was admitted at the Government General Hospital, but later died. The tribunal noted the transport corporation had not filed any counter in connection with the petiton. The tribunal perused the First Information Report, which had recorded the MTC bus driver as accused in the case and also took note of the eyewitness statements citing rash driving by the bus driver. The postmortem certificate issued by the Government General hospital shows the victim died due to the effects of injuries sustained in the road accident, the tribunal said and held that the transport corporation is liable to pay compensation. The victim was 22 yearsold at the time of the accident and working as a computer engineer in an IT firm in the city. Taking into account the young age of the deceased, his future prospects, loss to his family and other factors, the tribunal arrived at an amount of ₹16 lakh compensation. The tribunal directed the transport corporation to deposit the amount within two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-mtc-told-to-pay-rs-16-lakh-to-kin-of-accident-victim/articleshow/79820067.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||Defamation case: Ramesh apologises to Doval’s son||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tendered an apology on Saturday to Vivek Doval, son of national security adviser Ajit Doval, before a Delhi court in connection with a criminal defamation case. The criminal defamation complaint had been filed by Vivek against a magazine and the Congress veteran for allegedly defaming him through an article followed by a press conference based on it. In his statement, Ramesh said his remarks were based on a news article and conceded that “some independent verification of the facts may have been in order”. Following the apology, additional chief metropolitan magistrate Sachin Gupta closed the case against the Congress leader after Doval accepted the same. The case against the magazine, however, will continue. In his statement, Ramesh said, “I want to clarify that these statements or accusations were made drawing conclusions from an article that was published the previous day in ‘The Caravan’ magazine. As the case progressed, I realised that perhaps some independent verification may have been in order.” He added, “However, the general elections were close and the questions raised in the article seemed appropriate for being highlighted in making certain insinuations against you (Vivek) and your family. Thus, I would like to offer my apologies to you and your family for any hurt the statements may have caused. I would also urge the INC to remove the press conference, available on their website,” Ramesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/defamation-case-ramesh-apologises-to-dovals-son/articleshow/79820069.cms||---
December 20, 2020||India||RSS ideologue Vaidya who saw tenure of all its chiefs dies at 97||NAGPUR: An era came to an end for Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with the demise of its senior ideologue Madhav Govind Vaidya on Saturday. The 97-year-old former editor of ‘Tarun Bharat’ — a newspaper with RSS leanings — wasn’t keeping well for the last few days and breathed his last at around 3.30pm. Vaidya had recovered from Covid a month ago. He succumbed to an oldage-related illness, his family said. He is survived by wife Sunanda, 3 daughters and 5 sons, one of whom Manmohan, is a senior RSS functionary. Fondly called ‘Baburao’ in RSS’ inner circles, Vaidya, who was older than the RSS itself, also outlived all the Sarsanghchalaks. Born in 1923, two years before the RSS was established, he joined the Sangh at the age of 8. “We at the Sangh have lost an elder brother. He was not only an eminent journalist but a multi-talented personality who excelled in all fields and tasks he undertook. He was a witness to Sangh’s work across all spheres and its rise across the socio-political forums over the years,” said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and general secretary Suresh Joshi in a statement. Terming Vaidya a distinguished writer and journalist, Modi tweeted that he had contributed extensively to RSS. “He also worked to strengthen BJP. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rss-ideologue-vaidya-who-saw-tenure-of-all-its-chiefs-dies-at-97/articleshow/79820071.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 20, 2020||India||IPS officers row: C’garh, Raj CMs back Mamata||KOLKATA: Taking the cue from Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, his Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan counterparts on Saturday backed Mamata Banerjee in her running battle with the Centre over the central deputation of three IPS officers from Bengal. DMK chief MK Stalin and former Union minister Yashwant Sinha, too, lent their support to the Bengal CM, who has dubbed the Centre’s move to “unilaterally transfer” the three IPS officers as “an attempt to control the state machinery by proxy”. Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel questioned Centre’s move. “Federalism is at stake yet again. The Centre has encroached the state’s area of administration and transferred officers. And that too before polls. Centre’s interference is highly objectionable and condemnable,” he said. Rajasthan CM echoed Baghel’s views. Stalin tweeted that the transfer of IPS officers out of Bengal despite objections by the state was “autocratic and antifederal”. “The civil services of the country must not be dictated by the whims and fancies of the ruling party in Delhi. I urge the PM to immediately rescind the transfer order,” he said. Sinha said, BJP has launched its surgical strike in Bengal already. Nothing but a comprehensive win for TMC is the need of the hour. T||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ips-officers-row-cgarh-raj-cms-back-mamata/articleshow/79820074.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chennai||Musicians reach Chennai hospital with songs of healing||CHENNAI: Carnatic music duo Ranjani and Gayatri will be doing their first and only on-stage live kucheri this Margazhi season at an unusual location – an open-to-sky atrium of a city hospital. While almost all music sabhas in the city are going virtual due to Covid-19 pandemic, the two-year-old MGM Healthcare, which has been treating critically-ill Covid patients from across the country, will host live music sessions on December 25 and 26. On Christmas day, pianist Anil Srinivasan and Sikkil Gurucharan will give “an interactive, beyond Carnatic performance.” Although such performances aren’t entirely new — the hospital had a music performance on its inaugural day — this is the hospital’s first Margazhi celebrations. The sessions will begin at sunset with a backdrop of a tall vertical garden. “We wanted to tell people that life has to go on with the new normal with adequate social distancing and other pandemic protocols such as face masks. We also wanted to tell people hospitals are one of the safest places because we take utmost care to keep the campus sterile,” said hospital director Dr Prashanth Rajagopalan. While select guests will be permitted, the performances will be open to in-patients including post-surgery patients, antenatal women, elderly and their attenders. And for others, who can’t be moved out of their rooms, the session will be live streamed. Playing in a hospital environment is not new for Srinivasan. He has played at the lobbies of Sundaram Medical Foundation in Anna Nagar and Cancer Institute Adyar several times as a part of his “piano for peace”. “I have been playing to raise funds for several people. But this performance will offer solace of doctors and patients that will aim at positivity and hope in 2021. We have some surprise items that will go beyond Carnatic music. Gurucharan and I look forward to making it as interactive as possible,” Srinivasan said. The MGM group that runs Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute and Shri Sathya Sai Medical College and Research Institute – offers music therapy courses online. “It has worked and many of our patients have given us positive feedback,” he said. Seasoned singer Ranjani agrees, citing a couplet from Tiruvalluvar: “Hearing is best among all the five senses”. The sisters, who have the experience of singing in cinema halls, metro stations and malls say they are not new to unconventional settings. “But this is the first time we will be singing in a hospital environment. We have planned some renditions on healthcare and well-being. It is suited for this timethat we are going through,” she said. Forms for entry are available on hospital webpage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/musicians-reach-chennai-hospital-with-songs-of-healing/articleshow/79820072.cms||Pushpa Narayan
December 20, 2020||Chennai||ATM burglars who operated out of container truck nabbed at gunpoint in TN's Tiruvallur district||CHENNAI: Two members of an inter-state robber gang that targeted ATM kiosks that were without security guards or CCTV cameras were nabbed at a fuel outlet at Kaivandur in Tiruvallur district early on Saturday. Based on a specific tip from the Telangana police, a joint police team of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts picked up the men identified as Vasim and Hassan of Rajasthan. The arrested men told police that they cruised around in a modified container truck looking for vulnerable ATM kiosks. They said they were planning to strike at ATMs in Chennai and its suburbs. The gang mostly used gas-cutting equipment to open ATMs and in some cases escaped with the entire machine before breaking it open at an isolated spot, said an officer. After some strikes by the gang in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district as well as in Hyderabad, the Telangana police picked up the trail and managed to arrest two of the prime accused in Nagpur. Police then tracked the mobile phone towers, learned that Vasim and Hassan were in Tiruvallur on Friday and informed their counterparts in the north Tamil Nadu district. Special teams were formed by Tiruvallur superintendent of police P Aravindhan and Kancheepuram superintendent of police D Shanmugapriya. “We too tracked their mobile tower positions and started trailing them. When they entered a petrol bunk in Kaivandur, our team nabbed them at gunpoint,” added an officer involved in the joint operation. “The gang had earlier stolen a police vehicle while escaping with cash stolen from ATMs. Later, it abandoned the police vehicle and shifted to a mini truck of a private company and entered Tamil Nadu. While the Telangana police reportedly secured the main accused in Nagpur, the other gang members were on the run,” said Shanmugapriya. The two men arrested on Saturday had in an earlier strike at an ATM kiosk escaped with ₹2lakh in cash, she said. They have been handed over to the Telangana police, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/atm-burglars-who-operated-out-of-container-truck-nabbed-at-gunpoint-in-tns-tiruvallur-district/articleshow/79820084.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bhopal||Schoolteacher tests positive for Covid in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A teacher tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal on Saturday, a day after schools reopened for regular classes. The teacher is from Hamidia Government School-II (Phool Mahal), said Bhopal district education officer Nitin Saxena. “There is no need to panic. The teacher did not visit school on Friday. Contingencies for such scenarios have been planned,” he assured. “Standard guidelines will be followed,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. “The response mechanism has been activated. Those with any symptoms are advised to get tested for the infection and seek medical assistance immediately,” said Saxena. According to the SOP, if there are one or two cases reported, disinfection procedure is limited to areas visited by the patient in the past 48 hours. There is no need to shut down the entire office building or halt work in other areas. Work can be resumed after disinfection as per laid down protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schoolteacher-tests-positive-for-covid-in-bhopal/articleshow/79820086.cms||Jamal Ayub
December 20, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt in fix over EC order as report names some BJP ministers||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government is in a fix over the course of action on Election Commission’s recommendation to file criminal cases against everyone named in the CBDT report on the alleged ‘cash in poll’ row as some of the names are directly associated with the ruling party. The probe will be handed over to Economic Offences Wing (EOW) on Monday, but it’s yet to be decided whether an FIR or a preliminary enquiry (PE) will be registered, sources say. State chief electoral officer Veera Rana has sent CBDT’s report to general administration department for further proceedings. The 904-page report hints at the role of many individuals in the “widespread and well-organised racket of collection and transaction of unaccounted cash of about Rs 281 crore in Madhya Pradesh during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls”. Some of them are now BJP ministers. The tumult over CBDT’s report has created a divide within the state BJP. While one fraction is pressing for immediate FIRs against those named, the other seeks a formal inquiry first, alluding to the three-decade-old hawala scandal in which Supreme Court ruled that entries in loose sheets are irrelevant and inadmissible as evidence under section 34 of Indian Evidence Act. On April 8 last year, CBDT had said in a statement that tax officers recovered Rs 14.6 crore “unaccounted” cash in raids, and seized diaries and computer files of suspect payments. It also detected a trail of Rs 20 crore suspect cash allegedly being moved to the “headquarters of a major political party in Delhi” from the residence of a senior functionary at Tughlaq Road in Delhi. ‘Why did CBI refuse to take action?’CBDT’s report is largely based on Prateek Joshi’s diaries, loose papers, computer files, WhatsApp messages between Prateek and Lalit Challani among others, and geo-tagged locations of individuals. Even, establishing identities will be a big challenge. Why couldn't CBDT summon 90% of those they have named in the report? Why did CBI refuse to take up EC’s recommendation? They all know how it went with the Hawala scandal,” said a senior officer at the secretariat. “An FIR is possible if entries are supported by independent evidence. We have to dig up more crucial evidence for any criminal case against them,” he pointed out. EC’s move seems to have taken many by surprise. Recommendations for criminal cases on CBDT’s report were made to the MP government after CBI’s refusal, say sources. As per the CBDT report, there is an alleged contribution of Rs 25 lakh mentioned against an IPS officer’s name in a file relating to Lok Sabha polls and also in the diary and WhatsApp messages of Prateek Joshi, who was among the people raided by the I-Tax department last year. Another officer, who has been named in the CBDT case, told TOI that if the government takes CBDT’s report into consideration it should also “incorporate the case of Rs 10 crore bribe received by a chief minister’s OSD from a company ahead of the 2013 assembly elections”. Prominent lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan had sought an investigation into this allegation, moving an application in Supreme Court in 2016. “If I-T reports on collections of 2019 Lok Sabha polls are being taken into account, why not incorporate I-T reports on 2013 assembly elections? Let there be some fair investigation on both reports simultaneously,” said the officer, requesting not to be named. CBDT’s report, which has been cited by EC, was based on raids at 52 locations, including those linked to aides of then Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, including his former OSD Praveen Kakkar, adviser Rajendra Miglani and nephew Ratul Puri. While CBDT had neither identified the political party nor the senior functionary, Nath had earlier said the action against his aides was “politically motivated”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-govt-in-fix-over-ec-order-as-report-names-some-bjp-ministers/articleshow/79820081.cms||P Naveen
December 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal colder than Pachmarhi||BHOPAL: For the past week or so, Bhopalis have been relishing a Pachmarhi-like winter chill. On Saturday, the state capital woke up to ice-cold water from taps, frozen and numbed hands, and the question, just how cold is it today? Colder than Pachmarhi, in fact. The minimum temperature in Bhopal dropped to the season’s lowest of 6.6 degrees Celsius, and it is likely to dip further over the next two-three days. Hill town Pachmarhi was 8 degrees. The mercury has tumbled a bone-chilling 11.6 degrees in Bhopal in the last six days (the minimum was 18 degrees last Sunday). Cold winds from the north are sweeping through the state, said the weather department. The minimum temperature at 10 places remained below the 5-degree mark, with Umaria being the coldest in MP at 3.2 degrees Celsius, followed by Datia (3.8) and Naogaon (3.9). There is a cold wave warning for 16 districts — Bhind, Morena, Sheopur, Gwalior, Ashoknagar, Datia, Guna, Shivpuri, Sagar, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Panna, Tikamgarh, Niwari, Rewa and Satna. Covid infection rate in children still high at 5%High-risk contacts will be quarantined for a week. Low-risk exposure contacts shall continue to work and closely their health will be closely monitored for 14 days. Infection rate among children in the schoolgoing age hovers around 5% in the state capital. It peaked to about 10% during ‘unlocking’ in July. Children are considered less vulnerable to the infection, but can be superspreaders, caution medical experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-colder-than-pachmarhi/articleshow/79820092.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor lovers commit suicide in Telangana||PALAKURTHY (JANGAON): Minor lovers committed suicide in Budigajangala Colony of Palakurthy mandal, late on Friday by consuming pesticide. Noticing them, neighbours called the police and the duo was rushed to hospital where they were declared brought dead. According to sub-inspectors G Sateesh the minors belong to a nomadic tribe. The deceased were identfied as Charla Anji (16), and Sirisala Lakshmi (15). Fearing adverse reaction from their parents, the couple took the extreme step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-lovers-commit-suicide-in-telangana/articleshow/79820096.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Covid-19 cases cross seven-lakh mark; test positivity rate climbs to 10.5%||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A day after cumulative Covid-19 cases in the country crossed the one crore-mark, the total cases reported in the state went past seven lakh on Saturday. With 6,293 more contracting the infection, the state has reported 7,00,158 to date. The active case-count also went past 60,000 again (60,396) and the test positivity rate also climbed to 10.5% after 59,995 samples were tested in 24 hours. Meanwhile, 29 recent deaths were confirmed as Covid-related, taking the toll to 2,786. Health minister K K Shailaja appealed to the public to avoid crowding as she noted that Covid protocol was violated extensively during the local body poll campaign and as part of the victory celebrations. The minister said that the next two weeks will be crucial as the health department expects a surge. “We need to exert self-restraint till a vaccine is available. Each of us needs to observe self-lockdown as much as possible,” said Shailaja . The district-wise numbers of those who tested positive on Saturday: Ernakulam, 826, Kozhikode, 777, Malappuram, 657, Thrissur, 656, Kottayam, 578, Alappuzha, 465, Kollam, 409, Palakkad, 390, Pathanamthitta, 375, Thiruvananthapuram, 363, Kannur, 268, Wayanad, 239, Idukki, 171 and Kasaragod, 119. Of the fresh cases, 73 had travelled to the state from outside. There are 2,89,910 people under isolation across the state, including 2,76,377 under home or institutional quarantine and 13,533 in hospitals. On Saturday, 1,474 persons were admitted to various hospitals in the state. Four new places were declared as hotspots while as many areas were excluded leaving 458 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-covid-19-cases-cross-seven-lakh-mark-test-positivity-rate-climbs-to-10-5/articleshow/79820103.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Indore||Cut Remdesivir prices: Indore pharmacies told||INDORE: Prompted by a survey that shows high profit margins on sale of Remdesivir — an antiviral that is increasingly being used to treat Covid-19 patients — the Indore district administration has appealed to retailers and stockists to slash prices and take a smaller profit so that more people can afford it. ADM Abhay Bedekar said a survey conducted by Indore administration revealed that stockists and retailers are earning up to 78% profit on Remdesivir. “We have asked them to cut it down to 20%,” he said. The appeal comes close on the heels of Maharashtra government fixing the price of Remdesivir injection at Rs 2,360 apiece. In Indore, a single Remdesivir injection MRP varies between Rs 2,800 and Rs 5,400, depending on brand, the ADM said, adding: “The survey was conducted because we received several complaints of overcharging and high pricing of Remdesivir injections, which are being used by doctors on Covid-19 patients.” Indore reporting around 400 Covid cases every dayDr Ravi Dosi, pulmonologist at SAIMS that sees the maximum Covid-19 cases in Indore, said, “Remdesivir is prescribed to patients, who suffer 10% or more infection in lungs. Around 60-70% cases fall in this category on a daily basis.” Indore, the worst hit in MP, is reporting an average of 400 new Covid-19 cases every day. Dr Dosi said that though ICMR has not approved Remdesivir, many international studies show it is an important drug for Covid-19 treatment and many patients at SAIMS have benefited from it. Not many can afford the injections, though. Indore Druggist and Chemist Association president Vinay Bakliwal said that the administration’s appeal can lead to a workable solution. “We respect the administration’s concerns and will discuss it with stockists and retailers as they share the profit on any drug, including Remdesivir. If they agree to compromise their profit, prices can be cut,” he said. National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has not fixed pricing of Remdesivir and manufacturers fix the price according to manufacturing and operational costs. Notwithstanding the central pricing control mechanism, Maharashtra government decided that its price will not exceed Rs 2,360 per injection, and has released a list of 59 pharmaceutical outlets where it can be purchased. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/cut-remdesivir-prices-indore-pharmacies-told/articleshow/79820133.cms||Sagar Choukse
December 20, 2020||Bhopal||At 6.6°, it is Bhopal’s coldest night of the season||BHOPAL: Biting cold weather has now gripped Bhopal as well as other parts of the state. Night temperature in the city dipped to season’s lowest on Saturday, in fact, temperature at 10 places across the state remained well below 5 degreemark. Met officials said, dry cold weather would continue due to strong northerly winds. The temperature may marginally go up after December 22 due to the impact of western disturbance, but there would be no respite from cold at least for the next three days, they added. Day temperature in Bhopal on Saturday was recorded at 23.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees less than the normal mark, while night temperature in the city was 6.6 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than normal. Wind direction in the city was north-easterly while average wind speed was 10 kilometres per hour. Lowest temperature in the state was recorded at 3 degrees Celsius in Umaria. At over 26 places in the state, temperature remained between 3 degrees Celsius and 10 degrees Celsius. The places where night temperature was between 3 degrees Celsius and 9 degrees Celsius are -Umaria 3.2, Datia 3.8, Naogaon 3.9, Rewa 4, Gwalior 4.1, Guna 4.8, Khajuraho 5, Raisen 5 and Shajapur recorded 5.3 degrees Celsius. In the forecast for Bhopal on Sunday, met office stated, there would be clear sky and dry weather. Day and night temperature would be at 23 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively, while average wind speed will be 14 kmph. In the forecast for the state, the meteorological officials has issued a warning of extremely cold day for Chambal division and for Ujjain, Rajgarh, Shajapur, Datia and Umaria districts. Warning of cold day is issued for Gwalior, Chambal and Shahdol divisions and for Rewa, Satna, Sagar and Chhatarpur districts. Warning of ground frost is issued for Gwalior, Datia, Bhind, Rewa, Umaria and Chhatarpur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-6-6-it-is-bhopals-coldest-night-of-the-season/articleshow/79820143.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: BJP leaders, workers fast for Satluj Yamuna Canal, farmers question timing||The daylong protest fast (Upwas) call given by Haryana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to seek share of Satluj Yamuna Canal (SYL) waters evoked a tepid response in the state. It also led to questions about its timing. In Fatehabad, police had to escort the ‘BJP-supported’ farmers and a handful of BJP leaders from the venue after some farmers affiliated with various farmer organisations entered the venue. Superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said a case has been registered against some people for assaulting BJP leaders and workers and calling them names. Barring Jhajjar, where Haryana BJP president Om Parkash Dhankar led the protest, there were few takers for the call in most districts except those in Ahirwal belt. In Hisar, BJP MP Brijendra Singh could not make it to the venue and neither did JJP leaders join the protests. However, despite the low turnout, Dhankar claimed that the protest was “successful” and “a grand event organized by the party”. Terming the Fatehabad incident as unfortunate, Dhankar said, “Those who attacked our people on protest fast were certainly not farmers.” He also dismissed allegations levelled by farmer leaders as well as other groups that sarpanches and members of panchayats were forced to send farmers to dharnas. “Those who joined us have suffered due to not getting SYL waters. All kinds of meetings, including CM-level talks and dialogue between chief secretaries of two states have been already held. Now, only implementation is left. At a time when Haryana farmers are playing host {to the farm groups}, it is the duty of our elder brother Punjab to give us our share,” said Dhankar. Only former MLA Naresh Yadav and Ateli MLA Abhay Singh Yadav came out to support Dhankar. Addressing the farmers’ dharna opposite the BJP fast site in Hisar, president of Yuva Kranti Sangathan Sandeep Dhiranwas said people associated with BJP wanted to divert public attention from the “black laws” by raking up the SYL issue. Jaibir Godara, former district president of the BJP Hisar and president of Maru Pradesh Nirman Morcha, said no BJP leaders had fought for SYL except him. In Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar, farmers associated with BKU protested against the BJP upwas demonstration. Rakesh Bains, a spokesman of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), termed it “a drama”. “Where were they for the past six years, especially when Badals were part of the NDA government. First, they tried to stop farmers, then they used all kind of force, and now they are talking of dialogue. These tactics will backfire on them,’’ he added. Nafe Singh Rathi, president of former MLAs’ association, and senior Congress leader Ashok Arora asked Dhankar as well as the BJP to explain why had the BJP government in Haryana scrapped the Dadupur-Nalwi project and why had they waited for two years to start this protest. In Karnal, police stopped hundreds of farmers from reaching the venue of a BJP protest. The farmers were stopped a few metres away from the BJP hunger strike venue. One of the protesting farmers said, “Those seated with BJP are not real farmers. The real farmers have been protesting at the Delhi border. The government is trying to divide the farmers by raising SYL issue.” According to the farmers, the three farm laws are a threat to their land, and if their land goes into the hands of capitalists, there will be no need for water. BJP district president Yogendra Rana said, “We are on a day-long hunger strike as the Punjab government is not giving the share of SYL canal water, despite the supreme court decision in Haryana’s favour.” Meanwhile, Chand Bhatia, son of Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, was gheraoed by farmers at Assandh town. He was allowed to go only after apologising to the farmers. In Jind district, ‘upwas’ got into controversy when around 15 women from weaker sections alleged that they were made to sit at the fast site at Narwana road for something else. “We are not aware why BJP workers were staging a dharna and were told that we will get paid to construct houses under the scheme if we staged a dharna along with them,” said the women. BJP district president Raj Kumar alias Raju Mor said the women came to urge him to solve their problem. In Rohtak, the BJP leaders, including the local MP, participated in the fast and sit-in at Medical Mor park. Former minister Manish Grover, wrestler-turned-politician Yogeshwar Dutt, mayor Manmohan Goyal besides Rohtak MP Dr Arvind Sharma were among those present. Talking to the media, MP Arvind Sharma, said SYL canal water is the lifeline of Haryana farmers but the previous and current government in the neighbouring state were not sharing the water. On being asked about the timing of the protest, the MP said they had been raising the issue earlier also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-leaders-workers-fast-for-satluj-yamuna-canal-farmers-question-timing/articleshow/79820145.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||Gold worth Rs 50 lakh seized from Dubai flight at Delhi airport||NEW DELHI: Customs officials at IGI Airport on Sunday seized 1.1 kg of gold worth nearly Rs 50 lakh from a flight. The gold had been concealed under multiple seats. The flight landed in the capital from Dubai and was supposed to head to Pune afterwards. Customs said inspections were carried out based on a tipoff and the gold was discovered in the form of cylindrical rods. “During rummaging of aircraft by a team of customs officers, 31 cylindrical rods of gold collectively weighing 1,138 gms valued at Rs 48,90,250 have been recovered as unclaimed ingeniously concealed underneath the seat track guards of Dubai to Delhi- bound flight,” said the office of the commissioner of Customs at the airport. Investigation was under way to determine who left the gold behind. “In such cases, gold is generally left behind in an aircraft to be collected later on by another carrier,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-50-lakh-gold-seized-from-dubai-flight/articleshow/79820164.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bhopal||With 3,468 fatalities, Madhya Pradesh ranks 5th in Covid death rate||BHOPAL: MP has the dubious distinction of being ranked fifth when it comes to death rate due to Covid-19 among the top 16 states with maximum positive cases so far. Death rate — which is number of deaths per 100 positive cases — in the state is also above the national average death rate. The national average death rate is 1.45% while that of Madhya Pradesh is 1.5%. In the top 16 states of the country, which have reported maximum number of Covid cases, Madhya Pradesh ranks 16th, i.e., state has reported lowest positive cases among these states. But when it comes to tests per million population, then also the state is lowest and has done lowest tests among these 16 states. When it comes to death rate, coronavirus has claimed more lives per 100 positive patients in Madhya Pradesh than 11 other states, which have reported more cases than the state. It is only Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal and Delhi which have more death rate than Madhya Pradesh. Remaining all other of the 16 states, including Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Rajasthan,Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar,Telangana and Kerala have lower death rate compared to MP. This clearly means that Covid has proved to be more lethal in the state compared to these 11 states. Day to day positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—has been decreasing in the month of December. On December 1, it was around per cent, on December 19 it was around 4 per cent, however, the cumulative positivity rate is still above 5 per cent. But despite declining positivity rate, 203 deaths have so far been reported in the state in December. Thus on an average, around 11 people have lost lives to virus in the state in December, daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-3468-fatalities-madhya-pradesh-ranks-5th-in-covid-death-rate/articleshow/79820147.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 20, 2020||World||To fight new Covid strain, UK PM Johnson reverses Christmas plans for millions||LONDON: Prime Minister Boris Johnson imposed an effective lockdown on over 16 million people in England and reversed plans to ease curbs over Christmas, saying Britain was dealing with a new coronavirus strain up to 70% more transmissible than the original. Although Johnson and his scientific advisors believe vaccines will still be effective, and the new strain is not more deadly or more serious in terms of the illness caused, he said on Saturday the government had to take urgent action. The number of cases in England has soared in the last two weeks because of the virus variant. Johnson tore up plans to allow three households to mix indoors for five days over the festive period, and said London and southeast England, which are currently in the highest level of a three-tier system of rules, would now be placed in a new Tier 4 level, similar to those of a recent national lockdown. "It is with a very heavy heart I must tell you we cannot continue with Christmas as planned," Johnson told a news conference. "I sincerely believe there is no alternative open to me." People in Tier 4 - 16.4 million and about a third of the population of England - will be required to stay at home except for essential reasons such as work, and non-essential retail will close, as will indoor leisure and entertainment. Social mixing will be limited to meeting one other person in an outdoor space. The new rules will come into effect from midnight on Saturday. Johnson, whose initial response to the pandemic has been criticised for being too slow, had resisted calls to change plans for the Christmas relaxation, saying on Wednesday it would be "frankly inhuman" to ban it. However, those now in Tier 4 will not be allowed to mix with others over Christmas. And everyone else in England will now be allowed to see friends and family only on Christmas Day itself, Dec. 25. 'Confusion'"At this time of national crisis, the British people want clear, decisive leadership," opposition Labour leader Keir Starmer said on Twitter. "All we get from Boris Johnson is confusion and indecision." Within minutes of Johnson's announcement, shoppers hit the streets for a final attempt to stock up on Christmas presents and supplies. "It was fairly quiet all day, then suddenly there was this mass of people," said one sales assistant at a large department store at Westfield shopping centre in West London, one of Europe's largest. The UK's other nations, whose response to the pandemic differs from that of England at times, also took action. Scotland said on Saturday it would impose a ban on travel to the rest of the United Kingdom, and the Christmas easing would be limited to Dec. 25 only. All of Wales will go into Tier 4 from midnight, but two households can mix on Christmas Day. Business leaders said the government needed to provide emergency financial support. "The consequences of this decision will be severe," said Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium. 'Taken Off'Like other countries in Europe, Britain is battling to contain new waves of the virus. It reported 27,052 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total over 2 million, and 534 more deaths, taking the overall official toll to more than 67,000. There has been a surge in infections sparked by the new virus strain - VUI202012/01. "This virus has taken off, it's moving fast and it's leading inevitably to a sharp increase in hospital admissions," Britain's Chief Scientific Officer Patrick Vallance said. England's Chief Medical Officer Chris Whitty said the authorities had alerted the World Health Organization and were continuing to analyse the data. "There's no evidence to suggest it is more lethal or causes more severe illness," Johnson said. "There's no evidence to suggest the vaccine will be any less effective against the new variant. Other countries have also reported variants of the virus. South Africa said on Friday one such strain was driving a second wave of infections there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/to-fight-new-covid-strain-uk-pm-johnson-reverses-christmas-plans-for-millions/articleshow/79820156.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP contractors may protest over payment||BENGALURU: Garbage contractors in the city have threatened to intensify their protest as the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has not paid them for the past seven months. “BBMP is supposed to pay us Rs 2,800 crore. We protested on November 23 and were assured that payments would be released in 15 days, but the disbursal has not happened,” BBMP Contractors Association president KT Manjunath told STOI. Though contractors have not specified how they plan to protest, sources in BBMP warned that the city could start stinking if there’s any disruption in daily collection and disposal of garbage. “We require money to at least fill fuel for vehicles that transport garbage. It’s becoming increasingly difficult for contractors,” Manjunath added. The city, with a population of 1.2 crore people, generates around 5,000 tonnes of waste every day. What has compelled contractors to pressure BBMP to release payments is the recent announcement on deferring user fee proposed to be collected from citizens for door-to-door collection of waste. The urban development department (UDD) had earlier approved the Solid Waste Management Bylaws, 2020, which prescribed a user fee to cover the cost of providing specific service of solid waste collection, transportation, processing and/or disposal services as per the polluter- pays principle. The Palike had also proposed a separate board or corporation for handling garbage-related issues and the funds that were to be collected as user fee would be routed to the board/corporation for efficient management of garbage. BBMP officials admit that rolling back the user fee would affect the civic agency’s finances. When contacted, a senior official maintained that they are working on strategies to ensure there are no disruptions in garbage collection and disposal. “The proposal to collect user fee has not been spiked, it has only been put on hold. We’ll reconsider the proposal as revenue mobilisation has become a challenge for the civic agency during the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-contractors-may-protest-over-payment/articleshow/79817876.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 20, 2020||Amritsar||‘NRIs from Toronto to reach stir’||BATHINDA: After extending support to Punjab and Haryana farmers opposing farm laws, non-resident Indians (NRIs) have started appealing to people to reach Delhi to extend physical and monetary support to farmers on Delhi borders. Earlier, due to spread of Covid-19, the travelling was restricted from one country to another, but now things have gotten smoother and NRIs are reaching India. Surinder Mavi, an IT engineer-based at Toronto in Canada, has prevailed upon nearly a dozen NRIs from Toronto to reach India to support the farmer protest. Mavi’a friend Joban Randhawa, who is in Punjab, said the clip had gone viral. “A dozen NRIs have confirmed their visit to Delhi and already booked flight tickets from Toronto. We expect nearly100 NRIs to reach Delhi borders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nris-from-toronto-to-reach-stir/articleshow/79820176.cms||Neel Kamal
December 20, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Pay cuts for 17 absentee doctors after final notices||NAVI MUMBAI: After slapping showcause notices to 18 on-call medical officers at the 300-bed Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) Vashi hospital a fortnight ago for dereliction of duty, the NMMC slashed the salaries of 17 doctors. They received pay cuts for the days that did not sign the attendance register at the hospital. The NMMC found the explanation provided by doctors to the notices to be unacceptable. The medical superintendent of the hospital and NMMC's Medical Officer of Health (MOH), who heads the civic health department, were also served final notices. The notices sought to know why action should not be initiated against the doctors. The eighteenth doctor who was served the notice for being absent on the day the cicic commissioner visited the hospital was spared as he was on official leave. His explanation was accepted, said NMMC sources. The medical superintendent and MOH were asked for further clarification as they failed to discharge their duties as head of the hospital and health department respectively. "Both were found to be negligent in handling their subordinates. Their lack of sincerity encouraged the doctors to remain absent more frequently. Further action will be taken," said NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar. In all, 19 doctors are now facing an enquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-pay-cuts-for-17-absentee-doctors-after-final-notices/articleshow/79820178.cms||B B Nayak
December 20, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Woman arrested for pushing 15-year-old sister into drugs, sex trade||BHOPAL: A 20-year-old woman has been arrested for pushing her 15-year-old sister into drugs and prostitution so that she could live a life of luxury from her earnings. Six men have been nabbed for raping the minor over the past two years. The horrifying crime came to the fore when Childline was counselling the minor. All the accused have been booked under POCSO Act. Among them is a cousin of the survivor, who took advantage of her helplessness and raped her, say police. Investigation officer Arshiya Siddiqui said that the survivor studies in class 10. Her father runs a business in Mumbai and her mother does part-time trading, too. Her elder sister worked in a firm in Indore till her arrest. According to the survivor’s complaint, around two years ago, her elder sister got her hooked on cigarettes. What started as teenage mischief took a grim turn when the elder sister introduced the girl — then 13 — to ganja, said SI Siddiqui. Then, they got into alcohol and ganja-booze sessions on their terrace became a regular thing. The survivor says she was addicted to drugs within a month. One day, her elder sister convinced her to sleep with a man for a night, saying they would get quick money to buy drugs, branded clothes and daily luxuries. She took the survivor to a house near the airport, where they met accused Sameer alias Sunil, who raped her for Rs 2,000, says the complaint. Then, a second man, accused Gaurav Tyagi alias Goldy, began taking her to a lodge in Shanti Nagar where he raped her repeatedly, said the SI. The girl alleges that the lodge owner and his two sons also raped her at the lodge many times, paying her and Goldy. After a while, a male cousin of hers, who was friends with the lodge owner’s sons, came to know about it and exploitedq her. He raped her repeatedly, she says. This began taking a toll on the teenager. Her mother began questioning her frequent and prolonged absences, which made the girl more aggressive and she started misbehaving with her, say police. The mother began filing missing person reports with police, but the girl would return and tell the cops that she was out with friends. In November, the survivor's mother got alarmed and took her to Childline with the help of police. Childline sent the girl to Gauravi and then to a shelter home where she was counselled for a month. Slowly, she opened up about her ordeal. On Saturday, Childline informed police, who immediately registered a case of rape, abduction and human trafficking against seven accused, including her elder sister and cousin. SI Siddiqui said the girl was raped by many more men, but does not remember their names. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/woman-arrested-for-pushing-15-year-old-sister-into-drugs-sex-trade/articleshow/79820169.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Amrita Sher-Gil portrait of her husband may fetch Rs 15 crore at e-auction||MUMBAI: A rare 1939 portrait of her husband by legendary Indian artist Amrita Sher-Gil is estimated to fetch up to Rs 15 crore at a virtual auction this weekend. Created as a parting gift to her husband's family, the oil-on-canvas titled 'Portrait of Victor Egan' shows the artist's suave Hungarian army doctor husband in his uniform, a lit cigarette between his fingers. Born in 1913 in Budapest, Sher-Gil was the first significant woman artist from India to attain fame internationally in the 1930s. Her father, Umrao Singh Shergil, scion of a Sikh family, rose to prominence with land holdings in Majithia and Gorakhpur while her mother, Marie Antoinette Gottesman, was a talented pianist of Hungarian descent. After she married Egan, her cousin, in 1938, the couple lived in Hungary but the looming war situation made them decide to shift to India the following year. They moved into Sher-Gil's parental home in Uttar Pradesh, and later to Lahore in 1941.  Estimated at Rs 10 crore to Rs 15 crore, the rare artwork showcases Sher-Gil's proficiency as a portraiture artist, and elucidates her academic training, according to the online auction house AstaGuru whose ongoing sale also includes other rare artworks that shine a spotlight on the pioneers of Indian modernism. Highlights include Nicholas Roerich's 'Himalayas' which is estimated to fetch up to Rs 7 crore and S H Raza's 'Sanshari' and an early work from 1949 titled 'Kashmir Valley' - both making their auction debuts, and at the same time showcasing Raza's evolution as an artist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amrita-sher-gil-portrait-of-her-husband-may-fetch-rs-15-crore-at-e-auction/articleshow/79820184.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Bars, hotels want 100% occupancy till 1.30am in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Bars and restaurants in the city sought permission for 100% occupancy at least till 1.30am (normal closing time in pre-Covid days), as against 5am every Christmas and New Year's Eve. These days, bars can operate only till 11.30pm at 50% capacity due to Covid-19. They, however, promised the city administration not to hold special new year programmes or parties this year and they will follow stringent Covid norms. They want the closing hour extension for the first post-Covid New Year's Eve at least till 1.30am for guests. AHAR president Shivanand Sherry said, "As always, the period from December 24 till New Year is a week of festivity and celebrations when bars and restaurants do good business, but this time it is exceptional as after a gruelling seven-month lockdown, in the midst of many restrictions required for containing Covid-19 and many other challenges, the industry has been finding its feet. We have always been appreciative and supportive of measures by the state government to battle this pandemic, and have told members to follow all SOPs strictly as we opened, but only for few flouting rules, the authorities should not impose night curfew and other stringent measures, which will adversely hit business of restaurant and bar owners." Every year, hoteliers get a 5am extension on December 24, 25 and 31, and January 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bars-hotels-want-100-occupancy-till-1-30am-in-mumbai/articleshow/79820187.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||No funds, GMDA office is home to Faridabad body||GURUGRAM: In the absence of funds and other resources, the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) is running from the office of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). While GMDA chief VS Kundu also has the charge of FMDA, all GMDA officers have recently taken over the additional work of FMDA. While it was notified around two years ago, FMDA did not come into existence till this summer. The metropolitan authority has not had a single authority meeting yet. “As of now, FMDA is being run by the GMDA officers. We are expecting to have the first meeting of the authority sometime early next year,” Kundu said. While GMDA itself is facing a financial crunch, FMDA is in an even worse situation as unlike the former, it does not have the option of borrowing money from the municipal corporation. The Faridabad municipal body, already facing an acute shortage of funds, has itself borrowed money from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) which it is yet to return. The arrangement is likely to strain GMDA’s resources, as the metropolitan authority is currently running behind on almost all its projects. According to sources, GMDA has not achieved more than 50% progress on most of its infrastructural projects. Additionally, there have also been questions on the efficiency of the internal structure of the authority. TOI had earlier reported that GMDA is running way behind in terms of the progress at its civic infrastructure projects. Many projects have accomplished a maximum of 40% progress and are unlikely to meet their completion deadlines, according to the details shared by the metropolitan authority in a resident advisory council meeting over GMDAs’ projects and their current status. The redevelopment of Huda City Centre is one such example. The flyover proposed at the site was supposed to be opened to the public in February this year, but it is not yet complete. “The underpass is around 45% complete. The flyover portion is 83% complete and the progress of civil works achieved is 34%,” GMDA had in an official document. Just like the redevelopment of Huda city centre, the widening and strengthening of Udyog Vihar Road (Shankar Chowk to Old Delhi Road) is also running way behind its deadline. Only 36% of the overall work has been completed, whereas 86% of the drain and 60% of the widening work has been completed. The project was supposed to be complete by the end of this year, a GMDA official said. Among the other projects, the redevelopment of Mahavir Chowk has also been delayed. The overall progress at the project is only 7% as of now. Other civic infrastructure projects in the city being carried out by GMDA are also progressing at a slow pace, sources said. GMDA officials, when approached, said that the delay in the work has been caused largely due to the pandemic. “There are two major factors either litigation of shifting of utilities. Additionally pandemic has also heavily impacted as manpower is still no easily available,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-funds-gmda-office-is-home-to-faridabad-body/articleshow/79817998.cms||Shubhra Pant
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Harsimrat demands reopening of Kartarpur corridor||Chandigarh: Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has urged the ministry of external affairs to facilitate the reopening of Kartarpur corridor at the earliest. The Bathinda MP said Sikhs from across the world were pained at being unable to visit the last resting place of Guru Nanak Dev on his 551st Parkash Purb (birth anniversary) on November 30. Harsimrat raised the issue in a meeting of the parliamentary committee of external affairs, of which she is a member. She said she failed to get a satisfactory response from the ministry as to why the corridor was still closed. “Keeping this in view, external affairs ministers S Jaishankar should intervene and take up the issue with the Lands Port Authority of India (LPAI) to get the corridor reopened at the earliest,” she added. She said she was of the view that if the entire country could open up and even assembly elections take place, there was no reason why the Kartarpur corridor could not be reopened. “The Pakistan government opened the corridor for travel nearly two months ago and India should follow suit after instituting needed health protocols keeping in view the fact that the corridor was closed temporarily on March 16 on account of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Harsimrat. The former Union minister also said it was months since pilgrimage sites across the world as well as the country, which had been partially or fully closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, had been reopened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/harsimrat-demands-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor/articleshow/79818887.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Reduced export subsidy on sugar to hit cane growers: Randhawa||The Union government’s decision to slash export subsidy on sugar from Rs 10.44 per kg to Rs 6 per kg would cause losses to the tune of Rs 2,768 crore to the sugarcane cultivators and sugar mills. Terming it an anti-farmer decision, Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has appealed to the Central government to immediately repeal its decision. The sugarcane cultivators and mills are already reeling under the financial losses and they need some respite, said Randhawa. The cooperation minister pointed out that the Centre had decided to provide an export subsidy to the sugar mills at the rate of Rs 10.44 per kg for the year 2019-20, which was to result in Rs 6,828 crore accruing to the sugar mills of the entire country. But now this amount would be reduced to Rs 3,500 crore, he added. Randhawa pointed out that the payments of the sugarcane cultivators would be adversely affected to a large extent with this decision. He added that the Union government was also delaying the release of the amount pertaining to export subsidy for the year 2019-20, which in turn was causing further delay in releasing the balance payment of the sugarcane cultivators of the country. An amount of Rs 60.31 crore pertaining to the cooperative sugar mills of Punjab is also yet to be released by the central government, said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/reduced-export-subsidy-on-sugar-to-hit-cane-growers-randhawa/articleshow/79818906.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Delhi||New Delhi Municipal Council gives free tablets to 811 students||NEW DELHI: To help students access their online classes easily, especially those studying in classes X and XII, New Delhi Municipal Council recently distributed free tablets with preloaded education content to 811 students. The pilot project was launched with four schools, Atal Adarsh Vidyalaya-Havelock Square, Atal Adarsh Balika Vidyalaya-Gole Market, Navyug School-Sarojini Nagar and Navyug School, Peshwa Road, New Delhi. The civic agency is also providing monthly internet packs of Rs 200 to these students for accessing unlimited data. NDMC chairman Dharmendra said that the tablets were being provided under Smart City Project, and each of them has a 10-inch display and 32GB expandable memory. The corporation has also established two tinkering labs in the Atal Adarsh Bengali Balika Vidyalaya, Gole Market and Atal Adarsh Balika Vidyalaya, Gole Market. “The lab is a work space where young minds can give shape to their ideas through hands-on, do-it-yourself mode and learn innovative skills,” said the chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-delhi-municipal-council-gives-free-tablets-to-811-students/articleshow/79820191.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab short by 43% of targeted GST revenue||CHANDIGARH: Hit hard by the Covid-19 induced lockdown and the central government stepping back from its commitment on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation to the states, the fundsstarved Punjab government is still short by over Rs 9,044 crore (43%) to meet its annual target of over Rs 15,858 crore GST collection. At the same time, the Union government has finally released Rs 1,385.96 crore to the Punjab government this month on account of its share of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation out of total of around Rs 4,000 crore that the Centre had borrowed since October. The first weekly instalment of Rs 475.80 crore was released on December 1, the second and the third instalments of Rs 455.08 crore each were released on December 7 and December 14.  The state government had not received GST compensation from the Centre since April and this had compounded its financial woes and had stalled development works. The central government had guaranteed 14% year-on-year growth to the states and UTs over the 2015-16 base year at the time of switching over to the GST regime and they were to be compensated for the GST shortfall. Initially, the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab had shown strong resistance to the central government’s options for the states to choose either of the two borrowing plans to meet the revenue shortfall due to the GST implementation. But finally, due to the falling state revenue, the Punjab government also succumbed under pressure last month, like the other states, and accepted Option 1. Under this formula, the Punjab government would get Rs 8,359 crore amount of the total borrowings carried out by the central government on behalf of the states and the Union Territories. The Punjab government has also been permitted to opt for additional marketing borrowing to meet Covid-19 related shortfall amounting to Rs 3,033 crore, which is 0.5% of its state gross domestic product (SGDP). Punjab taxation commissioner Nilkanth S Avhad said, “Certainly there is going to be a shortfall in GST collection this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. I cannot comment at this stage where we will end up exactly.” The Punjab government could collect over Rs 1,067 crore GST in the month of November and the protected GST revenue for the month was Rs 2,403 crore. Though the GST collection for the months of September (Rs 1,055 crore) and October (Rs 1,060 crore) this year was more than the corresponding months of 2019, again the GST collection dipped to Rs 6,814 crore in November this year as against Rs 8,842 crore in November 2019. However, the state taxation commissioner said there had been satisfactory collection of the value added tax (VAT) as Punjab had been able to collect over Rs 3,689 crore from April to November. “There was a big fall earlier but now there is a good growth,” he added. The Punjab government collected over Rs 765 crore from VAT and central sales tax (CST) most of which comes from the sale of petrol and diesel. This collection was over Rs 448 crore in November last year, which depicts an increase of over 70 per cent this November. The overall VAT and CST revenue collection from April to November this year had been Rs 3,802 crore, an increase of 4.90 per cent compared to the corresponding period of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-of-finances-ipunjab-short-by-43-of-targeted-gst-revenue-in-fy-2020-21/articleshow/79818928.cms||Sanjeev Verma
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Lessons to learn and unlearn: How would you remember 2020?||By Jitender Dabas It is finally coming to an end. Not the pandemic yet but the calendar year that bought us Corona. When it began, 2020 had all the sounds of a significant year. It had a nice ring to it (may be because of the format of cricket that’s become so popular). But as it closes, we want it to get over as quickly as possible. May be because the change of that calendar date on December 31 will psychologically make us feel better that it can’t affect us anymore. A lot of us would want to erase the year 2020 from our memory. But it is a year that most of us are unlikely to forget for the rest of our lives. Good or bad, we will carry vivid memories of this year and perhaps tell our grandkids about it. Pandemics have been captured in history through the damage they inflicted on humankind – how far it spread and how many lives were lost. That’s how we remember the 1918 Spanish flu and even World War I and II. Triggered by such adverse events, there are things that have far reaching and deeper impact on our lives for times to come. On our behaviours, our lives, our societies, our economies, etc. But history won’t be able to capture that statistically. But all of us will have personal accounts of 2020 — the account of what we were doing when it happened. We will live with these vivid memories and they will play back long after it is gone. We will remember it for all the things that didn’t happen. It was the year of the pandemic and the lockdown. The world hit the pause button. We didn’t travel, didn’t go to school, didn’t celebrate, didn’t go on holidays. The Olympics didn’t happen. And things that happened were the highlights — not many would remember who won IPL 2020. What we could live without: One of the lessons of 2020 was to make us aware of the things we could live without. And the things we couldn’t. A lot of things that were taken away from us during the lockdown didn’t really trouble us. Some of them might not even come back into our lives again, and that could pose a challenge to consumerism as we know it. The definition of normal: With the announcement of vaccines, we are hopeful of normalcy to return soon. We are looking at signs of “normalcy”. But 2020 questioned what “normal” should be. The signs of normalcy we are looking for are traffic on roads, people commuting to work, airports full of people, shoppers crowding the malls because that is what we have become used to. But 2020 introduced us to the idea of another “normal”. No traffic on the roads, no commuting but still working, not living in the city but still being connected, not jet-setting successful business leaders, etc. The year questioned our assumptions about what “normal” should be and a lot of that is going to have a far reaching impact on our lives in the years to come. It showed what was possible: Adversity often introduces us to those parts of us that we haven’t yet met. It pushes us to possibilities. The ones that we didn’t think existed. The year 2020 introduced us to many of them. That the air in Delhi can be clean if we want to. That it is possible to see the Himalayan peaks from Punjab. That is possible for everyone to learn cooking in 3 weeks, to live in a forest and still work for an MNC. And it showed that developing a vaccine is possible in less than 12 months. The year introduced us to possibilities. Now, what we do with them in 2021 and beyond will be our choice. Because a lot of them have the potential to transform our lives for the better. However, the thing about human resilience is that we have the ability and agility to get back to “normal” quickly. So, the chances are that we will unlearn our lessons from 2020. And we will unlearn fairly quickly. But those who choose to retain will remember and make use of what 2020 left us with. And that to me would be shaped by how we chose to remember 2020. (The author is Coo, Chief Strategy Officer, McCann World Group)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/lessons-to-learn-and-unlearn-how-would-you-remember-2020/articleshow/79818014.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Two-gun rule: Many apply for licence to keep extra arms||GURUGRAM: Police have been flooded with applications for a fresh arms licence after the restriction of two weapons on a single licence came into effect last week. Most of the people who had purchased multiple weapons on a single licence have now applied for another licence in the name of a family member so they can keep the additional weapons within the family. According to police records, Gurugramhas around 6,685 licence holders, out of which 230 have more than two weapons. The Union home ministry recently amended the Arms Act, according to which maximum two firearms can be issued on one licence. Following the amendment, Gurugram police had directed all licensees to surrender or sell their additional weapons by December 13. The development triggered a spurt in applications for licences, as licensees attempted to keep weapons within the family. The order led to an increase in supply in the arms market, leading to a crash in prices. “We had invested a lot in weapons, but gun houses are now offering a fraction of that amount for the additional weapon. So, we have applied for an additional licence in order to keep weapons in the family,” said a licensee who has three weapons on a single licence. Joint commissioner of Gurugram police Kulwinder Singh said they have been flooded with the application for fresh gun licences. “Everyone is giving the same reason, that they are not getting a reasonable price for their gun and need an additional licence to keep the weapon,” Singh said. Sources said licensees are also approaching politicians and bureaucrats to put pressure on police to issue additional licences. “The new changes have created additional challenges for police in issuing new licences. This will lead to an increase in the number of licences,” a senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-gun-rule-many-apply-for-licence-to-keep-extra-arms/articleshow/79819020.cms||Bagish Jha
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to submit Oxford Covid vaccine trial data this week||MUMBAI: Even as blueprints for mass vaccination drives are being drawn up, BMC will submit details of clinical trials for the Oxford University-Serum Institute of India's Covid vaccine to the company this week. "We were compiling the report and should be able to submit it by December 23,'' said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The Oxford trial was conducted at BMC's KEM and Nair Hospitals, totalling 248 volunteers. After the last volunteer was vaccinated, BMC had to wait for 40 days for any reaction. "We also had to compile the report, attaching various tests done for every patient,'' said a BMC official. BMC is busy working out its logistical and storage plans for the vaccine. A BMC official said storage work has begun at KEM Hospital, while work at the main storage facility at Kanjurmarg will commence shortly. On Friday, the Union government released details about eligibility for the vaccine. While 30 crore Indians will be vaccinated in the early phase, the government for the first time clarified that even those who have recovered from Covid could get vaccinated to improve their immunity levels. Meanwhile, trials for Covaxin, the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech along with Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), are on at state government-run JJ Hospital in Byculla and BMC's Sion Hospital. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion Hospital, said over 100 volunteers had taken the vaccine in the trial which will cover 1,000 volunteers. "We have over two more months to complete the trial,'' said Dr Joshi. "We are getting adequate volunteers for this trial,'' he added. But a public hospital doctor said interest in the trials had reduced as it is a matter of time before private companies get emergency use approval for their vaccines. "People wonder why they should undergo a clinical trial when the product is likely to be available soon,'' he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-submit-oxford-covid-vaccine-trial-data-this-week/articleshow/79820211.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Five with no masks held as birthday cakes cut with sword in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Kurla Nehru Nagar police on Saturday arrested five persons and detained a minor for violating guidelines during Covid while celebrating the birthday of Sameeruddin Ansari, who used a sword to cut the cake. A video of the party went viral. The minor has been handed over to his family. Police seized the sword and said the accused will be produced in court on Sunday. Police booked them under Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act sections. A youth, in his 20s is seen using a fire flame stick in his mouth and later cutting six cakes with a sword at 12.05am on Thursday. Those celebrating the birthday were not wearing masks and flouted social distancing norms. In July, a 25-year-old man was arrested for cutting his birthday cake with a sword and for violating social distancing norms. A video of Haris Khan cutting 25 cakes with a sword had gone viral on social media. Police had booked 30 persons for violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/five-with-no-masks-held-as-birthday-cakes-cut-with-sword-in-mumbai/articleshow/79820219.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid cases, deaths drop but jumbo facilities to continue for now||MUMBAI: Despite Covid-19 cases and fatalities dropping in Mumbai, BMC may not shut down most of the jumbo facilities or field hospitals immediately. BMC had earlier announced that it would take a decision on closing down these makeshift facilities after December 31. But there are indications that it will continue with most of them until the winter is over. "Mumbai is a thickly populated city and we had strategically put up the jumbo facilities in central, western and eastern parts of the city,'' said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. These centres are running successfully and have contributed immensely to the city's anti-Covid response, he added. BMC's New Year strategy will most likely be to continue with these jumbo facilities, but tweak the number of Covid-19 beds at its hospitals. "We may scale down beds in our hospitals that have Covid wards so that non-Covid patients will also get care. But the jumbo centres will be there to attend to any surge,'' said Kakani. BMC has not reduced its preparedness for any surge in Covid cases. "But a final decision has not yet been taken,'' he added. Experts such as Dr Shashank Joshi in the state Covid task-force have advised that Mumbai could witness another surge in cases between December 25 and January 26. Another task-force member, Dr Rahul Pandit, said the risk of a surge in cases is there till the end of winter. Most European cities have witnessed a second wave because of the severe winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-cases-deaths-drop-but-jumbo-facilities-to-continue-for-now/articleshow/79820226.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Noida||Two-year interest waiver for YEIDA land allottees?||GREATER NOIDA: Relief could soon be offered to hundreds of entrepreneurs who had booked industrial plots next to the Yamuna Expressway some five to six years back in sectors 32 and 33. Unable to hand over the developed plots to 821 allottees, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) is contemplating to offer interest waiver to the entrepreneurs in the coming months in the form of zero period. Since payment commanded by the industrial development authorities in Noida and Greater Noida is divided into two portions — plot premium and interest, the allottees had been demanding exemption from the payment of the interest component. President of the Yamuna Expressway Entrepreneurs Association, Tejveer Rana said, “YEIDA had floated the plots in 2013 and issued allotment letters to us between January and September 2015. The Authority had offered plots of different sizes with its first scheme and asked for a land premium of Rs 5,500 for a sqm back then.”Plot owners said 30% of the allotment cost had to be paid within two months while the remaining in bi-annual installments over the next six years. However YEIDA levied 12% interest over the balance payment per annum and in case of default, the amount got compounded every six months. The association members moved the Allahabad high court for relief in the form of zero period in 2019. Though YEIDA collected an additional amount of Rs 600 for a sqm from the allottees within a year to pay additional compensation to the farmers, it was unable to acquire the land from them. “We have already paid up to 80% of the allotment premium to YEIDA but have not got the plots yet. Had our units been functional, we would have been making money through the printing business by now. We have been requesting YEIDA to waive off the total interest amount for several years but have not got any relief,” said Rishabh Nigam, who had booked a plot to open a digital printing studio. However, association members were called for a discussion by YEIDA’s CEO Arun Vir Singh last week. “We are willing to offer them some relaxation and exemptions. A proposal will be forwarded to senior officials of industries department in Lucknow explaining the issue and decision will be taken accordingly on offering zero period,” he said. Since the Authority will have to suffer a setback to the tune of several crores, officials said the offer for zero period on interest payment would be for a limited period. “The plots are getting ready and will be offered to the allocates within the next six months. Zero period waiver can be offered for up to two years. Also we can take a call on withdrawing the penal interest charges completely,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/2-year-interest-waiver-for-yeida-land-allottees/articleshow/79819051.cms||Shalabh
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||'Adopt' a museum artefact, save history this festive season||NEW DELHI: Know someone who would like a sixth century ‘Head of a Damsel’ for Christmas? Or a Mughal artwork from Emperor Jehangir’s atelier? Or maybe a 400-year-old silk thangka painting of Chundhaa, goddess and protector from epidemics and diseases? Instead of the predictable exchange of presents this festive season, these endangered objects can make for a gift that can keep on giving with the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalaya (CSMVS) allowing people to adopt centuries-old artefacts under their own name, in memory of someone or in dedication to a loved one as a way to mitigate the pandemic-induced losses and care for their precious pieces from the past. Even as most public spaces gingerly emerge from the lockdown, cultural sites like museums, monuments and art galleries — stagnant for months — are still awaiting the greenlight from the state government. For the CSMVS Museum that brings together over a million people every year — after ticket sales and other revenue generating activities came to a halt since March — ‘Adopt a Museum Artefact’ is an opportunity that the 98-year-old museum in Fort has devised to forge a personal connect between people and an art object that resonates with them thus driving them to support its ongoing care and preservation. "The impact this crisis has had on the institution is immense with a loss of approximately Rs 10 crore in these nine months. Most institutions have a disaster management policy for calamities involving fire, flood or earthquakes but a pandemic is something nobody was prepared for. The biggest challenge was to create a corpus for such an emergency. Based on a risk assessment conducted March-end, we calculated the maintenance of certain exhibits and galleries for two years and decided to crowdsource people’s help in preserving cultural heritage," explained Sabyasachi Mukherjee, director general of CSMVS. Home to over 70,000 artefacts, the museum has curated select sculptures, paintings and excavated artefacts under three broad categories — treasures, masterpieces and antiquities — that one can symbolically adopt for a period of two years. The bouquet of 50 ‘treasures’ on offer represents either a key moment in history or craftsmanship ranging from a rock edict of Emperor Ashoka from 250 BC to translated manuscripts of the Panchatantra in Persian, each adoptable at Rs 5 lakh. The 50 ‘masterpieces’ that one can adopt for Rs 2 lakh each features Indian history in war, culture and identity spanning Raja Ravi Varma’s portrait of Mithibai Bapuji to 17th century bowls and boxes in jade. The third tier of adoption titled ‘antiquities’ features the museum’s repository of western, Indian and oriental art donated by collectors, kings and British officials in mid-twentieth century tagged at Rs 50,000 each. One can also adopt any of the eight major galleries for Rs 30 lakh to Rs 50 lakh, depending on its scale. Nearly 100 patrons — largely Mumbaikars and some foreign scholars — have already adopted a few artefacts and a gallery, informed Mukherjee. “Especially after news spread that our employees had voluntarily accepted a reduction in their salaries to help the institution, reducing our deficit by Rs 2.5 crores. Culture always reminds us we are not alone.” Brinda Miller, chairperson of the Kala Ghoda Association that has adopted the museum’s Himalayan Art gallery for Rs 30 lakh said, “We’re all a part of the art and culture family and it’s our mandate to support heritage restoration.” While adopting an artefact does not mean one can take the object home, for anyone who’s ever dreamt of seeing their name in the hallowed halls of a museum, this is their chance. The benefactor’s name will be placed beside the object on display and added to an acknowledgement panel at the museum’s entrance. “Contributions are tax-deductible under section 80G of the Income Tax Act and the collected funds will be used for the object’s maintenance, storage, conservation, climate control and security,” explained Mukherjee. Meanwhile, conservators in CSMVS’s backrooms have been hard at work to ensure that the collections are safely cared for during the unprecedented closure. “IT infrastructure lying unused for months followed by the monsoons put our preventive measures to test. Deterioration risks to collections due to microorganisms increase in the high humidity and warm environment of Mumbai,” explained Anupam Sah, head of CSMVS’s conservation unit that went about implementing their “8R Preventive Conservation Plan” to review, identify and monitor high risk areas namely organic artefacts of paper, textiles and leather and objects made of brass, copper and bronze as staff started trickling in from June. “In a way, this time-out for the objects from the presence of visitors has allowed them to 'rest a bit' with more intense engagement of the curatorial teams,” says Sah, currently designing a visitor movement plan as he looks forward to CSMVS’s first physical exhibition in the pandemic — early next year — featuring Tanjore paintings. “It’s on the lines of a sequenced entry system that I’d created for the Ajanta caves with maps redrawn and visitors moved along the pathway according to colour-coded tokens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/adopt-a-museum-artefact-save-history-this-festive-season/articleshow/79820253.cms||Mohua Das
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||AICC calls for restraint as Kerala leaders trade barbs||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: All India Congress Committee (AICC), on Saturday, asked party leaders in Kerala to stop trading barbs after the party was hammered in the local body elections. General secretary, in charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar – in a press statement issued from New Delhi – reminded leaders that a blame game will only weaken the party. He assured that complaints brought to the notice of Congress leadership will be resolved. Anwar requested all Congress leaders not to air their differences publicly and take up their grievances before the party forum. “After the recently held civil elections in Kerala, it is being observed that some Congress leaders in state are publicly criticizing the state Congress leadership for the outcome of the polls. I earnestly hope that our leaders will realize that the trading of charges against each other is weakening the party and giving strength to opponents. The need of the hour is to close ranks and fight the opposition,” it read. Meanwhile, AICC on Saturday appointed three more national general secretaries in charge of Kerala ahead of the impending assembly election. On behalf of Congress president, AICCE general secretary K C Venugopal announced the appointment of P Viswanathan, Ivan D’Souza and PV Mohan in New Delhi. Meanwhile, resentment in Congress over the unexpected rout in the local body election continued to spill over to the streets on Saturday as Congress workers put up banners against several leaders who were holding the fort. While one set of posters brazenly asked for a leadership change in the party and suggested leaders like K Sudhakaran and K Muraleedharan to take charge of the top post in KPCC, others sought action against several DCC presidents and even former ministers. Leaders like Rajmohan Unnithan had publicly called for a leadership change in KPCC. The posters, suggesting K Sudhakaran to the post of KPCC president, were erected in front of KPCC office and MLA hostel. Posters were put up against KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, Thiruvananthapuram DCC president Neyyattinkara Sanal, former minister VS Sivakumar and Kollam DCC president Bindu Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/aicc-calls-for-restraint-as-kerala-leaders-trade-barbs/articleshow/79820247.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Neral couple says they killed banker to steal money from his account||NAVI MUMBAI: The Neral couple arrested for the murder of a 33-year-old private bank employee from Worli revealed that their motive was to steal Sushilkumar Sarnaik's money from his account. Key accused Charles Nadar (41) had earlier claimed he murdered Sarnaik for making objectionable remarks about his wife Salomi (31). Karjat sub-divisional officer Anil Gherdikar said, "We interrogated the couple separately. Salomi spilled the beans. They admitted they killed Sarnaik to steal money from his account as they were a facing a crisis as their BPO got shut due to lockdown. They planned to use Sarnaik's mobile to avail of a Rs 4 lakh instant pre-approved loan sanctioned by the bank for employees." Sarnaik was a relationships manager at the bank's Grant Road branch. They used Sarnaik's mobile phone and debit card to purchase gold and withdrew cash from an ATM. Gherdikar said, "Salomi revealed on Friday that after Sarnaik consumed liquor with Nadar till late at night on December 12, she spiked Sarnaik's food with a sedative. When he fell unconscious, they unlocked his mobile using his finger. As Salomi had worked in the banking sector, she was aware of the Internet banking process and technicalities. Using Sarnaik's debit card details Salomi obtained his account number and changed the password. She also changed the ATM pin, using Sarnaik's phone." As she claimed they threw Sarnaik's mobile in Mira Road they will be taken to the spot. Gherdikar said, "Nadar used a cleaver knife to chop off the head and hands of an unconscious Sarnaik at their Neral flat past midnight on December 13, while their three-year-old daughter was asleep. Salomi cleaned Sarnaik's blood stains, splashed on the floor and walls. As Nadar faced difficulty in cutting up the body, he purchased a cutter from Mayur Hardware in Badlapur. The body parts were disposed of in trolley bags in intervals till Tuesday morning." The cutter was purchased for Rs2,000 after using Sarnaik's card to withdraw Rs10,000 from an ATM at Baldapur, which was captured on CCTV. Later, they used the card to buy ornaments at two jewellery stores in Bhayander, which is on the stores' CCTV footage. They purchased a gold chain, pendant and mangalsutra, collectively worth around Rs70,000, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-neral-couple-says-they-killed-banker-to-steal-money-from-his-account/articleshow/79820266.cms||George Mendonca
December 20, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Don’t need advice, UDF tells Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s comments about changes in interparty equations in UDF have elicited sharp reactions from Congress and Muslim League leaderships. Vijayan in a social-media post, on Saturday, termed the alleged developments taking place in the UDF as abnormal. “A constituent placing demands on who should lead another political party in the fold is a bizarre development. Such strange and undemocratic developments are taking place in UDF. The developments after the local-body poll results raise doubts as to whether Indian Union Muslim League has started assuming the lead role in UDF. Has IUML assumed the central role of opining on the internal affairs of Congress, on issues including who should lead that party?” Vijayan said in the post. Reacting to the CM’s insinuations, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty said Muslim League isn’t in the habit of interfering in the affairs of other political parties. “No senior or junior leader of IUML has made such remarks. It seems the chief minister was commenting on something he had dreamt up. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said UDF could do without the advice of Vijayan as it can very well decide on its affairs. “League has never interfered in KPCC affairs. This is a cheap tactic aimed at communal polarization,” Chennithala said. Vijayan claimed that reports emerging from UDF showed that IUML was able to thrust upon Congress the ties it had struck with communal organizations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dont-need-advice-udf-tells-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/articleshow/79820265.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Stole one iPhone daily for two months, Amazon’s two ex-staffers arrested||GURUGRAM: Two former employees of Amazon were arrested on Saturday for allegedly stealing iPhones worth nearly Rs 1 crore from a warehouse in Gurugram’s Jamalpur village. Some of the devices, worth Rs 50 lakh, have been recovered from their possession, the police said. After the lockdown, the warehouse resumed operation with social distancing norms in place. The employees were not required to undergo mandatory frisking. Taking advantage of this, the duo managed to smuggle one iPhone every day for nearly two months. Both accused were employed at the eCommerce firm’s warehouse till September. Over a period of two months, they stole 78 mobile phones and later quit the company to escape scrutiny. When the company conducted an audit, a large number of missing phones came to its notice. A case was registered at Bilaspur police station on November 7. “Our team found empty boxes of iPhone models on September 28. During the detailed internal investigation, we found 78 iPhones missing,” Aditya Singh from Amazon said in his police complaint. Sub-inspector Dalpal Singh, in-charge of the crime unit in Sector 10, said the accused were identified as Anshar-Ul-Haq and Nawab from Nuh. Anshar was arrested from Kadipur in Gurgaon while Nawab was arrested from Pataudi. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said, “They used to steal iPhones, throw away the boxes and keep the mobile phone in their pocket while going out at the end of their shift.” He added, “They were trying to sell the stolen mobile when we were informed.” Amazon Spokesperson said, “As India’s most trusted online marketplace we take any incident of theft seriously. We thank the local police for their investigation of the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/stole-1-iphone-daily-for-2-months-amazons-2-ex-staffers-arrested/articleshow/79819204.cms||Bagish Jha
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Double murder: Woman’s second hubby held in UP||MUMBAI: A week after the decomposed bodies of a woman and her daughter were found in their flat in Tarapur, Palghar district, the woman’s second husband was arrested from Uttar Pradesh. Laxmi Pawar (50) and her daughter from her first marriage, Sonali (30), were found dead on December 12. Neighbours, alerted by the stench, had called up the police. He had allegedly left the bodies of the two women on the bed and had switched on the fan to delay the decomposition process, the police said. The police had to break open the door as it was locked from the inside. The preliminary probe has revealed that Laxmi’s second husband had faked his identity as Ravindra Pawar (58). Laxmi had learnt that it was a lie and confronted him. His real identity has not yet been revealed by the police. The police said they seized fake documents, including an Aadhaar card from him which has the fake identity. The police said they are also probing his family background and if he had any criminal history. The second husband had emerged the prime suspect as he residents had seen him leaving the building on December 6 when he allegedly strangled the two women. Footage from CCTVs n the building had also captured his images. The police got his call data records and tracked him down to Mirzapur. He has been sent to police custody till December 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/double-murder-womans-second-hubby-held-in-up/articleshow/79820272.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sets up panel to assess how to avoid outages in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The state government has appointed a committee to review Mumbai's islanding system - that cuts the city from the rest of the metro region and state - to ensure that it gets uninterrupted power supply in case of a major outage. The appointment of the panel assumes significance in the wake of the islanding 'failure' during a blackout on October 12, causing inconvenience to lakhs of consumers. The panel, to be headed by the energy secretary, will have representatives from the state generation, distribution and transmission firms while it will have senior officials of Tata Power and Adani Electricity on board. "The panel will also consider recommendations of various committees on Mumbai grid disturbance in the past and explore feasibility of implementation of various recommendations/ options to avoid blackout in future in Mumbai," said a senior government official. Sources said that while Tata Power plans to augment its distribution capacity through additional 1,000 MW thermal power generation at Trombay, Adani is in the process of expediting high-voltage direct current (HVDC) link of 80km between Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company's 400 kV at Kudus and Adani Electricity Mumbai's 220 kV at Aarey substation. It will be the first of its kind with underground HVDC cabled system that will establish another distinct corridor for injection of additional 1,000 MW power right into the load centre of Mumbai. Power experts said Mumbai's demand grows to 3,500 MW in summer and there is a need to have a foolproof islanding system as there was "reduction in existing embedded generation". Since 1981, the city has been protected by 'islanding' for which citizens currently pay Rs 450-500 crore a year in power bills so that Mumbai gets constant supply even if there is power outage elsewhere. While Tata Power generates 1,337 MW, Adani Electricity generates 500 MW in Dahanu. Experts said it is insufficient and there was need to explore new sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-sets-up-panel-to-assess-how-to-avoid-outages-in-mumbai/articleshow/79820289.cms||Somit Sen
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Malegaon blast accused MP Pragya Singh Thakur absent in court||MUMBAI: After three 2008 Malegaon blast accused, including BJP MP Pragya Singh Thakur, remained absent in court on Saturday despite the special NIA court's directions, all accused have now been ordered to remain present on January 4. Thakur's lawyers cited health issues and sought exemption. They told the court that she was admitted to AIIMS, Delhi, on Friday after she complained of breathlessness and had undergone a Covid-19 test. Another accused, Sudhakar Chaturvedi, did not appear in court either. The court however expressed displeasure over the absence and directed all to remain present on the next date. The accused are out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malegaon-blast-accused-mp-pragya-singh-thakur-absent-in-court/articleshow/79820291.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Political parties start ground work for assembly elections||KOCHI: Despite garnering more seats in Kochi corporation, LDF, which is set to form the council, could not make any inroads in the Ernakulam assembly constituency areas in the recently concluded LSG polls. LDF managed to gain only 36,197 votes, an increase of only 327 votes compared to the 3, 5870 votes secured in the 2016 assembly election. However, all the three major parties claim they have not suffered any drifting in vote share and their vote banks are intact. The parties, barring NDA, are counting their votes from all local bodies in the district. Armed with the result and the data of votes, the parties have already started ground work eying the assembly election next year. The Left party could not register any increase in votes in the local bodies situated in Kochi and Thrikkakara assembly constituency areas. The party gathered only 39,738 and 42,517 votes in Kochi and Thrikkakara constituencies respectively. While in the 2016 assembly election, LDF secured 47,967 and 49,455 votes in the respective constituencies. Despite suffering setbacks in Ernakulam district, LDF feels that they can form governing bodies in panchayat levels. “Though LDF got only 30 panchayats when the poll results were out, we expect the number might increase as in some local bodies the result is a tie. We don’t expect the vote share of LDF has declined compared to 2015. We are collecting data of the votes,” said CPM district secretary C N Mohanan. One of the CPM area secretaries said the decline in LDF votes is not due to the erosion of its vote bank but to the decline in polling. The party will review its performance in Ernakulam at the district committee meeting on Tuesday. Though NDA secured more seats compared to the previous LSG polls, they could not register any increase in the vote share. The party secured 2,06,017 votes in panchayats, municipalities and corporation against 2,08,830 in 2015. But it increased seats from 70 in 2015 to 100 in 2020 in Ernakulam. “The LSG and assembly polls are entirely different. We had fielded candidates only in 1,800 wards, including in places where BJP has no bearing on. But our machinery worked in those areas too. We have started groundwork in view of the assembly election,” said BJP district president Jayakrishnan. While UDF believes budding political groups played spoilsport for them in the LSG election and it won’t repeat in the assembly polls. “Most of the votes V4Kochi garnered in the corporation limit were from the kitty of the Congress. Besides that, names of many electors were not included in the voters’ list by the LDF. The excluded people were UDF sympathisers,” said a DCC member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-political-parties-start-ground-work-for-assembly-elections/articleshow/79820293.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vadhavan port may stir next MVA-Centre battle||MUMBAI: With locals opposed to the Vadhavan port planned in the ecologically sensitive Dahanu taluka receiving reassurances from CM Uddhav Thackeray, the project could well become the latest faultline between the Shiv Sena-led state government and the Centre. The former saffron allies have already clashed over the location of the Mumbai Metro 3 car shed. After the Vadhavan Bandar Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti (VBVSS) met Thackeray on Friday, urban development minister Eknath Shinde said, "The project is affecting livelihoods of local fishermen. We will not allow any development project to come up without their consent." Over the last month, protests against the project have sharpened, with locals obstructing a biodiversity survey commissioned by JNPT and also organising a strike of fish markets and fishing activities in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar. "The CM has asked us to submit all our documents regarding the project. We are going to submit objections of the gram sabhas in 17 villages," said Aniket Patil, VBVSS working president. However, he said the opponents would continue the protests if the MVA did not keep its word. "If there is any action on the project, there will be a reaction from us," he said. The Centre granted the project in-principle approval in February, as part of its Sagarmala initiative. Slated to cost Rs 65,544.5 crore, this will be the 13th major port in the country. The project will be implemented through JNPT and the Maharashtra Maritime Board. It is to be built on a landlord model. The SPV will develop port infrastructure and connectivity. All the business activities will be undertaken through a PPP mode by private developers. Officials said the port will cater to the requirement for a deep draft port to accommodate large container ships and also handle spillover traffic from JNPT, which is the biggest container port in India. The project was initially proposed in 1998 but was shelved following local protests and objections from the Dahanu Taluka Environment Protection Authority (DTEPA) led by Justice C S Dharmadhikari. The body had been set up by Supreme Court for protection of the ecologically fragile Dahanu region. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change has sought the scrapping of DTEPA. Meanwhile, after the death of Justice Dharmadikari, the DTEPA is now led by government officer Bhushan Gagrani. "The government may have changed composition of the DTEPA, but its order objecting to the project stands. So how has the Centre cleared the project?" asked Debi Goenka from the Conservation Action Trust. Locals said the project will impact the rich breeding ground for fish at Vadhavan. "This is the golden belt for fish. It generates massive employment and also exports especially for Bombay Duck and Pomfret. The government says the port will employ 1.5 lakh people, but fishing activity here already employs around 10 lakh people," said Aniket Patil. JNPT officials were unavailable for comment. He also claimed the location could be a security risk. "The port is located close to Anushakti Kendra and some phases of the Tarapur atomic power station," Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-vadhavan-port-may-stir-next-mva-centre-battle/articleshow/79820300.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar meets Anil Vij in hospital, doctors say he is stable||GURUGRAM: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday met home and health minister Anil Vij to enquire about his health. Vij, who had tested positive for Covid on December 5, was shifted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram on Tuesday from PGIMS, Rohtak, after there was little improvement in his health. A health bulletin released by Medanta said the minister was feeling better and taking rest.  “He has been talking to the medical team. Although he is still in ICU and on oxygen support with high flow nasal cannula, his vital parameters are stable. He is being monitored round the clock,” said Dr AK Dubey, the medical superintendent of Medanta. Doctors said they were happy with the way Vij had been responding to treatment. The medical team that attended to the minister on Saturday included Dr Virender Yadav, Dr Deepak Govil and Dr Sushila Kataria. They advised that the treatment be continued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cm-khattar-meets-vij-in-hospital-doctors-say-he-is-stable/articleshow/79819401.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Builders seek central help to curb price surge||KOCHI: Builders in city are demanding central intervention to bring down the prices of raw materials, especially cement and steel. They said that spiralling prices of raw materials will have a cascading effect on home buyers as developers will be forced to increase prices. “There is a continuous and sudden upsurge in the prices of steel, cement and other raw materials due to cartelization and real estate developers are experiencing an inevitable increase in construction cost. This can also stall some projects, thereby impacting buyers. Builders are facing an uphill task of further convincing customers of this additional burden,” said a statement issued by Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai). Cement prices have increased by over 23% while those of steel have increased by more than 45% since the beginning of 2020. In January 2020, cement price was around Rs 349 per 50kg-bag and it has now increased to Rs 420-Rs 430/50kg-bag in December, it claimed. Similarly, steel manufacturers have been taking undue advantage of the increase in demand for steel and increasing prices every month. At the beginning of the year, the per-tonne rate of steel was Rs 40,000 and it has now rocketed to Rs 58,000 in December, it said. The increase in price of steel not only affects real estate sector but related sectors too. Dr Najeeb Zackeria, national joint secretary (south) of Credai, said, “The construction cost per sq ft of built-up area has shot up by Rs 120 to Rs 130 per sq ft, which is about 10% of the overall civil cost. This not only jeopardizes the completion of ongoing projects within estimated costs, but also makes future development much more expensive.” Hence, builders have asked Centre to regulate the prices of raw materials used in construction even as the sector is fighting the effects of the pandemic. The real estate sector has been working on wafer thin margins; it is battling unsold inventory on one hand and unfinished projects due to lack of funds on the other. As demand is stagnant, developers haven’t increased prices and are selling projects at affordable rates. Union minister Nitin Gadkari had cautioned steel and cement manufacturers against irrational hike in prices and had raised the issue with the Prime Minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-builders-seek-central-help-to-curb-price-surge/articleshow/79820303.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Samples of trash sent to Bandhwari to be tested||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) collected samples from around 20 Ecogreen vehicles carrying household waste to the Bandhwari landfill on Saturday. The samples have been handed over to a government-authorised lab to check the contents of the waste and define the maximum quantity of waste an Ecogreen vehicle can carry. Officials said that after an average quantity is worked out, MCG will lay out norms stating the maximum weight that a waste collection vehicle can carry. There have been complaints that soil is mixed with garbage to increase the quantity, as Ecogreen is paid on the basis of quantity of waste transported, they said. The move is being done to check this practice, the officials added. Mayor Madhu Azad on Friday had nominated councillors Dinesh Sahni and Ashwani Sharma for the committee to check such irregularities. She said it was decided to constitute a committee to probe the complaints raised against Ecogreen. “We have collected samples from the Ecogreen vehicles. The idea is to check the content of the waste being carried to the landfill and calculate the quantity on the basis of the wet and dry waste that one vehicle carries so that we don’t have to pay extra to the concessionaire,” concillor Sharma said. Meanwhile, Ecogreen general manager (operations) Suvendu Samantaray said: “We have different types of vehicles for carrying waste. Samples were collected from household waste. The maximum weight permitted will be defined on a cubic-metre basis so that MCG does not have to pay beyond it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/samples-of-trash-sent-to-bandhwari-to-be-tested/articleshow/79819413.cms||Vishakha Chaman
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||At 13.1°C, Kolkata recorded coldest day of season on Saturday||KOLKATA: The city shivered even as the mercury dipped to 13.1 degree Celsius on Saturday — the lowest recorded so far this season. With the chilly northwesterly wind blowing in unobstructed, minimum temperature could plunge further to 12 degrees on Sunday and hover around that mark for at least 24 hours more, said Met office. The day temperature (maximum), too, dropped four notches below normal to 22.9 degrees. A sharp chilly wind persisted through the day even as Kolkatans covered themselves in woollens. It heightened the chill factor. “There has been heavy snowfall in the Himalayas and the mercury has dropped sharply across north and northwest India. With the northwesterly wind gaining strength, the chill is being carried into Kolkata. The wind is expected to continue till at least Monday and the chill, as a result, will persist,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. The minimum temperature, Das added, could remain below 15 degrees for the next five days. “Conditions are now ideal for the spell to continue. There is neither any system in the region nor any high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal that can supply moisture and pull the mercury up,” said Das. According to private weather forecasting service AccuWeather, real feel temperature could drop to 9 degrees on Sunday night. Real feel is a measure of how it feels on skin and is calculated on the basis of factors like temperature, altitude, humidity, wind speed and direction and sun rays intensity among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-13-1c-kol-records-coldest-day-of-season/articleshow/79817643.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 3,000 private hospital workers to get vaccine training||GURUGRAM: The district health department has decided to draw up a list of vaccinators from private health facilities, officials said, adding that they will also be provided with training to administer the Covid-19 vaccine. Officials said that the state government has directed them to train vaccinators from the private hospitals in the city. They added, since beneficiaries will also be from the private health facilities in the first phase, their vaccinators will be assigned duties as they will be familiar with the set-up. The health officials said that there would be around 2,500 to 3,000 vaccinators from the private health facilities and there are around 300 vaccinators in the government health facilities. “We have been directed by the state health department to train vaccinators from the private health facilities. We are going to provide virtual training for them. It is not possible for us to give them training physically due to social distancing norms. The training will be conducted soon,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. Officials said frontline workers, including health workers of the government and private health facilities, will be covered in the first phase. Police, civil defence teams and MCG employees will be covered in the second phase; people above 50 years of age and people with comorbidities will be covered in the third phase and people below 50 years of age and with comorbidities will be vaccinated in the fourth phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3000-private-hospital-workers-to-get-vaccine-training/articleshow/79819425.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hubballi||Bandh on Monday to oppose Karnataka govt's decision||HUBBALLI: Upset with the state government’s decision to hike the market cess from o.35% to 1% at the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMCs), the Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has called for the closure of all the APMCs on Monday. Former KCCI president Shankranna Munavalli on Friday said that, in order to impress on the state government the disgruntlement among the farmers, and the discontent prevalent among the traders owing to the increase in the APMC market cess, the bandh would be observed on Monday. “The FKCCI has convened a meeting in Bengaluru, which will also be attended by officebearers of KCCI, and a decision on the next course of action will be taken. Why did the government take a decision with such urgency without even consulting members of traders’ associations?” Munavalli added. Member of Vijayapura traders’ union Parasmal Bothra condemned the state government’s decision, dubbing the hike in the market cess a ‘black spot’. Shekhanna Gaddikeri, a trader in Gadag, questioned the need for the hike itself. He pointed out that such changes ought to be take into account practical considerations. “Imposing a cess on trade at APMCs, while all transactions outside are exempted from any tax. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi says ‘One Nation, One Tax’, how can such double standards be allowed?” Gaddikeri asked. Chairman of FKCCI’s APMC sub-committee PD Shirur said that the government could not ignore the gravity of the issue when onion and tomato markets in Bengaluru cease to function. “Traders at the Yeshwantpur APMC have agreed to down the shutters,” Shirur said. Vikas Soppin, Shivashankar Hampiholi, Lingangoudar, Basavaraj Eklaspur and others supported the stance adopted by KCCI and FKCCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bandh-on-monday-to-oppose-karnataka-govts-decision/articleshow/79820370.cms||J Abbas Mulla
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow shivers in chill of winter’s coldest day||LUCKNOW: The minimum temperature in the city dipped to 4.3 degree Celsius — the lowest this winter — as mercury continued to head south for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday. The state Met department did not offer any hope of relief and predicted that minimum temperature might dip further on Sunday. It might change on Monday or Tuesday as temperature is expected to rise by two to three degrees. Like minimum temperature, which was 4.4 units below normal, the maximum too was 20.2 degree Celsius, four notches below normal on Saturday. The chill of icy winds made the temperatures feel like 3 and 18 degree Celsius respectively to those stepping out. The winds have been sweeping the state and city for the past few days. “These winds are bringing chill from snow-capped hills and keeping day temperatures low despite sunlight,” said state Met director JP Gupta. At the same time, the winds measuring up to 8-10 km/hr are not allowing the fog to sustain for long. Shallow to moderate fog would occur in morning followed by clear sky on on Sunday. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to be around 20 and 3 degrees Celsius respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-shivers-in-chill-of-winters-coldest-day/articleshow/79820383.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mysuru||B Sharat is not medically fit to be Mysuru DC: Govt to CAT||BENGALURU: The government has defended its action of shunting out IAS officer B Sharat from the post of deputy commissioner of Mysuru, saying he was not healthy enough to be posted there. In an affidavit filed before the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Bengaluru, the government pointed out that the officer is on medical leave and has not reported for duty since September 29, 2020. According to the government, Sharat had sent multiple emails along with medical certificates, seeking extension of his sick leave indicating he was suffering from back spasm and spondylitis, but no specific date was disclosed as to when he would resume work. “Since it’s a sensitive area, Mysuru district needs a healthy and fit officer who is capable of discharging duty with enthusiasm,” the government said. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by Sharat challenging the September 28 transfer order, which he claimed was premature and arbitrary. Rohini Sindhuri was posted as Mysuru DC in Sharat’s place and the following day, he was appointed managing director of Karnataka Silk Marketing Board. The affidavit filed on behalf of DPAR adds that Sharat had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 30 and he himself intimated the government on October 18 that he was unwell and sought medical leave as he was hospitalised since October 17. Regarding the legal aspect, the government claimed Sharat had neither challenged the posting order nor reported for duty. He didn’t even show up for election duty in Bihar. The affidavit says Sharat’s continued absence as a civil servant has been taken seriously and a showcause notice has been issued to him. The next hearing on the petition has been fixed for Tuesday. Declining to comment, Sharat said the matter is sub-judice as it is still in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-to-cat-sharat-is-not-medicallyfit-to-be-mys-dc/articleshow/79817774.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Special train to Assam with poultry feed, eggs flagged off||BENGALURU: South Western Railway on Saturday flagged off a special train to Guwahati with poultry feed and eggs. The train, which will run 2,932km, is carrying commodities weighing about 166 tonnes, which have been booked by a food products firm. It will have unloading stoppages at Howrah, Malda and New Jalpaiguri before it reaches Guwahati. Ashok Kumar Verma, Bengaluru divisional railway manager, said: “The division earned nearly Rs 11 lakh from this consignment. It has made considerable achievements in the parcel-service segment...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/special-train-to-assam-with-poultry-feed-eggs-flagged-off/articleshow/79817781.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mysuru||Mandya girl murder: Accused juvenile to be tried as adult||MANDYA: The Juvenile Justice Board has ordered that trial be conducted against four juvenile accused in the principal sessions court, which is the children’s court. They are allegedly involved in four different cases, including attempt to rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl in Mandya.In a press note released by the prosecution, the lone juvenile accused in the girl’s killing has been adjudged an adult and the board has said he should be tried as one in the sessions court. The girl was found dead at a sugarcane farm near Hurugalavadi village of Maddur taluk on December 2. She had come to Mandya along with her parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mandya-girl-murder-accused-juvenile-to-be-tried-as-adult/articleshow/79817778.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mangaluru||Shiradi tunnel project to cut travel time to Bengaluru: Nitin Gadkari||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: The 23.6km Shiradi tunnel road project, which will reduce travel time between Mangaluru and Bengaluru, will be implemented soon, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday. He was speaking after virtually laying the foundation of 33 national highway projects in Karnataka, which include 1,197km of roads worth Rs 10,904 crore.Gadkari said a detailed project report for Shiradi tunnel, to be taken up at Rs 10,000 crore, is ready. “Land-acquisition process is progressing. In the next phase, we will invite tenders and work will begin after the contract is awarded,” he said. To ensure smooth connectivity to ports for benefit of trade, four-laning of the coastal road along Goa-Kerala borders and connecting Belekeri, Karwar and Mangaluru (278km) has been taken up at Rs 3,443 crore, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/shiradi-tunnel-project-to-cut-travel-time-to-bluru-gadkari/articleshow/79821001.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Shiradi tunnel project to cut travel time to Bengaluru: Nitin Gadkari||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: The 23.6km Shiradi tunnel road project, which will reduce travel time between Mangaluru and Bengaluru, will be implemented soon, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday. He was speaking after virtually laying the foundation of 33 national highway projects in Karnataka, which include 1,197km of roads worth Rs 10,904 crore.Gadkari said a detailed project report for Shiradi tunnel, to be taken up at Rs 10,000 crore, is ready. “Land-acquisition process is progressing. In the next phase, we will invite tenders and work will begin after the contract is awarded,” he said. To ensure smooth connectivity to ports for benefit of trade, four-laning of the coastal road along Goa-Kerala borders and connecting Belekeri, Karwar and Mangaluru (278km) has been taken up at Rs 3,443 crore, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/shiradi-tunnel-project-to-cut-travel-time-to-bluru-gadkari/articleshow/79817777.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt initiates disciplinary action against ex-intel chief||VIJAYAWADA: The state government on Saturday issued an order to initiate disciplinary proceedings against suspended IPS officer A B Venkateswara Rao in connection with the alleged irregularities in the purchase of security equipment during his tenure as intelligence chief under the TDP government. As per the GO issued by chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, Rao has been asked to submit a written statement of his defence and state whether he wishes to be heard in person within 15 days. The government sought the DG-rank officer to specifically admit or deny each charge. “If no written statement of defence is filed within the time specified or if he does not appear before the competent authority or otherwise fails to comply with the provisions of rule 8 of All India Services (discipline & appeal) Rules 1969, action will be taken against him based on the ground that he has no explanation to offer,” the GO, issued on December 18, reads. The order also invokes rule 18 as well that no member of service should bring or attempt to bring any political or outside influence to bear upon any superior authority. Venkateswara Rao was suspended in February, following which he moved the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) which upheld the suspension. The Union ministry of home affairs also confirmed the suspension in March, on the request of the state government. However, in May, the Andhra Pradesh high court set aside the suspension orders. The state government then filed an SLP (special leave petition) challenging the high court order in the Supreme Court, which passed an interim stay order on the HC order. Venkateswara Rao has stated in the court that he is willing to cooperate with the inquiry. However, he has sought protection from coercive action, stating that the charges against him were ‘baseless’. The charges against the 57-year-old officer state that he tied up with a foreign defence manufacturing company and violated all procedures in giving contracts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-govt-initiates-disciplinary-action-against-ex-intel-chief/articleshow/79820416.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 20, 2020||Lucknow||Delay in victim’s med examination led to evidence loss: CBI on Hathras case||LUCKNOW: Cops at the Chandapa police station who were first approached by the Hathras victim's family after the alleged gangrape didn't follow the laid down procedures of recording the statement and sending the girl for medical examination, the Central Bureau of Investigation has reportedly said in its chargesheet in the case. The CBI has based its charges on the victim's statement on September 22, which was considered as her 'dying declaration', in which she accused four youths of her village of raping and trying to strangulate her. The accused were unable to provide convincing alibis that they were not present at the scene of the crime at the time of the incident. Reacting to the charges of lapses, a senior police official said that five cops, including the SP, were suspended, as soon as the government came to know about their negligence. "Our probe was going in the right direction and all four accused were arrested immediately after the girl named them. The CBI took our FIR which had all the sections under which the accused have been charged," he said. Also, it was the UP government which recommended the CBI probe without any demand from the victim's family, he added. Read AlsoHathras case: CBI charges four with gang rape, murderNearly three months after a 19-year-old Dalit girl from a village in Hathras said in her dying declaration that she had been raped by four upper-caste men in her village, the CBI filed a charge sheet against the four accused. They had been arrested in September. The four accused — Sandeep, Ravi,As per exclusive details available with TOI, the chargesheet, filed at a special court in Hathras, has pointed out that cops at the local Chandpa police station made the mistake of not properly recording the victim’s statement as per the mandate of Section 154 of the CrPC, when she and her family first reached to report the crime on September 14. No woman officer, SHO at police stn examined victim: CBI reportThe CBI report states that while the FIR lodged by the victim's brother said that 'the accused Sandeep tried to strangulate her with an intention to kill her' the girl in one of the recordings, had mentioned 'zabardasti’ (molestation, using force) but still she was not sent for medical examination and valuable forensic evidence couldn't be saved. The chargesheet also mentions that no woman officer or the station house officer at Chandapa police station bothered to examine the victim till September 19. The CBI team has also pointed out that on September 19, in another statement, the victim mentioned the term "chedhkhani" (teasing), but she was not sent for medical examination. Read AlsoAllahabad HC against multiplying case, junks PIL on Hathras rapePRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Thursday refused to entertain a PIL seeking a judicial inquiry into the alleged gang rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, saying it did not want to multiply the litigation as another one in this regard was pending before the its Lucknow bench. A“...neither Section 354 (use of force with intention to rape) of the IPC or Section 376 (rape) of the IPC was added by the police in the beginning...,” the chargesheet mentions. It was only on September 22, when she explicitly said "balatkar" (rape) in her statement at Aligarh hosital and mentioned the four accused that she was sent for medical examination, the CBI has said. In its concluding remarks, the central agency says: "The above negligence during the handling of the case by police as well as concerned authorities clearly led to delay in examination of victim...". It adds that the lapse led to non-collection of crucial evidence in a timely manner. The chargesheet has also mentioned that the main accused, Sandeep, had an affair with the victim. Sandeep was her neighbour, and their acquaintance developed into a love affair, the chargesheet says, but has not linked it in any way with the crime. As per the analysis of the call details record, as many as 105 calls from October 17, 2019 to March 3, 2020 were made between numbers owned by Sandeep and the victim's family, the chargesheet says, adding that the fact that they used to talk on phone and were in a relationship was confirmed by many witnesses. “Later, their relationship came into the knowledge of the family members and got dented (sic)," it says, adding "the victim's father made a complaint to the pradhan's son against Sandeep for making calls to the victim”. Quoting another witness, the CBI has said after March 2020, there was no call from the girl's side. Sandeep tried to contact her but she was trying to avoid him and his calls for some time, the witness has mentioned to the agency, adding "because of her changed behaviour, accused Sandeep was in frustration...(sic) The key evidence, says the agency, is the statements of the victim under dying declaration which established the charges against the accused. The CBI has also said that investigation has revealed the presence of the four accused in the village at the time of crime. One of the accused, Ravi, had claimed that he had gone to the milk collection center run by Shri Jai Kishan at 7.30am, but was not able to answer his whereabouts after that as the crime had taken place at 9.30am. Similarly, Ramu was asked his whereabouts at the time of incident and was not able to explain because there was no rigid attendance system at Madhusoodan Dairy where he worked. Likewise, Luvkush was also not able to explain his position and place. The reports from CFSL about phones, laptops and CCTV are awaited. A senior UP police officer, on condition of anonymity, said that all the charges pressed by the CBI have been in sync with the UP police's probe. “No separate FIR or charge has been added or subtracted from the one done by us," he said, adding, "We shared only the FSL report of the victim which was inconclusive while the probe was still under way. It was not a conclusion." Watch Hathras gang-rape case: CBI files chargesheet in special SC/ST court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delay-in-victims-med-examination-led-to-evidence-loss-cbi-on-hathras-case/articleshow/79820412.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||In holiday season, many sign up for book exchange||BENGALURU: “I’m looking for people to participate in a huge book exchange. You can be anywhere in the world. All you have to do is buy your favourite book (just one) and send it to a stranger — I’ll send their details through a private message. You will receive...a maximum of 36 books...from strangers around the world! If you are interested in taking part, please send a message saying IN.” Many of us may have seen this message on Instagram, WhatsApp or Facebook but scrolled down to the next feed thinking it was too good to be true. However, pandemic exhaustion, lack of social interactions and a need for community feeling have inspired many from the city to participate in this social-media challenge in the past one month. Amith Pal, an engineering student, said he’d come across this status several times but thought it required too much of an effort. Finally, just to see if it works, he sent the ‘IN’ to his Instagram friend. “I ended up getting four books in the past two weeks, which has restored my faith in such social-media challenges,” he says, adding that two of them look interesting, while the others are not from his preferred genre. But what inspired him to participate now? “I took to reading during the lockdown and have tons of favourite books. I could relate to it this time,” Pal says. Eepsha Singh, an engineer, says the challenge sounded like the game of Secret Santa and promised to build a sense of community this holiday season. “The thrill of sending books to strangers and receiving them got me interested. Since it is the season of gifting, it made it even more exciting,” says Singh, who sent Shashi Tharoor’s The Great Indian Novel but has not received a book yet. “In these times when we are cannot physically interact with people and are living in our own bubble, receiving a physical copy of someone’s favourite book makes one feel special,” Singh adds. Prashant Kotumbeerkar, a techie, says he detests social-media challenges of posting pictures, but this got him interested because it’s to do with books. “This is also gender-neutral, we can be anonymous, our name or picture is not revealed, and you are sure it’s working, at least from your end,” he adds. However, many feel it’s more like a Ponzi/pyramid scheme. Divya (name changed), said she had participated three times but never received any books. “It was not completely disappointing. I ended up making a friend who loved the book I sent to her. I am not sure if I will participate again, but I hope people who do keep their promise,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-holiday-season-many-sign-up-for-book-exchange/articleshow/79817898.cms||Farheen Hussain
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Accused have no right to enjoy proceeds of crime: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: No person has the inviolable right to enjoy wealth acquired through illegitimate means. The high court made this observation while petitions filed by former minister Katta Subramanya Naidu, his wife Sowbhagya and other accused, including some government officials, in a money-laundering case. They had challenged the legality of the proceedings initiated against them by the Enforcement Directorate under sections 3, 4 and 8 (5) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. This was in connection with the KIADB land scam case. The petitioners cannot “hold on to or enjoy proceeds of crime, the source of which cannot be explained by them”, Justice John Michael Cunha observed in his order. Naidu had claimed that even though proceedings in the case registered by the Lokayukta has been quashed, they were being prosecuted by the ED and their properties were being attached on the basis of PML Act. But the judge said adequate safeguards have been provided under the Act to protect the offender’s right.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/accused-have-no-right-to-enjoy-proceeds-of-crime-hc/articleshow/79817896.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Former bank manager held in Rs 42 crore loan cheating case in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The city police arrested a former chief bank manager in a cheating case last week. The alleged con took place in 2011 and 2014. In the case, loans worth Rs 42 crore were obtained from different banks using the names of unsuspecting victims with forged documents. Accused A K Mohanty (55), former chief manager of a bank's Vashi branch, was asked to take compulsory retirement in 2016, before the case was registered, said an investigator from the economic offences wing (EOW). The FIR was registered in 2017. Mohanty is the fourt arrest in the case. Five people were cheated, said the police. A businessman had lodged a complaint stating that the accused had asked him to invest in their company. He was asked to submit his documents. Two of the accused, who were in touch with the complainant, prepared documents to take a business loan. With bogus documents that they forged the complainant's signature on, they took a Rs 9.5 crore loan. The other four victims told the police that the accused made them the directors of the new companies they started with the business loans obtained fraudulently. Different banks sanctioned loans worth Rs 32.5 crore for the new companies. Mohanty is accused of not following due diligence, overlooking the balance sheets and other documents of the new companies. The police alleged that he sanctioned loans despite irregularities. Initially, Mohanty repaid the bank for the loans, and later stopped. The police have so far found at least five shell companies the accused formed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-bank-manager-held-in-rs-42-crore-loan-cheating-case-in-mumbai/articleshow/79820421.cms||Mateen Hafeez
December 20, 2020||Vijayawada||Physically challenged MBA student found burnt to death in Prakasam||VIJAYAWADA: A 22-year-old physically challenged village volunteer was found burnt to death near a pond at Dasarajupalli road in Prakasam district on Friday night. The deceased was identified as Ummaneni Bhuvaneswari (22), a resident of Kammapalem area on the outskirts of Ongole town. The woman was also pursuing her MBA from Narayana University while working as a village volunteer. Ongole taluk CI Sivaramakrishna Reddy said a security guard of SIMS hospital informed the police about the incident at around 8 pm. By the time police reached the spot, the woman was found seated in a handicapped tricycle, charred to death. Her handbag was found lying beside the tricycle, which contained her Aadhaar card and mobile phone. Cops checked the crime scene thoroughly but could not find any petrol can or other flammable liquid in the immediate vicinity. Bhuvaneswari’s mother Janaki told the police her daughter last spoke to her at 6.49 pm, and told her she would reach home in half an hour’s time. When she didn’t return by 7.30 pm, Janaki frantically tried to reach her but her phone was switched off. “Her body was found confined to the tricycle but her hands were not tied. There are also no signs of any movement while she was getting burnt. It looks like a case of murder. There are chances that she was first killed and later set ablaze,” a police official told TOI. After checking her phone, cops found that she had WhatsApped a message to all her contacts at around 7 pm, saying “My WhatsApp won’t work any more... please don’t try to meet me any more.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/physically-challenged-mba-student-found-burnt-to-death-in-prakasam/articleshow/79820423.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||South Mumbai hotel co-owner claims Rs 17,000 a month income in maintenance row||MUMBAI: Bombay high court recently found it hard to believe that the co-owner of a 15-room hotel in Colaba earns a monthly income of Rs 17,000. "Existence of a 15-room hotel at a prime location in Colaba speaks of holding of high value commercial property co-owned by the petitioner. The income that could be fetched by a hotel in that area, being a commercial establishment, cannot be only Rs17,000, as claimed," said Justice Nitin Sambre in a December 4 order. He dismissed a petition by a man challenging a family court (FC) January 2019 order granting his wife interim monthly maintenance of Rs17,000 and Rs13,000 for their daughter from August 2018 till disposal of his divorce plea. The couple married in February 2012 but due to discord, the husband initiated divorce proceedings, citing cruelty. His advocate, A R Pande, argued that the award of maintenance was disproportionate to his income from various sources. He said the family two brothers and parents own a hotel of 15 rooms in Colaba, and he receives Rs17,000 as income. He said evidence brought on record about it was unreasonably discarded by the FC and exorbitant maintenance was awarded. The wife's advocate, Gopalkrishna Hegde, said the FC's order was well-reasoned and HC should not interfere with it. Justice Sambre noted that while dealing with the husband's claim of income of Rs17,000 a month, based on income-tax returns of the hotel for 2018-19, the FC noticed "certain astonishing figures". The record showed the hotel's gross total income was Rs38,000 after deducting expenses of Rs 21.5 lakh; the husband earns Rs48,000 interest on capital and a salary of Rs56,000. The hotel also paid electricity charges of Rs. 5.5 lakh, more than Rs 1 lakh GST, more than Rs 4 lakh towards staff salaries and nearly Rs 2 lakh towards security charges. FC concluded that he earned at least Rs 1 lakh a month. "The claim that he earns Rs17,000 from the property is far from the truth. The petitioner's conduct prima facie demonstrates he intends to suppress his income from court,'' said Justice Sambre. He noted the husband later admitted to FC that he also earns as a tourist guide and receives interest on capital in the hotel. The judges said his admission "speaks of his substantial income'', hence the maintenance appears commensurate to his income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/south-mumbai-hotel-co-owner-claims-rs-17000-a-month-income-in-maintenance-row/articleshow/79820428.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Cold wave: Gurugram shivers at 3.8 degrees Celsius, season’s lowest temperature||GURUGRAM: Biting cold conditions prevailed in the city this morning due to icy winds from the snow-capped western Himalayas as the minimum temperature dropped to 3.8 degrees Celsius, the lowest this season so far. The city was shrouded in a shallow fog during the early hours while the skies were clear in the latter part of day. The maximum temperature was recorded at 20.1 degrees Celsius. According to a weekly forecast from India Meteorological Department (IMD), the minimum temperature is likely to hover around 4 degrees Celsius on Sunday, while the daytime temperature is expected to be around 20 degrees Celsius with a misty morning and generally cloudy skies. A cold wave has prevailed in the city in the past five days. On Thursday, the city witnessed the season’s lowest maximum temperature at 13.1 degrees Celsius, while the second-lowest minimum temperature was recorded at 4 degrees Celsius on the same day. However, Friday brought some relief from the cold with maximum temperature recorded at 18.4 degrees Celsius but the minimum temperature remained at 4 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, the city’s air quality deteriorated marginally on Saturday but remained in the ‘poor’ category. According to the official Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the air quality is likely to deteriorate with a dip in temperature. The overall air quality index (AQI) of Gurgaon was recorded at 260 on Saturday up from Friday’s 224, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. At Sector 51, the AQI was recorded at 259, Gwal Pahari (268), Vikas Sadan (298), and Sector 51 (268). Meanwhile, the minimum temperature at Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, dipped to 3.9 degrees Celsius on Saturday — the lowest minimum recorded so far this season. Meanwhile, other parts of the capital recorded even lower temperature, with minimum falling to 3.3 and 3.4 degrees Celsius at Lodhi Road and Aya Nagar, respectively. The IMD has forecast a temporary relief over the next 48 hours. “Temperatures, both maximum and minimum, may rise by a couple of degrees over the next few days. By Monday, the minimum could be around 7 degrees before it starts to drop again,” said a Met official. Previously, the lowest minimum at Safdarjung this season was 4.1 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. On Friday, it was 4.4 degrees. There was some respite in terms of the day-time temperature, with the maximum recorded at 21.8 degrees Celsius — one degree below normal, which IMD said could be around 22 degrees on Sunday. In terms of maximum temperature, the coldest location in Delhi on Saturday was Palam, which recorded a day-time temperature of 19.3 degrees, followed by Jafarpur (20.1). IMD said moderate to dense fog was likely to return to the region from December 22, which might again lead to a drop in the minimum temperature. With an overall AQI reading of 290 on CPCB’s daily index, Delhi’s air quality remained in the “poor” category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cold-wave-gurgaon-shivers-at-3-8c-seasons-lowest-temp/articleshow/79817969.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man arrested for killing 12-year-old boy after robbing his mother||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old man who allegedly murdered a 12-year-old boy after attacking his mother to rob her gold chain was arrested on Saturday. Gaajalingappa, from Ballari district, worked as a helper in Bengaluru. On Thursday, he attacked Hanumanthamma, a resident of Jnanaganganagar, with a stone and later strangled her 12-year-old son Raju to death before fleeing from the spot. Probe revealed Gaajalingappa and Hanumanthamma belong to the same village and knew each other for 15 years. Knowing that her husband Basavaraju was working at a construction site, Gaajalingappa came to her house and stayed in the shed till late night. Around 11pm, while Raju was sleeping, Gaajalingappa assaulted Hanumanthamma to rob her 35gram gold chain. Hearing his mother screaming, Raju woke up. Afraid he would get caught, Gaajalingappa killed the boy. Hearing the commotion, neighbours alerted police, who rushed Hanumanthamma and Raju to a nearby hospital. The woman is said to be out of danger. Gaajalingappa was arrested from his friend’s house in Hebbal. “He is in judicial custody and we have recovered the gold chain from him,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-man-arrested-for-killing-12-year-old-boy-after-robbing-his-mother/articleshow/79820437.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 35 more air purifiers to be installed at key junctions by end of the year||GURUGRAM: To check pollution levels in the city and give some relief to commuters at traffic junctions, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started the installation process of a second batch of air purifiers, said officials on Friday. With this, the city will get 35 more purifiers by the end of the year. A total of 60 purifiers were sanctioned. As many as 25 of them were installed in November after the initiative was launched by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Seven new air purifiers will be installed near Medanta Hospital, eight will be installed near Max Hospital, another eight will be installed near Bakhtawar Chowk, while 12 will be installed on the Golf Course Road. As of now, 25 are already functioning at Sikanderpur, GMDA office and Iffco Chowk. “As per our agreement with GSK and IPCA, all 60 air purifiers will be installed by the end of this month,” said a GMDA official. He added that these air purifiers will help bring down the concentration of PM 2.5 by almost 40% whereas the concentration of PM 10 is likely to be reduced by 60 to 70%. These purifiers run on electricity and purify the air in an area of 500 meters. Meanwhile, the filters from the machines installed in the first leg have been replaced and IPCA is currently studying the nature and concentration of pollutants from these purifiers. TOI had earlier reported that in order to analyse the different kinds of pollutants and their concentration at the major hotspots in the city, the filters from the 60 air purifiers installed last month have been sent to the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute. “The analysis will help understand the concentration of PM 2.5, PM10, SO2 and other pollutants at a given location,” said Subahs Yadav, additional CEO, GMDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/35-more-air-purifiers-to-be-installed-at-key-junctions-by-end-of-the-year/articleshow/79817987.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Why axe age-old banyans to widen road, question Alibag tree lovers||How can progress be progressive? How should infrastructure navigate a balance with horticulture? And is not an arboreal heritage as important as any other aspect of a community's collective history? These are the questions that will accompany the felling of some hundred giant banyan trees that line the Alibag-Mandwa road, as it expands from a two-lane to a four-lane road to accommodate the growing traffic in what is now being viewed as a part of the greater Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Alibag - once the sleepy bucolic place across the harbour where 'are you from Alibag' meant 'are you dumb' - has suddenly become hip. Mumbai has landed there, in the form of the rapacious tourist or to set up home along the mango plantations. The recent launch of the RoRo boat service opened up further possibilities. The road-widening of the 20 km arterial road that connects Mandwa jetty to Alibag city is thus a logical infrastructural intervention, say senior government officials. But tree-lovers want the road as well as the trees, some of which were planted more than a 100 years ago and have formed gorgeous shaded canopies. "Why can't they make the two new lanes on either side of the trees?" asks Sudarshan Loyalka, an Alibag wadi owner, citing examples in the west. "A banyan takes so long to grow and just minutes to chop down," says Alibag resident Lalita Ramdas, who was founder-member and chairperson of Greenpeace India. "All this tree-cutting has a serious impact on the water table and overall ecology of an area." Horticultural experts suggest that while road-widening must be done, trees can easily be replanted. "A banyan is one of the easiest to transplant through vegetative propagation," says Yeshwant Khaire who, as chief garden superintendent of Pune Municipal Corporation had successfully relocated numerous banyan trees that had been dislodged by road widening. He suggests that they be transplanted to nearby locations or replanted along the widened road. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhary says that the trees have to find new homes, but not along the road. "Banyan trees are majestic, local, and have great religious significance. They are great in forests, grasslands, school grounds, but along the highway, can be risky as they grow laterally indefinitely, and can damage roads and also cause accidents." The indigenous banyan tree has repeatedly extended its roots into Indian mythology and literature. The overhead multiplying roots have been compared to 'samsara' or the endless worldly cycles of life. It offers great shade and is often the spot at which people gather, like a rural coffee house. "You almost identify a place based on certain trees," says horticultural consultant Robert Fernandes. "When you dislodge the horticultural culture of a place, you are also dislodging culture." He gives the example of how public sensitivity catalysed authorities to expand Cadell Road in Mumbai's Shivaji Park to accommodate two giant rain trees in the middle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/why-axe-age-old-banyans-to-widen-road-question-alibag-tree-lovers/articleshow/79820450.cms||Namita Devidayal
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gang selling fake e-stamp papers, says sub-registrar||BENGALURU: A senior officer from Shivajinagar sub-registrar office alleged that a gang of four has cheated the public and government by selling fake e-stamp papers. Cubbon Park police on Thursday registered a case of cheating and forgery against Anand Kumar K, Srinivas G Patil, Negeshwar Rao and Muniraju DC, all from RT Nagar. Police said the incident came to light recently after many people complained about the fake e-stamp papers. Ambika Patel, a senior sub-registrar at Shivajinagar sub-registrar office on Infantry Road, stated the four men created fake seals of stamp paper franking machines and also forged signatures of senior sub-registrars. The gang had generated fake e-stamps and sold them to the public and has been active since 2012, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-gang-selling-fake-e-stamp-papers-says-sub-registrar/articleshow/79820455.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||A matter of stripes||By: Manjunath GowdaWhat is recognition? The Oxford dictionary defines the word as “the act of remembering who someone is when you see them, or of identifying what something is”. Recognition is identification and association. So how do humans perform the act of recognition? How can humans recognize a table – and distinguish it from a bed – or a chair – or a stool? How do humans recognize a face, and distinguish it from another? And how do you teach this process to a computer? How do you teach it to distinguish one object from another, distinguish an image of one thing from an image of another thing, just by analyzing an array of pixels – because that is what all representations of real-world objects – and creatures – are to the machine? Recognition and classificationWhen you look at the photo of say an old friend from school, the process of recognition involves the retrieval of information associated with that person – memories of interactions, good times, bad times and so on. When its something else, even if it is something that the viewer has not seen before – a new model of a car, or a piece of furniture, or an animal, a process of classification – and therefore recognition – takes place. A Lotus Esprit looks nothing like an ambassador, and yet, the presence of certain features – hood, tyres, wheel, seats, help us classify the former and the latter as belonging to the same category of vehicle. Recognition is based on the identification of a certain set of common features- as well as disregarding other features as extraneous. And this is at the core of image recognition. Teaching a machineThe technical term is machine learning, but the key is how the computer is taught to do something. And image recognition, much like a human recognition, is all about classification based on a core set of features. Classification depends on not just the features the computer needs to consider but also to features which it needs to ignore. Today machines can recognize only those features that they are trained for. A computer looks for patterns of pixel values in set of images fed as “training set” of inputs. Training a computer to distinguish one face from another requires the analysis of a different set of parameters than those for training it to recognize the make and model of a car. There is a lot of work that has gone in to help computers identify faces. This body of work – these so-called “signatures” are available in the public domain. These signature IDs are created by the analysis of thousands of similar faces and can be reused by programmers who create facial recognition software. But what if you want to help a computer distinguish one tiger from another? Back to basicsThe 2018 tiger census uses the pattern of a tiger’s stripes to tell one cat from another. But it’s a tedious process, with many steps and prone to error. A program to do this would simplify the process. But for such a program, you would need to feed the computer signature IDs of tigers – the result of analysis of many images of the big cats, to provide a base of information that the machine can use for identification. For humans, there a signature files that tell a computer that a certain pattern of pixels means that that portion of the image is an eye, or a nose, or a cheek. But for a tiger, these signatures had to be created from scratch. And the content of the signature files - stripes on the face, the marks on the forehead, the shape & structure of the face, the eyes, its cheeks, its mouth - also had to be decided on a trial-and-error basis. Species, then individualThe next step was to collect a significant number of images for the computer to ‘practice’ the recognition process. This not only involved images of tigers, but an equal number of images of leopards, house cats and lions – for not only must the computer learn what a tiger image looks like, but it must also learn what a tiger image does not look like, despite similarities. Once the computer could, with 98% accuracy, pick out tigers from other cats, it had to be taught to distinguish between individuals within the species. The test case was Maya, a popular and well-loved tigress from Tadoba, the popular tiger reserve in Maharashtra. The algorithm was fed hundreds of images of faces of Maya and other tigers. The result was the creation of a signature id that was exclusive to Maya. This signature ID was used to test the algorithm, again, with thousands of images of Maya, other tigers and other cats. The model identified Maya correctly at an accuracy rate of more than 96%. Building a base96% accuracy may sound impressive but it is nowhere near enough. A Tiger ID app, or web application will become better as more images are fed into the system. As more images from tiger lovers are fed in, more images from government sources and tiger conservation groups are analyzed, it will be possible to create signatures for every one of the 3,000 and more tigers that grace our forests. And as technology advances, it may soon be possible tell, not just one tiger from another, but also the age and gender of the lord of the jungle, just from a series of pixels. The author is a serial entrepreneur, techie and promoter of WildTrails, a wildlife travel company. (For Quiz, go to Times of India Bengaluru page on Facebook)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-matter-of-stripes/articleshow/79820465.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Noida||17 injured as truck crashes into bus on Yamuna Expressway||GREATER NOIDA: As many as 17 people were injured, five of them seriously, after a truck travelling towards Agra on the Yamuna Expressway jumped the divider and crashed into a UP Roadways bus travelling on the opposite carriageway, police said on Saturday. The accident happened a little after midnight on Friday when the truck was 12.7km from the Zero Point. Police suspect the truck driver dozed off behind the wheel and lost control of the vehicle on the high-speed corridor, leading to the crash. The Roadways bus was travelling towards Delhi from Lucknow. The bus had some 36 passengers from Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Aligarh, Delhi and Noida seated inside. And the 17 injured were mostly the passengers, apart from its two drivers and a helper. The accident resulted in chaos among the passengers who were pulled out by the rescue van officials and the police team. Sultanpur’s Rajkumari, Lalita and Rajvir, who belong to one family, sustained injuries, while bus drivers Raju and Krishanpal and helper Munajib suffered serious wounds. Passengers Dinanath Yadav, Shyam Narayan and Vicky — all from Gorakhpur — were also injured. Akash, Yogesh, Anil, Kailash, Lakshmikant, Dharmendra, Rampal, Mohan, Lalita, Sagar and Munshi too sustained injuries in the accident, police said. Out of the injured persons, driver Raju and Rajkumari, have been admitted to the ICU of a private hospital in Greater Noida. Dinanath Yadav, Vicky and Shyam Narayan also suffered serious injuries. Greater Noida depot officials Rajendra Singh and Sanjay Kumar have given a complaint to the Dankaur police station. Dankaur SHO Anil Pandey said that the driver of the truck possibly lost control due to dozing off. “He too has been injured,” he said. However, an FIR is yet to be lodged in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/17-injured-as-truck-crashes-into-bus-on-yamuna-e-way/articleshow/79818192.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 20, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Survey to identify number of out-of-school children||MYSURU: The departments of public instruction and rural development & panchayat raj have launched a joint survey to ascertain the numbers of out-of-school children in Karnataka. The exercise has gained significance because there are reports that several students, especially in rural pockets, have dropped out in the past eight months of the pandemic and started working to support their struggling families. This is the second such survey this year and it will cover children up to the age of 18. The first count was conducted in January. “Generally, the study covers children in the age group of 6-14. This time, we have expanded the bracket,” an education official said. “The subject was discussed during a recent training session at the Abdul Nazeer Sab State Institute for Rural Development & Panchayat Raj in Mysuru.” Prolonged closure of schools because of the Covid-19 crisis and lack of access to online education and devices are also thought to be among the factors behind the increase in the number of dropouts. “A door-to-door survey is being conducted under the guidance of panchayat development officers. Members of school development and monitoring committees, anganwadis and women selfhelp groups are involved. They will visit each house and note down the details of children who have discontinued formal education,” said another official. The ongoing study also seeks to plug data holes left by the January exercise, which was handled by teachers. “There were complaints that the previous survey didn’t cover many out-ofschool children as certain teachers avoided the tasks of tracing and re-admitting them. The new survey is being conducted by a larger group of stakeholders to ensure that no child is left out,” explained a panchayat development officer. BA Paramesh, CEO of the Mysuru zilla panchayat, said that the exercise would conclude on January 15. “All children up to the age of 18 years will be identified in the survey. A registry of out-ofschool children will be maintained at the gram panchayat level. It will help us in followups,” he added. ST Javaregowda, deputy director of public instruction, Chamarajanagar, said that teachers were extending necessary support to the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-survey-to-identify-number-of-out-of-school-children/articleshow/79820473.cms||Shrinivasa M
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||India wants peace, not conflict: Rajnath Singh||HYDERABAD: The standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) amid the Covid-19 pandemic only reflects China’s intentions, said Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, who was the reviewing officer at the combined passing out parade of the Air Force Academy Dundigal on Saturday. Following several rounds of talks with China, Singh said that India wants to resolve the issue amicably without compromising on the self-respect and pride of the country. “Negotiations are taking place between the two countries through military and diplomatic channels. I would like to reiterate that we do not want conflict but peace. At the same time, we will not compromise on the country’s self-respect. We are fully prepared to face any situation,” said Singh. After China, the minister shifted focus to Pakistan and said that the country has been indulging in some nefarious activities on the borders. “Pakistan is fighting a proxy war through terrorism even after being defeated in not one but four wars in the past,” said Singh. The minister said that the academy, which trains Indian Airforce, Army, Navy, Coast Guard and Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd has given the country more than one excellent officer. "The organisation you are part of is having a glorious history. To protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of the country, the Indian Air Force has displayed the courage and valour whenever required. Today, when this institution is approaching its golden jubilee, let's pledge the safety, honour and dedication to new heights," said Singh, adding that the cadets should focus on upgrading their strategies as the threat is no more limited to land, water, air and is expanding into space now. “You must keep updating your knowledge of all technologies and military strategies, including artificial intelligence. I suggest that you learn from history, know the present and prepare for the future,” he advised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/india-wants-peace-not-conflict-rajnath-singh/articleshow/79820503.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Hyderabad||Turf war: Conflict on the rise as tiger space in Telangana shrinks||HYDERABAD: A forest department’s board in Rebbana range of Asifabad Tiger Corridor (ATC) with a picture of the big cat greets visitors in big words, “Please allow me to live in peace in my home.” This sums up the human-tiger conflict in the forest ranges here. While travelling to Digida village in Dahegaon mandal of Asifabad where a suspected maneater-tiger had killed 17-year-old tribal Sidam Vignesh (on November 11), one has to pass through Rebbana. T h e area that falls in Kagaznagar Tiger Corridor (KTC) of Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, which is supposed to connect Kawal Tiger Reserve (KTR) with Maharashtra forests, has now become the hotbed of man-animal conflict. Wildlife experts and forest officials said fragmentation of forest due to indiscriminate podu cultivation, errant crop patterns, national highway, rail line and decline of prey base have resulted in escalation of mananimal conflict in the tiger landscape. While the core KTR has a protected forest, herbivore population and hosts two or three big cats, the tiger corridor has around eight big cats that are spillovers from nearby Maharashtra. Wildlife biologist Yellam Jogu said tigers come to Kagaznagar, Chennur, Sirpur and Bejjur areas from Chandrapur, Brahmapuri and Sironancha of Maharashtra. “The corridor should be strengthened to make them resident tigers in Kawal. There is no prey base in the tiger corridor for the big cats,” he explained. Amid a raging debate over man-human conflict, encroachers getting political patronage and non-tribals occupying forest land and cultivating it have further dented the forest officials’ efforts to minimise the man-tiger conflict. Giving details, Kagaznagar forest divisional officer M Vijay Kumar told STOI that in Kagaznagar division alone, 17,000 hectares of forest land has been encroached by podu cultivators. “While 95% of them are post-2006 encroachments which do not fall under the purview of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 90% of the land in Kagaznagar division is occupied by non-tribals,” he explained. Cotton is a major crop grown here. Tigers find it easy to hide behind cotton crop. To avoid human-tiger contact, the forest department had proposed eight underpasses for the fourlane national highway that passes through the tiger corridor. “But, not even one underpass has been taken up. Without underpasses, there will be road kills. Tigers cannot move from its corridor to the core KTR,” Vijay Kumar said. The tiger has made it a habitat as the area has numerous streams. Peddavagu, where the first human kill occurred, is one among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/turf-war-conflict-on-the-rise-as-tiger-space-in-telangana-shrinks/articleshow/79820519.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 188 minor girls were pushed into marriage during pandemic, say officials||BENGALURU: Nearly 190 child marriages took place in Karnataka between February and November, and activists, who believe the actual number may be higher, have linked the cases to the pandemic. They say the exodus of migrant workers from big cities and towns, their struggle for livelihood, protracted closure of schools, and anxiety in poor communities about their children’s immediate future were among the contributing factors. According to the women and child welfare department’s latest data, 188 minor girls were forced into marriage during the said period. The highest number of cases was recorded in Hassan (26), followed by Mandya (25), Mysuru (24) and Belagavi (19). The 188 girls were rescued and rehabilitated, said the department’s director, RS Peddapaiah. Separately, the department prevented 2,074 child marriages after receiving tipoffs from NGOs, citizens and alert officials. It has filed 108 police cases against those involved in the illegal practice. “There was a rise of 10 to 15 per cent in child marriages during the lockdown period. The rehabilitated girls were counselled and urged to continue their studies. In slightly older children, the option of skill-based training is provided,” Peddapaiah said. In Ballari, 218 child marriages were prevented, the highest in the state. Eleven ceremonies came to light and police officers filed FIRs in seven cases. In Bengaluru, five child marriages took place and 20 were prevented. Child rights activists say the actual number of illegal marriages could be higher as every case is not detected. “Despite the best efforts of the government and NGOs during the pandemic, some cases may have gone unnoticed. Children have been away from school for a long time and this factor contributed to certain cases,” said activist Nagasimha G Rao. Rescued minors were taken to government-run homes for care and protection. “Counselling was done in all the cases where we stopped the marriage. It’s a myth that child marriages occur only in tribal colonies. There have been instances in urban centres like Mysuru. Some marriages were scheduled at 2am or 3am at shrines even during the lockdown,” said E Dhananjaya Yeliyur, a member of the Child Welfare Committee, Mysuru. In Mysuru, 177 ceremonies were prevented and 23 FIRs were lodged. The youngest girl rescued by Yeliyur’s team in Mysuru is 14. Her family tried to marry her off to a 30-yearold man. According to Yeliyur, in most cases, parents are aware that child marriages are illegal and plan things with utmost secrecy. “In some cases, the girls told us that their parents were unwell and hence they wanted to marry them off. In some other instances, there was pressure from grandparents. Such marriages are a reality in all communities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-188-minor-girls-were-pushed-into-marriage-during-pandemic-say-officials/articleshow/79820515.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops to step up prosecutions, carry out naka checks at night to curb accidents||KOLKATA: Hours after Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma asked the traffic department to think out of the box and arrest the sudden rise of fatal accidents in the city, cops put in extra effort on Saturday by devising a five-point response to the fresh challenges. As a first step, cops stepped up prosecutions — especially against rash driving and rogue biking — at some hotspots. Cops chased down and prosecuted the erring drivers and riders all through the day — a few guards being asked to report their prosecution figures every two hours. A special anti-crime drive — extensive naka checking around flyovers and lone stretches of roads around Hastings, EM Bypass and DH Road — was started by all traffic guards from 10 pm. Every police station pitched in. “The routine anti-crime drive assumes significance because we are now entering the Christmas week and this weekend will see a larger number of people out on the streets at night,” stated an officer at Lalbazar. Lalbazar sources said as per the initial plan, the cops will organize an intense 48- to 72-hour vigil at night across all 25 traffic guards. “We plan to be present in at least 50 locations. But as last year’s experience has shown, we found more cases of drink driving in north Kolkata (CR Avenue, Shyambazar and Jorabagan) compared to Park Street. Another major area of concern for us is the Bypass,” said an officer. Last year saw as many as 264 prosecutions on the last weekend leading up to the New Year. Santosh Pandey, joint CP (traffic), said they have now identified a few stretches that will need special traffic engineering. “Stretches in Hastings and Thakurpukur are among the 30 odd spots that will need traffic engineering,” he said. Sources claimed that they were preparing spot reports for all these 30 locations. Awareness campaigns, too, will continue at two levels — the drivers of commercial vehicles are being taught on safe driving and those riding two-wheelers and pedestrians will be taught about blind spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-to-step-up-prosecutions-carry-out-naka-checks-at-night-to-curb-accidents/articleshow/79817619.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 20, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Jupiter & Saturn to seem like one planet tomorrow||MUMBAI: Mumbaikars are in for an end-of-year treat on December 21. After 800 years, Jupiter and Saturn will be seen as almost a single planet on December 21, in what is called a "conjuction". Nehru Planetarium director Arvind Paranjpye said at 11.50pm on Monday, the angle between the two planets will be just 0.1 degrees or, in layman's parlance, six minutes and six seconds away. Paranjpye said the next Jupiter-Saturn conjuction will be seen on March 15, 2080. Nehru Science Centre at Worli, and Space Geeks, an organisation dedicated to astronomy and space, will be webcasting the historic celestial treat from 6.15pm on Monday when the conjuction will start becoming visible, peaking at 11.50pm. When TOI visited Nehru Science Centre on Friday evening, it was a beehive of activity with the staff rehearsing for the webcast on Monday on the terrace of the premises. Centre director Shivprasad Khened said there is a lot of enthusiasm and excitement for the conjuction. "One can see the conjunction in the south-west part of the night sky over Mumbai on Monday and I hope the sky remains as clear as it is today." A charged-coupled device (CCD) camera was fixed to an eight-inch telescope at the centre. The picture of the two planets nearing each other was captured on camera and transferred to a computer. To a visitor it seemed as though he or she was close to the planets and the rings of Saturn were clearly visible. Khened attributed the conjuction to what he called orbital parameters. According to Nasa, in 1623, Jupiter and Saturn travelled together across the sky. Jupiter caught up to and passed Saturn, in an astronomical event known as a "Great Conjunction." Henry Throop, an astronomer in the planetary science division at Nasa headquarters, has been quoted as saying: "You can imagine the solar system to be a racetrack, with each of the planets as a runner in their own lane and the earth toward the centre of the stadium." Throop, once based in Mumbai, added: "From our vantage point, we'll be able to be to see Jupiter on the inside lane, approaching Saturn all month and finally overtaking it on December 21." The planets will be easy to see with the unaided eye. Nasa said from earth the huge gas giants will appear very close together, but they will be hundreds of millions of miles apart in space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-jupiter-saturn-to-seem-like-one-planet-tomorrow/articleshow/79820549.cms||Srinivas Laxman
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Crooks take e-portal route to dupe sellers||KOLKATA: Cyber crooks are calling up potential sellers on an online portal, fixing a physical meeting for the transaction and then decamping with the items that range from vehicles to electronics items. The gang offers attractive prices to buy items. The bait is enough to bring the sellers to a spot that is chosen by the accused. They ask the victims either to check or test the items to find out if they are fit to be bought or finish monetary transactions and then decamp with it. “Once the victims reach the spot, they are at the mercy of the accused. The gang first tries to trick the victim. If that fails, they snatch it. Kolkata Police, along with South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas cops, have reported multiple cases in the past three weeks,” said an officer. In an incident two weeks ago, a man — identified as Raja Banerjee from Jadavpur — lost his two-wheeler after a buyer fled with it on the pretext of a test drive after asking him to ride down to Sonarpur-Baruipur. On December 16, around 3.50pm, an accused person, who introduced himself as Rohit, responded to a request to sell two costly mobiles by Md Imran, a Topsia resident. The accused called the complainant and wanted to purchase the mobiles. The two met at a condominium in Tangra. The accused allegedly asked Imran if he could hand over the phones so that his sister — for whom he is buying — can have a look. The accused then fled with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crooks-take-e-portal-route-to-dupe-sellers/articleshow/79817639.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 20, 2020||Kolkata||KMC completes South Kolkata pipe repairs||KOLKATA: Major repairs, upgrade and maintenance work at Garden Reach Water Works and at 29 booster pumping stations across south Kolkata were completed successfully by Saturday night. This paved the way for restoration of supply of filtered water to large parts of south Kolkata and added areas which went dry after 10am following a shutdown of Garden Reach water treatment plant. A KMC water supply department officials on Saturday night told TOI that after successful execution of repair upgrade and maintenance works at Garden Reach plant and water installations across south Kolkata, the plant had started supplying adequate water to 14 major water booster pumping stations and 15 capsule booster pumping stations so that filtered water could be supplied from Sunday morning to all the places which had gone dry on Saturday. “We have completed our repair upgrade and maintenance work on time and started filling up the booster pumping stations so that water could be supplied to south Kolkata and added areas from Sunday morning,” the civic official said. The KMC brass had roped in over 400 skilled workers for repair of leakages in the major water pipes and interconnection of high diameter pipes both at Garden Reach plant and across south Kolkata, replacement of high diameter valves at the Garden Reach unit and on Taratala Road and maintenance of water booster pumping stations. Over 40 engineers inspected the work. An engineer said it would pave way for augmented water supply to more than 10 lakh residents in the city’s added areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-completes-s-kol-pipe-repairs/articleshow/79817621.cms||---
December 20, 2020||Ghaziabad||Flat up for auction, Ghaziabad Development Authority clerk suffers heart attack, dies||GHAZIABAD: A Ghaziabad Development Authority clerk living in a house put up for auctions died on Saturday after suffering a heart attack. Parmanand Sharma’s death led to an outpouring of resentment against the GDA’s decision to put up its flats in Karpooripuram on the block by Sharma’s co-workers. They alleged Sharma was under severe stress and his health had deteriorated. He was admitted to a private hospital where he died on Saturday morning. Sharma’s son is to get married in January. Punit, an employee, said that they stay in GDA flats that are unsold and pay rent to the authority. “Of the 192 flats, GDA has already auctioned 54 and the remaining were set for auction on December 16 and 26. Sharma had been staying there for five years with his family and the auction had worried him a lot. Through our union we had raised the issue but it was not addressed by the officials.” Meanwhile, GDA officials downplayed the incident and said that Sharma was ill from before. GDA chief engineer VN Singh said, “It is unfortunate and I am given to understand that he was not keeping well for some time. We had no plans to evict any of our employees before providing them alternate accommodation. In fact, we had made arrangements for them in our housing scheme in Madhuban Bapudham and that was conveyed to them. They had time till March to shift there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/flat-up-for-auction-ghaziabad-development-authority-clerk-suffers-heart-attack-dies/articleshow/79820566.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 20, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Urban women getting slimmer, men fatter!||AHMEDABAD: In the past five years, fitness bug seems to have caught urban women in Gujarat. If National Family Health Survey (NFHS) data is any indication, women in cities have shed the lard while men have been piling the kilos in five years between NFHS IV (2014-15) and V (2019-20). The recent NFHS survey data revealed 30.4% women in urban areas have Body Mass Index (BMI) — a body fat measure based on height and weight — more than 25, indicating overweight/obesity. In 2014-15, 34.75% women had BMI over 25. This means that the number of women falling in the overweight category has reduced by over 4%. In contrast, 19.9% men have BMI more than 25 in 2019-20, which was 19.7% in 2014-15. Ironically, both women and men in rural areas have become fatter. In villages, 17% women had BMI over 25 in 2019-20 compared to only 15.3% in the 2014-15 survey. Similarly,15.6% men in villages have higher BMI in 2019-20 compared to 14.4% in 2014-15. Experts feel women in urban areas are becoming more health conscious while rural women are putting on weight as modern means of domestic work become available in rural homes reducing physical labour. Less women are now toiling in farms in the villages, said a state health official. Gayatri Shah, a city-based health adviser, has lost 19 kg. She says she had become obese due to poor lifestyle working in the corporate sector and used to get breathless after walking for mere 200 meters. “Losing weight was a commitment but I feel much more healthier. I now help other women lose weight,” says Shah. Harisha Adesara, residing in Thaltej area of Ahmedabad, says urban women are getting more conscious about weight. “I have battled obesity since childhood but decided to take fitness and health seriously since last year. I have lost 12 kgs before Covid and eight more kgs during the lockdown. In all, after losing 20 kg, I feel much healthier,” said Adesara. Gopi Patel, a designer in Satellite, has lost 25 kg over the past three years. She had piled on kilos after she was prescribed steroids to treat her nagging cough upon return from London. “My weight loss is thanks to 80% diet and 20% exercise,” says Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/urban-women-getting-slimmer-men-fatter/articleshow/79820577.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 20, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Weekend vehicle curbs planned at Nandi Hills as crowds swell||BENGALURU: The heavy rush of private vehicles at Nandi Hills during weekends has prompted the Chikkaballapur district administration to consider introducing some curbs. Under the planned rules, visitors won’t be allowed to drive their vehicles to the top. They will have to park their rides at the foot of the hill and use public transport from that point. The curbs on vehicular movement were proposed a year ago, but they are being fast-tracked now as the number of day-trippers at Nandi Hills, Bengalureans’ favourite weekend getaway, has increased sharply. Many people are undertaking short-distance travel to recover from the pandemic fatigue. In recent weeks, the district administration has received several complaints about heavy vehicular movement and air and noise pollution. Chikkaballapur district deputy commissioner R Latha said that new rules would be introduced soon. The first 500 fourwheelers and 1,500 bikes to arrive at the destination will be allowed to park at the top. Others will have to park at the base and board eco-friendly electric transport. “An area of 3.5 acres at the foothill is being converted into a parking lot, and we have requested the government to sanction an additional 1.5 acres, so we can impose a complete ban on entry of private vehicles,” Latha said. This year, an estimated 30 lakh people have visited Nandi Hills. During the weekend, there are 10,000 to 15,000 people at the popular site. Officials said the ban on entry of private vehicles would be implemented in a phased manner to avoid upsetting people. “We want to follow the model implemented at the Himavad Gopalaswamy Hills, where visitors have to take KSRTC buses to reach the top,” an official said. Gopal N, special officer, horticulture department, said that the district administration had handed over the land to the department and the chief architect had submitted the blueprint of the parking lot. He added that overcrowding posed risks to the fragile environment of Nandi Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-weekend-vehicle-curbs-planned-at-nandi-hills-as-crowds-swell/articleshow/79820595.cms||Kiran Parashar
